News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The topic of educating girls in developing countries has recently gained much-deserved attention. Governments are finally starting to realize the economic payoffs of educating the half of their workforce that was previously pushed aside. Not only will educated women be able to provide income for their family, but education also helps lower fertility rates, reduce the infection rates of HIV/AIDS, and create a virtuous cycle of women sending their kids to school. Thirty years ago, girls represented only 38 percent of children enrolled in primary school in low-income countries. Today, that number has grown to 48 percent. Even though educating girls has moved center stage, there are still great strides to be made. For example, in Pakistan, the literacy rate of girls is only 35 percent and female enrollment drops nearly 90 percent from grade one to grade 12. Circle of Women, an organization founded by three Harvard undergraduates in 2006, has a mission to bring education to girls in places where gender inequity is high and opportunities for girls is scarce.  Its ideology is that “the best way to affect positive change is by addressing the gender gap in education.”
Though only founded five years ago, Circle of Women has already funded the building of a school—Project Wonkhai—in Afghanistan in 2009 and the renovation of a school—Project Keiri Reki—in Pakistan. Circle works closely with local elders, government officials, other NGOs to make sure the schools are located in areas where there is a need for secondary education for girls. They also work to make sure the school will sustain itself a few years after starting. For Project Wonkhai in Afghanistan, sustainability has come from Circle’s relationship with B-Peace and its small business collaborator, Afghans 4 Tomorrow.
There are currently 60 women involved in the Harvard chapter of Circle, and 10 other chapters exist. While the organization is currently working on an Ivy League expansion initiative, it already has existing chapters in middle and high schools. Its mission in these chapters is to raise awareness of the importance of ensuring all girls around the globe have equal access to education and the tools they need to succeed.
On a trip to Bangladesh with her parents last year, Farha A. Faisal ’12 noted that in a village she visited outside Dhaka, there were many girls walking around, but no school for girls in sight. “Because of the lack of infrastructure they don’t have access to education,” Faisal explains. “The low socio-economic standards coupled with government corruption prevent education from being attained by little girls.” Faisal also points out that in the conservative culture Bangladesh, events that are insignificant to us like little girls walking to school by themselves are considered taboo. As a result, it is hard to find quick solutions to girl’s education. In Bangladesh, 74 percent of females attend primary school; however, only  29 percent of girls attend secondary school (which is less than half the rate for boys). Additionally, out of Bangladesh’s 9190 schools, only 1336 are for girls: In such a traditional Islamic society, gender segregation in education is standard. When Faisal got back, she decided to take up her idea with Circle of Women. They have eagerly taken on the project, just bought land to build the school, and once they come up with a sustainability mechanism (members of the Princeton chapter of Circle have proposed a rainwater catchment and treatment program as a possibility), the building of the school will begin.
Key in the success of the schools is community involvement. To achieve this, Elizabeth C. Cowan ’12, co-executive director of the Harvard chapter, says “In our projects in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, we have collaborated closely with men such as the village elders or respected community leaders, and engaged them in the process of building, staffing, and overseeing the school. This, she says, helps “establish a sense of ownership over and comfort with both the concept and reality of educating young women in their community.”
Circle hopes to expand to take on five to six schools in the coming years, and has a goal of branching out to upwards of 50 middle, high school, and university chapters. “This was so impressive because it was an NGO started by students, run by students,” Project Team Manager Gresa Matoshi ’13 proclaims.  “It is really incredible to see the amount of work that gets done by students.”  This young organization has already done so much. Girls involved in Circle see a need, have a vision, and work hard to provide a change—a change that will hopefully one day lead to girls everywhere accessing the same educational opportunities that we are lucky enough to possess here.
 
Meredith C. Baker ’13, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Currier house. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
MENTAL HEALTH AT HARVARD
To the editors:
In regard to the Feb. 24 staff editorial entitled "Are We Fine," I would like to thank you all for running this call for more peer support. When I was a student at Harvard, I had a lot of problems and ended up in psychiatric institutions five times. In my senior year in 1976, the Phillips Brooks House Association thankfully referred me to one of the very few grassroots groups of psychiatric survivors in the area, and I interned there along with writing my senior thesis on the experience.
Since then, the field of community organizing of, by, and for people who have experienced the mental health system has become my career. I hope that people who are diagnosed with what professionals call "serious" psychiatric disorders are aware that there is a quiet but international grassroots movement of tens of thousands of us who have "been there." I would love to be in touch with anyone with a special passion about creating a peaceful revolution in how we look at mental and emotional well being.
I know breaking the silence about this topic can be challenging on campus. Thank you for calling for this openness. Let's welcome a diversity of perspectives, and transparency. Aren't those often good signs of mental and emotional well being?
David Oaks
Eugene, Oregon
David W. Oaks ’77 is the Executive Director of MindFreedom International.
IN DEFENSE OF PORN
To the editors:
Rachel L. Wagley’s March 28, column “Pornographic Ethics,” blurs the distinction between opinions and facts and misleads readers.
Wagley condemns the purported health consequences of pornography, citing the “research on porn addiction” of “University of Texas-San   Antonio’s Dr. Donald L. Hilton Jr.” However, Hilton is a practicing physician, not a researcher. He has published no articles accessible on JSTOR. A Google search of his name reveals no other academic publications, but shows that Hilton is the author of several religiously tinged opinion pieces condemning pornography. For example, Hilton’s book He Restoreth My Soul: Understanding and Breaking the Chemical and Spiritual Chains of Pornography Addiction Through the Atonement of Jesus Christ is clearly a religious work, not a scientific one.
Nor does Hilton demonstrate good academic practice in his publicly available article, “Understanding the Addictive Nature of Pornography.” This article was published on an opinion website entitled “Combating Pornography,” not in an academic journal. Moreover, of Hilton’s twenty-four citations, none referenced a study about the purported addictive effects of pornography. Instead, he cites: studies examining addiction to other substances; a Morality in Media publication describing itself as a Mormon resource on pornography; and two religious passages. Hilton repeatedly asserts a parallel between well-known mechanisms of addiction and the consequences of pornography, but categorically fails to show it. Hilton is an ideologue, not a credible academic source about the health consequences of pornography. Wagley does readers a disservice by representing his unfounded allegations as the result of empirical research.
Wagley goes on to excoriate University Health Services and the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response for not acting on the dubious propositions she presents as incontrovertible data. Neither Hilton nor Wagley have shown any negative health consequences from pornography use, and the nonpartisan offices of the University are not obliged to engage in a campaign against an unsupported health hazard.
There is nothing inherently misleading about a purely moral argument against pornography. However, Wagley has foregone such an argument, choosing instead to guise opinion as fact.
Louis R. Evans, Eli E. Kahn, and Samuel M. Meyer
Cambridge, Mass.
Louis R. Evans '13 is a social studies concentrator. Eli E. Kahn ’13 is a slavic languages and literatures concentrator. Samuel M. Meyer '13 is an astrophysics concentrator. They all live in Currier House.
REMEMBERING GOMES
To the editors:
Peter J. Gomes was never easy to label.
Conservative evangelicals were quick to criticize the firebrand liberalism he occasionally displayed during his long tenure as Pusey Minister in the Memorial Church at Harvard University. And yet a photograph of Billy Graham, hero to evangelicals across the globe, towered above all others on the shelf behind Gomes’s stately office desk.
His high assessment of Reverend Graham stemmed from a terribly difficult period that began when Gomes announced in 1991 that he was “a Christian who happens as well to be gay.”
Immediately after he announced his homosexuality, several student detractors formed a group called Concerned Christians at Harvard, and with fifty members in their ranks, they held prayer vigils, wrote letters, and pamphleteered, all for the purpose of seeking Gomes’s resignation.
It was a low moment for the man who loved Harvard with all his heart and mind and soul. Many longtime friends remained silent, too. Gomes would endure the silent treatment for years to come from some of his old friends, and as I sat with him in his office last spring, it was clear that the memory of deserted friends still stung.
But his deep frown stood in the sharpest of contrasts to the warm smile he beamed when he looked at the photograph of Billy Graham.
Gomes invited Graham to speak at Memorial  Church several years after the Harvard chaplain had come out. The two were not of one mind about homosexuality, of course.
In some ways, Graham was theologically closer to the Concerned Christians than he was to Gomes. But unlike those student activists, Billy Graham, at the seasoned age of 80, ascended Memorial  Church’s mahogany pulpit in 1999 and publicly announced that Peter Gomes was his friend and brother in Christ.
Gomes, no doubt, smiled—and believed.
Michael G. Long
Elizabethtown, Penn.
Michael G. Long, is an associate professor of peace and conflict studies at Elizabethtown College.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“There were almost no mistakes,” alleged the Goldstone Report, the result of a United Nations Fact-Finding Mission sent to investigate Israel’s conduct during its incursion into Gaza two years ago, an attempt to stop Hamas militants from firing rockets into its cities. “What occurred in just over three weeks at the end of 2008 and the beginning of 2009 was a deliberately disproportionate attack designed to punish, humiliate and terrorize a civilian population.”
Like most Western countries, from the U.S. to its NATO allies, Israel has frequently been accused of violating international law during wartime. But this report marked the first instance in the country’s history that an official and respected international body had given credence to the accusation that the Jewish state had intentionally and systematically targeted civilians for massacre—that Israel had acted just as wantonly as the terrorists it claimed to combat. To grasp the gravity of this event, imagine the scandal if the United Nations endorsed a statement equating the U.S.’ tactics in Iraq and Afghanistan with the conduct of Al-Qaeda.
The explosive charges in the Goldstone Report were triumphantly brandished by Israel’s most strident critics. The allegations were soon cited as justification for branding the embattled country a genocidal state, used to support efforts to arrest top Israeli officials across Europe, and even marshaled in an attempt to bar Michael B. Oren, Israel’s ambassador to the United States and a former Harvard professor, from speaking at the Harvard Kennedy School. The damage to Israel’s reputation, and to that of its staunchest defender against the Goldstone Report—the U.S. under the Obama administration—cannot be overstated.
But can it be reversed? Because last Friday, the head of this infamous fact-finding mission told the world that he had made a mistake.
“If I had known then what I know now,” Richard Goldstone wrote in an op-ed in The Washington Post, “the Goldstone Report would have been a different document.” Although Israeli investigations “have established the validity of some incidents that we investigated in cases involving individual soldiers,” Goldstone now asserts, “they also indicate that civilians were not intentionally targeted as a matter of policy.” He lauded Israel for launching inquiries into its conduct, and noted that Hamas had failed to do the same, further underscoring the difference between democratic Israel and its terrorist neighbor.
Some, including Israel’s former prime minister, have deemed Goldstone’s retraction “too little too late.” Accusing Israel of state terrorism and effectively equating it with its enemies, they argue, is a bell that one cannot unring. Commendable as Goldstone’s courageous act of contrition may be, the influence of his little known op-ed will likely pale in comparison to the harm caused by his well-known report.
But those who care about the future of Israel and Palestine cannot let Goldstone’s admission fall by the wayside. The judge’s mea culpa provides a perfect opportunity to broach a sorely needed constructive debate over morality during wartime, sans the hyperbole and propaganda that have pervaded the discourse thus far. Having dispensed with the scurrilous notion that Israel deliberately targeted civilians during its military operations, we can focus on determining how it and other Western armies can best minimize those civilian casualties—even during asymmetrical conflicts as in Gaza, Iraq, and Afghanistan. Indeed, when a state engages an opponent like Hamas—whose fighters are purposefully indistinguishable from local civilians, and often intentionally stage attacks from crowded population centers—a considered debate over military ethics is crucial.
Unfortunately, the grave flaws in Goldstone’s report that he now largely acknowledges ensured that isolated attempts by some thinkers to grapple with exactly these sorts of moral questions were drowned out by the partisan cacophony that ensued after the report’s release. But Goldstone’s retraction allows us to reclaim the missed opportunity of his mandate, and ask the hard questions about appropriate wartime conduct that have so far been sidestepped in favor of political posturing.
Consider a subject addressed by the Goldstone commission itself: Having gathered intelligence indicating that Hamas had stored munitions within civilian facilities, Israel developed and deployed “roof knocking” missiles—duds designed not to explode, but to land harmlessly yet noisily atop structures and scare the civilians being used as human shields out of the building. Goldstone argued this was “a dangerous practice and in essence constitutes a form of attack rather than a warning.” Is this true? What are some alternatives?
Israel also airdropped thousands of leaflets and sent thousands of text messages to Gaza’s residents, directing them to established safe zones. Was this tactic sufficient? Could it be improved or augmented?
Another example: Within the first few minutes of its campaign, Israel attacked Hamas’s police force. According to international law, a civilian police that is necessary to keep the peace is far from a legitimate military target. But what happens when there is no clear division between the police and army, and many on the force are also card-carrying members of recognized terror organizations? Goldstone’s report makes no distinctions, and asserts that Israel’s attack on Hamas’s police force constituted an attack on noncombatants. Is this correct, or are revised, nuanced criteria warranted?
These questions are not going away. On the contrary, as the U.S. and its allies find themselves embroiled in similar asymmetrical conflicts with non-state actors in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, these concerns become ever more urgent. In the wake of Goldstone’s retraction, it is finally time to begin addressing them. 
Avishai D. Don ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Adams House. Beth I. Drucker ’13, a Crimson photographer, is an economics concentrator in Dunster House. Yair Rosenberg ’11-’12, a Crimson associate arts editor, is a near eastern languages and civilizations concentrator in Adams House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
During Advising Fortnight next week, potential sociology concentrators will be told that, “Practically speaking, we are a relatively small department with a generous student-faculty ratio and a strong tradition of commitment to undergraduates.” Unfortunately, the first half of this is no longer true.
The number of sociology concentrators has risen from 88 in 2006-7 to 202 this school year. Additionally, the number of students pursuing a secondary within the department has risen from zero in 2006-7 to 22. For this many students, the Sociology department currently has 19 faculty members (excluding faculty affiliates and faculty from other departments who teach sociology courses). In contrast, at the other end of the spectrum, the Molecular and Cellular Biology department has more than 30 professors for 121 declared concentrators.
There are several reasons to believe that this increase in sociology concentrators is more than just a short-term trend. First and foremost, the number of students enrolled in sociology tutorials has increased along with the increase in concentrators. From 2005-6 to this year, the number of students enrolled in sociology tutorials increased from 125 to 209. Tutorials are intensive learning experiences, where eight to 12 students work closely with a faculty member in some subfield of the discipline. They are not structured for students who want to sit in the back of a large lecture hall and check their email; they are structured for students who want to engage with likeminded peers for an intense two-hour experience. In that sense, this seems to indicate that the increase in sociology concentrators is based on actual interest in the subject matter rather than the perceived ease of the concentration or “herd” mentality—as seems to be the case with economics, in which the increase in concentrators has not corresponded with an increase in tutorial applicants.
Additionally, students across the college are increasingly interested in pre-professional studies—witness the popularity of the global health and health policy secondary and the new interest in a social innovation secondary. Although The Crimson Staff believes that the intent of the College experience is to provide a liberal arts education, sociology is nevertheless the best way to explore pre-professional interests within that framework. In the concentration, one can focus on topics such as “work, organizations, and management” or “health, medicine, and society,” which are good fits for students with a definite career interest in business or healthcare.
To be sure, Harvard is an institution for both research and teaching, and the need for intellectual mentors for undergraduates must be balanced with the research demands of each field. That said, Harvard College plays a seminal part in building the prestige of the University's brand. When University Hall begins prioritizing which faculty positions to fill and with whom, the needs of undergraduates should thus be taken into account much more than they currently are, lest the sociology department become more than an anomaly.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
This month, an Allston-based non-profit is getting the royal treatment. Earthwatch Institute is an international non-profit organization concerned with environmental sustainability, and is a tenant of one of Harvard’s Allston properties. It will also be one of 24 charities benefitted by Prince William and Kate Middleton’s April 29 wedding.
In case you haven’t been following the wedding buzz as closely as FM has, the royal couple has set up a charitable fund that will benefit five different causes rather than registering for gifts. While having no direct association with Earthwatch, the couple strongly believes in the importance of the education of tomorrow’s leaders in the field of conservation, and it was this interest that led them to Earthwatch.
The non-profit is soon going to be celebrating its 40th anniversary, and what better way to celebrate than with an endorsement from the future King and Queen of England?
“We haven’t invested a lot of money in terms of advertising for promotion,” said Ed A. Wilson, president and CEO of Earthwatch Institute. “We’ve really concentrated on growing our programs over the years. To get this endorsement from the wedding and particularly such a strong vote of confidence from both William and Ms. Middleton is really a tremendous shot in the arm for us.”
Though Earthwatch now has offices in nine countries around the world, including the U.K., Japan, and India, the organization still relies heavily on word of mouth in order to gain support. With the donation that they will receive from this crowning achievement, Earthwatch plans to continue expanding their international initiatives, emphasizing the need to expand their goals of research and education.
Unfortunately, the Earthwatch team did not receive personal invitations to the wedding. Wilson joked, “I would like to say that they’ve sent me an invitation. My wife went out to buy a hat and I told her that it was a little bit premature.”
Sections
This just in from the FM science department: electric wands that magically put out fires! Harvard University researchers have discovered how to extinguish flames using electromagnetic fields, which pull hot flames away from the fuel that hasn’t been burnt and stops the fire from burning. It’s like blowing out a candle, Kyle J. M. Bishop, one of the researchers involved with the project, told The Crimson—except so much cooler.
As if real-life magic wands (read: lightsabers) weren’t enough, these futuristic fire extinguishers also come with accessories. (FM loves accessories.) All you need to put out the flames is a wand attached to a sweet mod backpack with a 600-watt amplifier, about as much power as a car stereo. When these wands were tested, they could quickly put out fires up to 18 inches high—and that’s a lot of fire, people.
But the wands don’t just put out fires—they also separate flames so firefighters can walk straight through walls of fire. The wands can shoot out beams of electricity that move and shape the blaze like they own it.
The research team is also developing methods to extinguish flames with sound waves. Think giant subwoofers that are big enough to put out forest fires. Maybe you can pick your own song as well ... Johnny Cash, anyone?
Sections
“Hello Porn Lovers!” As the clock struck 12 last Friday and Saturday night, Boston’s “bi(ke)sexuals and bi(k)urious” flocked to the Brattle Theater for Bike Porn 4: Play. Reverend Phil Sano’s live performance and collection of short films showcased his commitment to “a transportationally-aware sex culture”—and lube. Rolling Reporter mingled with the Reverend, his disciples, and new converts. RR was even invited to make a cameo in the upcoming Bike Porn 5.
---
Adam C. Keller, Audience Member  (In the background, two people shouting “Let’s get naked” and “Listen to the pantless girl.”).
RR: So is this your first time or are you a seasoned bi(ke)sexual?
AK: This is my first time.
RR: Do you have an affinity for other modes of transportation?
AK:  I mean I get around however I can.
RR: Are cyclists better lovers?
AK: You know what? I should know the answer to that question, but I don’t.
RR: How old were you when you took your training wheels off?
AK: I don’t know, probably six or seven.
RR: And do you think there will be a Bike Porn 5?
AK: How many words do I get?
RR: I’ll give you as many words as you want.
AK: God, I hope so.
(AK embraces RR)
---
Sarah B. Engel and another bike enthusiast, Karen L.
RR: Any thoughts?
SE: Uh interesting .... We’re both bike riders, so we appreciate that part of it for sure.
RR: Do you think there’s anything particularly sexy about the bike?
KL: Yeah sure, everything about bikes is sexy.
SE: Yeah.
KL: I have the most gorgeous bike in the world.
SE: You do.
KL: I do have the most gorgeous bike in the world.
SE: My bike has a crush on it.
SE: We’re being recorded.
RR: Three words you would use to describe the movie?
KL: Hot Ass Bikes .... Those are my three words: Hot Ass Bikes.
---
Reverend Phil, the High Priest of bike sexuality and the creator of Bike Porn Play. Reverend Phil, in red briefs and a green v-neck, takes RR’s arm and walks around the theater.
RR: Do you have a middle initial?
RP: Sure
RR: What is it?
RP: G ... MONEY
RR: So what is it about the bike?  Do you have an affinity for other modes of transportation?
RP: Well, sure, they are all pretty good. It just turns out that one is more efficient, more capable, nicer for negotiating and feeling ... and feeling ...
Bystander 1: Oh my God, so many feelings.
Bystander 2: And feeling and feeling.
RP to Bystander 1: I love your heart (grabs her chest).
Bystander 1: That’s not my heart
RP: Good to see you
RR: Do you typically recommend protective headgear?
RP: The thing is that for each application, there is a tool. If you were just riding your bike down your street, if you’re in your neighborhood, wouldn’t you like to live on a street where you don’t have to wrap your brain in plastic in order to survive? So, there’s a degree of living in the world that we want to live in. But you know, maybe you have to commute across a freeway, in which case, maybe you want to wear a bike helmet.
RR: Maybe then you want to wear a bike helmet.
RP: But, you know, to each his own.
RR: When did you take your training wheels off?
RP: (Laughs) I don’t know if I .... There’s a metaphorical answer to that question. I’m not sure I want to answer. When you believe you have stopped learning, you have failed to continue to grow.
RP: And if you were a bike part which part would you be?
RP: Well, let me think about what my role is. When I think about myself as a community, I think that I often bring a lot of tension. So I might be a big honking thing that you squeeze to make some noise.
RR: Any thoughts on Lance Armstrong?
RP: Shit is fast.
RR: How did Boston compare to other audiences?
RP: They seem into it. Or maybe it’s into them? It’s kind of a give and take. Recognizing when it’s “in” and when it’s “out” and when it’s “in” and when it’s “out” kind of gives you a degree of relative understanding that helps you to see how your body and your mode of transportation are interrelated and how they can ... get it on ... and get it off ... and get it on ... and get it off.
RR: And do you have a favorite bike joke or pick-up line?
RP: I talk about lube a lot. Bikes and sex are the peanut butter and chocolate of our generation—that’s pretty good.
Sections
The Crib
With a record number of rushees this spring, it seems that sororities are on the rise at Harvard. Last week, Delta Gamma became the first, and probably not the last, Harvard sorority to acquire a space in Cambridge for its members.
Location: Arrow Street, in the former location of Lame Duck Books
Price: Undisclosed, but they have signed a three year lease.
RUSH
The DG “house” is less of a house and more of a large, comfortable hangout space for chapter members to spend time in between classes or whenever they want to hang out with fellow DGers. After a year-long search, DG obtained a space that is extremely convenient for the Berryline-loving DG members, especially those who live in the Quad and would prefer to stay in the Square between classes.
“The location is pretty central and ideal, which is great,” says Chapter President Caroline T. Quazzo ’12. “It is definitely something that people will actually come to.”
With an official occupancy of 49 people, or about a third of the sorority’s 135 members, the House is certainly not large enough to have Chapter meetings or host parties. However, “we decided the value of having a space regardless of size was more what people were looking for,” Quazzo says. They plan on using the House for board meetings, movie nights, and study sessions among sisters.
The outside door opens up into a staircase that leads you downstairs into the DG space. Instead of using a key, DG Sisters are given a key-code for access to the space. DG shares the building with a few other establishments, whose tenants could be less than pleased if they find 49 sisters in line for the building’s shared bathroom.
BID
At the bottom of the stairs, behind a glass wall is the house’s big attraction: a spacious common area with hardwood floors and stone and brick walls.  A dozen wooden pillars line both sides of the room, running vertically from the floor to the ceiling. Sisterhood is memorialized in the photos adorning the pillars.
The space is divided into three sections: a dining area, a TV area, and a midsection that will soon become a study space. A few pieces of furniture are scattered around the room. The sorority just gained occupancy of the place last Friday. The real decorating process has yet to commence, and a sorority-style makeover seems imminent.
The first section, which lies immediately to the left of the entrance, boasts a large wooden dinner table in chocolate brown and a matching set of 10 chairs, all from Jordan’s Furniture. Here, the sisters will hold board meetings and have their occasional meals.
“I picked out the furniture last weekend, and we definitely fell in love with the dining table,” Quazzo says. “It’s a nice piece.”
The color scheme for the modest decoration is decidedly blue and pink —the official colors of the national organization. Pink roses sit in a vase underneath one window on the right hand side, while three pieces of colored cardboard cut-outs denoting the Greek letters for Delta Gamma and their symbol—an anchor—perch on the other three windows.
At the far end of the common space is the TV area. A large L-shaped sofa  sits underneath three square windows. The overhead water pipes and brick walls reveal the house’s rough spots, but the sunny blue sofa does its best to soften it up. On a wooden ledge above it stands a framed pencil drawing by Anna W. LaVigne ’12, showcasing the words “Delta Gamma” against a background of Johnston Gate, in case you forgot this was the Harvard chapter.
Across from the couch is a plasma TV, still hidden under a layer of cardboard boxes. The overall feel is basic and modern, simplistic yet cozy. “The idea is that the house would mostly be used for like movie nights, hanging out watching TV,” explains Quazzo.
The middle section of the common area is still empty, save for a wooden counter that protrudes from the left wall. It will be used as a “bar,” according to Quazzo, her four fingers curled, air quoting vehemently. No alcoholic beverages would be allowed for those under 21, of course—the girls plan to be practically as quiet as the space’s bookstore predecessor. The chapter plans on obtaining stools to accompany the bar, as well as more tables and chairs to convert the main bulk of the area into a study space.
SISTERHOOD
The kitchen has a more modern feel, replete with elegant wood paneled cabinets and marble countertops. There is not a huge amount of space to move around, but it does have enough room for a stove, microwave, fridge.
The kitchen seems to perfectly suit its function as a place for a couple of sisters to make a meal together, though not a locale for cooking for the entire chapter. It is definitely far superior to your average dorm room water boiler or mini-fridge.
Through the kitchen, DGers have access to a small outdoor space, which they share with the other tenants of the building. “I don’t think a lot of the other tenants use it,” says Quazzo, “So we definitely plan on taking advantage of it.”
“People’s reactions to the place were overwhelmingly positive,” she says, referring to the housewarming party from the previous night. It was the first time most of the DG girls had seen the place, after having heard and talked about it for months. “I was standing at the door and watching the girls walk in, and their faces just lit up. It was really exciting.”
Undeniably, work is still underway to transform the place into a real home for the sisters of Delta Gamma., but Quazzo is both optimistic and excited, beaming with pride as she led FM through the tour.
All in all, the house seems to embody the characteristics of Delta Gamma: homey, sweet, and uncontroversial. Your mom would definitely approve.
Sections
After serving for nearly two years as President Obama’s chief economic advisor, President Emeritus and University Professor Lawrence H. Summers returned to campus this semester to resume his teaching responsibilities. Summers sat down with FM to talk about his presidential relationships, the state of the global economy, and his decision to return to Harvard.
1. Fifteen Minutes: What’s it like being back on campus?
Lawrence H. Summers: I’ve been happy at Harvard before, and I’m happy now. I’m enjoying spending time with students. I’m enjoying having time to think and reflect, both on what we did in the Obama administration and on economic issues going forward. I’m enjoying seeing how some of the things I worked on as President have come to fruition.
2. FM: In the final days of your Harvard presidency you told The Crimson that you were looking forward to time “to reflect, to write, and to speak freely, unencumbered by any institutional responsibility.” What happened?
LHS: I had a couple of very happy years before I went into government. I was mostly involved in thinking about what was the gathering financial crisis and appropriate policy responses to it. I really enjoyed teaching an undergraduate course on globalization. I may go back to that at some point before too long.
3. FM: What brought you back to Harvard?
LHS: I have liked University life as a professor. I’ve never been primarily motivated by income, though as many professors do, I’m sure I will do some consulting going forward. There is no greater collection of thinkers and nothing more important than new thinking. I want to be part of that at this point.  Ultimately, policy and politics are shaped by ideas and how they are understood.
4. FM: You left here amidst quite the controversy. Have there been any awkward encounters?
LHS: I’m a person who believes in looking forward, not backwards. I’m sure there are people who are still angry about controversies that occurred during my time as president, but I’ve certainly tried to move on.
5. FM: Rumor has it that you left the White House to keep your tenure. Is that true?
LHS: I left the White House for a whole combination of reasons. My wife had been living in Boston all this time. I felt that my main purpose in going back into government was to work with the president on ensuring a strong response to the crisis that loomed at the end of 2008. We had provided such a response. Certainly I was committed to my Harvard position. All of those factors were part of my decision to return.
6. FM: Earlier this semester, FM took a look at University President Drew G. Faust’s office. What do you think of the redecorations?
LHS:  I’m sure everyone who holds an office like that personalizes it. I’m sure Drew has done a great job with that. I haven’t had a chance to visit her in her office since I’ve returned.
7. FM: Would you have welcomed back ROTC if you were president?
LHS:  I was glad to see ROTC come back. I felt from the time I became president that Harvard benefited enormously from being a citizen, an institutional citizen, of the United States and therefore had an obligation to cooperate with our national defense. That didn’t require us to agree with every policy. And I strongly opposed some of the discriminatory policies of the military.
8. FM: What’s your relationship like with President Faust?
LHS: Drew and I speak from time to time. I’ve tried to respect President Faust in a way that Presidents Rudenstine and Bok respected me. I am responsive if there’s something I can do, but I never interfere in any aspect of University decision-making, since I had my time.
9. FM: There’s a movement on campus calling for the Harvard Management Company to adopt more socially responsible investment criteria. What are your thoughts on that?
LHS: In general, I think the right purpose for the University’s endowment is to maximize the University’s ability to do the socially beneficial things it does, like provide financial aid to students, like carry on research in developing countries, rather than to be a vehicle for political statements.
10. FM: Do you miss being in a decision-making role?
LHS: I think the most fulfilling kind of career a person can have is one where you have an opportunity to contribute in a number of different ways. I’m looking forward to a phase of teaching and writing and speaking.
11. FM: After spending most of your time in the last few years interacting with members of the political and business elite, what’s it like teaching students again?
LHS: One of the things I really like about working with undergraduates is that it gives you a chance to see issues that you’ve been thinking about for a long time through fresh eyes, because they haven’t been through the issues many times in the way that politicians and business people are likely to have been through the issues.
12. FM: Are you satisfied with the job you did as director of the National Economic Council?
LHS: No one can be satisfied with the way the economy is. But if I compare where we are with where it looked like we might be when President Obama took office, I think that the deep risk of another depression has been countered. Of course one would wish that it was possible to solve these problems faster. The core task, which was to counter the violent downdraft in the economy, has I believe been achieved.
13. FM: Where has the economic plan failed?
LHS: The economic logic of a simultaneous substantial excess of physical capital which inhibits investment and a major overleveraging of balance sheets which leads to large-scale savings creates an imbalance that inherently takes a long time to work through. And that’s an important source of frustration. But I believe the approach, based on substantial fiscal expansion, based on private capital infusions into troubled financial institutions, based on responding to the problems of major industries that were in trouble, based on buttressing the global economy, was the right approach.
14. FM: You used to brief President Obama daily. What’s your relationship like with him now?
LHS:  I speak with the president, the vice president and people in the administration on a fairly frequent basis. Beyond that the conversations are confidential.
15. FM: You were born in New Haven, and your parents taught at Yale. Which team are you really rooting for at The Game?
LHS: I am proud to have been the only Harvard president who never as president saw Harvard lose to Yale. Five years, five Harvard victories.
Sections
Excerpts from Keats, Tennyson, and Woolf lingered in the air of Boylston Hall’s Fong Auditorium last Tuesday, as a dozen students took part in the English Department’s annual Boylston Prize Competition for Elocution. A boy faltered over the final passage of “The Great Gatsby.” Some paced the room, wracked by their readings, and others stood stock still. While they were placing themselves in a tradition nearly two centuries old, a renewed emphasis on public speaking throughout and beyond Harvard is beginning to lend the contest distinctly modern implications.
Increasingly, the University is stressing the value of public speaking through courses such as Expos 40: A Public Speaking Practicum, as well as initiatives like the Program in Speaking and Learning at the Derek Bok Center. These programs are celebrated as innovative for their incorporation of rhetorical strategies into courses, a skill absent in most Harvard classes. Indeed, the elocution competition is a remnant of a time when elocution was an essential part of a Harvard curriculum—and a reminder that, like most trends, this one is nothing new.
EARLY ELOCUTION
Oratorical skill was part of a Harvard education from the start, with all professors incorporating rhetoric, elocution, and English composition into their courses throughout the 18th century. In 1771, Nicholas Boylston bequeathed 1500 pounds to the University to formally establish a professorship of speaking and oratory. The professor was to “instruct the students of the several classes in the nature, excellence, and acquisition of the important Art of Rhetoric ... or in the theory and practice of writing and speaking well.”
The looming war against England prevented the fulfillment of Boylston’s bequest—at least until the turn of the century, when his nephew, W. Nicholas Boylston, threatened to take legal action against the Harvard Corporation. The trustees suddenly found it easier to appoint the nation’s first professor of rhetoric and oratory, giving the job to John Quincy Adams. In gratitude, the younger Boylston established a fund of $1000 to be awarded as prizes in elocution and to “promote the reputation of Harvard College.”
While the elocution competition has continued up to the present, the scope of the Boylston Professor of Rhetoric and Oratory gradually broadened to include any scholars particularly renowned in the arts and letters. By the middle of the 20th century, poetic recitation had begun to fall out of favor, according to W. James Simpson, Professor of English and English department chair. In fact, the last two professors holding the title—Seamus Heaney and Jorie Graham—were chosen primarily for their accomplishments as renowned poets rather than for their oratorical achievements.
TO SPEAK, PERCHANCE
Graham did, however, do her part in reuniting the Boylston professorship and prize through her position as one of the judges for this year’s elocution competition. Joining her were Simpson and Michael Shinagel, dean of continuing education and senior lecturer on English.
“It’s pleasurable to listen to a text instead of reading it in silence,” says Simpson, explaining what he sees as the continued importance and relevance of recitation today. “It resonates with you.”
Students can choose to memorize and recite any selection from Greek, Latin, or English literature of up to five minutes in length. Some, such as Oliver D. Strand ’11, were drawn to the rich history of elocution at Harvard in electing which piece to perform.
Strand recited “Over 2,000 Illustrations and a Complete Concordance,” by Elizabeth Bishop. “I heard a story that John Ashbery [’49, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet] read this poem and in the middle of the reading of it burst into tears,” he says. “I wanted to see if I could understand why.”
Strand was one of about half of the participants to refrain from “performing” the piece, focusing on the words and phrases instead of acting out the excerpt. “A lot of the poem’s activity seems to be in your imagination,” he explains. “A lot of it has to do with the rhythms of the piece, all the images associated with them ... I didn’t want to add much on top of that.”
Others, such as Joshua G. Wilson ’13, brought a dramatic focus to their recitations. Wilson chose to recite “Ulysses” by Alfred Tennyson. “More so than my other favorite poems,” he says, “it’s written as though it’s to be spoken.”
To him, this lends itself naturally to a theatrically infused performance. “Our knowledge of who the speaker is should inform how we inflect certain phrases, where we place emphasis,” he states. “The character Ulysses should dramatically inform the performance of an otherwise non-dramatic speech.”
BEYOND BOYLSTON
Elise R. Morrison, preceptor for Expos 40 and associate director for speaking instruction at the Derek Bok Center, stresses that while good public speaking is and can be tied to dramatic experience, its significance is much broader. “People across the board are seeing the value of giving students practice and careful feedback on how they present themselves,” she says.
Expos 40: Public Speaking Practicum was established three years ago as an effort to create a single course fully devoted to rhetorical skill. “A lot of people were saying, yes there’s a need for public speaking at Harvard, but finding a place to house it was the trick,” says Morrison. She believes the decision to house the class under the Expository Writing program has been effective. In fact, there were 120 applicants for 12 spaces this year—prompting the program leaders to plan to double the sections offered next year.
This surge in interest is part of a larger movement throughout the University in once again recognizing the value of public speaking. Last year rhetoric expert David Zarefsky of Northwestern University was a visiting professor in the English Department. Through Bok Center initiatives, faculty can find ways to incorporate oral communication into courses that are not as focused on public speaking as Expos 40.
“My suspicion is that [this attitude] has changed a bit because of the increase in rhetorical structures that we encounter all the time,” states Morrison. “We’re expressing ourselves in a whole lot of different modalities.”
From Facebook and Twitter to podcasts and YouTube videos, it has never been easier to say something—and be heard—in such a public way. Yet in order to remain effective, stresses Morrison, this upsurge in quantity cannot come at the expense of polish and quality. “The choices we make with our physical and vocal performances,” she says, “lend a lot or detract a lot from our message.”
The groundswell of interest in Expos 40 reflects students’ increasing awareness of the contemporary significance of rhetorical skill, whether at Harvard or after. “More job-related outlets ... are somehow legitimating this thing that is in fact a really old form of expression,” notes Morrison, highlighting the history behind the discipline.
Simpson agrees that the art of elocution should be part of a Harvard education. The recent overhaul of the English Department curriculum did not include a greater emphasis on speaking; however, states Simpson, “I hope that in the years to come this will become a greater priority.”
Ultimately, Simpson returns to purely aesthetic benefits in describing the significance of rhetorical speech—especially the type of memorized recitation that the competition last week called for. “It’s something you can’t take away,” he says. “It becomes part of the ballast of your soul.”
Sections
1. FNL and BSA Present:
The Second Annual Black Mitzvah
2. PBHA and The Hasty Pudding Club invite you to:
Getting Krunk for Kids
3. Harvard Ballroom and The Harvard Cancer Society Present:
Dance for the Cance
4. Fuerza Latina and PBHA present:
Open Mic Event
5. DAPA and The Fly Club invite you to:
Drink Like its Prohibition
6. OTI and IGP Present:
A Discussion of Politics in the Middle East
7. WHRB and Dudley House Present:
Stoned: A Musical
8. The Harvard Tiddlywinks Society and Wushu Club invite you to:
YES! We Exist
9. Harvard Gay and Lesbian Caucus and the Harvard BGLSTA Present
We Are Different Clubs
Actual Themes: 1, 4
It’s Only a Matter of Time: 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
Sections
I stood on top of a platform more than 23 feet above the ground. Harnessed, I placed my toes over the edge, placed a chalked hand to the bar, and on “hep,” I leapt off, unthinking. It’s an elaborate series of maneuvers, but I’m on autopilot. Grabbing the bar with both hands, I kicked back and forced my legs up and out at the front end of the swing. Kicking back once again, my right knee moved to my chest, and extending it in front of the bar, I arched into a split. On my catcher’s command (“hep,” once again), I let go and threw my hands out for him to grab. Swinging forward together, him suspended from the bar, me gripping his wrists, I kicked forward, backward, forward again, and then turned my body around to grab onto the fly bar as it returned to me. Feeling it solidly in my hands, I kicked up to the platform—but I balked when my feet hit the top, hesitated, and fell backwards into the net.
This was last week. But my first taste of flying trapeze was at summer camp at age 11. Then, climbing up the ladder was near-paralyzing. Swinging itself wasn’t frightening. It was only the ascent that was; I wasn’t used to it yet. But at 13 and 14, I swallowed my nerves enough to get myself to the top on a daily basis. Flying was always enough of a reward to inspire the next day’s climb.
But then camp was dropped from my summer and trapeze from my life. For the seven years that followed, my mind wandered to my days in the air and the tricks I never tried. I looked up circus acts online and places to take classes. But for those years, I never actually swung on a bar.
It wasn’t until last year that I decided to get the circus out of my system once and for all. So I finally signed up. When I announced to my parents that I was returning to trapeze, they were skeptical. My father pleaded that I not injure myself. Of course, I was not without my own concerns—I had been a small 14 year old, but by 21, a growth spurt and high school athletics had added five inches and 35 pounds to my frame, and my level of grace appeared to change at an inversely proportional rate.
My first day back, this past June, justified my years of mental gymnastics. At Trapeze School New York, with the bar in my hands again and my body suspended in the air, I performed two tricks I had done before—a knee hang and a set split—with a swiftness and deliberateness I had lacked as a child. And I finished that first day back with a move I had never before tried—throwing myself to a catcher before letting go and falling to the net.
The next month, I returned. It was particularly hot that day, and the class was half empty. Because the other flyers were tired, I was allowed more turns on the rig. The lead instructor brimmed with enthusiasm, constantly giving me extra instruction. That day, I learned three tricks, a one-handed take off, and a basic swing. One woman, a weekly flyer, told me to stick with it; flying seemed to come to me easily, she said.
With that, I came back repeatedly. Whenever I was home I squeezed in sessions, sometimes several a week. My parents moved away; I still returned to visit my brother, see doctors, and of course fly.
This semester, when I met a Harvard classmate who also flies, I made it to a sister location in Reading, Mass., which previously had seemed impossibly far away. I now fly weekly as part of a 10-week workshop that will end with a show in June.
One day in January, I was at an early morning class in New York for one last hurrah before returning to school to work on my thesis. Before I took off, an instructor cautioned me about the position of my shoulders: “I want to see you flying years from now, not just months,” he said.
Years from now? I had been so focused on conquering the small goals that I had not thought about the viability of trapeze as a long-term hobby. The non-immediate future was never a concept I considered when I started swimming, or tap dancing, or playing the guitar, or any of the other activities I’ve been lucky enough to try but usually give up on. Maybe trapeze will be different. I still brave the two hour commute for class, shamelessly post my flying videos on Facebook, and wear my oddly-located bruises and the rips on my hands with pride.
Maybe it’s the constant encouragement and investment from the instructors. Or that my swimmer shoulders and full split are simultaneously assets. Or that I’m not constantly faced with others who have been doing this since they burst out of the womb.
Or maybe it’s this: when I fly, everything else—thesis pressure, friend drama, the demons of post-graduation uncertainty—is evicted from my head and replaced with the self-reminders to sweep back hard, keep my toes pointed, and commit to the trick at hand. For just two hours, there isn’t room in my mind for anything else. I just have to make it happen, on command, again, and again.
Sections
The testosterone was rampant, the estrogen minimal, and the Dems nowhere to be seen at last Thursday’s National Rifle Association seminar. The night looked to be an exciting one—indeed, Seth M. Waugh wrote in a rather seductive publicity email the claim that the seminar would give students, “the tools you’ll need to become a more effective activist in the fight to protect our freedom, both on- and off-campus,” and came with free shirts, pizza and year long NRA memberships.
Who could resist this triple whammy of delectable delights?
By the time the event was underway, Glen A. Caroline, the director of NRA’s Grassroots Division, had taken the stage as the first speaker for the night. Caroline, an imposing figure with steely eyes, an intimidating height, and a healthy air of the great outdoors, adopted a shooting stance, demonstrating the professional way of firing a gun—a move that startled at least a few attendees.
In contrast with his rustic look, however, Caroline delivered a speech filled with the utmost sass, verve and wit, coming up with some absolute winners that no doubt left the aspiring English concentrators in the audience stunned in his wake.
Moments of striking erudition included profundities such as: “Gun control doesn’t equate to crime control,” “Gun control never affects criminals ... it does affect citizens,” and “One squeeze, one shot. One squeeze, one shot. One squeeze, one shot.” Strangely absent, however, was the ever popular “Guns don’t kill people—people kill people.”
But the focus of the night was advising students on ways to promote freedom in a student friendly, safe and democratic manner. Clearly, Harvard students had a lot to learn. In fact, exceeding its promises of gun education and free gear, the talk also included helpful tips for student groups to get more fire power and bang for its buck. Some suggestions included a shooting team tailgate, a shooting range study break, or a “Fall in love with the Second Amendment” Valentines Day. (Nope, not kidding.) The night continued its light-hearted-but-deadly-serious tone as clips from the NRA’s “Trigger the Vote” campaign played to wild applause.
Sections
Fifteen Minutes: What are some of the challenges that come with the study of pornography?
Donald L. Hilton: A big one is the difficulty of finding a control group—few men have never seen porn. Also, because the topic is tied to ideological assumptions, people assume that if you show porn is bad, you must be a religious fanatic, making it hard to be taken seriously. Although, people are beginning to recognize it as a legitimate addiction.
FM: Tom Wolfe once said, “The bigger pornography gets, the lower the birthrate becomes.” Is there any truth in this?
DLH: Pornography emasculates men—they depend on porn to get sexually excited and can no longer get off by having sex with their women alone. What happens when you are addicted to porn is that you crave it. Real sex even becomes a poor substitute for porn, and you lose interest. This in turn contributes to the decreased fertility rate—making porn a kind of environmentally friendly population control. Although, the benefits gained from population control are vastly outweighed by the damage addiction does to families and individuals.
FM: When a species is endangered, scientists often look for environmental reasons. You claim that porn is causing the endangerment of the “real man”: what do you mean by this, and what are the environmental causes?
DLH: What it means to be a real man varies across time and space: for example, growing up in Southeast Texas it meant playing football, but for many it means to provide for your family and to be a caring husband. When you are addicted you can’t help but feed your addiction at the expense of everyone around you. Porn is fast, cheap, and easy—three things that emotionally involved copulations with a partner are not, so men are foregoing the latter for the former.
FM: What is going on neurologically in someone who is addicted to pornography?
DLH: What we see in people addicted to porn is the same as what we see with people addicted to drugs such as cocaine, supporting the theory that addiction to porn really is an addiction, and not merely a bad habit. The most significant areas of change are in the control and pleasure centers of the brain. Additionally, when we orgasm, we release a neurotransmitter called oxytocin which causes bonding, so we are literally bonding to porn when we use it to get off—making breaking the addiction that much harder.
FM: How widespread is porn use?
DLH: Over the past five years, the world pornography revenue was $97 billion annually. Every second, $3,075.64 is being spent on pornography. The only reason these numbers aren’t higher is because so much porn is available for free! Every second 28,258 internet users are viewing porn. Eighty-seven percent of college men and 31 percent of college women admit to watching porn. Twenty percent of college men watch porn daily—suggesting a possible addiction. Porn is used more by men than women because men have the ability to engage more quickly, and more porn is geared toward men than women.
Sections
There’s no doubt in my mind that Harvard has prepared me for the variety of professional and personal challenges I’ll face long after my Crimson Cash runs out. When my boss wants a response paper by midnight, I’ll have it covered. When my spouse wants another response paper by midnight, I’ll have that one covered, too. And come tax season, you can bet I’ll have my response paper uploaded on time to the my.IRS portal. Who says Social Studies doesn’t teach practical skills?
But despite my ability to substitute Keystone Light for food, Harvard hasn’t prepared me for—*gulp*—relocation. No matter how much I beg, or how securely I tie myself to a New Quincy radiator, I’ll be forced to take my Lynyrd Skynyrd collectors’ t-shirts and move somewhere that isn’t here. Most seniors face a similar dilemma, and even those continuing onto the ranks of post-grad academia are likely doing so outside the Crimson bubble. A lucky few will spend the months after graduation traveling, an effective method for postponing real life’s eerie call. Yet barring a lifelong position with Let’s Go, they too must eventually take root somewhere. Those of us entering the work force will head wherever our respective jobs take us, that is, as soon as we get those assignments from OCS.
For the 91 percent of Harvard students from New York, this doesn’t sound all that bad. Most will return to their old stomping grounds for lucrative careers in consulting companies or consulting other consultants on consultations (the “Inception” of the consulting world). New Jerseyites will blend in with the New Yorkers, Californians will move to L.A., and foreign students will congregate in London, the city of a million silly accents.
That leaves a small minority of us who hail from an area of the country that isn’t as sunny an option lest we aspire to not aspiring. With the exception of Chicago, there simply isn’t the same concentration of talent and energy to which we’ve become accustomed in the collegiate Northeast, nor is there a proliferation of the startups and fast-track fellowships we crave. There’s a sad brain drain pulling the country’s best and brightest toward the coasts. And so we merry few of the geographic in-between will face the added challenge of seeking out entirely new lifestyles in entirely new locales. Our foray into the real world will consequently be mixed with pangs of homesickness and escaper’s guilt, and perhaps a ting of remorse.
But as many Eastern philosophies are so quick to point out, life, it seems, moves in cycles; we’re here today, gone tomorrow, then suddenly back here the day after that. And as we forge our paths into adulthood, there might come a time when physical location is no longer a product of where we must live, but rather where we want to live. For the future doctors and lawyers among us, any population with a collective pulse can mean gainful employment, even in your old backwoods hometown. In an age where domain names can be more important than a company’s location, that next great entrepreneurial endeavor might work as well in Silicon Valley as it does in Podunk, USA. As much as our generation of movers and shakers yearns to go where the action is, we’re also poised to usher in a new age of global connectivity by taking our drive and experience right back to the grassroots from which we sprang.
Physical separation need not breed emotional distance, and connections can be maintained even among those who never return to their ancestral plots. Moving to Manhattan might make you a New Yorker, but it doesn’t unmake you a native of Arkansas or Missouri. Even if I never move back to live among the salt of the earth, I’ll still have an unwavering definition of home. For me it’s a pristine patch of bluegrass right above Tennessee, a place that shaped my formative years and comprises an important part of who I am. And because of that link, no matter where the rat race takes me, it will forever remain a part of who I become.
Sections
1. “Text-talk” is now official, and the Oxford English Dictionary has just gotten a little bitchier, adding “WTF,” “LOL,” and “Muffin Top” to their new edition. FYI, “LOL” traces back to 1941, when it meant “Little Old Lady.”
2. This month, Obama wants to hear from you—on Facebook, that is. The President is conducting a live-stream “Facebook town hall,” and you can post potential questions on the event page wall.
3. Harvard Admissions hits rock bottom ... for now. The lucky 6.2% of admitted prefrosh can look forward to awkwardly mumbling, “Oh, I’m going to school in Boston ...” for the next four months.
4. On a more national note, the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System proposes a $50 yearly fee for smokers and overweight diabetics. That’s tough love/tough cookies.
5. And in another effort to pinch American waistlines, the Obama administration plans to make calorie-counts public come 2012. From fast-food to vending machine chains, you won’t be able to escape the truth.
6. First Purell in the dining halls, now sanitary gloves on the T? The sanitation craze has yet to hit Boston, but New Yorkers now have the luxury of complementary “Metro Mitts” to avoid those grimy subway rails.
7. British football fans are fired up once again, but this time the drama is over décor, not draft picks. The Fulham Football Club has announced its plan to erect a life-size statue of Michael Jackson in its London stadium.
8. From “Pretty Woman” to hideous hag, Julia Roberts has just been cast as the evil Queen in a remake of the Disney classic, “Snow White.”
9. The good news: the unemployment rate has dropped to 8.8 percent. The bad news: we suspect that rate is a tad bit higher for the Class of 2011. May is right around the corner!
10. Harvard hipsters rejoice—The New York Times declares that, from rose to raspberry, red pants are in.
Sections
College is all about choices. In fact, there are so many choices sometimes that, out of a weird choice-induced paralysis, I end up doing nothing. It was like this even before I got here.
This was my senior summer, last July. It was a cycle: I was happy, thought I was happy, wondered if I was, wasn’t sure, wasn’t. More than a clever experiment in tenses, though; this was something tangible that was making summer an endless stretch of grey. I wanted my summer back.
I had never broken up with a girl before—especially not one whom I had been dating for a while—but for the first time, this was an actual consideration.
What was I thinking about at the time? Well, in less than a month, Diane and I would be more than three thousand miles apart—she in California, I in Massachusetts. I’d heard of couples making the distance thing work, and I’d heard horror stories too, but either way I needed to make a choice.
__________
In the distant future, I saw a door slightly ajar, and from what I could make out, it looked like what everyone had been telling me: the best four years of my life. I saw myself living the life I saw in all the brochures; the humble glamor of dorm living, the countless friends I would make, the post-party regrets and triumphs, and the laughter looking back on it all.
When I stopped peering beyond that threshold, I looked back towards my life in the present. I imagined what it would be like if I chose not to step through the door, and I saw four long years trailed by a growing shadow of regret—for missing out on all the brochure had promised. I imagined myself blinded by the new surroundings all around me, and struggling with the burden of someone far, far away whom I still cared deeply about.
When July ended, I decided to break up with Diane. A brief text letting her know we needed to talk, and then I was sitting across from her on her patio. The sky was grey, but it wasn’t raining. I began a lot of sentences with “I’m sorry” and other vaguely apologetic noises, but when it was all over, I drove back home.
I lay in bed that night and before drifting to sleep, I saw the door again. I saw the choices that had tempted me: the hazy silhouettes of the women I would be with, in my search for someone special. The door was wide open, and for a brief instant, I felt frighteningly free. The realm of possibilities yawned before me, and I had already made the first step; then I paused upon hearing another door gently click shut behind me.
It was a door I had overlooked—a view into a future that guaranteed no more than an undisclosed amount of time with the girl whom I still cared for, who still meant more to me for being herself than the siren infinity of unrealized fantasies I had fallen so hard for.
I had made a big mistake.
__________
Following expectations of good form and taste in breaking up, I would have gone to college alone but regretful. I would have lived the life I had looked forward to with such zeal, and I might even have forgotten about this whole episode, maybe. But knowing me, good taste just isn’t my style.
I spent two days in limbo, and standing before the door of her house, I almost drove back home. Finally, though, I did it; I knocked four quick raps on the door of uncertainty.
The door opened. Diane stood there; she looked beautiful, unhappy.
“What do you want?” she asked me.
“Can we talk?” I said. I smiled, but she didn’t seem to notice.
We walked solemnly upstairs to her room. I noticed that the books I had lent her were missing from her desk, and noticing my hesitation, she thrust a box containing them and other forgotten, indefinitely loaned items into my arms.
“Well?”
I set the box down on the floor, and took a good long look at her. She was wearing the same outfit as the day I broke up with her—blue and red pajamas, an off-white graphic t-shirt. We sat apart, and I wanted to fix things. Words came—I don’t remember them anymore—and she said she’d think about it.
I went hiking with friends the next day. We went out to the Delaware Water Gap and when we reached the clearing, looked for a long while out into the expanse of clear blue sky. I don’t remember much else.
To tell the truth, I don’t remember anything else from that week. But then one night, Diane and I were out in Princeton for sushi and before long, we became us. I was happy, and so was she. We were happy, again.
Sections
There are very few women found amongst the ghosts of Tercentenary Theatre. In her introduction to the anthology  “Yards and Gates: Gender in Harvard and Radcliffe History,” 300th Anniversary University Professor of History Laurel Thatcher Ulrich writes, any Radcliffe student attending service at Memorial Church had to sit behind a screen because she was considered “a temptation,” until the rule was changed in 1955.
From that decade on, the presence of women grew stronger, steadily filling in this historic void. In 1970, graduating Radcliffe seniors were allowed, for the first time, to march in the commencement ceremony that famously ends at the foot of the church. A year later, 1971 marked the earliest instance in which a woman was allowed to preach from the Memorial Church pulpit.
Other parts of the College’s geography underwent a similar transition. The libraries of Harvard Yard remained exclusively male until the mid-20th-century. When Lamont was founded in 1949, Widener, open since 1915, extended access to Radcliffe students. Ulrich explains that for women, “There were certain rules about where they could walk in Widener, because the idea was they would distract the males.” Lamont remained accessible only to men until 1967.
Interestingly enough, males were always allowed in the Radcliffe College Library, where, 1956 Radcliffe alum Paula J. Omansky observes, they did not come to only look at books. When Hilles opened in 1966 as the new Radcliffe library, it was open to both Radcliffe and Harvard students. The old Radcliffe College Library is now the Schlesinger Library, which features women’s rights collections, among other items.
Accompanying these changes was a shift in the primary landscape through which women engaged with their education on campus. Before World War Two, Radcliffe Yard was central to an undergraduate woman’s experience at the university as the location of all classes and activities. Thereafter, the changes began. Says Ulrich, “In the 1940’s, during the war, when there were so many men away, they started co-ed classes for the first time.” She notes however, “It was a very long process of integrating.”
By the time Omansky began her freshman year at Radcliffe in 1952 the gender divide had faded. “The education was identical, we went to Harvard classes,” she says. Even student organizations she was a part of, like the Democratic Club, were co-ed. Gym classes, dining halls and housing were the significant exceptions, with gym classes held at separate facilities for men and women.
Freshman Dean Thomas A. Dingman ’67 recalls that Radcliffe women were not allowed to eat in House dining halls on the River. “There was a separate world up there, and then you came here for your education,” says Ulrich. Women could only fully occupy the space in the Quad, but even there, the dynamics were different.
Men were housed in suites on the River, which had common rooms and bedrooms. Radcliffe housing consisted of singles, in the Quad, with smoking lounges, or “smokers,” on each floor. Even in the mid-20th-century, men’s control over their own social space started close to home as an extension of their dorm rooms.
For most of Harvard’s history, the Yard was a restricted space for Radcliffe women, and even life in the Quad was subject to administrative rules. Omansky relates how Radcliffe women were under the jurisdiction of parietal hours and had to sign in and out. They were required to be in their dorm by 10 p.m. on weeknights and 1 a.m. on Saturdays. There were also restrictions about how late a Radcliffe student could remain visiting someone at Harvard.
Dingman explains, “If they were visiting, you had to sign them in, and they were allowed to be here between 4 [p.m.]and 7 [p.m.].” Omansky notes however, “A lot of stuff went on notwithstanding these parietal rules, I assure you.”
Despite the integration of freshman dorms in 1972, the actual point at which women became part of the main campus is an ambiguous one. “There’s no possible way of fixing a date when women entered Harvard because it happened so gradually,” Ulrich says. She emphasizes that even after this integration, “Women still got their diplomas counter-signed by Radcliffe.” This didn’t change until 1999.
While Radcliffe was not formally transformed from a college into an Institute for Advanced Study until that same year, it began as the Harvard Annex, an add-on to the main institution, created with the intention of ultimately incorporating women into the Harvard community, says Marilyn Dunn, Executive Director of the Schlesinger Library. In the past, “Radcliffe had been this kind of stepchild,” says Ulrich.
Today, a remaining legacy of the once all-male Harvard College is still seen in the freshman dorms, where male students often occupy the first floors.
William Cooper ’94, Resident Dean of Freshman, writes in an email to The Crimson, “It’s generally true that vertical entries have men on the first floor while horizontal entries are a mix, but there’s a lot of variety in the Yard due to the architecture of each building. Also, since the gender balance of each class varies from year to year we make annual adjustments to the rooms.” Dingman comments that the first floor of Thayer Dorm remained all-male until about five years ago.
From living spaces to social ones, the search for a place at Harvard has been two-fold. Before the full integration of the two colleges, women had limited areas where they could wait around in the Yard between classes. Susan B. Marine, Assistant Dean for Student Life and Director of the Women’s Center, describes the Radcliffe students of the 50s and 60s as restricted: “They could really only go to the Memorial Church basement because that’s where the bathrooms were, and it was also like a lounge. They had couches and stuff down there, and that’s where the Radcliffe women hung out.”
FINDING A SPACE
Because of these boundaries, the creation of a space for women on campus was essential. In reference to the 1990s, Ulrich says, “One of the big issues was, ‘We need a women’s center.’ And the administration said, ‘It’s illegal, because we have to be equal, and if we have a women’s center then we’ll be discriminating’ …. It was an ongoing, ongoing argument.”
Finding this type of space has required persistence. Over the years, there have been many attempts to establish a permanent women’s center. Before the 1990s there were precursors to what is now the Harvard College Women’s Center. The first space, then called The Women’s Center, was started at Radcliffe College in 1974.
Initially located in the Phillips Brooks House, it moved to Lehman Hall, then to Apley Court, then to Agassiz House, and finally to Canaday Hall. The Harvard College Women’s Center (HCWC), as it is known today, now has a place in the Yard.
Opened in September 2006, the HCWC aims to create a place for women to feel safe and comfortable. People come here to share their opinions, socialize, or seek guidance. Despite its name, the center has never been solely for women, and all genders visit it. Currently, three of the 12 student interns at the center are male.
The location of the HCWC—in the basement of Canaday Hall—may make it seem like an afterthought, placed in a building that happened to have space. However, being in the Yard gives the center its accessibility and convenience, and situates it in a once all-male domain.
Says Marine, “We’ve never seriously talked about space expansion because at this current moment, it would mean leaving the Yard, and I think we feel it is both symbolically and historically important to be here.”
A SOLID PRESENCE
Despite the historical inequalities regarding space for women at Harvard, organizations geared toward women and women’s issues have attained prominent positions at the College. Their existence highlights the presence of female leadership and equality on campus.
Harvard Undergraduate Women in Business is one of the premier business organizations on campus, with somewhere between 300 and 400 members, WIB (as it is more commonly known) has grown since 10 undergraduates established it back in 2000.
Through a series of workshops, speakers, and an annual conference held in October, WIB seeks to provide women with pre-professional resources and advice, focusing on marketing, general business skills, balancing work and life, and other skills essential to success.
However, these skills only provide a basic foundation for success in business.  Another major component is developing relationships with industry professionals. Approaching others in the field can be tricky when a bias exists. “There are already a lot of men in these high power positions and they are more likely to bring other men up … networking sort of happens on the basketball courts, at sporting games, in these arenas that women may not be invited to or feel comfortable going,” says Elizabeth C. Ahern ’12, WIB Co-President.
WIB recognizes the need to foster connections and create a community of women students and leaders that pulls from the strengths of its members. Thus, a strong component of their mission is crafting a network for Harvard women to connect with others with similar interests and with alumnae.
Despite its name and women-oriented workshops, WIB also attracts male participants. Over the years, a number of males have completed the comp process and attended the organization’s conference. Ahern explains, “I think we are viewed as almost not gendered, even though we are … I think we are very much viewed as a premier business organization rather than a premier women’s organization.”
The Women’s Leadership Conference, under the Women’s Leadership Project, illustrates the role women on campus have today. This five-day conference takes place right before the start of the fall semester and provides participants with guidance and career advice. Every year, it has about 30 to 40 attendees, including males. Because of its intimate size, WLC aims to create a community among its participants, professors, speakers and leaders at the conference.
WLC is an opportunity for professional development in areas such as resume writing. The conference also teaches participants how to manage finances, gives advice on pursuing graduate school, and offers other career and speaker workshops.
“So it’s a whole thing about figuring out where you are now, where you are going and how you’re going to get there and a big part of that is seeing different women role models through the speakers,” says co-chair Rachel M. Neiger ’12.
The HCWC also recognizes the importance of guidance, connections and role modeling. Some of the programs at the center today are legacies of Radcliffe College. “There was a [mentoring] program that connected Radcliffe alums with young women, and I think that’s still going,” says Dunn.
Of course, such mentorship is not only helpful to women, comments Marine, “Everyone needs mentors and role models. Everyone of every gender.”
BREAKTHROUGHS
The WISTEM Mentor Program (Women in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) connects undergraduates interested in science and math with graduate students. This creates a network of guidance and advice, which has great value for women in fields that are male-dominated. Marine discussed how the number of College women interested in these fields decreases substantially from freshman to senior year. “The only thing you can try to do then structurally is make it possible for women to feel supported, to be connected to mentors, to feel like they have relatable people in the field. That that’s what keeps them there, that’s what all the research says,” she notes. Women who are happy, who feel valuable and equal in their field, tend to remain, Marine explains, while those that do not feel valued often become discouraged and leave.
Bonnie Cao ’12, vice-president of the Undergraduate Council (UC), is a product of an encouraging role model. Her first experience with the UC was through a woman, former president Andrea R. Flores ’09. Turned away by the aggressive nature of door-knocking to earn votes and become a Freshman Representative, Cao, with encouragement from Flores, joined the UC her sophomore year.
“Through those personal connections, that’s how you encourage other females on campus to run for more leadership positions,” says Cao.
The UC, an organization that represents the entire student body, lacks female representation on its board. Of the twelve Freshman Representatives for the class of 2014, only one is female. Yet even though this gender divide is apparent, it is not necessarily an obstacle for women. “I never really felt it, there aren’t that many women on the UC but it’s definitely something you can see when you’re looking at the general meetings,” says Cao.
“Women aren’t really afraid of running, it’s not the handshaking that women are afraid of, it’s the perception that what they do or why they’re there isn’t going to make a difference,” adds Marine, explaining what she calls “a vicious cycle.”
In cases like Cao’s, mentorship offers a powerful source of support in an array of areas, but is it possible to provide it in every field—academic, extracurricular and social? While numerous organizations on campus work to create a community for women and provide them with skills necessary to succeed, not all women feel comfortable here. Gender divides, while more rare than a few decades back, continue to exist. In addition to the UC, Marine mentioned a recent conversation she had with a student who felt unwelcome being the only woman at a pre-professional club meeting for a science field.
“I also hear from students that they don’t feel necessarily welcome or fully like they can take on leadership roles in their student organizations ... I hear it from students who are trying to break through what they perceive as a bit of a glass ceiling around some of the other organizations on campus,” says Marine.
And yet there have been some significant breakthroughs. Women occupy some of the most powerful leadership roles on campus, such as P. Kenzie Bok ’11 former Student President of the IOP, Stephanie N. Oviedo ’12 Director-General of Harvard Model United Nations, Ekene I. Obi-Okoye ’12 President of PBHA.
The HCWC provides support to women’s student organizations, and Marine states that this is probably one of their most important tasks. It gives grants to groups, and supports projects and events that encourage women’s visibility on campus as well as women’s leadership. Staff at the HCWC also advise many women’s groups, one of which is The Women’s Cabinet, a coalition of members of all women’s groups on campus. It aims to connect them to resources and to each other. Marine calls the HCWC, the “scaffolding under these groups.”
THE FINE PRINT
Cao insists, “I feel like there’s a lot of women in a lot of leadership positions on campus. I think the main thing is more institutional or structural. The social scene is very male dominated.”
Dingman, who arrived on campus in the fall of ’63, echoes this sentiment, “Now, of course, the men and women have equal opportunities. I think the realm in which there is a difference is the social one.”
He continues, “There are some women’s organizations that have ended up with their own space, social organizations. That brings some parity, but I think that’s more the exception. [It is the legacy of male clubs] that leads to a skewed social landscape, and that’s concerning.”
In theory, final clubs are separate from the University. In reality, male and female final club presidents are strongly  encouraged to meet with the dean and assistant dean of student life after every election cycle.
“I meet with them every year, twice a year, and sit down and we go over the policies for the College together, and we talk about different ways that they can avail themselves of resources on campus to educate their members,” says Marine, “particularly about some of the things that would create risk for them, like alcohol use and abuse, violence, sexual and other kinds of violence.”
Presidents sign an agreement that indicates they have read and understood Harvard policies regarding hazing and social host responsibility. “It tends to be pretty conversational, we invite their grad board advisors to come,” Marine says.
Harvard has a social scene dominated by groups that are officially unaffiliated with the University, because it only recognizes student organizations that are open to both men and women. In 1984 final clubs were given the opportunity to go co-ed or break with the University, and chose to sever ties. Sororities and fraternities are single-sex according to national jurisdiction, and thus can never become co-ed.
Given this policy, names like the Black Men’s Forum, or Latinas Unidas may be misleading. According to Marine, any Harvard student group must admit both men and women. It is true, however, that single-sex a cappella groups usually find ways around this policy. Female choirs composed of sopranos and altos, are still able to turn away a male whose voice does not blend with the others, although male students must be allowed to try out. The same goes for male choirs made up of tenor and bass voices.
For some, the recognition of single-sex student organizations would simply bring parity. Junior Anastasia N. Roda ’12 says, “Because Harvard doesn’t give the standing to new organizations that those organizations need to gain footing in the social scene, they can’t really compete. Because of Harvard’s history with all male social organizations ... those organizations have the footing and therefore are the social life. Preventing single-sex organizations now actually makes the system discriminatory because it limits social options to social options that a lot of people are very uncomfortable with.”
MAKING HISTORY
There are currently three sorority chapters on campus, Delta Gamma, Kappa Alpha Theta, and Kappa Kappa Gamma. Women final clubs include the Bee, the Isis, the Sabliere, La Vie, and the Pleiades. The Seneca is another prominent women’s organization. All are banned from tabling at the Student Activities Fair, and, like their male counterparts, they are not allowed to use Harvard space for any official events.
In response, these female social groups have simply been leaving the University behind. Cao, also a member of DG, says, “I think a lot of the women’s clubs, lately especially, have been doing really great about socializing with each other, as opposed to just women’s clubs having mixers with male clubs. The Seneca has been leading up a lot of these initiatives.” The Seneca recently hosted a Social Spaces Discussion and will soon host a women’s club mixer at a local restaurant.
Some women, like Cao support University recognition of sororities. Official recognition would allow sororities to publicize at the student activities fair, legitimizing female organizations on a male-socially dominated campus. And yet, under their national chapter jurisdiction, even if Harvard recognized sororities, they would still not be able throw parties, and so others question how much recognition of Greek Life could really change women’s social spaces here.
Like sororities and fraternities, final clubs cannot publicize at the student activities fair, and yet they still appear to retain a huge amount of control over the social scene. Much of the status of male clubs is based on their long history. But even female final clubs, new by Harvard’s history, have been slowly establishing a presence over the social life in the Square.
Acquiring property in the Square is symbolically important for women’s social organizations. Many female social clubs rent spaces, and the Bee throws parties in their house, but most social mixers are hosted in spaces owned by male clubs.
Leah Reis-Dennis ’13 asserts, “There’s also something to be said for the really unequal power dynamic, because men are controlling the spaces, men are controlling what girls are getting in, what kind of drinks people are getting, and I think that’s a big problem.” She adds, “Especially in Cambridge, where space is so expensive, space is beyond just the physical mass, space in Cambridge represents a lot of money, which is really powerful.”
Whether the rules about where women can go in male final clubs stem from exclusivity, some clubs only allow women to use the basement as a social space, or from protecting a place they don’t want trashed, she insists that male clubs use space in a powerful way. “The basement is symbolic of inferiority, or secrecy, repression, darkness, all these things. Women shouldn’t be contained to that.” The way out lies in redefining these boundaries.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dignitaries and University leaders hailed the late Reverend Professor Peter J. Gomes as a public figure who left an indelible impression on all those who met him and whose example had profoundly impacted the world at the University’s official memorial service for Gomes yesterday morning in Memorial Church.
With the Church’s pews filled to capacity, former University President Derek C. Bok, current President Drew G. Faust, and Massachusetts Governor Deval L. Patrick ’78 shared their personal recollections and thoughts on the life and legacy of Gomes, who served for 35 years as the Plummer Professor of Christian Morals and Pusey Minister at Memorial Church.
Throughout the service, the speakers depicted Gomes as a man who encouraged those around him to stay true to themselves—a lesson he embodied in his everyday life.
“By his example, Peter taught us all something about integrity,” Patrick said. “Not just in the sense of moral rectitude and doing right by others, but in the sense of knowing your self and trusting your moral compass.”
Gomes was often defined by those who did not know him by his unique public identity as a gay black Republican minister at Harvard,
Still, the speakers said these identifications did not limit him.
He was “an African American from Plymouth, a Baptist at Memorial Church, a Republican in Cambridge, out of the closet, and out of the box,” Faust said. “I always sensed that he prized these antinomies and cultivated them. There seemed to be a bit of wry delight when to someone perplexed by his character, Peter would simply say he was who he was and it always made sense to him.”
Said Patrick, “By refusing to be put in anybody else’s box, Peter Gomes may have been the freest man I have ever known.”
The speakers also honed in on Gomes’ direct impact at Harvard. The Reverend Professor was influential at creating the Harvard Foundation as an organization that brought people of diverse cultural backgrounds together, according to Bok. Faust, along with others, credited Gomes with allowing the Memorial Church to maintain a positive presence on campus despite the tumultuous environment at Harvard in the 1970s.
“He was a Christian figure at a 400 year-old Christian institution that was on the brink of renouncing that,” said James Y. Stern ’01, an usher at the service. Stern is also a former Crimson news executive.
Faust also recalled how Gomes’ openness and his desire to reach out to others left a lasting impression on the Harvard community.
“Peter said with a smile, ‘It is so hard to love others. They are so unlovely, so unloveable.’” she said. “But of course Peter loved so freely and he was so loved in return.”
Despite the somber occasion for the gathering, the service did not lack moments of levity. Faust received roaring laughter when she described the congratulations that Gomes offered her upon her appointment as President of Harvard in 2007.
Faust recalled that an ornately robed Gomes approached her and said—in his typical playful formality—“Madam, I come to pledge my fealty.”
Acting Pusey Minister Wendel W. “Tad” Meyer addressed the crowd briefly to share that a new organ would be installed in the church bearing Gomes’ name along with that of Charles Brenton Fisk ’49.
Gomes had dedicated much of his time to raising money for the restoration of the organ in recent years. Continuing this effort, Meyer asked the service’s attendees to contribute generously to the project, which he said still needs to raise 2.5 million dollars.
Meyer also read a message sent by Charles, Prince of Wales. According to the note, Prince Charles had been impressed by Gomes’ character on the few occasions that they met.
While the search for a new minister proceeds, individuals associated with the University said they agree that it will be impossible to fill the shoes left by Gomes.
“It’s hard to imagine Harvard without Peter,” Faust said.
—Staff writer Justin C. Worland can be reached at jworland@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University Professor Michael E. Porter yesterday responded to accusations made by former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 at Tuesday’s Faculty meeting.
Lewis said Porter improperly was paid to write a 2006 report calling Muammar Gaddafi’s regime a democracy—but Porter said yesterday that his research and the report were done between 2004 and 2006, a period of time when the future of the nation looked more optimistic.
“The period beginning in 2004, after Libya had opened up, renounced weapons of mass destruction, and settled international sanctions, marked the first opportunity for true reform in Libya for decades,” Porter said in a written statement to The Crimson. “As it became clear over the following year that vested interests and conservatives had succeeded in halting the reform process, I stopped my work in Libya in the first quarter of 2007 and have not worked there since.”
In the statement, Porter added that “numerous fundamental weaknesses” were currently impairing Libya’s advancement.
“The study put forth far-ranging recommendations for change throughout the economy and in Libyan institutions,” he wrote.
Porter helped Monitor Consulting Group, a private consulting firm he helped found, secure a multi-million dollar contract to work for the country’s government and provide recommendations as Libya attempted to open to the Western world. Porter said in his email that some of the work was “strongly supported” by the U.S. government.
In Tuesday’s Faculty meeting, Lewis accused Porter by saying, “Taking money to support a tyranny by dubbing it a democracy is wrong.”
Lewis said that the Libyan government wanted a report that legitimized its regime, and that Porter obliged “for a price.”
Porter’s involvement with Libya began around 2001, when he met Saif Gaddafi, son of the Libyan leader, in London. After several dinners, Porter was convinced that Saif Gaddafi was truly committed to political and economic reforms, according to Bloomberg Businessweek.
However, it was not until 2005—after Libya had settled international sanctions, opened up, and renounced weapons of mass destruction—that Porter agreed to become a senior advisor on the Libyan economy.
The period “marked the first opportunity for true reform in Libya for decades,” Porter wrote.
In February 2006, Porter presented a report to Libyan officials in Tripoli, detailing the strengths and weakness of the Libyan economy and political system. Despite the problems with Libya, Porter claimed in the report that there had been strong economic growth and named the country as “the only functioning example of direct democracy on a national level”—as opposed to representative democracy, which predominates in the West.
Three months later, the United States resumed full diplomatic relations with Libya after removing it from its list of countries that support terrorism.
However, Porter said that over time he realized Gaddafi was not following through in his support for reforms.
In response to the recent social unrest in Libya, Monitor Group issued a statement expressing “regret” that the period of promise was so short-lived while also acknowledging having made “some errors in judgment.”
—Staff writer Gautam S. Kumar can be reached at gkumar@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Sirui Li can be reached at sli@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In light of the recent revolutions in Egypt, Libya, and Tunisia, Professor of Public Policy at the University of California, Los Angeles Barbara Geddes analyzed military dictatorships and coups yesterday, claiming that authoritarian governments with party systems in place create the most stable dictatorships and are least likely to become democratic.
The speech, entitled “How the Military Shapes ‘Democratic’ Institutions,” was given for a small gathering at the Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation’s Democracy Seminar Series.
The best strategy for a dictator to avoid a coup is to create a civilian regime supporting the government, Geddes said. While maintaining a political party is often costly as the government must invest resources in citizens, it yields positive results as people develop vested interests in the regime, Geddes said.
But she stressed that the presence of parties says nothing about the democratization of the country.
“The idea that dictators that have the trappings of democracy are closer to real democracy is not what we see in the real world,” she said.
Geddes used a wealth of statistical data to examine the stability of authoritarian regimes, contrasting dictatorships with pure military support to those with a party system in place.
She explained that the military can be the biggest threat or the biggest support to dictators as they attempt to stave off coups.
“If the dictator’s military support base is unified and disciplined, he should agree to share spoils and policy influence with the rest of the military,” said Geddes. “If the military is factionalized and undisciplined, there is no point in sharing. The dictator must try to find other strategies to protect himself from coups.”
Tarek Masoud, an assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School who organized the event, said that although he scheduled the seminar last spring, the choice turned out to be very timely.
“Professor Geddes is a leading theorist of authoritarianism and democracy and how you get from one to the other,” Masoud said. “No one else has thought so strongly about the structure of autocratic regimes.”
The audience’s response to the seminar was generally positive.
“I think this is a very timely subject on dictatorships and military coups that are developing in the Middle East at this time,” said Michael Tai, a visiting fellow from Cambridge University.
“It was really enlightening,” said Kennedy School student Sarah B. Bouchat.  “Barbara does a good job with illuminating the concept of how a military can play an active role in an authoritarian regime that a lot of political scientists either ignore or don’t know how to fully specify.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Turn on an episode of the hit television show “Glee” and you might catch a glimpse of musician and composer Brad Ellis quietly playing the piano in the background of a glee club rendition of Britney Spears or Madonna.
Allen G. Feinstein ’86, the musical director of the Harvard Pops Orchestra and a friend of the artist posed questions to Ellis last night in the Adams House LCR.
In the style of his television persona, Ellis sat contentedly at the piano, as he told the audience stories about his experiences in the music, theater, and television industries.
“For me, having fingers on the piano is crucial,” Ellis said.
While technology has evolved so that artists and the music industry favor electronic music, Ellis has remained devoted to the acoustic piano, which he said helped him secure his role on “Glee.”
“Things like ‘Glee’ are a fluke because it matters that I still play,” Ellis said.
Ellis currently spends his time on screen and composing music for “Glee,” which he said has been his favorite project thus far in his life.
“The cast of ‘Glee’ is incredibly grateful. The set is the happiest place for me,” he said.
Unlike the silent, mysterious accompanist he plays on television, Ellis’ real-life personality is quirky and humorous.
“He’s a mystery,” said Madison A. Greer ’13. “You never get anything out of his character so I was really interested in what he had to say. He’s awesome.”
Ellis entertained the audience with vibrant stories supplemented by animated hand gestures and imitations of celebrities, like Billy Joel, with whom Ellis has collaborated in the past.
“The original idea is that ‘Glee’ Brad is a misanthrope. ‘Glee’ Brad is taciturn. Clearly that’s not me,” he said.
Ellis described himself as an accompanist and musical coach, often helping actors—such as Salma Hayek—to overcome their fears about their lack of vocal ability.
“Most forms of conducting, playing piano with other people, teaching has got to be a part of it,” said Ellis.
Outside of Glee, Ellis has worked with charity organizations, including connecting with autistic children through music.
Ellis’ relationship with Pops Musical Director Allen Feinstein ’86 began when the two were working on a musical together.
“I love the way he plays clarinet,” Ellis said. “Everything he plays means something. We became very good friends.”
This Saturday night, Ellis will be the guest performer with the Harvard Pops Orchestra for their first alumni-reunion concert, “Pops Comes of Age.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Committee for a Secondary Field in Innovation for Social Change expressed their intent to establish a faculty standing committee one week from now at their first student information session yesterday in Boylston Hall.
The organization described the mission of the secondary concentration as to “provide students with an interdisciplinary approach to thinking critically about solving societal problems using focused learning, action, and reflection,” according to a handout given to attendees.
Yesterday’s information session represented the group’s first significant push for student interest.
“We hope that students will reach out to professors and friends and continue to build the momentum in the movement,” said Kara M. Kubarych ’13, faculty outreach coordinator for the group.
The group currently has the support of Science of Engineering and Applied Sciences Dean Cherry A. Murray, former SEAS Dean Venkatesh “Venky” Narayanamurti, Sociology Lecturer and Director of Undergraduate Studies David L. Ager, and Physics Professor David A. Weitz, said Ryan E. Heffrin ’13.
However, they lack an official standing committee of 10 faculty members in support of the new concentration, a requirement for developing a secondary field.
After a standing committee is formed, “the next step is for the faculty to be meeting with the deans and putting pressure on them to say, ‘This is something that the students want and this is something that we would really like to see go through,” said Heffrin.
Approximately thirty-five people, roughly the number of attendees, signed a petition in support of the secondary concentration.
Undergraduate Council Vice-
President Bonnie Cao ’12, a member of the group, gave a speech in support of the initiative. Cao she plans to use her leverage as a UC leader to pressure University Hall to embrace “Innovation for Social Change.”
Following the speeches, the attendees broke into groups with the committee members to discuss possible faculty interest and other ways to support the field.
All attendees received a handout described the proposed requirements for the field.
Students will choose from one introductory course, three electives that represent a focus related to social change, one “experiential learning activity” such as an internship or a self-initiated social venture, and a senior tutorial in their focus area.
Example focus areas include “Education Reform in the U.S.” and “Water Purification to Combat Diarrheal Disease in Poor Countries.”
The idea for the secondary concentration in Innovation for Social Change began two years ago with four students in Ager’s “Social Entrepreneurship” course.
“The idea was how we, as Harvard students, [can] use our combined efforts to create solutions that will improve the world,” said Emily K. Harburg ’11, who spearheaded the committee for the new concentration. “We really wanted to create a minor where students could still pursue engineering or math and could then get a secondary to accompany that major that will serve the world,” she said.
—Staff writer Melanie A. Guzman can be reached at melanieguzman@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former University President Lawrence H. Summers was working fifteen-hour days, responsible for advising President Obama on his most pressing economic questions, and consuming an ungodly amount of Diet Coke—a habit that had followed him from Cambridge to Washington D.C.
Still, he had developed the unfortunate habit of falling asleep in important meetings.
In a photo that flashed across the Associated Press’ wires, Summers could be seen at the head of a table, fist balled, slowly nodding asleep—much like the undergraduates he had left behind in Cambridge. Obama could be seen in the photo’s foreground, directing a meeting about economic policy.
But in press reports, Summers’ emerged during his tenure as head of the National Economic Council from 2009 to the end of 2010 as one of Obama’s most trusted advisers and an architect of the economic policy that the president’s boosters say brought the country back from the brink of economic collapse.
While Summers is the paradigmatic Washington insider among the Harvard professorial corps, he is not the only University professor to have decamped Cambridge for the White House.
Those who migrated south with the swearing in of a Democratic president say that the transition from academia to government represented a drastic change of pace from Harvard, one that imposed a level of rigidity rarely seen in the life of a free-wheeling professor and one that placed a deal of pressure on their families.
So more than two years after Obama’s inauguration, professors have begun to return to the University.
THE REAL WORLD
Harvard Law School Professor Lawrence H. Tribe ’62 once called President Obama “the best student I ever had,” and in 2010 he went to work in the young president’s Department of Justice heading up a new initiative.
One of the biggest changes?
“I had to put on a suit everyday,” says Tribe, who spent nine months working for the Department of Justice to implement the Access to Justice Initiative. Tribe notes how difficult it was to be a part of the bureaucratic process and founding a new office.
Besides the suit and tie, the lifestyle of a professor and the lifestyle of a bureaucrat in the federal government are extremely different.
“There are very few emergencies in the life of a professor,” Summers says. “There are nearly daily emergencies in the life of a White House staffer.”
Professors who worked in the Obama administration all note that the administration exerted more control over their day-to-day activities than Harvard did.
Harvard Kennedy School professor Jeffrey B. Liebman, who worked as the Executive Associate Director of the Office of Management and Budget for a year and a half, says that at the OMB, unlike in academia, his schedule was determined by others.
“Maybe the most striking feature of being a professor is how much control one has over one’s schedule,” he says. “When one goes to government, others set the schedule and the pace.”
Also predetermined in government is one’s area of focus. “When you’re in academia, you focus on a small number of things of your choosing that not a lot of people care about, at your pace,” says Harvard Law School professor Daniel J. Meltzer, ‘72, who was Principal Deputy Counsel to the President from 2009-2010. “None of that is true for working at the White House.”
Both Summers and Tribe note the challenge of not being able to speak freely in public or to the press without clearing remarks with the administration.
“Every time I made a speech, it had to get vetted,” Tribe says.
Although there are dramatic differences in the two atmospheres, Liebman acknowledges that both Harvard and Washington share some similarities.
“In both places, you get to work on very challenging issues with very smart people,” he says.
Tribe says that working as a professor and working in government offer different avenues to affect change. Working as a professor is “very rewarding over a very long term,” because professors make a difference by writing and teaching. As a public servant, however, Tribe says it was apparent in the short-term that he was “helping people with desperate problems.”
While in Washington, Tribe helped implement the Access to Justice Initiative, which seeks to help people with low or middle incomes find legal aid.
Summers, who in his time at the White House helped devise the $787 billion stimulus package, says he felt the impact of his work was more immediate when working in government.
“When you work in the White House on a project, it can come to fruition in a matter of hours,” Summers says.
In academia, he says, projects can take “far, far longer” to implement.
SHIPPING BACK TO BOSTON
There’s a great Harvardism about professors’ attempts to get an extension on leaves of absence: If they wouldn’t do it for Henry Kissinger, they probably won’t do it for you.
When Summers left the White House, his profile departure was surrounded about questions why he had chosen to leave. Some of it probably chalked up to wanting to keep his tenure given that the University revokes the status after an absence longer than two years.
Still, each professor had his own reasons for leaving Washington to return to Cambridge.
Summers says he was excited to return to Harvard, and that although being a part of making consequential decisions was exciting, he “missed students, young people, and freedom.”  Summers says that watching students learn something he’s studied for decades “keeps you fresh.”
Meltzer and Liebman missed more than their students; they say that their positions in Washington made life difficult for their loved ones.
Metlzer—who is married to the Assistant City Manager of Human Services for the City of Cambridge—commuted from Washington to Cambridge during his stint in government. He says he’s excited and relieved to be living under the same roof with his wife.
Like Meltzer, Liebman commuted to Washington for a total of eight months, at one point moving his family to Washington for a year. Liebman says that the position was “very hard on the family,” since his children—of which the oldest is in elementary school and the youngest in the last year of pre-school—had to switch schools.
Liebman says this was “definitely a hard transition.”
“If it was not for family cost, I would still be in Washington,” Liebman adds.
Unlike Meltzer and Liebman, Tribe left his post due to medical concerns. Tribe was diagnosed in 2008 with a benign brain tumor that caused him to suffer facial seizures, among other symptoms. Tribe says that he left Washington to be closer to Massachusetts General Hospital, where he receives treatment.  Despite this, Tribe says he would have left the DOJ in the coming months anyway in order to retain tenure.
As Summers, Tribe, Meltzer, and Liebman settle back into life in Cambridge, they say they believe that their experiences in Washington will enrich and improve their teaching.
Liebman says he believes that his first-hand experience with health care and energy policy will make him a more effective policy teacher. “I became an expert on  broad set of issues,” he says.
Tribe says that what he “saw on the ground” illustrated to him the discrepancies in the letter of the law and how it is actually implemented.
—Staff writer Caroline M. McKay can be reached at carolinemckay@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Benjamin M. Scuderi can be reached at bscuderi@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As children, athletes in every sport often dream of one day competing at the professional or Olympic level.
Freshman Schuyler Moore dedicated much of her childhood and adolescence to the world of gymnastics in pursuit of that lofty goal. Even when she first hit the mat at the age of seven, Moore had that Olympic dream in mind.
But she never would have expected that eleven years later, she would be looking to compete in the Games in a different discipline entirely.
Moore hopes to qualify as an Olympic diver, a sport she picked up only three years ago when injuries kept her from pursuing gymnastics.
On March 29, Moore got one step closer after earning a spot on the South Korean National Diving Team.
“I had tendonitis, and then I grew over 5-foot-2,” Moore said. “Then it just became harder to be a gymnast. My gymnastics coach used to be a diver and encouraged me to pick it up. It was a rough transition, and I hated diving at first. But I knew I had to do something, otherwise I would go stir-crazy.”
So Moore dove headfirst into the world of diving. She began the process by training with UCLA coach Tom Stebbins, who introduced her to the sport, and she also joined her high school diving team.
While gymnastics and diving have their similarities, Moore still faced challenges in her transition from the mat to the platform.
“Gymnastics and diving both give you an awareness of where you are in the air, so in that way they are similar,” Moore said. “Sometimes [diving] hurts. Learning new dives and getting back up again and doing it again can be tough.”
“The most challenging part of coaching Schuyler was getting her to understand that the process is just time and repetition,” Stebbins added. “She wanted her improvement to come so much faster than her body was ready [for].”
But Moore learned quickly, and she earned the opportunity to travel to South Korea last month to try out for the national team.
"Her gymnastics background gave her all of the physical tools she needs to be successful,” Stebbins said.
To train, she got to Korea six days early in preparation for a meet scheduled at the end of her trip. But shortly before the competition was set to begin, the filter at the venue broke, the pool turned black, and the meet was then canceled.
Moore lost the chance to showcase her talents at the meet. Instead, the Korean coaches told Moore they would just use what they saw in her practices to determine whether she would earn a spot on the team. After returning to Harvard on March 27, Moore’s mother, who stayed in South Korea to find out the details, shared the good news.
“It was something that I had been thinking about,” Moore said. “It’s not so much how I place at this point, but being in that atmosphere with all of those divers will be good for me. It kind of hit me of how intense it would be. The ultimate goal for me would go to the Olympics. If I work hard enough, I feel like I would have a legitimate shot.”
Moore still has a lot of work ahead of her before her Olympic aspirations can become a reality. Her plan right now is to return home after final exams and train with Stebbins before her first competition with the South Korean team, set for July in Shanghai.
“She’s very powerful,” said Harvard diving coach Keith Miller. “She’s able to do difficult dives consistently. She still needs to refine them, and she hasn’t been diving that long. That makes it all the more spectacular. Most of these international divers have been doing so for ten or more years. With the more training, she’ll develop that consistency, and with that time she’ll be able to compete at that level.”
If she performs well enough in July, she will continue with the South Korean squad next year and compete in the World Cup in February. Olympic qualification for the 2012 Olympics in London is based on the results of the World Cup.
But improving her diving abilities isn’t the only obstacle Moore has to overcome to realize her dreams.
“I don’t know how to speak Korean...it was a lot of hand signals, [and] that’s how I got through it,” Moore laughed. “My summer will be diving and learning Korean. I’m going to have to invest in Rosetta Stone.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Every year around this time, Harvard offers admission to an elite group of students with a wide array of talents. A significant chunk of these incoming students arrive on campus having played varsity sports in high school.
And while Harvard boasts more Division I teams than any school in the country, participation on these teams requires not only great skill, but great time commitment. For many student-athletes who can’t find the time to compete at the varsity level, club sports are the perfect alternative.
“When [some high school athletes] get here, they feel kind of lost because they are not doing anything athletic other than intramurals or going to the MAC occasionally,” said junior and Harvard club basketball captain Ryan Smith, who is also a Crimson magazine editor. “With club, it’s nice to have a team atmosphere, and to play competitive sports without any of the time pressure.”
Smith and the club basketball team enjoyed unprecedented success on the court this year. Last weekend, the squad reached the semifinals of the 2011 NIRSA National Basketball Championship. Harvard finished the tournament with an overall record of 2-2, its losses coming against North Carolina A&T State University and Missouri University, the tourney’s champion and runner-up, respectively.
Still, members of the Crimson squad feel like they could have had a better outing.
“We put a run together,” Smith said. “But we felt bad because we thought we could have won it. We thought that we were best team there.”
The team’s 11 members made the trip to Austin, Texas, for the tournament. The weather conditions in the Lone Star State were somewhat of a consolation prize for the dissatisfied team captain.
“There are definitely worse places to be than Austin as a college student,” Smith said. “It was 85 [degrees] and sunny.”
Perhaps surprisingly, club basketball at Harvard is a relatively new institution. Two years ago, the university did away with junior varsity basketball in response to budget cuts.
Smith suggests that the transition to the club level has actually been beneficial overall because of increased scheduling flexibility. The Crimson would not have been able to compete at nationals were it not for the transition.
But basketball isn’t the only prominent club sport at Harvard—another team is also taking advantage of the school’s opportunities.
The men’s and women’s club tennis teams will be competing this weekend at the USTA National Campus Championship. The Crimson won a New England sectional qualifier in October to become one of the 64 teams that punched a ticket to the tournament in Cary, N.C.
Despite a deep tournament field including the nation’s best teams, the Harvard squad remains optimistic about its chances.
“If we all play our best, I think we could give some of the teams a run for their money,” junior tri-captain Greg Leya said.
The Crimson was placed in the tourney’s Pool G, joining Southern Methodist University, the University of California Irvine, and the “home team,” University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
“They’re going to have all of the fans,” junior tri-captain Tarek Austin joked.
For Harvard to overcome the Tar Heels’ home court advantage, it will need to rely on its depth, something that the squad sees as one of its strengths.
“One of the great things about our team is that we’re a very deep team,” Austin said. “There isn’t one powerhouse player that carries the team. All five guys and all five girls are around the same level, so we’re a good, cohesive group.”
In addition to men’s and women’s singles and doubles matches, the Crimson will compete in mixed doubles at the national competition. To prepare, the teams have begun holding joint practices.
“[Mixed doubles] really could be a make-or-break for us,” Leya said.
The trip to North Carolina will be the first time this year that the team has traveled out of New England. Women’s captain Katrina Welch, a four-year veteran of the team, was on the team when it last earned a nationals bid in 2008.
Welch tried out for the varsity tennis team during her freshman year, but didn’t make the squad. But rather than looking at it as a setback, she says the cut allowed her to find her niche at the club level.
“It was the best thing that happened to me because I was able to play on the club team and excel like I wouldn’t have been able to do on varsity,” Welch said. “That’s what is great about club, it opens up possibilities for students to make what they want of it.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
One hundred ten mile bike rides and dinner at Poppi’s house—those are just a few of the things that varsity lightweight rowers Austin Meyer and Tom Nesel do together in their homestate of New York, where they live a mere 25 minutes apart.
Now the juniors race together on the first varsity eight for Harvard, but their connection goes much further back than workouts on the Charles.
Both coming from the Albany area, Nesel and Meyer raced together in a double for the Albany Rowing Center during the summers of their four years in high school.
In the summer before their senior year, they decided that they wanted to take the competition to the next level.
“Senior year, we started talking about trying to go to the Junior World Championships in the double,” Nesel said. “To do that, we had to row all of the school year as well.”
Nesel ended up joining Meyer’s high school crew team, even though he went to a different school, and became the only non-Shaker high school student to race for it. Because of the anomaly, Nesel was only allowed to race with Meyer in the double.
The pair ended up winning the US National Championships in 2008 and making the under-18 US team. At the World Championships in Linz, Austria, they placed 12th, the highest finish for an American team in that event. The result was especially impressive given that the two lightweights were competing in an openweight event.
Meyer and Nesel attribute much of their success to the dedication and guidance under Shaker coach Burt Apfelbaum.
Apfelbaum had fun with the rowers, referring to them as “Tweedledee” and “Tweedledum,” while also dubbing Meyer as “Captain America,” and Nesel as “Flipper,” due to his flip into the water after his ore stuck during a National Regatta practice row.
“He was super supportive,” Meyer said. “[He] helped us to get to Nationals and World Championships...He was almost a second father.”
Nesel also had a very close relationship with Apfelbaum.
“He lit a fire under my [seat] when I needed it,” Nesel added.
Nesel and Meyer still go to dinner at Apfelbaum’s house whenever they are home.
Off the water, the duo bonded over their love of bike riding.
The two would often drop everything and take their adventures off-road, much to the disapproval of Meyer’s mom.
“We used to skip school and ride our bikes around New York,” Meyers said. “But [we] could be doing worse things.”
Just like they do in the boat, the pair likes to push themselves to their cycling limits. One of their favorite routes was from Meyer’s home to Mount Greylock—the highest mountain in Massachusetts—a 110 mile roundtrip.
Once the time came to make a decision about venturing from home for college, the two held a firm belief that they needed to make separate decisions.
“We had all our official visits separately,” Nesel said. “We didn’t want to influence the other’s opinion.”
But in the end they both made the same but independent decision to come to Harvard. The duo since has excelled with the Crimson, taking the bronze medal together with the first varsity eight at last year’s IRA championships. In the team’s first race in the 2011, Nesel and Meyer helped Harvard’s 1V defeat Delaware by 11 seconds.
“We really want to win the IRAs, and if we can win the national title, [then] we go to English Henley—that’s a big deal,” Nesel says.
Both Nesel and Meyer have worked year round to ensure that their personal and team goals come to fruition. This past summer, Meyer rowed with the U23 national team and it garner a bronze medal in the World Championship, while Nesel trained in France with a former Olympic Champion.
The pair is modest when it comes to their future with crew beyond Harvard, but so far their accomplishments speak for themselves.
Their high school and college coaches summed up the boys’ collective contributions.
“They bring intensity, purpose, and a willingness to train,” said Harvard lightweight coach Charley Butt.
“You just don’t find too many kids willing to do the work they did,” Apfelbaum echoed. “They have become role models for other athletes in the Albany area.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Are you sick of having to brave the bad weather and long walks to the laundry room, just to find all the machines occupied?  In case you are, you may be pleased to know that LaundryView, the laundry service that was being installed last semester, is now available in all Houses and freshman dorms.
The service is an internet application developed and maintained by Mac-Gray Corporation, which allows students to monitor the availability and status of the washers and dryers in connected laundry rooms on computers as well as cell phones. The College started installing this service last semester in order to save time and trouble for students in time periods of heavy machine use. LaundryView's installation, which was intended to help students, has however, proven to be controversial because of the extra 25 cents per load to fund the service.  Controversial or not, students might find it useful to save valuable minutes by avoiding the chaos of a hectic laundry room.
Sections
If you're looking for a free drink this afternoon, hurry to the Pit by the Harvard T stop. Three Snapple representatives dressed in red hoodies are passing out sample bottles to the crowds milling in the area on this sunny day.
"It's a free sample of a new flavor," said Steve Estro, one of the Snapple representatives. "It's for a limited time only."
According to the label, the new flavor, Papaya Mango Tea, was "Inspired by India." The television show "The Amazing Race" featured the flavor on the air two Sundays ago, Estro said.
Even if the Square is as far as you'll venture today, pick up a free bottle to enjoy a taste of a faraway place.
Sections
Are you the next Usher or Katy Perry? Are the future Beatles walking among us? With the grand opening of a recording studio and music practice room in the SOCH tonight, members of the Harvard community have a new outlet to explore those latent musical talents.
Recording room coordinators Daniel J. Thorn '11 and John "Jack" A. Ausick '13 are throwing a grand opening for the new studio tonight from 10 p.m. to midnight in the SOCH Penthouse.
Students can nosh on pizza and swig soda while learning how to use the studio equipment—including state-of-the-art speakers, various microphones, and an assortment of editing softwares—so that they can reserve the room for themselves in the future without supervision.
Afterward, attendees can participate in a "jam session," where they can sing and play instruments in the recording room.
Ausick said that he and Thorn hope "to develop a musical community centered around the recording studio." He said that the studio, which has been open for less than two weeks, already has people lining up to reserve time.
"There was a fair amount of interest just right off the bat," Ausick said. He added that he hopes tonight's event will publicize the existence of the studio more broadly.
Who knows? The next big recording stars might get their start in the SOCH.
Sections
To celebrate its grand opening in Harvard Square, Pinkberry is giving out free frozen yogurt tonight. You'll need to hurry if you want to sample the Square's newest frozen sweet: the line, which closes at 9 p.m., already stretches far down JFK Street from the brand-new store's location near the Pit.
