News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
One star may have fallen, but another is on the rise.
Just days after junior Corey Jantzen suffered a serious elbow injury that put his season in jeopardy, classmate and co-captain Walter Peppelman dominated at the Lone Star Duals in Arlington, Texas, going undefeated Saturday over the three-match competition.
Peppelman, currently ranked 11th in the country, may see that number climb after dominating a slate of talented opponents.
“I felt like I wrestled pretty well,” the co-captain said. “I’m starting to do things on the mat that we’ve been working on in the [practice] room, so I was happy with the result.”
The Crimson wrestling team (0-8) did not fare as well, dropping a tight match to Appalachian State, 22-17, before falling in lopsided contests against No. 7 Oklahoma, 33-8, and Stanford, 35-10.
“I had mixed emotions,” said Harvard coach Jay Weiss about the Lone Star tournament. “Losing Corey really hurts…but we really make a plan to get better every time we go on the mat, especially with a young team, and we did that at some points.”
STANFORD 35, HARVARD 10
The Cardinal wrestling team (7-6) capped off a strong showing with its third win in four matches, putting the match against the Crimson out of reach early. With three top-20 grapplers on its roster, Stanford posted three falls and a pair of major decisions among its eight victories, frustrating Weiss.
“I didn’t feel that we wrestled well against Stanford,” the coach said. “Individually, some guys really shined.”
One of those grapplers was rookie Cameron Croy (184 lbs.), who took his opponent Dan Schere down to the wire in a 2-0 loss. And of course, the talented Cardinal squad had no answer for Peppelman (157). The Harvard junior posted a 9-0 major decision on Kyle Meyer, bringing his total score to 42-0 on the day.
“That’s unbelievable, that’s tremendous,” Weiss responded when told of the lopsided stats. “Walter had a tremendous day. Now he’s taking those major jumps.”
Unfortunately for the Crimson, Peppelman’s victory would be the team’s last on the mat. Co-captain Andrew Knapp (285) added a win by forfeit, but Stanford emerged with a comfortable 25-point margin.
NO. 7 OKLAHOMA 33, HARVARD 8
The seventh-ranked Sooners presented a tall order in the Crimson’s second match of the day, boasting seven top-20 grapplers. Sophomore Steven Keith (125) held his own against No. 7 Jarrod Patterson, but the Oklahoma native escaped with a 7-4 decision. No. 19 Jordan Keller (133) and sixth-ranked Zach Bailey (141) followed up with big wins, but Peppelman refused to be intimidated by the Sooners’ slate of ranked grapplers. Instead, the Harvard co-captain turned the tables on No. 6 Chase Nelson, dominating the former junior college national champion in a 17-0 technical fall.
Peppelman moved to 13-3 on the season, with seven of those wins coming against wrestlers ranked 16th or higher.
“Walter had a goal to knock off someone in the top 20…but then he started knocking those guys off every time,” Weiss said. “Placing in the [NCAA] tournament is 75 percent confidence, and now he’s thinking he can do this.”
The win was another bright spot for the Crimson, but fourth-ranked Tyler Caldwell (165) ensured that Oklahoma maintained control. The grappler posted a technical fall of his own against rookie Erik Gobbo, who was filling in for ailing sophomore Adam Hogue. But Gobbo’s classmate bounced right back, as Ian Roy (174) earned his second win of the day with a 4-2 decision over Sooner Jeff James.
“Ian Roy wrestled really well,” Peppelman said. “The young guys have really stepped up, but we still have a lot to work on.”
Croy followed up with another close loss at 184 lbs., as Oklahoma swept the final three bouts to seal the win.
APPALACHIAN STATE 22, HARVARD 17
The Crimson kicked off the Lone Star duals with its closest match of the day, falling by five to the Mountaineers (6-7). Keith and sophomore Shay Warren (133) began the contest with a pair of decisions—staking Harvard to a 6-0 lead—but Appalachian State answered right back, as rookies Joe Marino (141) and Joe Alie (149) suffered a 6-3 decision and a fall, respectively. Peppelman’s 16-0 blanking of Mountaineer John Blakely put the Crimson back in the lead, but the junior would be the last Harvard grappler to earn crucial bonus points. Roy and Knapp both earned gritty victories, but a fall at 165 lbs., a major decision at 184, and a loss at 197 gave Appalachian State the final edge.
Yet despite the Crimson’s team struggles in dual competition, the emergence of another legitimate star has the program in the spotlight just a year after JP O’Connor took home a national title.
“[Peppelman] is understanding that he can beat anybody,” Weiss said. “Confidence is the thing that’s going to carry him. He’s always had the talent, and now he has that confidence.”
—Staff writer Max N. Brondfield can be reached at mbrondf@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
To commemorate the 50th anniversary of the presidential inauguration of John F. Kennedy '40, the JFK Presidential Library and Museum has opened a virtual treasure trove of digitized documents concerning the personal and professional life of America's 35th president, including Kennedy's complete 1935 application to Harvard College.
Kennedy's application, which includes his College Board Entrance Examination results, transcript from the Choate School, various recommendations, and "Parentage Card," presents the former president as a rather lackluster undergraduate applicant.
According to his transcript, Kennedy graduated in the third quarter of his high school class with a cumulative grade average of 68 percent, though Choate's headmaster at the time noted that "he can be relied upon to do enough to pass."
Joseph P. Kennedy, a member of the Class of 1912, described his son in a letter to the dean of freshman as having "a very brilliant mind for the things in which he is interested," but noted that he "is careless and lacks application in those [subjects] in which he is not interested. This is, of course, a bad fault."
Additionally, the future president's response to the question of "Why [he wished] to come to Harvard?" does not quite reach the soaring rhetorical heights expected of today’s application essays. He wrote:
"The reasons that I have for wishing to go to Harvard are several. I feel that Harvard can give me a better background and a better liberal education than any other university. I have always wanted to go there, as I have felt that it is not just another college, but is a university with something definite to offer. Then too, I would like to go to the same college as my father. To be a 'Harvard man' is an enviable distinction, and one that I sincerely hope I shall attain."
Despite his uninspiring application, Kennedy was a varsity swimmer and a Crimson editor during his years at the College, graduating cum laude with a degree in government. His thesis would go on to become a best-seller shortly after his graduation.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Sections
After the snowstorm hit on Wednesday, Jamie L. De Coteau '11 and Emmett Kistler '11, a Crimson sports editor, organized a snowball fight in Harvard Yard. War ensued.
Video by Xi Yu/The Harvard Crimson
