News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard has always been a breeding ground for new and innovative ideas but in recent years, people interested in social entrepreneurship and innovation lacked organized forums and outlets to share and explore their ideas. That is all changing this year, as Harvard added a new social innovation class at the Business School that will count for a United States in the World credit, the Innovation Lab just opened its doors in Allston, and, on October first, the second annual Igniting Innovation Summit will be hosted in Boylston, with college kids from all over the country will come to participate in interactive panels and workshops with some of the leaders of social innovation today. Hopefully these events will inspire Harvard students and faculty alike to get more involved in ideas pertaining to social innovation, as it is an exciting new field that transforms simple ideas into projects that have the potential to do worlds of good.
It was inspiring to see so many Harvard students trek to the business school to shop U.S. in the World 36: Innovation and Entrepreneurship – American Experience in Comparative Perspective. The class, taught by HBS Professors Mihir Desai and Joseph B. Lassiter is a case-study and discussion based class where students debate different ideas and projects in social innovation, aiming to answer the question “How can innovation and entrepreneurship address the major challenges facing the world?”  Throughout the semester, students will work in groups to design their own social innovation project under the guidance of a social business. “I thought the class would be a great opportunity to learn from others' experiences in the profit and non-profit world that I could implement to help make the orphanage I work with in Kenya more efficient and better organized,” Alex Breinin ’12, states.  “I think the best and most successful non-profits are run like businesses.”
A huge resource for students in the class (and any Harvard faculty or student interested in social innovation) will be the I-Lab, which just opened its doors this year. Located in Allston, the I-Lab is an “innovative initiative that will foster team-based and entrepreneurial activities.” It will host talks on social innovation initiatives, and it will be a forum for workshops and ideas for people across the university.
Perhaps the most exciting progress Harvard has made in social innovation comes from the initiatives of the undergraduates who recognize the importance and potential of this relatively new field. Kara Kubarych, Smitha Ramakrishna, and Ryan Heffrin are the founders of the Social Innovation Collaborative, whose goal is to bring together students across the university interested in exchanging ideas on social innovation. Kubarych saw the merits of social innovation a few years ago when she helped launch Nika Water, a socially conscious water brand that donates a share of the proceeds to clean-water projects in the developing world. Right now SIC is working on getting a concentration or at least a secondary field officially recognized by Harvard and it already has the support of HBS professor David L. Ager and HKS professor and director of Harvard Leadership Institute, David R. Gergen.
On October 1, SIC will put on the Igniting Innovation Summit, an event that features over 40 speakers and will host 200 students in a day-long series of interactive panels, forums and activities focused on some of the biggest ideas in social innovation today. “The Summit is more than just an event. It embodies our organization’s mission to foster collaboration—to serve as a nexus between the many projects that can be considered social innovations, from green tech to childhood nutrition programs to water filtration systems,” Kubarych says. “The more that people can learn from one another, work together, gain mentors and supporters, and scale their ideas, the more impact they are able to have.”
Not only is the conference the largest and first undergraduate run event dedicated to the topic of social entrepreneurship, but it will also be a uniquely hands-on conference. Heffrin states “Unlike typical conferences where participants are sitting all day, the Summit features action workshops in the afternoon, such as yoga, art, and dance, with local social enterprises that use those same activities to create positive change.”
Hopefully Harvard undergraduates will begin to take advantage of these unique opportunities that encourage students to apply their skills and talents to innovative projects in the developing world.
Meredith C. Baker ’13, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Eliot House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays. 
 
If you are interested in learning more about the Igniting Innovation Summit, you can visit its website at: www.hcs.harvard.edu/summit2011.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
That Harvard students routinely flock to off-campus social spaces belies the fact that Harvard, in truth, owns an abundance of underutilized social space. That three of Harvard’s Greek organizations have recently acquired real estate, then, begs the question: Why are Harvard students choosing to socialize in exclusive, final club- or Greek organization-owned venues in lieu of our inclusive Houses, dining halls, and common rooms? The acquisition of space by Greek organizations, rather than appropriately remedying the problem of social space at Harvard, is evidence of it. The expansion of Greek life on our campus is a troubling trend that, in our view, at least, exists in large part as a reaction to some of the College’s misguided social policies.
Until quite recently, Greek organizations at Harvard have not enjoyed the pervasiveness that they do on so many other campuses, and we fear that the visibility that social spaces will lend to them will mean that this is no longer the case. Predicated on gender division, Greek organizations, when equipped with social spaces, will reinforce the asymmetrical gender ratios and power dynamics that we so often see at final clubs. While one may make the case that the acquisition of real estate by sororities will counteract the disproportionately male control of social space at final clubs, we contend that sororities are not an adequate response to all-male social organizations for the very reason that they are all-female; an organization predicated on gender as a fundamental division cannot counteract an organization that is predicated on the same principle.
Of course, Greek organizations rely not only on gender division, but also on arbitrary exclusivity. As organizations that will turn away guests because of their gender or appearance, these are hardly an appropriate solution to the perennial problem of social space on campus. Additionally, one of our greatest assets as a college is our strong campus culture, and the regular fractionation of Harvard students to off-campus venues will negatively impact campus unity.
Any addition to social space on campus should be one that is inclusive of and comfortable for all students and one that promotes rather than degrades student cohesion. Social spaces operated by Greek organizations are unlikely to satisfy any of these criteria. It is for this reason that Harvard does not officially recognize Greek organizations, and it is for this same reason that the College should act to reintroduce on-campus social spaces as legitimate and, indeed, superior alternatives to off-campus spaces.
Unfortunately, students regularly overlook readily available on-campus space because of Harvard’s excessively paternalistic alcohol policies. While the College should certainly continue to enforce the laws of the State of Massachusetts, we encourage administrators to refrain from enforcing regulations that go beyond the scope of state law. For example, the Harvard College Alcohol Policy states that alcohol “may not be served [at parties] unless non-alcoholic beverages and food are being served at the same time, hosts...must monitor the event and make sure there is no underage drinking. Tutors...will check in at least once throughout the course of the event.” These policies, though well-intentioned, turn a blind eye to the realities of student life and have the effect of siphoning students to off-campus spaces, where they may not have access to tutors and other safety resources.
Harvard’s commitment to safety and inclusivity should take precedence over its concern with its own liability. To this end, we hope that the College does not impose drinking policies that it does not have to and that are likely more harmful than helpful to students.
Ironically, exclusive social organizations, though not officially recognized by Harvard, are increasing in influence and popularity largely as a result of Harvard’s policies. We find it hard to believe, for instance, that when the legal drinking age was 18, Harvard students would have tolerated the exclusivity and gender division that governs our campus environment today. They put up with those inequities, it seems, because they are the price to pay for a safe drinking environment. Inasmuch as the College hopes to honor its commitment to student well-being, fairness, and campus cohesion, it can no longer justify exacerbating that trend.
We hope in the future that Dean Evelynn M. Hammonds and her staff privilege their commitments to the student body and to campus culture in general over the trivial concern for liability that seems to shape the bulk of their decisions. After all, which is more important in the end? Protecting students from the alcohol they will only consume more irresponsibly and dangerously when overly policed and penalized? Or from a social system that, now with stronger Greek organizations, further contradicts the University’s own values, as articulated in the non-discrimination policy?
In our mind, the answer is clear.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the fall of 1997, I came to Harvard as a freshman, and promptly received my first-ever C on a paper.  I was crushed.
I went to my TF’s office hours and cried.  “But I worked so hard,” I explained tearfully.  And—aalthough I didn’t say it aloud—getting straight A’s was a cherished part of my identity.  (It didn’t occur to me that this was true of all Harvard students; I took the whole thing very personally.)  If I didn’t get A’s, who was I?
My TF, took my tears in stride. Gently, he explained that the grade didn’t mean I was a bad writer or a bad thinker. The problem was that this particular essay lacked direction and organization.  When it was clear that I didn’t understand, he asked, “What is your thesis here?”
Thesis? I had gone to a pretty good public high school, but it was no college prep school. I hadn’t understood what a thesis argument was, or that it should shape your whole paper. I tended to think of my writing as something magical that happened unintentionally; I had never learned to consciously shape an argument and fit evidence to it.
For the next paper, I went to Scott’s office hours ahead of time. He helped me develop an interesting question, and together we crafted a well-worded argument to answer that question (the thesis!). I learned to make each part of the paper relate to that central thesis. It was perhaps the most important lesson of my entire college career.
The difference between high school and college, for me, was that college is about critical thinking, not just description and memorization. You demonstrate critical thinking through argument (not magical unintentional writing). Each paper needs to have a central argument, and everything in the paper should help you make, explain, and prove that thesis. It’s the same process I use now, as an academic-in-training; learning what a thesis was, and how to argue well, set me on my eventual career path.
Now, as a TF, I watch countless students go through this same process, usually in their first or second year.  I have been responsible for causing tears now, too. I’m always sorry that the lesson is so hard, but I don’t try to avoid teaching it. Countless incentives push TFs toward ever-greater grade inflation, which hurts everyone by making grades essentially meaningless. I rarely give full A’s – and yes, occasionally, I give out C’s. My evaluations often read, “Grades too hard,” and I’m sure it lowers my Q-evaluation scores. I do it anyway. I do it so that my students learn something important.
I always remember Scott, and how he didn’t flinch from teaching me a lesson I desperately needed.  I now admire his courage. I try to follow his example, not to hurt my students, but to improve their writing and thinking skills. While many of my students don’t appreciate the help in the moment (and make their displeasure clear), I hope that eventually they will understand that I’m doing my best to help them learn.
A TF who gives you a B+ to avoid your tears is not actually doing you a favor. What do you learn from a B+? It’s a way of letting a student down gently, because we who received A’s all through high school are so touchy about anything lower. But those are the grades that really teach us something. Maybe we all need to learn this lesson sometime. Maybe the experience of a low grade here and there is something of a crucible, out of which we arise better than we were before.
As Harvard students, our obsession with perfection drives us; it can also prevent us from approaching learning with humility and grace. If all of my students were perfect when they entered my class, why would they need to take it? A good class is not actually about the substance of the material; it’s about teaching you how to think and write well. If you can sail through every class with a B+, what have you learned? What have you really gotten from those who are supposed to teach you?
If I were an undergraduate again, I would demand honest grading and more of my teachers’ time and attention to help me correct my mistakes and learn from them. A low grade is not a sign that your TF hates you or thinks you are dumb. It’s not a commentary on your worth as a human being, or your abilities. It means that you have something to learn—and don’t we all? I’m not saying it’s easy to get a C. I vividly remember that hurt and disappointment. But it taught me something, and that something is a big part of who I am today. I wish more of my TFs had been like Scott.
Shauna L. Shames ’01, is a Ph.D. Candidate in the GSAS Department of Government.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Monday, September 26, 2011
To the editor:
Last Tuesday, Harvard University celebrated the repeal of the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” (DADT) ban on gays in the military by ceremonially opening a Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) office at Hilles. The event fulfilled Harvard’s pledge to welcome ROTC officially back to campus once the military’s discriminatory policy was rescinded.
Although leaders of Harvard’s BGLTQ student groups—both for and against the office’s opening—were invited to attend the afternoon event at Hilles, we also recognized that DADT’s repeal and ROTC’s subsequent return to Harvard have inspired a wide range of strongly held opinions across our student body and throughout our community. In an effort to create a space for students to “speak out” on these issues, the College Office of Student Life, the Women’s Center, and the Harvard Foundation sponsored a separate event the same evening at Memorial Church. In fact, we literally gave a microphone to any student who wanted to criticize—or to support—the decision to invite NROTC back to campus.
Unlike the ROTC event earlier in the day, the forum at Memorial Church was meant to celebrate the BGLTQ community and to acknowledge the need to keep working towards equality for everyone. The views expressed ranged from gratitude for the historic victory of DADT’s repeal to outright opposition to the military and to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. To serve as the featured speaker, the College, at the recommendation of students, invited Autumn Sandeen, a transgender Navy veteran, who strongly supported DADT’s repeal despite knowing that it would not benefit her personally.
With University officials in attendance, members of the Harvard community were able to disagree and to air varying viewpoints on these deeply emotional issues in a civil way.  We were particularly pleased that President Faust agreed to attend, thereby helping to foster a culture in which the free expression of views is respected and even divergent opinions are heard.
To imply, as you did in your editorial “Orwell Lives,” that either of these events was designed to stifle dissent is simply false. Not only did students express opposition to ROTC’s return at the College-organized speak out event at Memorial Church, but they also gathered outside the NROTC event at Hilles to actively protest, holding up signs and handing out literature to attendees and to the news media.
Harvard College does not limit free speech; it celebrates it. Instead of suppressing student opinion, the College invited it. Going forward, we will continue to support students in their advocacy activities because we believe that civil dissent should be allowed to flourish on our campus.
Sincerely,
Evelynn Hammonds
Dean of Harvard College
Barbara Gutmann Rosenkrantz Professor of the History of Science, and Professor of African and African American Studies
Suzy Nelson
Dean of Student Life
Harvard College
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
To Toscanini’s founder Gus E. Rancatore, Cambridge was made for the ice cream shop. “College students eat enough ice cream to keep all these stores around,” he says.
According to Rancatore, places like Toscanini’s tend to thrive in more rigorous academic settings—where the libraries remain open later than the bars.
“Boston doesn’t have a reputation for being a hard drinking town,” says Rancatore. Instead, he continues, “You can arrange to meet someone in the middle of the night, have a few bites of ice cream, share a few laughs and get back to work.”
Rancatore is hardly the only entrepreneur to seize upon the economic possibilities of this storyline, familiar to many a Harvard student. With profits, student loyalty, and reputation at stake, it is no wonder that the history of Cambridge creameries is rife with intrigue. Since the 1970s, these stores have been characterized by the hint of acidity tossed into their saccharine façades.
THE FIRST SCOOP
The seed for Rancatore’s now world-famous business began in September 1973, when he started working part-time for the recently opened Steve’s Ice Cream in Somerville. Founder Steve R. Herrell was onto something, as the lines snaking out the door and weaving through the Davis Square streets confirmed.
Herrell had pioneered a totally new concept in the ice cream sphere: the mix-in. Says current business partner Judy U. Herrell, “He thought he could make a better ice cream than was currently available.” She continues, “He felt the ice cream needed to be creamier, richer.” So he began tinkering with his home crank freezer, mixing in cookies, candies, and fruits.
“He invented Heath bar crunch, he invented cookies-and-cream,” says Judy. “It became this idea of customizing the ice cream flavor.”
These, combined with a technique of slowing the ice cream motor so that less air entered the ice cream, proved to be the coveted secret ingredients. A week after Steve’s Ice Cream opened, it had to close again—the initial 30 gallons of ice cream had already run out. Three weeks later it re-opened, this time with a  full staff and walk-in freezer.
“Working at Steve’s was like working at a club that was incredibly popular,” says Rancatore.
A journalist from The New Yorker came in once to write a story about the phenomenon (“Hub Roundup,” June 24, 1974). “I think it was the first time Somerville, Mass. was in The New Yorker,” says Rancatore, “and probably the last.”
And yet by 1977, Steve was feeling restless.
“The hankering to get out of a big city kept growing,” he says. “I enjoyed the ice cream business but it was very active and time consuming—we were open seven days a week.”
So he sold it to Joseph “Joey” Crugnale, moved to Northampton, and settled in with a job restoring pianos.
“My plan was to do a kind of home study and buy a plot of land and build my own house, grow my own food,” he says.
SECOND HELPINGS
Nevertheless, by the early ’80s, the sheen of Herrell’s new American dream had begun to fade.
“I missed the ice cream business,” Steve says, “and I knew it a lot better and could manage it a lot better [than the competition].”
There was only one problem—Crugnale now owned an ice cream store with Steve’s name affixed to the window.
Steve, however, had a strategy.
“I got some legal advice to name my new store Steve Herrell’s,” he says. “This big law firm thought that I would get publicity out of this, that the people I sold Steve’s to would not like that.”
And in fact, Steve’s Ice Cream sued Steve Herrell over the use of his name in opening another store.
Steve says about the case, “It was recorded in the Globe and on the TV stations and there was a tremendous amount of publicity over it.” Finally, he admits, “I said, ‘OK, enough is enough; we got the publicity; now I’m just going to drop the Steve’s and call it Herrell’s.’”
The new store in Northampton eventually became a successful franchise with stores throughout the Boston area—including, until 2009, an outpost in Harvard Square. The venture was also tinged with romance, as Steve and Judy—who had started working with him at the Northampton store—married in 1985. Though they separated in 2000, they remain on close personal and professional terms.
“We were better best friends than we were husband and wife.” says Judy. “We were better business partners than husband and wife.”
SCOOP TO SLICE
As Steve reenacted his initial venture with the opening of Herrell’s, Crugnale was beginning another ice cream business. He had started his own shop—Joey’s Ice Cream—in the early 1970s, just up the street from Steve’s.
“We were competitive,” he notes, adding, “his was a much heavier denser ice cream and mine was a much lighter one.”
Once he bought Steve’s, however, Crugnale was worried about a possible threat to his business: the vacant storefront next door, which he was afraid would try to feed off his business.
Around that time, Crugnale visited his relatives in Diabutto, Italy for the first time in years, especially enjoying the pizza from his grandmother’s backyard brick oven.
“There was nothing like that in the United States,” he says. So, upon his return, he bought the vacant shop next door and, in it, installed a brick oven.
“We’d bring wine, we’d make homemade pizza,” says Crugnale. For him and his friends, “It was a hangout.”
The spot never became more than that until Crugnale started to become disillusioned with his main business, Steve’s.
“Everybody kept on copying us,” he says. “That was the part that just bothered me—everywhere I went I saw the same thing.”
Crugnale, then, decided to pay a little more attention to this brick oven pizza idea. On a trip to New York, he read a review of a play that had recently shown, with a character named Bertuccio. He liked it, liked the alliteration of the ‘B’ with ‘brick.’ So he sold Steve’s Ice Cream, moved next door, and opened up the very first Bertucci’s Brick Oven Pizzeria.
CONTEMPORARY CREAMERIES
Even though Crugnale eased out of the Boston-area ice cream business, the ways in which it has changed continue to strike a chord for him.
“The people who bought [Steve’s] ruined it,” he says. “These people said, ‘Well, we’ll make the [ice cream] in the factory and ship it out, we’ll save our labor and material’—but the whole concept was threshold-made .... It just ruined it.”
The proliferation of national chains like Ben & Jerry’s in Cambridge has prompted some to question the demise of the small, family-run ice cream shop.
Rancatore, however, doesn’t see it that way.
“[It’s about] making a product that’s kind of unusual or different from mainstream ice cream,” he says.
Places like Steve’s, Joey’s, and Herrell’s serve as reminders for him to, as he puts it, “invest yourself in the store—as a place, and in the product that you sell.”
Sections
While I was interning in New York City this summer, I fell in love ... with a dance bar. Both times I went there, the music was a back-in-time tour of dance hits, from the Killers’ “Mr. Brightside” to Run DMC’s “It’s Tricky” to Marvin Gaye and Tammi Terrell’s “Ain’t No Mountain High Enough.” By 4 a.m., I was quite literally “Twistin’ the Night Away” à la Sam Cooke. Like I said, it was love.
Back in Cambridge, something was just ... missing; there was a Bowery Electric shaped void in my heart. Determined to bring back my (two) glory nights, I Googled “dance bars Boston” and set a date for Saturday with Middlesex Lounge.
The name can be misleading, but Middlesex Lounge is not a casual drinking spot or hook-up club—it’s a dance bar with sweet beats and a let-loose vibe. The Yelp reviews gave fair warning that if you weren’t at this Central Square bar by 11 p.m., you would face an hour-long wait in line. In fact, my roommate and I rolled up to Middlesex around 10:30 p.m. on a Saturday night after a leisurely 20 minute walk, and waited for nearly two hours. While the line wasn’t that long, the bouncers were practicing the tried and true method of letting in only their friends.
Pretty big minus points there, but I remained eager to experience the self-proclaimed “height of all that is unpretentiously vogue.” I started to get a feel for the party people while I was waiting, and was impressed by how diverse they were. In front were some svelte hipsters and Eurotrash. Behind us, a group of recent Harvard grads (I eavesdropped) and a guy who kept lecturing people about not cutting in line. Integrity!
When we finally got to the door, I paid the $5 cover and put my hand out for a stamp. The bouncer turned my arm over and emblazoned a black “MSEX” across my inner wrist. I see you, Middlesex Lounge—unpretentiously vogue indeed. Armed with faux wrist tats and the urgent need to dance, my roommate and I entered.
Middlesex consists of one large room with floor-to-ceiling windows that look out onto Mass. Ave. The walls are all black, and you feel like you’re in a cosmic greenhouse. Trendy, but not too trendy. Eighty percent of the room is dedicated to the dance floor, with some tables and seating lining the edges. On the far side of the room is the bar, a large metal-topped slab of stone that spans all of one wall and part of another. Although there was a crowd in front of the bar, I was able to work my way up front without much trouble and order my usual screwdriver, plus a vodka cranberry for my lady. It’s only $7 for a mixed drink, and they definitely give you your money’s worth. The bartender poured both glasses full of juice and vodka—then only charged me for one. This customer service made it easier to ignore the fact that these drinks were walking a fine line between good party investment and way too strong.
What I cared about most, of course, was the quality of the dance party, and it was a-ma-zing. Here I began to see one benefit of picky bouncers: the dance floor was full, but there was still enough space to move around. DJ Kon (who plays every Saturday) spun a perfect mix of 90s hip-hop, 2000s Top 40s, and a few rogue disco tunes. He threw in Beyoncé’s “Crazy in Love” at just the right moment. To me, this was heaven. Now I just need to try out their Electronica-themed party “Make it New” on Thursdays and their once-monthly DISCOnnection, which features disco, funk, R&B, and classics.
Another great thing about Middlesex’s dance party was the dance floor etiquette. Kind of like “Safety Dance”—you can dance if you want to, you can leave your friends behind; but if you don’t want to dance with someone it’s cool and you don’t have to worry about an awkward surprise grind from the back. There was that dude who came up to my roommate and started making out with her neck ... but he was in the minority.
Middlesex Lounge is located at 315 Mass. Ave in Central Square. Open Mon-Wed 11:30 a.m.- 2:30 p.m., 5 p.m.- 1 a.m.; Thu-Fri 11:30 a.m.-2:30 p.m., 5 p.m.-2 a.m.; and Sat 5 p.m.-2 a.m.
Sections
It happened unexpectedly a few weeks ago. From the pile of dented-beyond-repair storage boxes, along with other moving-in detritus destined for the recycling bin of New Quincy basement, I rescued a perfectly good long cardboard tube. It’s the type that comes with a room rug wrapped around it.
“Stop!” I exclaimed as my roommate reached for it. “We should keep this. It could be useful ... for something.”
For what? I’m not sure yet, but when you look at it, the thing definitely has potential as a lightsaber–what if one of my friends wants to be a Jedi for Halloween? My roommate merely laughed it off, but I knew the moment had exposed the pack rat tendencies inside me.
For as long as I can remember, I’ve had a really hard time throwing things away. It isn’t that I hoard things on purpose, or that my room at home is filled to the brim with junk. But over the years, I have indulged a habit of keeping things that others wouldn’t think twice about before tossing.
Much of the time, I operated on the “this-could-come-in-handy-someday” principle, saving each and every item that held even the slightest potential for future use. While other kids gleefully burned their notebooks and homework when school let out for the summer, I carefully gathered old tests and handouts in binders to which I imagined I could turn if I was ever stumped on how to apply the quadratic formula, or if I needed to double check whether the clouds I was looking at were cumulus or cumulonimbus.
A trip through my extensive personal archives at home yields unexpected treasures. I have a recipe for making salt dough, a guide to solving the Rubik’s Cube, and a mysterious package that I bedazzled and enveloped in 10 layers of scotch tape when I was about five. Some things I save because they’re pretty. I even have a sheet of paper that translates Egyptian hieroglyphs into approximate Roman characters. I’ve saved every letter ever written to me, every postcard I’ve ever received. If you’ve sent me a birthday card, even if it was 10 years ago, I still have that too. Each time I come close to throwing one out, I consider the fact that somebody took the time to write something interesting or personal on a piece of paper and trusted me with its safekeeping: that’s when I promptly put it back in the box it came from.
My habit of saving everything finally came under fire when I packed up for college three years ago. Having to cram all my things into several large suitcases, and then subsequently into storage boxes that were not going to haul themselves up and down several flights of narrow stairs, caused me to reevaluate the marginal value of keeping items that had a dubious chance of being used.
Accumulating stuff is rather out of vogue these days. Photos, notes, invitations, and birthday cards can be exchanged online. I recently read a magazine feature lauding a family that had undertaken a quest to live as close to waste-and-clutter-free as possible. Instead of allowing her children to keep school projects, the mother had digital pictures taken of them before they were chucked into the recycling. Holding onto things seems somehow environmentally unfriendly, overly materialistic, perhaps a tad too sentimental.
I really have tried to change. Thanks to my active efforts at personal reform, one would hardly guess that the (relatively) clean and simple room I occupy in Quincy is the residence of a recovering pack rat. Sure, I still save the ticket stubs from every sports game and theatrical production I go to, but I use them as wall decoration, so I figure there’s some sort of compromise there.
As a result, here at school my life is ordered and efficient, with my habitation containing only just what I need to get through classes and nasty New England winters. But at home I reside among a tangle of artifacts, and that fact is comforting in a way that is hard to describe. I don’t regret the clutter. After all, pack rats surround themselves with objects they’ve collected to keep themselves warm and safe, and that seems like a valid enough reason to me.
— Adrienne Y. Lee ’12 is a history concentrator in Quincy House. She will probably clip this page out and save it.
Sections
By now, everyone knows that cupcake crazes and froyo fanaticism are clearly passé.  For those looking for the Next Big Thing, there’s a new specialty food in town: Belgian waffles.   Sure to excite sweet tooths and breakfast lovers alike, Zinneken’s, a new gourmet Belgian waffle bakery, recently opened in Harvard Square. Located on Mass Ave right behind Berryline in the former location of Arrow Street Crepes, Zinneken’s is a business started by two high school friends that aims to bring authentic Belgian waffles to Boston.
Zinneken’s has done a great job revamping the space, and has successfully channeled a modern-yet-quaint European feel. The interior is bright and airy, and the light wooden tables and floors nicely accent the beige and lavender walls. The small space consists of five individual tables and a sit-down countertop overlooking the street. The atmosphere is a relaxed one, and is conducive to a quiet afternoon of sipping cappuccinos, engaging in intimate conversations with friends, and, thanks to the free Wi-Fi, writing the Lit and Sex paper that’s due tomorrow. Expect patrons to be affluent and in their late twenties, probably getting a master’s degree of some sort.
The waffles themselves are Belgian specialty “sugar waffles,” and are much sweeter and denser than their American counterparts. While some might find the batter to be a little excessively doughy, those looking for a good dessert will discover that the waffles might serve as a perfect post-meal addition. Toppings range from shaved Belgian dark chocolate to Nutella to fresh berries to maple syrup. Be prepared, though: these waffles are pricey, and a couple of extra toppings could potentially put a big dent in your wallet. Besides waffles, Zinneken’s also sells coffee drinks, Belgian chocolates, candies, and jams.
Zinnekens is located at 1154 Massachusetts Avenue. Prices are as follows:
$4.70 for the specialty waffle
+ $1 per fresh fruit topping
+ 50¢ per non-fruit topping
+ $2.30 for a scoop of ice cream
Sections
Forget the Gutenberg bible; it’s yesterday’s news, gone the way of other obsolete items like CD players, two-dimensional televisions, and anthrax filled envelopes. Harvard houses thousands of other amazing relics. Hunting through Houghton Library, the Peabody Museum, and the Harvard Museum of Natural History (HMNH) for the best stuff Harvard has to offer can result in some gobsmacking discoveries. Here are a few of FM’s favorites:
The world’s largest bird egg in the Harvard Museum of Natural History. Standing 12.2 inches tall and 8.6 inches wide, it came from the now extinct Elephant Bird—the largest bird to ever walk among humans. Fresh out of the avian’s ovaries this thing would weigh close to 20 pounds. That’d be one hefty chick.
A mastodon skeleton. Most of us simply know the mastodon as the Black Mighty Morphin Power Ranger’s obscure pachyderm Dinozord. The specimen the HMNH displays is not only perfectly intact, it was also the central spoil of an actual 1840s murder of one Harvard graduate, George Parkman, Class of 1809, by another, John White Webster, Class of 1811.
John Harvard’s copy of “The Christian Warfare” by John Downame. This thing bubbles and oozes with Crimson pride. The 1634 book includes a note, which begins, “This book is the only one in the Library which, beyond a doubt, was given by John Harvard.” Indeed, this is the book that started Harvard’s multi-million book collection.
Locks of hair from Hawthorne, Byron, and Wordsworth. Seems like someone had a rather perverted poet fetish.
Everything else in Houghton Library. This includes: Charles Dickens’ walking cane, Emily Dickinson’s writing desk, Washington Irving’s handwritten revisions to “The Sketch Book”, John Keats’ personal annotated library, and Alfred Tennyson’s poetry notebooks.
Any interested student can ask to see the massive collection at Houghton Library—you know, that other library between Widener and Lamont, the one that’s not Pusey. Librarian Peter X. Accardo explained, “This library is theirs to use. Most students think Houghton is off limits. They see Houghton as a museum, but it’s really more like a working museum. These are our rarest treasures. Anyone with an academic interest can come to consult any of these texts.”  Both Houghton and the HMNH have a series of rotating exhibits. Right now, William Makepeace Thackeray is in the spotlight at Houghton, while HMNH features a new New England Forest room. Hey Gutenberg, put that into any of the Peabody’s 1,960 tribal pipes and smoke it.
Sections
Next time you happen to find yourself attending a Wednesday night  suit-and-bowtie event, consider doing yourself a favor and preparing for  the imminent morning after. Next-day dizzies can easily be prevented by  prolonging them with a simple concoction that sounds about as happy as  it tastes. And with ingredients available in any dining hall courtesy of  HUHDS, you can be sure that this Punch will always be nonexclusive and  free (almost).  Cheers to good drinking and a solidly delayed hangover!
Strawberry Lemonade Punch!From a practical standpoint, no one in your 10 a.m. section will take a  second glance at your water bottle filled with innocent pink lemonade.
Ingredients:Yield: Another big punch bowl
Equal parts Minute Maid Lemonade and Strawberry André1 handful lemon wedges (get crafty and hoard them from your dining hall’s tea station)Ice
Mornin’ Sunshine Punch!The name says it all ... time to drag your ass out of bed, sunshine!
Ingredients:Yield: 1 big punch bowl
1 Nalgene of HUHDS orange juice1 Nalgene of HUHDS cranberry cocktail juice1 Nalgene of SpriteCitrus-flavored vodka to taste (Rubinoff may be substituted)Ice
Sections
Obama is making the nerd cool again: this June in Washington D.C., President Obama pledged $70 million for robotics research. Here in Cambridge, the Harvard BioRobotics Laboratory is on the brink of revolutionizing the field. The Lab, started in 1990 by Abbott and James Lawrence Professor of Engineering Robert D. Howe, focuses on technology in the biosphere.
“The component technologies are getting cheap enough you can use [robots] to help real people,” says Leif P. Jentoft, a graduate student at the Lab. “When you get a good breakthrough on research,” he says, “you can transfer that out to actually making a difference in the real world.”
ALL HANDS IN
Jentoft is part of this next wave of robotic breakthroughs. He is the second Harvard graduate student to work on a new model of the robotic hand. The project was started eight years ago by former Harvard graduate student Aaron M. Dollar.
“People have been trying to build robotic hands for a long time, 30 years, maybe even more,” explains Jentoft. People envision a world where they can be used for everything from cleaning to the disposal of roadside bombs.
But robotic hands have never successfully been integrated into society, because they are too fragile and expensive. This time, things might turn out differently. “What we’re doing in our lab is to see how simple we can get away with and still be useful,” Jentoft says.
This robotic hand is a far cry from the sensor and motor-covered models that labs have produced in the past. It has only one motor, as well as a transmission that distributes tension equally between different cables, which connect to soft rubber flecture joints. “Rather than moving exactly how the motor commands them to, they have to pull inwards, but however they pull inwards is something that the underlying object will dictate,” Jentoft explains.
Harvard’s robotic hand currently has a patent, and the Lab is in talks with local companies who could sell the device in the future. “The classic use case for robots is anything that’s dull, dirty or dangerous for humans to perform” Jentoft says. “In all these cases, a good hand is really, really important, and especially a good hand that’s cheap enough that the people who need them can actually afford it.”
IN A HEARTBEAT
Others at the lab, like graduate student Samuel B. Kesner, are working on a device that may transform heart surgery.
“The problem is, right now when you do almost any kind of surgery on the inside of the heart, the heart has to be stopped and emptied of blood,” says Kesner. Stopping the heart and oxygenating the blood from outside the body is both dangerous and invasive.
“Essentially it’s a dead structure at that point and so you’re guessing, ‘OK, well when it’s beating I want it to do this, so if I have to move this over here and cut this and sew this,’ but they don’t know until they start it back up if it works,” Kesner explains.
Kesner is the third Ph.D. student to work on a project that began seven years ago at the Lab: engineering a robotic catheter that can perform heart surgery inside the heart while it is still beating.
A major challenge, actually, was the heartbeat itself. “If you were to put a rigid tool in [the heart], you would just pump a hole in it,” says Kesner. He designs tools that use imaging to track the motion of the heart, preventing the robot from colliding with the fast-moving tissue.
Kesner explains, “If we want to repair a valve in the heart, we have to create a tool, which can interact with that heart while it’s moving.” It’s a daunting task that has a promising future. The catheter may start appearing in hospitals within the next five to 10 years.
THE BRAIN
The proximity of Boston’s world-class hospitals is essential to the Lab’s research. Ignacio Galiana, a Ph.D. student came to the Lab all the way from the Polytechnic University of Madrid to do research on a device for rehabilitation of post-stroke patients. “The main thing is the resources, and the ability to interact with doctors working in this area,” he says.
The Lab is a small place with a big mission. “It’s really exciting, I think it’s a really good environment,” says Julie Xie ’12, an engineering concentrator who works in the lab doing computer programming.  “You learn a lot working here,” she adds.
Sections
David Axelrod, President Obama’s chief campaign strategist and former senior advisor, spoke to students at an off-the-record event on Monday. FM was lucky enough to catch him in the hallway to talk on the record about the president’s re-election campaign, the 2012 youth vote, and Elizabeth Warren.
Fifteen Minutes (FM): Last week, President Obama chided Republicans for refusing to raise revenues on millionaires and billionaires—appealing to the “Buffet Rule”—and it has been called one of his most partisan speeches in recent memory. Is that a tactic to appease a straying liberal base?
David Axelrod (DA): No, I think first and foremost it’s part of his strongly held view about what we have to do as a country. What we’ve learned is that we need to involve the American people much more integrally in these fights. The inside back-and-forth has not been a productive exercise.
What these members of Congress need to hear is from their neighbors and voters about what they want to see in this country. There’s no doubt that when he articulated that position the President was articulating a widely held view in this country. So the question is whether the voice of the American people will be heard in the Chamber. He’s talking directly to the American people.
FM: If you look at students at this stage during the last election, people were a little more riled up. There is a certain amount of apathy around college campuses. Is it troubling to you?
DA: Obviously we need to organize all over the country, but my admonition to students is to get involved because there is so much at stake, and [students] have more at stake than anyone else. We’ve had other periods of apathy in our country. There was apathy in 2000, and Al Gore lost that election to George W. Bush by 300 votes, and as a result we wound up in Iraq …[and] we took a big step back in terms of climate change. Much of the world would have been different had that election gone the other way.
There is a very clear choice here—the president offers a very distinct vision about where to take this country and you don’t want to be in a position years from now where you say, “Gee, I wish I had been involved in 2012 and we could have stopped some of these bad decisions and put the country on a different path.” And that’s what this is about.
FM: Speaking more specifically to Massachusetts, how anxious is the Obama Camp to take back Ted Kennedy’s seat?
DA: Well, I think it’s important for the country … Elizabeth Warren is a friend of ours, she worked with us, she was an inspiration to the President, and an inspiration to his idea—now implemented—of a Consumer Finance Protection Bureau. She would be a great voice for the middle class in the United States Senate, so I think the whole country is going to be watching Massachusetts closely.
Sections
Farish A. Jenkins, Jr.
Professor of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology
1. Dinosaur ankle bones
2. A Czechoslovakian rabbit fur hat:
His trademark hat, which he describes as “very soft.”
3. An apple basket:
He brings apples to his students from his farm.
4. A cast of a forepaw of a great white bear from an expedition to Antarctica. The bear walked within 50 feet of his tent.
Dr. Gregory Tucci
Co-Director of Undergraduate Studies and Senior Lecturer in Chemistry and Chemical Biology
1. Albert Einstein Bookends:
A gift from his aunt upon completion of his Ph.D
2. Several dirty wine glasses:
“Every time a Chair of the Department retires, we have a glass of champagne,” Tucci explained. “I keep it and don’t clean [the glass].”
3. Pomegranate Green Tea Superfruit Tea and Tazo Tea containers:
“My wife’s from the U.K. and after I met her, I started drinking a lot of tea,” Tucci said.
4. Professor Tucci’s favorite item?
A wooden card-holder containing
experiments and solutions, written up by professors from decades past
Ryan D. Enos
Assistant Professor of Government
1. Post-WWII steel case desk:
While most professors get their furniture from the basement, Professor Enos’ office features modern furniture, and most of it is green—his favorite color.
2. His dad’s mechanical pointer:
He actually uses it occasionally.
3. A plant that survives off of three ice cubes per week:
He is proud of his plant, since it grew a whole new stem after the first stem broke.
4. Colorful mugs:
For aesthetic purposes only. He also has two white ones that are actually functional ... and stained with coffee.
Dustin Tingley
Assistant Professor of Government
1. Adjustable standing desk:
Tingley has a bad lower back, so he likes to stand sometimes.
2. Brown piece of driftwood:
Used for decoration
3. Photograph of a black target from a pistol range:
The prize for winning a friendly shooting competition with friends
4. A really small umbrella
Sections
Sushi, a time-honored Japanese art, is now a dietary staple for any college epicurean.  With a sea of options to choose from, what’s a globally-minded gastronome to do?  This week, FM navigates Harvard Square to demystify that age-old staple: the spicy tuna roll, known to insiders as maguro.
Takemura
Price: $6.95 for six
Ambience:  Subterranean.  Basic “Chinese restaurant” theme, Japanese-style.
The Goods: Takemura delivers a rich roll. Without any avocado or cucumber, the focus is on the fish: creamy tuna mixed with tangy, but not spicy, sauce. Contrast with the chewy, vaguely fragrant rice and pleasantly rubbery seaweed is subtle at best. Plus: a compact roll, this sushi doesn’t fall apart in soy sauce.
The Verdict: Three stars out of five—deductions for the ho-hum sauce, lack of crisp contrasting textures, and steep price.
Shabu-Ya
Price:  $6.50 for eight
Ambience:  Fun, colorful aesthetic reminiscent of many a bubble-tea chain.
The Goods: Large and a bit unstable, with well-cooked rice. Unique blend of textures: crisp, fresh julienned cucumber; rich, creamy avocado; chewy rice and seaweed; soft fish; and spicy sauce on top that adds a nice sizzle.
The Verdict: Four and a half stars out of five—major points for a big portion, nice texture and (comparatively) cheap price; minuses include slight unmanageability.
Cafe Sushi
Price: $5.75 for six
Ambience:  Wood-backed chairs and dark enamel—not to mention the smooth jazz—point to classy aspirations.
The Goods: The roll is messy, rice loose, less chewy and with a tendency to crumple into the soy sauce. Though the fish is mild and sauce lightly spicy, the one chunk of cucumber irritates.
The Verdict: Two out of five—docked points for the unwieldy roll and annoying cucumber, but at least it’s affordable.
While nobody’s perfect, Shabu-Ya takes it this round.
Alternatively, the cheap and studious can get their sushi fix without even leaving Lamont.  Who cares what it tastes like when it’s on Board Plus.
Sections
"I will be on the second floor of the new Starbucks, right next to the Harvard Square T, sitting at a table with a Teach For America water bottle.”­­­—an email from Michaela Grosso, Manager of Recruitment for Teach For America.
Eighteen percent of the Harvard class of 2011 applied to Teach For America. It’s not a hard statistic to find; a quick search yields results from The New York Times and The Washington Post, among other sources. Harvard, according to Teach For America’s website, contributes more students than any other college of its size.
This surprising statistic is the result of Teach For America’s aggressive recruitment strategy here: five individuals—a recruitment manager, a recruitment associate, and three student campus campaign coordinators—are responsible for TFA recruitment at Harvard. This recruiting team forms a tight unit, rigorous and thorough. They aren’t on the “front lines” of the fight against educational inequality, but they are essential to TFA’s operation. Per size, Harvard has more recruiters than any other college in the area but for MIT, which has an equivalently -sized team.
TFA’s recruiting strategy is inseparable from its mission. In 1989, Wendy S. Kopp was a senior in college, unemployed and looking for work. Her campus was “swarming” with investment banks and management consulting firms, she later wrote, so in December, Kopp applied for five jobs, including two at consulting firms and one at an investment bank. She was rejected by all. Even then, Kopp was interested in teaching, but no one would hire her. (Most teachers without a degree in education were customarily hired after Labor Day.) Kopp became increasingly “convinced of the need for a teacher corps that would recruit as aggressively as the investment banks and management consulting firms,” she wrote in her book, “One Day, All Children...”. In April 1989, Kopp turned in her 177-page senior thesis to the Woodrow Wilson School of Public Service: “An Argument and Plan for the Creation of the Teachers Corporation.”
The aim: the most gifted graduates in the country would dedicate their first two years out of college to helping the most under-resourced students. Some would stay in education; some would enter other sectors but remain agents for social change and education reform. But unlike other organizations with similarly lofty aims, TFA would make teaching in low-income communities attractive to the most distinguished college graduates by “surrounding it with an aura of status and selectivity.” Kopp once said she wanted admittance to the Corps to have the same cachet as a Rhodes Scholarship.
In so structuring TFA’s recruitment, Kopp simultaneously appealed to students’ altruism and more selfish concerns: earning something competitive, and also commendable. At Harvard, where recruitment is even more aggressive than at most colleges, students are taking the bait.
TAPPING TALENT
“I am reaching out today because I was impressed to learn of your role as ________, which demonstrates your distinguished leadership at Harvard.”—an email from Christa Luft, Recruitment Associate at Teach for America.
Approximately 300 members of the Class of 2011 applied to TFA; 66 joined TFA’s ranks. In other words, roughly one fifth of students who applied joined the corps. The TFA matriculation rate at Harvard—those who apply, are accepted, and commit—is nearly double the 11 percent acceptance rate nationwide. Assuming that some students who are accepted by TFA do not take the job, Harvard’s acceptance rate is possibly even higher than 20 percent.
As the numbers suggest, TFA’s recruitment at Harvard is intense, and intentionally so.
“It’s a self-reinforcing thing,” says Tony, a TFA applicant in the Class of 2012 who requested that his name not be printed so as not to bias TFA against his application. “The only reason Harvard looks good is because if everyone thinks Teach For America is a big deal, it will become a bigger deal.”
But it wasn’t always so. Beth A. Simpson ’99, a lecturer on education and Director of the Harvard Undergraduate Teacher Education Program, was a former TFA corps member at a middle school in Durham, NC. She recalls only one TFA-hosted event during her time at Harvard—maybe 25 people attended. As best as she can remember, only four students from her class joined TFA upon graduating.
“It was a table at the career fair, at the edge of the fair, and not too many people were there,” she says, describing how she first encountered the organization on campus. “...[T]hat’s what TFA looked like through my eyes.”
Current seniors don’t have to wait to find TFA on the periphery of a career fair across the river. Seniors, and in the spring, juniors too, especially those in prominent leadership positions on campus, receive communication from TFA frequently, electronically, and at length—largely by email after email after follow-up email.
“Teach For America is trying to create a quality brand by recruiting quality applicants,” says Tony. “We [Harvard students] are competitive; we’re legitimate. Quality builds quality.”
But they recruit aggressively “for a good reason,” Tony continues. “It’s effective. It works.” And they have other firms pulling for their applications.
“Harvard students,” says Mike W. Heffner, Manager of Recruitment at Harvard, “have so many options. A lot of them are on the banking and consulting track.” So as seniors compete for jobs, he competes for them.
“I don’t have the resources to throw a huge event at the Sheraton,” he says, earnestly. “But I do have passion for my students and a desire to make sure they have
the passion[ate teachers] they deserve. I can meet with people all day long and send emails and that’s all in my control and those are the levers I choose to use.”
Iris W. Tian ’11, who is in her first year teaching the ninth and twelfth grades in Houston with TFA, has heard TFA criticized because, purportedly, it tries to “get everyone” regardless of whether or not they are committed to education. Though Tian sees a flaw in this critique— “I think that’s not necessarily true because they’re really selective,” she says—she also thinks it has validity: given that selectivity, “ Why are you trying to get anyone to apply when you know that if they’re not that into it they won’t get accepted? Why do you need all these people to apply? I guess it is a numbers thing.”
In other words, it looks good for TFA if 18 percent of the Harvard senior class applies.
What would Annasstassia Baichorova, Heffner’s predecessor and manager, say to a student frustrated with TFA’s persistent recruiting? “I would obviously want to apologize to anyone who is turned off,” she says. “In the end we don’t have a machine or computer that does it. It’s us really feeling passionate about we do.”
THE RECRUITERS
“As a true leader on campus, your insight into our campaign is incredibly valuable and she [Anasstassia] would love the opportunity to talk with you regardless of whether or not you see yourself getting directly involved with Teach For America.” —an email from Christa Luft, Recruitment Associate for Teach For America.
It’s been less than a month since Heffner arrived on campus. Five days a week he walks from his home on Museum Street to the new two-level Starbucks, where he sets up his laptop, sends emails, and waits. He has a favorite chair—it’s to the right of the stairs and near the elevator, and it’s the best fit for his 6’ 7” frame. The Starbucks employees know him. He’s a fixture. Every day, 10 to 15 different students come to speak with him. They know his name, but when they reach the top of the second floor stairs, they are looking for his water bottle. The students are here because Heffner is a recruiter, and Heffner is here because he believes in TFA.
Heffner’s job, like that of Baichorova, is to encourage and convince Harvard students to apply to TFA.
“When I think maybe the student I’m talking to should go on and not defer medical school,” Baichorova reminds herself otherwise. For many students in America, including her former classroom of third graders in the Bronx, deciding between medical school or other employment is “not a choice” they get to make.
Part of TFA’s recruitment success story can be attributed to Kopp’s “innocent arrogance”—a characteristic noted by her thesis advisor at Princeton. This enthusiastic naïveté, characteristic of TFA’s overcome-all-obstacles outlook, describes the national teaching corps as much as it does the founder herself. It may be both TFA’s greatest boon and blunder—the quality that catalyzed its inception and has instigated its success.
But it also has incited a negative response from some. In 1994, four years after TFA’s start, Linda Darling-Hammond, a renowned professor then at Columbia University’s Teachers College who has since moved to Stanford, published a searing criticism of TFA in the education community’s premiere academic journal. TFA almost crumpled then, under exacerbated financial constraints and negative public debate. She called the organization a pit stop, a revolving-door trip into and out of teaching. She dismissed Kopp’s well-intentioned involvement as a “frankly missionary program,” which she deemed a band-aid on the American education system’s most deeply rooted problems.
Heffner defends the hours he spends in Starbucks, sending emails, “When I go home and go to sleep and am dead tired, I think about my kids and why [I] do this.” Unlike some of the “people who work for Bain or McKinsey,” who provided Kopp with the inspiration for his job, Heffner says, “I’m not in it because they pay big bucks. I’m in it because my kids need high quality teachers.”
COMPETING WITH CORPORATE
“You have the best education in America. Your country needs you.”—an email from Mike W. Heffner, Manager of Recruitment for Teach For America.
“This link to Harvard Law School’s website will give you a sense of the respect law schools have for applicants coming out of the corps experience.”—Michaela Grosso, Manager of Recruitment for Teach For America.
TFA is the first of its kind: a “twenty-first century hybrid,” writes Donna Foote, author of Relentless Pursuit: A Year in the Trenches with Teach for America. It’s one-part machine, one-part corporate engine, and one-part army—“an organization with the soul of a nonprofit and the brains of a Fortune 500.” But in adopting the brains and tactics of consulting firms, has TFA lost its soul?
TFA moves in sync with its partners in the financial sector. According to the 2011 senior survey, published in The Crimson, “the percentage of [Harvard] seniors surveyed entering finance and consulting fell from 47 percent in 2007 to a low of 20 percent in 2009, when Wall Street firms slashed hiring in the midst of the financial crisis.” Applicants to TFA jumped from 24,718 in 2008 to more than 35,000 in 2009. Since 2006, the number of seniors exiting Harvard to TFA has more than doubled.
The program is now as competitive as the nation’s top colleges: last year only 11 percent of 45,000 applicants were accepted into the Corps. And in 2009, Business Week ranked TFA as the seventh best place to launch a career. By the numbers, TFA can compete.
“TFA’s company is a monster in terms of what they can do,” says Kristen E. Logan ’12, a TFA applicant and campus campaign coordinator. A moment later, she laughs, “that’s probably not the best word to use.”
Whether she realizes it or not, by distinguishing TFA from the “company” of TFA, Logan picks up on a distinction that strikes at the heart of the discomfort many seniors feel when they think about the organization’s recruitment strategy.
“In the long-term the model works,” asserts Tony. “But in the short-term you get some weird kinks.”
These “kinks” are especially apparent on the very campus TFA recruits with such rigor. If not yet self-sustainable, the TFA brand is big, and the net cast by recruiters is wide.
“If [TFA] is still relevant in 20 years, they won’t have to recruit as hard as they do,” says Tony. “They won’t be sending those obnoxious emails, ‘if you don’t apply to TFA, a child will die.’”
TFA plays to a survivors’ guilt of sorts: you survived the American education system. You’re at Harvard; you’ve thrived. And you owe it to your country to help those who can’t. Here, they’re unique among their corporate counterparts—that’s a pitch Goldman can’t make.
But between close ties with large corporations—TFA was listed alongside Google and McKinsey & Co. as one of the initial recruiting partners for the Harvard Business School 2 + 2 Program—and emails that reinforce the organization’s close ties with Harvard Law School and other prestigious graduate programs, it wouldn’t seem unlikely that some are attracted to TFA for reasons
other than education and philanthropic engagement.
Anthony C. Hernandez ’12, President of Harvard Students for Education Reform, took issue with some applicants’ motivations for applying to TFA. “You’ll often hear seniors say they want to do Teach For America,” says Hernandez. “Rarely do you hear people say they want to teach.”
Jacob J. Cedarbaum ’12, an editor on the Crimson’s Editorial Board, says that TFA is his first-choice job post-Harvard because, like Hernandez, he is interested in a career in education and service. “But I also get the sense that there are some people looking for something that’s fairly prestigious to do right out of college, which is kind of frustrating,” he adds.
Baichorova disagrees. She maintains that over her three or four years of recruiting, during which she has spoken with hundreds of students, she met “maybe three people who shared that sentiment”—that were interested in TFA for embellishment of their resume.
She gives two reasons for why she believes Harvard students apply only out of genuine interest. First, Baichorova says, “You go to Harvard. You don’t need TFA on your resume to get the job you want.” (Seniors struggling to find jobs might provide a counterpoint.) Her second point, however, is more persuasive: TFA is damned difficult, and to do that job to strengthen a resume would be foolhardy.
But Heffner isn’t worried about recruiting the “wrong” seniors—his job is to make as many people who could be a good fit as interested as possible, he says.
Tian recalls her initial concerns during TFA’s training, as she met “people only [doing] this to pad their resumes or get into med school or law school.” But Tian believes that someone who seems the wrong person before they start teaching may be the right fit by the time they end. “Two or three years in, [I can tell] it changes people in a good way; even if they do end up going into law school or med school, their perspective on life is so much different that it is making the world a better place.”
ARE HARVARD KIDS EVEN GOOD TEACHERS?
“Teach, and no matter what you choose to do with the rest of your life, you will always know that you spent two years doing something irreproachably impactful.” —an email from Michaela Grosso, Manager of Recruitment for Teach For America.
Teaching has tended to attract weaker pools. In 2004 the National Council on Teacher Quality reported that education draws a “disproportionately high number of candidates from the lower end of the distribution of academic ability.” In 2004, the average combined SAT score for college-bound seniors was 1026; for those intending to major in education, it was 965.
According to TFA’s program, great students—and great leaders—make for great teachers. So Heffner meets with students from Harvard and MIT all day long. Harvard and MIT attract some of the best and brightest students in the world. But how does a good student make for a good teacher? Of all the debates surrounding TFA, defining the qualities of a great teacher is the most resounding, relevant, and unresolved.
A 2009 PBS NewsHour segment on TFA follows the story of five first-year TFA recruits. One, from Princeton, struggles for her first semester; her students even create a petition to get her fired. Another, a Yale graduate, never learns to control his classroom. In the end, the former succeeds, learning quickly in the classroom, improving her students’ grades and earning their respect and admiration. The latter leaves after a year, when the school at which he works does not ask him to return.
“I made great gains with my kids between where they were at with their peers in [the more affluent] Palo Alto,” recalls Heffner, never dropping the possessive when he refers to his students. “Had I shared the same racial background or experience growing up, I would have been more effective because they would have seen me as a role model. I saw other people have an extra impact.”
Ninety percent of the students in classes taught by TFA are children of color, says Heffner. According to Baichorova, 35 percent of 2011 corps members self-identify as people of color; 31 percent received a Pell Grant or identify as coming from low socioeconomic backgrounds; 22 percent are the first in their families to graduate from college.
But does the same hold true for those from Harvard? No, says Baichorova. In fact, the diversity is stronger in the corps that comes from Harvard than in the national breakdown. In socioeconomic diversity, agrees Heffner, TFA is aggressively over-representing the racial breakdown of the Harvard student body. The numbers hold true: in 2009, 35 percent of African-American seniors at Harvard applied to TFA. (TFA does not release the number of those who were accepted.)
All things being equal, relates Heffner, race is not factored into the admissions process. Fit, though, is, and people who have grown up in communities similar to those they will be teaching in make for a better fit.
Simpson, who joined TFA years ago, like many, worries that TFA’s system may be missing the point. “Something they’ve also done, inadvertently I think, but just through their focus on the recruitment of talented candidates, there has been an exaggerated focus on what it takes to be a good teacher.”
END GAME
Of that initial 18 percent of last year’s senior class that applied, 66 ultimately entered the corps. They’re now in classrooms from Newark to New Mexico, learning how best to meet their young pupils’ needs and answer their questions.
But is TFA’s training enough support for recent college grads, many of whom are idealists, possessed of the same “innocent arrogance” as Wendy Kopp, new to the trenches of the nation’s most under-resourced schools? Is two years enough of an impact—will teachers have really hit their stride? Will schools suffer from the, as Darling-Hammond calls it, “revolving-door introduction to education”?
No one really knows.
“One of the clearest findings from the research on teacher effectiveness over the past decade is that it’s very difficult to predict who will be an effective teacher before they enter the classroom,” says Assistant Professor of Education Martin R. West.
But scholars do think they've made it easier to predict what a person will be like when he exits. Robert M. Beren Professor of Economics Roland G. Fryer, Jr., recently wrote a paper, co-authored with William Dobbie, a Ph.D. student at the Harvard Kennedy School, which concludes that someone who enters TFA is more likely to stay in education, have an optimistic view about the power of education, and become more tolerant.
As Malcolm Gladwell writes in the New Yorker, determining which bright-eyed student will be a strict, encouraging, successful teacher in the classroom is as difficult as pinpointing the star NFL quarterback from players in the college league. They’re entirely different ball games.
Correction:
The Sept. 29, 2011 scrutiny, "TFA: A Corporate Approach," incorrectly stated that Robert M. Beren co-authored a paper with William Dobbie; he did not.
Sections
1. Fifteen Minutes: You grew up in California and have been living there for almost all of your life.  Are you a Cali boy at heart?
Mickey Avalon: Yeah, I really am. You don’t really realize those kinds of things until you go somewhere else .... Now that I have been around the world, I definitely know that I am a California boy. I think people are pretty fucked everywhere in the world, so it’s best to find a place where the weather is good and where your family is.
2. FM: How does the East Coast compare?
MA: I like the East Coast. I like the pace; it’s fast ....  [People on the East Coast] might get a bad rep, but they are more no-nonsense and just don’t have the time to be all warm and fuzzy.  I also like the colder places because it makes the girls have to hold on to a couple extra pounds, to be a little thicker.
3. FM: Do you think there are differences between East Coast and West Coast audiences?
MA: I think that if you’re going to come to my show, it’s pretty similar across the board.  But I think in general in Hollywood ... Some people think they are too cool for school and may be secretly enjoying themselves but not showing it.  You came to this show for a reason, so have fun!
4. FM: How do you know if you gave a really good performance?
MA: That’s like knowing if you had good sex or bad sex. You just know. I guess I gauge it off of how much fun I had .... The less it felt like work, the better it probably was.
5. FM: Have you ever had a really strange concert experience?
MA: Recently I played in Toronto, and somebody gave me a bunch of GHB. When I got on stage, I was on autopilot for the most part. The words were there, but I couldn’t get them out of my mouth. It was like reaching in a drawer where you can see everything that’s in the drawer, but you can’t grab it for whatever reason .... I am obviously not anti-having-a-good-time, but you should still be able to perform and do your job well.
6. FM: Where do you think you derive the intensity of your lyrics from?
MA: The same things that get me in trouble are the things that make my lyrics.
7. FM: It seems like you have been maturing a lot as a person. Do you think your music is also maturing?
MA: I don’t make music. I don’t make the beats. I just do the words and the vocals, which forces me to work with other people .... Maybe the maturity comes in with the team that’s behind me.
8. FM: You have been keeping pretty busy lately. What do you do in your spare time?
MA: I like to watch reality television. I tend to watch the worst of the worst.
FM: Like Jerry Springer?
MA: Close. I like “Bad Girls’ Club.” But I also like to watch documentaries .... Painting is also one of my biggest passions. I never thought I would go into music. I kind of like that I make my living doing something else so that I can paint for myself.
9. FM: You’ll be in town soon, so what’s your perception of Harvard?
MA: I dated a girl when I was younger who went to Harvard. I remember feeling important and flattered that she liked me. It was definitely a turn on. She was beautiful.
10. FM: You have listed some of your favorite artists as The Rolling Stones and Dolly Parton, but do you have any favorite Top 40 songs that are your guilty pleasures?
MA: Fuck, there is a lot of good stuff out there right now .... One night I saw Bassnectar, and I don’t know if I would listen to it in my car, but the show, the lights, the music. It felt incredible. It felt like something church should be like.
11. FM: Do you have a tattoo that’s especially meaningful?
MA: Some people can use tattoos to beautify their bodies, but I don’t really take that angle. To me, it’s more like a scrapbook .... The tattoo of my daughter’s name means a lot. I have a flying saucer on my wrist that my dad had on his neck. I have my grandfather’s Holocaust number tattooed.
12. FM:  You have been talking about your daughter a lot. Are there any other women in your life at the moment?
MA: Fortunately or unfortunately, it seems like there are only females in my life right now. I grew up with my mother and my sister, so I seem to be more comfortable with girls.
13. FM: If you had your friends and family in a room with you, how do you think they would sum you up in three words?
MA: My mom used to say, “For a good time call Mickey.” I know that is more than three words, but I think people think I am fun ... People have said that they like my laugh, and if they go too long without hearing it, something is not right.
14. FM: Does your stage persona differ from who you are in real life?
MA: Who you are in the bedroom versus who you are with your friends, those are different things. So how I am in real life may be different than how I am on stage, which is very high energy and concentrated.
15. FM: Where do you see yourself in 15 years?
MA: Well, I have to be alive for anything to be happening.
FM: So you see yourself as alive?
MA: Yeah, I want to be as healthy as I can be .... I hope I could still be doing what I’m doing.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A recent donation of $500,000 will give the Harvard Kennedy School’s Case Program an opportunity to expand its resources.
It is estimated that the gift—donated by HKS and Harvard Law School alumnus Joseph B. Tompkins, Jr.—will nearly double the output of case studies from previous years, said John D. Donahue, faculty chair of the HKS Master’s in Public Policy program.
Donahue added that although HKS boasts the world’s largest library of cases on issues relating to the public sector and non-profits—with the current collection numbering in the thousands—many of them are antiquated and outdated.
“This is very possibly the largest donation in the Case Program’s history,” he said. “Soon the students will have more sophisticated cases to work with.”
“Without those types of funds, we wouldn’t be able to conduct effective case teaching,” added business and agriculture professor Ray A. Goldberg. “We would be in a great deal of difficulty.”
According to Donahue, Tompkins was motivated to donate due to his own personal experiences with case-based teaching.
“The case method changed [Tompkins’] way of thinking and contributed to his success,” Donahue said. “He wanted to give back so that the students would have the same experience.“
The Case Program is a unit of HKS that produces teaching cases used in the classroom. The case studies are predominantly produced by a group of professional case writers, but a smaller proportion—typically those involving non-profit and public service issues—have been written by faculty members and students.
Although the cases are primarily produced for Harvard students, they have also been made available to many other universities in recent years.
“We’re in the process of distributing the cases through the Harvard Business School, and we’re currently ramping up our distribution system,” Donahue said.
Tompkins, who graduated from the Law School in 1974 and HKS in 1975, is currently a partner at Sidley Austin LLP, a major international law firm. He has previously worked as the Deputy Chief of the Fraud Section of the U.S. Department of Justice.
Throughout the years, Tompkins has maintained his involvement with HKS through his participation in various advisory committees.
“What is remarkable about Mr. Tompkins is that he reached out to us to donate and we didn’t need to reach out to him, which is uncommon of donors.” Donahue said. “He’s not interested in publicity, or any sort of personal advancement, he just cares about this mission.”
—Staff writer Mark Guzman can be reached at mguzman@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard University Library—the world’s largest academic library system—will restructure the organization of its collections and resources among its 73 libraries, according to an announcement by Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 on Wednesday.
The new organizational structure  features five “affinity groups” representing different academic sectors, under which individual libraries will be grouped according to their collection needs, content or service areas, and specialized activities. The libraries will continue to have a relationship with their home School, but will also be affiliated with their affinity group.
In his first email to the Harvard community as University provost, Garber said he is committed to making the new Harvard Library “the flagship research library of the 21st century.”
According to HUL Executive Director Helen Shenton, many other library systems rely on a similar organizational set-up.
“It’s a balancing of the individual libraries ... so we can work very closely with faculty,” Shenton said in an interview with The Crimson Wednesday. “We needed to have some more shared services. Virtually every other library in the country has shared services.”
Individual libraries will have the option to shift between affinity groups over the next 45 days as conversations about the new structure continue. After 18 months, the Harvard Library Board will review the affinity group assignments.
“This plan builds upon the recommendations of the Library Task Force and the Library Implementation Work Group to promote greater innovation and strengthen the strategic capacity of the entire system,” Garber wrote in his email.
Shenton will be working closely with the newly named Senior Associate Provost for the Harvard Library Mary Lee Kennedy, who will be actively involved in facilitating the transition.
The new organizational structure announced on Wednesday follows the Nov. 2009 Report of the Task Force on University Libraries. The succeeding Library Implementation Work Group developed ideas from the Task Force and submitted a final set of recommendations to then-Provost Steve E. Hyman.
Following two years of slow deliberation, the University worked quickly to restructure HUL into a stronger, centralized umbrella organization. In Dec. 2010, Harvard officials named the first Library Board, an oversight body that named Shenton as HUL’s first executive director.
—Staff writer Gautam S. Kumar can be reached at gkumar@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Julia L. Ryan can be reached at jryan@college.harvard.edu.reached at jryan@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Women who drink coffee regularly are less likely to suffer from depression than women who do not, according to a Harvard School of Public Health study released Tuesday.
The study stated that women who drink coffee four or more times daily are 20 percent less likely to become depressed than women who drink fewer than one cup of coffee a week. Women who drink coffee two to three times a day are 15 percent less likely to suffer from depression.
Coffee, which is often associated with boosting energy in the short term, is the source of 80 percent of caffeine intake worldwide. This study, however, dealt with the long term effects of the drug.
Harvard scientists, led by Michel Lucas, a research fellow in the Department of Nutrition at HSPH, tested over 50,000 women between 1980 and 2004. The women tested were primarily middle aged.
The researchers said they chose to focus on women, as they are much more likely to suffer from depression than men. Twenty percent of women develop depression in their lifetimes, according to the researchers.
While the study has profound implications on research related to the brain’s reaction to caffeine, Lucas warned that the results are “very preliminary” and “need to be confirmed.”
Lucas noted that it is too soon to say if caffeine can be used to treat depression, adding that side effects of the drug include higher blood pressure in the short term.
Alberto Ascherio, an author of the study and a Harvard professor of epidemiology and nutrition, noted that other factors could have contributed to the lower rate of depression among coffee drinkers.
The team of Harvard researchers is working on studies linking other factors, such as physical activity and television watching, to depression. These studies may appear as soon as next week.
“Most people already drink coffee at the level that is good for them,” Ascherio said.
Although the study focused mainly on caffeinated coffee, researchers also tracked the women’s consumption of decaffeinated coffee, tea, soft drinks and chocolate—foods with comparatively negligible traces of caffeine. The study tied decreased risk for depression only to caffeinated coffee.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Diagnostics for All, a non-profit organization led by University Professor George M. Whitesides, has recently created a small, cheap, and portable test for liver damage.
The test is printed on paper using black wax, which means it is exponentially less expensive than current methods, which require drawing large amounts of blood from patients.
Whitesides’ discovery has vast implications for global health, according to Richard Cash, a senior lecturer at the Harvard School of Public Health.
“One of the problems in global health is finding low cost, accurate tests,” Cash said. “You cannot tell a person, ‘I’ll give you a test today and call you tomorrow.’ Often times you cannot call because the person doesn’t have a phone or lives miles away, so doctors are forced to treat symptoms about which they are unsure.”
In particular, the new test has the potential to improve the lives of the many individuals in developing countries who suffer from HIV and tuberculosis. The medications required to treat HIV and tuberculosis are sometimes harmful to the liver and patients taking these drugs must have their livers monitored regularly by expensive machinery and laboratory chemical tests. Oftentimes in developing countries, such equipment does not exist.
By contrast, 132 copies of the new test can be printed on an 8 ½ x 11 in. sheet of paper, making it cost effective and practical, according to Una Ryan, the CEO of Diagnostics for All.
The test works as a small chemical maze for blood. The paper is mostly laminated, but a drop of blood is placed on an exposed area on the back of the test and is then filtered by the paper until only the plasma reaches the next layer, where it goes through a series of chemical reactions. On the front side, patients hope to see a blue dot and a yellow dot. If they see pink in both, then it means their blood contains enzymes that indicate liver damage.
The liver tests are the first major field test launched by Diagnostics for All, which was founded in 2007 by Whitesides and a team of scientists looking for practical, innovative, and cost-efficient ways to help treat those in developing countries. Whitesides said that the organization’s goal is to have an agenda “based on the needs of the people,” as opposed to a series of goals defined by investors.
Diagnostics for All plans on creating new designs of the test that can be used to diagnose levels of aflatoxin, which is a chemical that in high doses can cause liver cancer or dwarfism in children. In addition, they are looking to develop tests that will identify spoilage in milk and pregnancy in cows, according to Ryan.
Ryan also noted that the organization would like to develop new tests that would help identify mothers at risk for a miscarriage.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Researchers at Harvard and Tufts Universities have devised a groundbreaking new method of encryption that utilizes color-coded E. coli—the same bacteria that can cause food poisoning—to hide messages decipherable only by using the proper science.
Professor David R. Walt of Tufts University devised the bacterial code SPAM—Steganography by Printed Arrays of Microbes—as a means for scientists to send encoded messages.
According to Walt, the bacteria are color-tagged and then dotted onto a lab dish in a specific pattern that encodes the secret message. Each of the sets of dots in which the bacteria are arranged represents either a number, letter, or symbol.
Messages are sent via pieces of paper that can transfer bacteria in their specific arrangement from one dish to another. By using a particular kind of light and the appropriate antibiotics, the receiver can make the bacteria emit fluorescent light and decode the message.
The project, funded by the U.S. Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, could potentially revolutionize encryption methods used by both scientific institutions and commercial enterprises, Walt said.
“One of the broadest areas of science and technology is information science,” said chemistry professor George M. Whitesides ’60, one of the scientists behind the new method. “There’s a whole field that describes this with impressive accuracy for bits moving down fiber-optic cables, but when you get into the fields of biology and chemistry, the idea of information encoding becomes less clear.”
Applications of the new encoding system are endless, Walt said. Currently, researchers are considering using the code as a form of secret identification stamped on the exterior of packages.
“A potential application is some kind of secret agent-type communication, but it’s unclear whether that will ever transpire,” Walt said. “The most probable application will be product authentication.”
Walt also mentioned the possibility of a future incarnation of the code similar to the audio recordings in “Mission: Impossible” that would self-destruct after playing.
“We’re researching fluorescent proteins that have shorter lifetimes so they turn on and then fade. So potentially we could have a message fade and then over a period of time a second message could appear,” Walt said.
Whitesides said that the research team is also looking into how to mimic the processing capability of computer programs in non-traditional technologies.
“We’re thinking about how you encode information in biological, chemical, and scientific systems in new ways, and how to manipulate that information in such a way that the information manipulates itself, similar to a program,” he said. “This research is a demonstration of a new idea.”
—Staff writer Matthew M. Beck can be reached at mbeck@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Local residents who provide input on Harvard’s expansion into Allston as Members of the Harvard Allston Task Force say they are disappointed with the Boston Redevelopment Authority’s community support during the planning process.
The Task Force voiced the concerns at a Wednesday meeting convened to discuss the University’s recently approved recommendations for its next step in Allston.
The recommendations, published by the since-dissolved Harvard Allston Work Team, include plans for a 700,000-square-foot Health and Life Science Center on Western Ave. and an Enterprise Research Campus on Allston Landing North, slated to be a 36-acre mecca for research.
Task Force members said the BRA, the agency that oversees city development projects, has unfairly promoted Harvard’s expansion rather than ensuring the community’s quality of life.
“BRA, I thought you stood behind us and I’m so disappointed in your performance,” Task Force member Bruce Houghton said.
Task Force member Cathi Campbell said the group is willing to work with Harvard as it develops its property in the neighborhood.
“But any balance available in the process has been lost,” she said.
Members said that the BRA has underrepresented the community and left them lost about whom to turn to for community support.
“It’s always been to me about how businesses, institutions, and the city can work together to make a better neighborhood,” Houghton said. “I don’t have any convincing feel that this process does that at all.”
Ray Mellone, chair of the task force, echoed Houghton’s sentiments.
“I cannot see how we can do our job of reporting to the community without any control over the situation,” Mellone said.
Michael F. Glavin, the BRA’s deputy director for institutional development, said at the meeting that the BRA hears residents’ concerns and that Harvard’s developments affect not only Allston, but all of Boston.
“I would hope we don’t walk away here defeated, but challenged,” Glavin said. “It will become the envy of the entire country if we get this right.”
At Wednesday’s meeting, a representative of Elkus Manfredi Architects, a firm working with Harvard, also presented plans to host three or four community meetings to gain input on a development proposal expected to be submitted in March.
But some Task Force members were not convinced that additional meetings would lead to the implementation of community benefits, saying residents still lacked official power over Harvard’s proceedings. The Work Team that drew up the plans for Harvard’s development consisted only of 14 University affiliates, one member noted.
Task force members also pointed to a recent recommendation to extend the lease on the locally-popular Ed Portal by four years, which the University has thus far declined.
“Who said no? Was it Lady Lapp?” Bruce said, referring to University Executive Vice President Katherine N. Lapp, who is heading the University’s development in Allston along with University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 and other officials.
“There is a new regime, and frankly, it scares the hell out of us,” Mellone said. “The scale and the scope of what’s about to happen to us is way over our heads.”
—Staff writer Nathalie R. Miraval can be reached at nmiraval@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ugandan Bishop Christopher Senyonjo spoke Wednesday at the Harvard Kennedy School about his efforts to combat LGBT discrimination in his native country, where homosexuality is illegal.
Senyonjo, founder of the St. Paul’s Reconciliation and Equality Centre for LGBTQ/Straight Alliance in Kampala, Uganda, discussed his efforts to bring together religious and secular leadership together to combat discrimination against gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender people in Uganda.
Senyonjo is a renowned figure in the world activist community, said Timothy P. McCarthy ’93, director of the Sexuality, Gender, and Human Rights program at the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy.
“He is often referred to as the Desmond Tutu of Uganda,” McCarthy said.
Senyonjo’s charitable foundation is currently addressing a proposed anti-homosexuality bill drafted by the Ugandan parliament.
If passed, the bill would introduce the death penalty for people who are found to be gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender.
“The bill is inhuman and draconian,” said Senyonjo. “We hope it will die.”
The bill also says that family members or anyone failing to report instances of homosexuality will be imprisoned.
Senyonjo said the foundation is taking steps to oppose the bill by lobbying  members of parliament and petitioning against it.
Senyonjo’s advocacy on behalf of the LGBT community is also illegal, McCarthy said.
“He could be killed,” he said. “Every day, this is an act of civil disobedience.”
Senyonjo’s visit to Harvard is one of several stops he will make during a three-month tour of the United States. The trip will culminate in a UN-sponsored gathering of leaders from the fields of faith, human rights, and LGBT advocacy in October.
McCarthy said that the goal of the UN program­—called Compass to Compassion—is to bring together leaders from religious and secular communities to discuss LGBT global equality.
Senyonjo’s talk was the first public event sponsored by the Sexuality, Gender, and Human Rights program at the Carr Center. McCarthy and his colleagues established the program this summer with funds from a Ford Foundation grant.
The program intends to bring gender and sexuality issues to the center of human rights discussion, McCarthy said.
—Staff writer Eliza M. Nguyen can be reached at enguyen@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
David P. Davidson will serve as the new managing director for Harvard  University Dining Services, Harvard Campus Services  announced on Thursday.
Davidson has been serving as interim director  of HUDS since the departure of former Executive Director Ted A. Mayer  this past June. Davidson will oversee the day-to-day operations of  HUDS, which includes 13 undergraduate dining halls, a kosher kitchen,  14 retail outlets, Crimson Catering, and Crimson Cash. In total, HUDS  serves approximately 25,000 meals a day.
In a press release, Davidson said he is thrilled to take on this new role.
“The  HUDS program is a national leader and the envy of many colleges and  universities,” Davidson said. “I am extremely proud of the reputation  HUDS has built over the years and I’m looking forward to carrying on  this tradition of excellence.”
Davidson first came to Harvard in 1991 when he was hired as general  manager of the Dudley Café.  He served as associate director and  director of operations for HUDS before going to Yale University as its  director of dining. He then worked at the Back Bay Restaurant Group and  the Phillips Exeter Academy before returning to Harvard in 2007.
“David is a broadly skilled manager with strong organizational,  financial, client relations, and operational abilities,” said Vice  President for Campus Services Lisa Hogarty. “I am particularly impressed  with his breadth of experience in higher education dining, innovation  and creativity, strong emphasis on customer service, and student focus.  In addition, David is incredibly committed to sustainability, which is a  central component of HUDS.”
The appointment of Davidson as managing director is effective immediately.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the Harvard men’s soccer team learned last night, the momentum of a game can shift drastically in less than 20 minutes.
In its first home game at Soldiers Field Soccer/Lacrosse Stadium since returning from California on Monday, the Crimson (2-5-1) was unable to protect its early lead against crosstown rivals Boston University (3-5-0), falling 2-1 last night.
In the 65th minute of play, the Terriers took the lead over Harvard for the first time when BU freshman defender Taylor Washington netted the game-winning goal past junior goalkeeper Brett Conrad, after receiving a cross from fellow freshman defender James Holler.
“These are two teams that know each other really well personnel-wise and tactically, because we see each other play so often,” Junot said. “I thought we had a good game plan in the first half.”
The Crimson started off the game on the right foot, ending a three-game scoring drought with a tally in the 29th minute of play.
Junior forward Zack Wolfenzon headed a cross from sophomore defender Ross Friedman past the Terriers’ goalkeeper to give the Crimson the early lead, as the ball drifted just out of the reach of Terriers freshman Nick Thomson.
“It felt good to finally get a first half goal,” Wolfenzon said. “Ross played a great ball in and I got my head on it.”
Following its first goal, the Crimson continued to press deep into the BU backfield, looking to pull away from its opponent.
Although the home side was able to create numerous opportunities at goal late in the first half, it came up just short each time.
In the 36th minute of play, Harvard junior co-captain Scott Prozeller missed a chance to give the Crimson a two-goal lead as he sent a shot over the crossbar.
Less than five minutes later, co-captain Tim Linden also looked poised to put BU in a 2-0 hole, when he received a through ball on the right flank of the Terrier defense.
But Linden failed to deliver his shot on target as the ball streaked just wide of the goal.
Sophomore Kyle Henderson led the team with three shots, two of which were on net.
In the first half, the Crimson outshot BU 5-4.
But the team’s offensive dominance was short-lived, as the Terriers’ freshman midfielder Cameron Souri tallied the equalizer off a threaded pass from junior forward Nick Prunier less than five minutes before halftime.
“The first goal they scored was kind of a miscommunication on the defensive end,” junior forward Zack Wolfenzon said. “It really took the wind out of our sails going into halftime.”
In the second half, the BU offense exploited openings in a Harvard defense that committed 12 fouls in the contest.
Junior defender Richard Smith was yellow-carded in the 27th minute after knocking down a Terriers player while fighting for position after a corner kick.
Crimson senior midfielder Baba Omosegbon received a yellow card in the second half after fouling a BU player in pursuit of a ball at midfield.
The Terriers were also cautioned during the second half, as BU senior midfielder Peter Mehlert was given a yellow card a few minutes after Omosegbon.
Senior goalkeeper Austin Harms made three saves in the loss, but was replaced by Conrad in the second half.
“We have a strong goalkeeping spot in general, so I want both of those guys to be prepared,” Junot said.
Junot opted not to change the Crimson’s in-game strategy despite falling behind by a goal, focusing on fine-tuning the game plan that it will carry into Ivy League play.
“We put the emphasis on how we played the game more than on the result,” Junot said. “We wanted to see if we could further execute what we wanted to do.”
Despite the loss to its crosstown foe, Harvard remains confident about the start of Ivy League play. The Crimson travels to New Haven, Conn., to battle rival Yale this coming Saturday.
“No one likes to lose,” Wolfenzon said. “To look up there and see Guest 2, Harvard 1, I think it really puts a lot of fire in your stomach.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
No one may have said it, but everyone was thinking it. Last Friday’s game against Brown was a must-win for Harvard football.
With only seven league games all year, one loss against a team in the middle of the pack can be crushing. When the Crimson dropped its game against Brown last year, putting itself in an early 0-1 hole in league play, Harvard had to play with an if-we-lose-one-more-time-we’re-done mentality. And when the Crimson did lose one more time—to eventual league champion Penn—the team was done.
Because falling to any league team not named Yale or Penn eliminates any and all margin for error. After that, any mistake, and it’s “Wait ‘til next year.”
But there’s a problem: football sometimes makes as little sense as the BCS system or voluntarily living in New Haven.
And that’s especially the case in the FCS, where sometimes randomness and chaos reign.
Here’s an example from the past few weeks. Some quick facts:
1) The Quakers were named the favorites to repeat as champions of the Ivy League this year, so they’re clearly favored to beat Yale when the teams square off near the end of October.
2) Two Saturdays ago, when the Bulldogs and Georgetown met up, the Yalies took the contest, 37-27.
3) The week before, the Hoyas had hosted Lafayette, and Georgetown managed to hold on for a tight, 14-13 win.
4) In its first game of the year, Penn hosted Lafayette at Franklin Field.
It almost sounds like an SAT question. If Penn is favored over Yale, Yale beat Georgetown, and Georgetown beat Lafayette, then Penn should’ve beaten Lafayette, right?
Wrong.
Lafayette didn’t narrowly win, either. The Leopards obliterated Penn, 37-12. That’s less like a football game and more like a public execution.
But that’s sports. Just because A beats B and B beats C, by no means can we preemptively crown A the winner over C.
In football, one source of randomness is clear: injuries. Players get hurt all the time on the gridiron, and that can drastically change a team’s dynamic. In fact, in just the first game of the year, Harvard temporarily lost one of its best defenders in junior linebacker Blaise Deal and the leader of its offense in senior quarterback Collier Winters. There’s no way to guess that would‘ve happened, though both have been fairly injury-prone over the past few seasons.
Another football truth gives rise to randomness too: teams are often sloppy, especially in the first games of the year. The Crimson knows this all too well. In Week One, when Harvard traveled to Worcester to face off against Holy Cross, the team committed a series of costly turnovers which ended up costing it the game.
At no point did the Crimson seem like the weaker team on the field. More unpolished? Sure. But I think all around a better football team. Harvard had 48 more yards of total offense and one less first down. Take out the pick-six and the blown coverage, and the Crimson now probably sits at 2-0.
The turnover bug also bit Penn in that fateful game against Lafayette. You never would’ve expected it from a team that prior to the game held the nation’s longest winning streak, but, well, that’s football for you. The Quakers turned the ball over three times, and the Leopards blocked a Penn punt. Yet somehow, Penn managed 20 more yards of total offense.
You can’t eliminate randomness. The better team won’t always win. That’s impossible, as any statistician will gladly tell you.
But what can teams and coaching staffs do? Prepare for the worst. Have solid guys ready to step up in case the starter goes down. Harvard nailed that one. Junior quarterback Colton Chapple couldn’t have been a whole lot better for a lot of Friday night’s game. And Deal’s replacement—junior linebacker Joshua Boyd—led the team in tackles and was a force in the middle of the defense.
Of course, teams also have to learn from what they did wrong. After a sloppy performance against Holy Cross, the Crimson did just that. Harvard did a 180, with the only blip of the night coming from a rain-induced interception. No more dropped punts, no more secondary breakdowns.
So in the course of playing virtual must-win after must-win (though Harvard has a week off before returning to league play), a championship-caliber team must not only improve every week, but also to expect the unexpected—to expect randomness.
And Harvard, clearly, understands that quite well.
—Staff writer Robert S. Samuels can be reached at robertsamuels@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After dominating the first 30 minutes of Wednesday night’s game against crosstown rival Boston University, the Harvard men’s soccer team lost its lead and its momentum.
As the final minutes ticked off the scoreboard, rather than a frantic sprint for a goal, the Crimson stuck with its possession-based game, probing the Terriers’ defense for holes.
Ultimately, the second goal did not come for Harvard.  But, despite the result, head coach Carl Junot displayed great optimism after the final whistle.
With the Crimson’s Ivy League opener against Yale on Saturday in New Haven, Junot emphasized maintaining a strong game plan as a key goal of this matchup in preparation for the weekend.
“In some games, you would look to change the strategy because you’re down a goal and you have to chase the game,” Junot said.  “I think we were taking something very specific from [this game]. We were trying to take away playing shape and how we pressure the ball. There were no strategy changes [toward the end of the game] because we wanted to see if we could further execute what we were trying to do.”
Junot made numerous substitutions before the start of the second half, including a goalkeeper change.
“We are very fortunate in that we are very near 100 percent health, which was one of our goals at the beginning of the season,” Junot said.  “There are certain things you can control and some you cannot, and health and fitness is one [thing you can control]. I think going into Ivy League play it will be important.”
“You never want to be happy with a loss,” Junot continued. “But there are certainly positives to take out of [this game].”
DEALING WITH THE LONG BALL
As Harvard dictated the game with great possession play in the first half, BU seemed perfectly content to sit back and absorb the Crimson’s offensive pressure. When the Terriers did recover the ball, they pushed forward with long balls to their attacking players.
“We made sure to cut out their midfield play and force them to play those [long balls],” junior forward Zack Wolfenzon said. “That was exactly what we wanted. We feel comfortable with them lumping balls back and having our guys deal with it.”
The Harvard back line did well to smother the BU counter attack in the first half with strong physical play, especially from sophomore defender Pascal Mensah.
However, the Crimson defense would eventually falter, as BU freshman midfielder Cameron Souri ran into the box unmarked and put a strong shot past senior goalkeeper Austin Harms.
“When they got their goal, I was a little disappointed with how the pure momentum of the goal deflated what we were working on,” Junot said. “I thought we lost focus of executing the game plan.”
LIFE WITHOUT ROGERS
Junior forward Brian Rogers, Harvard’s leading scorer this season, did not make an appearance during the game. Coach Junot said he decided to rest Rogers as a precaution in order to ensure he is rested and healthy to play against Yale on Saturday.
With Rogers out of the lineup, other members of the Crimson’s attack had to step up. Wolfenzon, who opened the scoring with an impressive looping header over the BU goalkeeper, had a strong game up front.
“[Wolfenzon] is a guy that we see as someone who can score a lot with his head,” Junot said. “That was not a fluke, that’s his strength. He is playing with more and more confidence each game.”
Also impressing up front was freshman forward Michael Innocenzi, who used his physical presence effectively to receive many attacking passes in front of goal.
“I thought Innocenzi had a really good first half,” Junot said. “He was really dangerous with his strength and pace, and I thought he played with a lot of confidence tonight. The game opened up for him and he attacked.”
But despite some strong performances, the Crimson still did not test the BU goalkeeper often and ultimately failed to get the tying goal. It remains to be seen if Harvard’s attacking players will overcome these early season struggles in front of the net.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
MBTA Police as well as Red Line employees will be posted in the Central Square, Harvard Square, Porter Square, Davis Square, and Alewife T Stations for an outreach program to prevent bike theft on Wednesday afternoon, between 4 p.m. and 6:30 p.m.
Due to the large number of people who choose to commute by bicycle, the Transit Police launched this public awareness campaign in order to lower the risk of bike theft by reinforcing proper bicycle security. Because there is no insurance in the case of a theft for bicyclists, the theft of a bicycle is particularly detrimental for these commuters.
"Not only does the victim suffer the loss of transportation, the person also suffers the out of pocket costs of replacing that transportation," said Robert Lenehan, Lieutenant Commander of the MBTA Transit Police, in a statement made to boston.com.
The program will also give advice on how to commute safely, as well as the necessary and required equipment for cyclists to use.
Sections
Canadian native Mark Mitton astonished a crowd of Winthropians Monday  night as part of the Senior Common Room Series at Winthrop House. The  magician, known for making Will Smith appear in the middle of Time  Square,  kept the crowd entertained by changing into fantastical  costumes, making cars appear in the most unlikely places, and even  teaching the audience members some simple tricks of their own.
Sections
Despite the heavy workload, some still find that they have free time on their hands when the weekend rolls around. If you’re one of those people, here are some events you should definitely check out.
FRIDAY
"That Room Deco Thing": Did you miss out on the first Dorm Decorating Workshop? Does your room still look depressing? Go make decorations for your room with the Harvard Art Society.
Free!
7-9pm @ Adams Art Space
Arts supplies and snacks provided
The #1 Show Show: After a long and potentially stressful week (midterms already?!) treat yourself to a laugh at a show by the Harvard University Stand-Up Comics Society (HUSUCS).
Free!
8pm @ Cabot Theater
 
Afropolitan: Want to escape the Harvard bubble this weekend and even meet some other college students? How about heading to the Big Apple for Columbia University’s annual African night and after party?
$10 (not including transport costs to NYC)
8-11pm @ Roone Arledge Auditorium, Columbia University
Housing arrangements for Friday night will be made for Harvard Students.*
African cuisine included in ticket price (dinner at 7:15)
*Contact HASA for more details
 
Oktoberfest: You don’t have to be 21 to get in the spirit of Okoberfest. Join the College Events Board (CEB) at the Queen’s Head for music and free food and drink.
Free! (First-come, first-serve)
9-11:59pm @ Cambridge Queens Head
Performances by the Dean's List and others
Free food and drink
"Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides": Didn’t want to spend money to see the latest installment of the Pirates’ franchise? Well don’t. Even if it’s as awful as the critics say, it will still give you something to talk about. Go to the next Cinema 1636 screening Sponsored by the CEB and the Office of Student Life (OSL)
Free! (HUID required)
10-11:59pm @ Science Center B
 
SATURDAY
Field Hockey vs. Brown: Help cheer on The Crimson in another win against Brown. Plus free t-shirts for first 50 students. Who doesn’t like free stuff?
Free (HUID required)
12pm @ Jordan Field
I <3 the 90s: Some of you might not actually remember the 90s (You were born in 1994?!). But that shouldn’t stop you from heading to the annual 90s themed dance party. Plus it will give you an excuse to unabashedly dance to The Spice Girls.
$7 at door or Harvard Box Office (HUID required)
10pm-2am @ Pfoho Dining Hall
Sharon Van Etten concert and talk: A serious subject for the weekend but important nonetheless. Listen to some free live music and enjoy some real conversations at the Kick-off Event for Harvard's Dating Violence Awareness Month.
Free!
8pm @ SOCH Room 104
Finale’s dessert and coffee provided
Sections
For some, picking apples from a tree as opposed to off a shelf in a dining hall might equate to unnecessary expenditures of energy. After limited sleep and seemingly endless amounts of reading, this view is, on the one hand, understandable. On the other hand, this means missing out on one of the season's quintessential experiences.
A contingent of freshmen recently experienced the joys of plucking nature’s bounty from its boughs when they went to Carver Hill Orchards in Stow, MA on a trip co-sponsored by the Freshmen Deans Office and the Food Literacy Project (FLP). The program gave these students the chance to spend a beautiful Saturday afternoon among the green, red, and yellow hues of Autumn's advance. Even if fresh-from-the-tree apples aren't your thing, the plethora of other options from donuts to warm cider to homemade ice cream are bound to keep your stomach satisfied!
So, how can you experience the bountiful harvest for yourself? Whether it's apple picking, pumpkin picking, or just picking yourself out of Harvard Square for a bit, there are plenty of farms in the area that are worth checking out: Lanni Orchards, E.L. Silvia Farm, Wilson Farm, and Cider Hill Farm are just a few.
But maybe you've already stocked up on all of the Cortlands, Ginger Golds, and Red Delicious varieties that your dorm room can possibly handle. Then get a group of friends together and plan a visit to Honey Pot Hill Orchards which is located less than an hour away and is a great place to pick some pears and add variety to your fruit selection.
If you find yourself buried under a mountain of reading and unfinished p-sets and just can’t fit a trip to the orchard into your busy schedule—The Farmers' Market can come to you. Run by the FLP, the Farmers' Market will be coming to campus every Tuesday through October 25 and is a convenient, one-stop-shop for a variety of delicious fruits, vegetables, sweet treats, and much more. Whatever strikes your fancy, happy picking, shopping, and eating this season!
Sections
It's that time of year again—time to head over to Pfoho to relive the good old days. Yes, the 90s dance is right around the corner. Come Saturday you'll be getting jiggy with it to some sweet beats looking fly. What's that you say? Don't have an outfit yet? Here is a list of some 90s approved attire:
1. For both sexes, flannel is the key. If you want to rock the classic angsty grunge look—think “My So-Called Life”—then layer up with some dark flannel.  If you're worried you may get too warm (as is almost always the case with flannel at dance parties) then tie the shirt around your waist and pair with a tank top (the more dirty looking the better). If these pieces sound familiar, it's because they are; they don't call it a grunge revival for nothing.
2. For footwear, chunky boots are a perfect option. You can't get more 90s than by wearing some Doc Martens. Converses are also a great alternative for both guys and girls. Rock those Converse All-Stars. For extra 90s style points bust out your platform sneakers à la Baby Spice.
3. If you're more of a “Clueless” girl, then go for the preppy schoolgirl look. Pleated skirts with thigh-highs are a great way for you to bring the pre-shaved-head Britney back.
4. You can choose a sportier look by wearing sleeveless jerseys, cropped-top shirts, and high-waisted shorts. Note: this is the one time it is appropriate to wear cargo pants or pants so baggy they fall somewhere under your butt.
5. If you're looking to go all out and wear one signature piece, then girls, go for the overalls and guys, put on those Vanilla Ice tracksuits, preferably all one color.
6. Accessories always make the outfit though. So put on those Aviator sunglasses, letterman jackets, bandannas, and headbands. If you can get your hands on some chokers (you know, the ones that look like tattoos) you're golden. Top your look off with an absurdly small backpack.
7. To complete the whole ensemble you have to have the right hair. Girls go for a simple ponytail tied back with a scrunchie of course (the bigger the better). Or alternatively you can find some butterfly clips. If it looks like spring just threw up in your hair then you are on the right track. For guys, spiked hair is pretty much a must—frosted tips if you are really hardcore.
So now that you have an outfit all you need to do is practice the Macarena and you'll be ready for "Livin' la Vida Loca."
Sections
With the appointment of the new Managing Director David P. Davidson, the Campus Services leadership has decided to change the name of Harvard University Hospitality and Dining Services (HUHDS) to Harvard University Dining Services (HUDS), said Michael D. Conner, the spokesperson for Harvard Campus Services.
HUDS is actually the group's original name before it added the extra H—for Hospitality—last year to reflect the broader role of creating "great food and experiences that foster friendship, encouraging learning, and cultivating community," according to an explanation that was printed on dining hall table tents in late August last year.
The Crimson could not get a comment on the reason behind the name change.
