News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As in the rest of the world, so in Berlin: art is displayed in an environment consisting of industrial glass, white walls, the dull sheen of concrete, and other diluted staples of modernist architecture. The space, though vast, feels cramped due to the sheer amount of foot traffic. The service encountered ranges from the overly bubbly to the clearly bored. Non-native speakers dish out English efficiently. The food aims to be much too gourmet and ends up much too expensive. We can add the art space—gallery, museum, or art fair—to the list of universal institutional non-spaces like airports and hotel chains.
If Berlin weren’t in this art fair–cum-exhibition’s unfortunate title, abc or “art berlin contemporary,” the location of the entire ordeal would hardly be obvious, despite the incessant chatter about the city’s need for an art fair or biennale to keep it on the international art circuit. Paradoxically, what might maintain Berlin’s status—abc shovelling contemporary art into an old refurnished postal railroad station for five days before crating it back to its respective galleries or new owners—has little to do with the city itself.
Nevertheless, judging by the packed invite-only opening directed at potential buyers, many visitors must have drawn up whole travel agendas consisting of nothing more than a shuffle from non-space to non-space: airport, hotel, art in contrived converted industrial chic settings, airport, and then home, which is likely part hotel and part industrial chic setting anyway. One can travel thousands of miles without ever quite leaving.
Hotel chains have long thrived on this principle; they construct familiar environments away from home. Likewise, the airport embraces its role as a place between places. The invisibility and interchangeability of the contemporary art space, less obviously but no less surely, also situates its visitors in some sort of limbo.  The conventions of the art space—the design codes that now seem somehow natural to us—have come to legitimize the works exhibited there. In turn, they often mask those works’ dullness and bar us from critical assessment.
Of course, these spaces often have their reasons for sidestepping that kind of assessment. This exhibit, given the unfortunate theme “about painting,” was as much about painting as this essay is about sentences. There were paintings. There were pretty abstract compositions; monochromes in every which color and non-color; geometric shapes; figurative works; text-heavy compositions; figurative panels made of duct tape; parts of the white wall removed; sculptural pieces involving canvasses or paint; and everything besides and in between. Many of the works were shadows of movements long past, and all of the works sat in vague and superficial relations to one another; but then again, what can be expected from a system in which a curatorial team is hired to organize 120 different galleries and their artists into one cohesive blob, aiming not only to hawk the works like any art fair must but also to be taken seriously as a major exhibition?
Unsurprisingly, abc managed to do neither well; but, surprisingly, the space was crowded almost every day, and the reviews in major German newspapers Die Zeit, Der Welt, Die Berliner Morgenpost, and others were generally positive.
The majority of the reviews spend a good amount of time lauding the old refurnished postal railroad station where abc took place and praising German architect Jan Ulmer’s intersecting white walls interspersed through the sprawling space. The famous white cube stereotype has undergone some remodeling worldwide, expanding beyond the simple cube and moving to annex the abandoned factory. These templates sound harmless—after all, they’re just containers for holding art—but in the 1960s Institutional Critique laid bare the complete un-neutrality of such institutions, pointing out the economic, social, and political assumptions these museums and galleries rely on to establish and reestablish the value and importance of the art housed within them. Today the impact of these reinforced assumptions is less restricted to recognized institutions than ever before. Contemporary art galleries and art fairs are sprouting up all over the world. With art fairs and bienniales, the spaces are necessarily not permanent ones; rather, they are taken over for a few days, a week, or a month, crammed with contemporary art, and engineered to convince the global art audience that what they are seeing is the “new thing,” deserving of a spot on the contemporary art map.
So maybe abc had it right; you’re not in Berlin, London, Basel, Moscow, or Miami, but in some artistic suspension—the convergence of the autonomous art space, sleek modernist design, and the unprecedented market for contemporary art.
How about that for a performance-cum-installation piece?
­—Columnist Kristie T. La can be reached at kla@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just so you know, it is not currently Christmas. I happen to know this because I checked isitchristmas.com today. This was after watching every YouTube video related to “taxidermy advertisements,” attempting to recreate the “Derelicte” fashion line from “Zoolander” in the trash room, and reorganizing my bookshelf by abstruseness of subject (“The Wealth of Nations” at one end and the coursepack for “African American Studies 115: HBO's “Entourage” and its Contribution to Understanding Urban Inequality” on the other). When my roommate told me that she was worried about my procrastination problem, I asked her if we could talk about it later as I really needed to go rank our neighbor’s guppies by looks, intellect, and sheer nerve. 
The collective brainpower at this university is incredible, yet approximately two thirds of it is devoted to putting off what should have been done yesterday. The other one third is split evenly between spamming House open lists and determining what sort of violent end should meet those who spam House open lists. My friend Lizzie has taken up needlepoint as yet another distraction from the world of Ec 10. Ted has been known to build life size replicas of Chuck Norris out of HUHDS cutlery and Clearasil rather than starting his CS50 problem set. Juan refused to get to his paper before he confirmed whether or not it was true that if you play “Dark Side of the Moon” backward you can hear satanic messages. That, at least, could be worse; I’ve heard that if you play Ke$ha forward you hear Ke$ha.
What possesses us to do this? What makes a school of 6,000 undergraduates, all of whom developed stellar study skills in order to get in here in the first place (except the recruits—damn you, Harvard Curling Team), suddenly forget everything we ever learned about time management and pull all nighters over papers asking what cultural impact sushi had on 4th century Cayuga culture? (Answer: none. Now you don’t have to take Societies of the World 19.)  I don’t think it has anything to do with laziness, as “Chuck Pore-is” certainly didn’t build himself. Perhaps it’s an avoidance tactic; when life gets stressful, it’s far easier to try to determine whether there has ever been an un-sexy vampire than it is to face the fact that the pesky “ni” in the middle of the word does in fact make all the difference in organismic biology. Or that it’s easier to write a piece on procrastination than to write that thesis chapter that’s due next week. Or that it’s easier to confirm once more that it is not in fact Christmas than it is to write that piece on procrastination. (Just checked—still not Christmas.)
But while I may decry the fact that Ted’s statue has pretty much exhausted Cabot House’s supply of silverware, something I hope will be addressed in President Faust’s annual “State of the Spoon-ion” address, I do believe that procrastination can provide students with some of the best college memories. Between sitting down to write this piece and finishing it, I went to Berryline, ate breakfast, checked Facebook, scoured my email for anything not sent over an email list, wrote a villanelle involving the Ghost of Christmas Future Perfect, went to Berryline, rewrote my poem as an Elegiac couplet entitled “Back to the Future Perfect,” read a book on consulting case interviews, watched some friends play fantasy football, lost my book on consulting case interviews, went to Berryline, watched a YouTube video on consulting case interviews, and, using my newfound quantitative analytical skills, determined that men who participate in fantasy football are statistically more likely than their non-fantastic friends to limit themselves to fantasy sex. How can that not be considered productive (except maybe for the fantasy football guys)? At the very least, this day of what the judgmental among us might refer to as “not actually getting anything done” will prepare me for my future career in Congress.
Procrastination can be so much more than wasting your time. It can be watching enough CNN to finally perfect that Sarah Palin accent you’ve been working on since 2008. (Productive? You betcha!) It can be bringing your colorblind roommate to a stoplight party and watching the hilarity that ensures. I know life feels hard right now, I tell her, but the grass is always redder on the other side. Procrastination, without any effort expended on your part, can turn the most boring day into the most boring night—and you only have to wait 12 hours!
So, friends, go forth and procrastinate. Put down the Crimson and go for a bike ride.
Are you back yet?
No?
Good. I’ll finish writing this column later. But first, I need to grab some chocolate pudding from the dining hall—literally, thanks to Ted—and just check one more time to see if it’s Christmas.
Brett Rosenberg ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a history concentrator in Cabot House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three years ago, Harvard’s “Green Is the New Crimson” initiative began with a bang at a ceremony in Tercentenary Theater with Al Gore headlining.  The University outlined its strategy for becoming an environmentally sustainable institution, and has even rolled out a website, green.harvard.edu, that provides users with information about Harvard’s efforts and outlines ways to become involved in them.  Additionally, advising positions have been created for students that wish to shape the course of University policy.
Recently voiced concerns that fellow students are not as involved as they should be in green initiatives have made their way into this newspaper. These comments are ultimately misguided.  Events over the past months, such as the oil pipeline protest in Washington, D.C. that saw several Harvard students arrested and the organization of a petition listing donors who will not donate to Harvard if it does not provide cage-free eggs prove that, when they put their mind to it, Harvard students and community members are more than capable of promoting green initiatives.  Students’ choice not to lead or participate in environmental activism is not necessarily indicative of apathy; there are countless other social activism causes on campus and it is unfair to critique students for choosing any one over another.
At Harvard, students are fortunate to have a multitude of resources available to them, including UC funding, should they wish to start a new club or movement, and we encourage any student that does not find his or her desired advocacy issue addressed by the current crop of organizations on campus to found a new one.  However, we urge students aspiring to promote environmental causes to think carefully and critically about their intended courses of action.  Policing students’ power strips and napkin usage reduces some waste, but it may be more effective to leverage the incredible resources provided to us in our four short years at Harvard to concentrate on macro-issues such as green energy policy or scientific clean-tech breakthroughs.
Similarly, students would be remiss not to consider the full implications of joining Harvard-sponsored green organizations on campus.  Student employees of the Food Literacy Project, for example, may find it difficult or awkward to speak out in favor of cage-free eggs in the dining halls because of their position on the University payroll.  Performing due diligence on an organization before joining, in order to better understand its motivations and potential limitations, is a practice that will serve students well beyond their time in Cambridge.
Ultimately, we always appreciate it when students take action to make themselves heard, as it demonstrates that our free-speech and democratic liberties are not being taken for granted. It signifies that Harvard students are not afraid of expressing themselves and their ideals, and this is certainly true on the subject of the environment.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A disturbing conference is taking place this weekend, the Conference on the Constitutional Convention. Harvard Law School and the liberal group Fix Congress First are joining forces with the Tea Party Patriots to weigh the merits of a constitutional convention, because “democracy in America is stalled.”
Under the rubric of dialogue and debate between the “Left” and Right about amending the U.S. constitution, this conference will further legitimate the reactionary Tea Party movement.
The U.S. is waging unjust imperial wars. The ecosystems of the planet are endangered. The know-how and technology exist to produce enough food for everyone on the planet; meanwhile some one billion go hungry. Capitalism is a horror and a failure.
I put this challenge to progressive people seeking change and attending this conference. Rather than reaching out to the proto-fascists and Tea Party-ers with their anti-immigrant, Islamophobic, and racist-encoded “states rights” agenda, rather than looking to repair a system that has only meant misery and more misery for humanity—why not reach forward to a viable and emancipatory alternative? This is what the Constitution of the New Socialist Republic in North America (Draft Proposal) From the Revolutionary Communist Party, U.S. is about.
The call for this weekend’s conference speaks of “inertia” in Congress and forces that are “blocking change.” In fact, the system is working quite effectively in funding America’s imperial wars and sanctioning rendition, torture, and domestic spying. There has been no “inertia” when it comes to enforcing a legal-penal system that has put one of nine young black men in prison—based on a racist “war on drugs,” unconstitutional “stop and frisk” laws, and unequal sentencing.
The call for the weekend conference states that “special interests” have “captured government.” This is profoundly wrong.
The U.S. government is a key part of a repressive capitalist state power. It has functioned consistently to serve the expansion and consolidation of a national market and to protect a property rights system based on the control of the means of producing wealth by a small capitalist class that exploits wage laborers.
This state power has functioned consistently to serve the rise and extension of a global empire that rests on exploitation, plunder, and war: from the theft of land from Mexico to the annexation of Puerto Rico and the occupation of the Philippines to Vietnam to Iraq and Afghanistan.
These are not “special interests” at work, but a system of capitalism-imperialism. Part of the “genius” of the U.S. Constitution is that it is a charter that appears to treat everyone the same while concealing and reinforcing the profound inequalities, disparities, and class divisions at the heart of the capitalist economic, social and political system.
I challenge any speaker at this conference to debate the following proposition: A constitution that protects the right of any corporation to exploit and lay off workers, while denying the basic right to eat, is economically, socially, and morally bankrupt.
A world of misery is coming apart. Will people remain locked within a framework of exploitation – or join in fighting for and working towards something truly liberating and viable? Because a radically different and better world is now possible, owing to the new synthesis of communism developed over decades by Bob Avakian. The Constitution for the New Socialist Republic in North America is based on this new synthesis and is a concrete plan for a different kind of state power that makes common cause with—not wars against—the oppressed of the world. It would be an economy and society based on what humanity needs and geared to protecting the ecosystems of the planet. This would be a government that mobilizes people to uproot the legacies of the oppression of minority nationalities and women.
Our new society would be a society working to overcome the great division between those who work in the realm of ideas and those who mainly work with their hands and are excluded from enjoying the life of the mind: a society of unprecedented intellectual ferment and critical thinking, with a vibrant culture.
This society would be supported by a system of governance that empowers the great majority to take responsibility for the direction of society, that promotes an ethos of cooperation, that protects and expands the rights of the people in a whole other way than the exploiters’ Bill of Rights, and where dissent flourishes.
This is a vision and plan not only for a better society, but also for one in motion towards a world without oppression and exploitation, toward a future where people could finally live as human beings.
Here we are: two different constitutions, two different worlds, two different futures.
Raymond Lotta is a political economist and writes for Revolution newspaper.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Presidential hopeful Michele Bachmann drew ire last week when she stated that the human papillomavirus vaccine “could potentially be a very dangerous drug” with serious side effects. Responding to a question on The Today Show about her criticism of Texas governor Rick Perry, who issued an executive order mandating the HPV vaccination for preteen girls in his state, Bachmann cited an incident in which a Tampa woman apparently confided that her daughter had suffered mental retardation after getting the HPV vaccine.
The American Association of Pediatrics quickly refuted Bachmann’s implication, stating that there was “absolutely no scientific validity” to her claim, and Bachmann herself admitted in a Fox News interview that she had “no idea” if there was a causal link between the HPV vaccine and mental retardation. Nonetheless, the inflammatory comments prompted public health figures to speculate that already-dismal HPV vaccination rates in the U.S. may decrease further due to the negative publicity, with one expert estimating that the vaccination rate will decline for the next three years due to this single incident.
Political fear mongering about important health issues is never warranted, but the potential effect of Bachmann’s statements reflects a greater complication in the public health sector. An alarming proportion of the American public is misinformed about its health care choices, and consequently, bases important decisions on emotional factors derived from cultural tensions agitated by barely-evinced statements like Bachmann’s—and this is the real danger.
The New York Times reports that in the U.S., 44 percent of women in the 20-24 age group have been infected with HPV. It is the most common sexually transmitted infection, yet somehow, it has largely escaped public awareness. If parents are reluctant to give consent for their daughters to receive the HPV vaccine, they are likely unaware that half of sexually active men and women contract HPV at some point in their lives. Some parents point to the relatively low rate of cervical cancer in the U.S. as an indication that the vaccine is unnecessary, but they may not realize that the HPV infection is linked to other sexually transmitted infections and other types of cancer. Others are outraged that STIs should be a concern for pre-adolescent children, but the ideal vaccination age of 11 or 12 makes sense because the drug works most effectively if administered well before a patient becomes sexually active. Because of extensive media coverage, most parents do know that the HPV vaccine was once linked to autism. However, this link was proven false by a recent report by the health arm of the National Academy of Sciences, the Institute of Medicine. Finally, because the vaccine only safeguards against one of the myriad potential consequences of high-risk behavior, there is no rational basis that vaccinating young people against HPV permits or encourages promiscuity.
Why is the general public ill-informed about HPV? In short, because politicians, journalists, and even parents choose to focus on more interesting aspects of the HPV vaccine rather than the more mundane truth about what it can offer. A sensational controversy about the sexualization of young girls, an archaic resistance to the idea of vaccinations in general, and a (now–broken) link to the pressing medical issue of autism all compete for our attention against the facts of the matter. This conscious choice to get caught up in controversy is aided by an exaggerated cultural aversion on the part of pediatricians and parents to approach a topic mildly related to children’s future sexuality. This results in a climate in which parents are hypersensitive about the HPV vaccine and doctors are apprehensive about discussing it in depth. Controversies, like Bachmann’s recent unfounded link between mental retardation and the vaccine, overshadow the presence of credible sources of factual information about the real dangers of HPV.
In order for parents to make informed decisions, however, they must set aside emotional obstacles that are motivated by controversies that resonate with cultural and religious factors. Instead they ought to listen to medical experts to truly understand what’s at stake. At the same time, health experts must overcome their discomfort with parents’ emotional concerns and strive to convey the necessary facts in a sensitive manner. Should HPV awareness and vaccination rates increase, the HPV vaccine could serve as a model for public health movements. For patients, it could set the tone of a decision-making process that is largely informed by medical expertise and the bigger picture of public health, not driven by politics, culture or religion. It’s time we distinguish between our emotional comfort and our physical health.
Tarina Quraishi ’14, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
A FRESHMAN’S FIRST OFFICE HOUR EXPERIENCE
Freshman: (Greeting!!)
Professor: (Greeting.)
Freshman: (Compliment on office décor.)
Professor: (...)
Freshman: (Question about grading.)
Professor: (In syllabus.)
Freshman: (Question about sectioning.)
Professor: (In syllabus.)
Awkward silence.
Professor: (First response paper?)
Freshman hands professor rough draft.
Freshman: (Modest comments.)
Professor: (Modest paper.)
Awkward silence.
Professor: (Inquiry about class themes overall.)
Freshman: (Vague, general response.)
Professor: (Question about first lecture.)
Freshman: (... Shopping period.)
Professor: (Question about latest lecture.)
Freshman: (... Add/drop period.)
Awkward silence.
Freshman: (... Weather?)
Professor: (Time.)
Freshman: (Thanks!)
Professor: (Goodbye.)
FIRST FRESHMAN FAIL
Freshman Boy: (Attempt at smooth greeting.)
Upperclassman Girl: (Nonchalant greeting.)
Freshman Boy: (Year?! House?! Hometown?! Name?!)
Upperclassman Girl: (… Year?)
Freshman Boy: (Junior.)
Upperclassman Girl: (Weld ’15 t-shirt?)
Freshman Boy: (... Laundry day.)
Upperclassman girl walks away. Freshman boy turns to nearby girl.
Freshman Boy: (Year?! House?! Hometown?! Name?!)
FIRST FRESHMAN HOOKUP
Upperclassman Boy: (Head nod.)
Freshman Girl: (Walks over.)
Upperclassman Boy: (Freshman?)
Freshman Girl: (Freshman. Year?)
Upperclassman Boy: (Senior. Drink?)
Freshman Girl: (Drink! Name?)
Upperclassman Boy: (Name. Vodka?)
Freshman Girl: (Vodka! House?)
Upperclassman boy leaves and returns with vodka.
Freshman Girl: (Thanks. Hometown?)
Upperclassman Boy: (Hometown. Dance?)
Freshman Girl: (Dance! Extracurriculars?)
Upperclassman Boy: (Go back to my room?)
Freshman Girl: (Go back to your room! Concentration?)
Sections
Existence means choices, and choices are stressful. Classes, hairstyles, lunch. What a relief it would be to surrender responsibility to the universe, to know what I’ll do before I have to choose.
Last Saturday morning, I wasn’t up to making any decisions. I was tired and hungry—I had a ton of work piling up; my roommate had eaten my last granola bar—and the burden of choice was too heavy to bear.
So I went to Medford. My aim: Mrs. Hope, a professional tarot-reader and the key to my future. A diminutive, dark-haired woman, she met me at the door and led me to her parlor. She laid out the cards.
“You have a strong background and will help others,” she told me. Yet, she added, I had recently been experiencing indecision, sleeplessness, and “financial worries.”
“Do you have any questions?” she asked.
“Actually, yes. This may seem a little silly,” I began, “But—could you predict my immediate future? Like, today?”
“It’s not as if I can tell you you’re going to Dunkin’ Donuts,” she said, grasping my palms in her soft hands. But she told me what she could tell me: I would argue with another woman, I would be busy, and I would be stressed.
After I paid Mrs. Hope, she assured me of future success and showed me out.
On the walk to the T stop, I passed a Dunkin’ Donuts. Rifling through my wallet, I remembered what Mrs. Hope had said. The thirty dollars I paid for the reading were, it turned out, money well spent: her assessment of my finances was spot-on.
It was 11 a.m. on Saturday morning, a mere two hours into my day, and the metaphysical was already threatening to overwhelm me. I wanted a pastry; this granola bar thing—as Mrs. Hope predicted—was going to escalate into a full-on roommate battle. I was tempted for a moment in front of the Dunkin’ Donuts, but a pang from my empty wallet told me it just wasn’t in the cards.
Sections
Unless you read the yellow caution signs on the walls, the high-ceilinged chamber would appear to house a couple of drab concrete-walled rooms surrounded by a disorganized jumble of machinery, file cabinets, and multicolored plastic bins. But buried deep inside this apparent mess is a one and a half foot by two foot aluminum container that generates nearly six million watts of energy per second.
MIT’s Nuclear Reactor Laboratory, which has been in operation since 1958, runs a reactor that produces energy through the fission of highly-enriched uranium. It is one of the few university-run nuclear reactors in the United States, and is the hub of the Cambridge area’s experimental nuclear research. The laboratory’s powder blue containment dome—strong enough to withstand the head-on impact of a Boeing 747—is nestled between MIT’s academic buildings, a mere five minute walk from the Charles River. (The reactor is accessible via appointment, although the superintendent and associate directors declined to comment for this article.)
Back at Harvard, there’s no reactor. The University’s experimental nuclear research is located at the Medical School, where two-inch-long mice receive injections of radio-pharmaceuticals intended to reveal the presence of millimeter-wide tumors. At Harvard proper, the locus of nuclear operations is housed in offices in the depths of the Kennedy School devoted to managing the immense power present behind the closed doors of reactors like the one down Mass. Ave.
“We’re working with telephones and pieces of paper,” says Matthew Bunn, associate professor of public policy at the Kennedy School.
The papers are the last component of the Harvard-MIT nuclear triangle—another corner across the river at the Med school, another at the silent but potent reactor itself. This is the way Cambridge’s nuclear world exists: hidden in plain sight, quiet and unassuming.
MANAGING THE ATOM
Ninety-two protons, 92 electrons, and 143 neutrons. These particles are the components of uranium-235, an element that revolutionized science and transformed modern warfare. In the late 1930s and 40s, the United States invested billions in the Manhattan Project, a nuclear development program dedicated to researching highly-enriched uranium and developing the first atomic bomb.
Paul M. Doty, one of the last surviving participants in the Project, has remained involved in the field of nuclear research, turning his focus towards preventing nuclear war. The legacy of the Manhattan Project is a complicated one, its name forever tied to the destruction caused by Little Boy and Fat Man, the bombs that were detonated over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In the aftermath of such destruction, in the midst of the Cold War, Doty founded what is now the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Harvard Kennedy School, in 1973.
“He wanted to create a center that was to train the next generation of people trying to reduce nuclear dangers,” says Matthew Bunn, associate professor of public policy at the Kennedy School.
The Belfer Center did just that, carrying on the tradition of nuclear cooperation and caution first called for by Albert Einstein and his associates in a manifesto published in 1955. The manifesto led to the first of the Pugwash Conferences on such issues, which continue to this day. Doty is the last living member of the founding Pugwash Conference.
Although the Belfer Center was established primarily to address nuclear threats, its focus has broadened over the years to include topics such as economics, climate change, and international relations. The division currently dedicated to nuclear policy research is titled “Managing the Atom” and focuses on nuclear energy as well as on nuclear terrorism and proliferation—concerns that have become more serious in the two decades since the Soviet Union collapsed.
“With the demise of the Soviet Union and the consequence—increased spread of nuclear weapons—nuclear proliferation became a more salient issue,” says William H. Tobey, a senior fellow at the Center whose primary task is to lead a U.S.-Russia initiative to reduce nuclear terrorism. He also teaches a course on nuclear arms control, “Controlling Weapons Proliferation,” which is one of very few classes on nuclear policy offered at Harvard.
The Soviet Union had tens of thousands of nuclear weapons, as well as a tremendous supply of highly-enriched uranium, according to Bunn, and in the 1990s there were a number of thefts of highly-enriched uranium and plutonium: bomb-making material. Additionally, the attacks on the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001 raised global concern about terrorism, specifically nuclear attacks, and led to more aggressive international action in the Middle East to prevent proliferation.
“I think the greatest danger is that someone will become a weapons state. Another weapons state,” says Richard C. Lanza, a senior research scientist at MIT’s Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering.
In that vein, President Obama has taken a very proactive stance towards the spread of nuclear weapons. “Obama, during the campaign, said that we really ought to secure all nuclear material around the world within four years, and that was actually the goal that I had first proposed in these ‘Securing the Bomb’ reports,”  Bunn says. “Securing the Bomb” is a series of annual reports written by Bunn that discusses nuclear threats.
The proposal to locate and protect all vulnerable nuclear material was made official policy at the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington in April 2010. This agreement is one of the latest in a long string of nuclear treaties.
However, as Lanza points out, “One of our problems is treaties tend to be very, very explicit in technology choices.” As the technology used for weapons manufacture advances, treaties begin to become outdated.
“There’s a lot of technology out there to worry about,” Lanza says. He sighs. “To some extent, one could argue that once you get into the nuclear power industry, at least if you’re getting into the enrichment industry, then you can enrich further and make weapons.”
ENERGY FOR THE WORLD
The forking paths of nuclear products are inherent even on the atomic scale. Uranium-235, rare in the natural world but essential to the manufacturing of nuclear weapons, is only used in small percentages for the harnessing of usable nuclear power. But uranium-238, its more naturally-occurring isotope, is the main component of low-enriched uranium, which is being looked to as a possible solution to the world’s energy crisis. Researchers across Harvard’s departments as well as at MIT’s Center for Advanced Nuclear Energy Systems (CANES) and Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering are trying to tackle the questions being raised about the future of nuclear energy.
With carbon emissions rising rapidly, developing energy sources other than coal and gas is becoming increasingly critical. “If you look at what’s likely to be needed, we probably need to reduce carbon emissions by 2050 compared to what they would be on a business-as-usual trajectory by something like 10-15 billion tons a year,” Bunn says.
At present, achieving this goal is nearly unthinkable. In practical terms, cutting just one billion tons in carbon emissions would require the construction of two million large windmills, or 700 large nuclear power plants on top of the number that are built every year on average. This would mean going from adding four reactors a year worldwide to adding 25 reactors a year until 2050. “There’s no possibility that we’ll do that in the next few years,” Bunn says.
This is due to a combination of factors, including the exorbitant price of nuclear power, the public perception of nuclear energy as decidedly dangerous, and the safety and security risks that are associated with nuclear power plants.
From an economic standpoint, developing nuclear energy is simply too expensive.  “Until there is a substantial price on carbon or much higher natural gas prices than there are today, or both, more likely, we’re not going to see private companies deciding to build a lot of nuclear power plants in the United States,” Bunn explains.
However, as Mujid Kazimi, Director of CANES, points out, remaining dependent on non-renewables such as coal or gas is not economically responsible either.
“If we were to turn completely from coal to actual gas, which is abundant at the moment, and relatively cheap, we could be setting ourselves up for a future where there could be quite a bit of economic consequences,” Kazimi says.
Price aside, increased investment in nuclear energy would have to come hand-in-hand with a positive change in the public’s perception of nuclear energy as well as the development of stronger security precautions. Especially in the wake of the explosion at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in Japan, nuclear energy can appear to be one of the most dangerous energy options available to us.
For nuclear power to become a viable option, “You’re going to have to have stronger measures for nuclear safety, stronger measures for nuclear security to protect against sabotage as well as the theft of nuclear material that could actually be used to make a nuclear bomb,” Bunn says.
Such stronger measures would include going beyond the safety inspections currently performed at nuclear reactor sites, as well as increased planning for how to handle potentially destructive natural disasters. “There is actually now quite a bit of confidence that we are able to handle almost all routine things in a safe manner,” Kazimi says. “The question always is whether the natural events are going to exceed the design values for these plants.”
TWENTY-FOUR MILLENNIA AHEAD
An equally important safety concern, however, and one that is often left unmentioned, is how to handle nuclear waste. There are 104 nuclear reactors currently operating in the United States, according to Kazimi, and these reactors produce 20 percent of the country’s electricity. As Peter L. Galison, a professor of physics and history of science at Harvard, explains, “The two alternatives for nuclear waste from commercial nuclear plants is either to bury them in some way in a geological repository, or to put them in what are called dry casks after they have cooled down somewhat.”
In 2002, Congress approved Yucca Mountain, located in Nevada, as a geological repository for spent nuclear rods. However, the Obama administration canceled the project in 2009, a result of both technical and political pressures, Galison says. At the moment, there is no alternative plan for storage of radioactive material produced by commercial nuclear power plants.
There is one operating repository in the United States, the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in Carlsbad, New Mexico, but this is only authorized to accept defense waste produced in the making of nuclear weapons.
“It’s irresponsible to continue to generate large amounts of nuclear waste when we have no national policy—nothing. We have no place to put it,” Galison says.
Perhaps more existentially troubling is the long-term consequences of nuclear waste storage. “Since the half-life of plutonium is 24,000 years, and you need many half-lives for it to become safe, how do you warn the future about the existence of repositories?” Galison asks. “How do you keep future generations from digging there looking for oil or gas?”
THE BODY NUCLEAR
In 1920, nearly 10 years before the discovery of penicillin, the first nuclear medicine imaging was used to treat a person for cervical cancer, in Huntington Memorial Hospital in Boston, located where the Harvard School of Public Health now stands. Thus, radioactive isotopes—as opposed to the ones of uranium and plutonium buried in salt flats for 24,000 years—were found to have a place in medicinal science.
The field of nuclear medicine began taking off in the early 1960s, when it was discovered that iodine could be used to image the thyroid.
In today’s nuclear medicine research, short-lived radioactive elements are created using either research nuclear reactors or particle accelerators called medical-cyclotrons. These isotopes are then incorporated into various drugs or molecules to form radio-pharmaceuticals, which are then injected into the body for imaging or therapeutic purposes.
At the Harvard Medical School, individuals in the Joint Program for Nuclear Medicine (JPNM) are developing imaging agents to be used in PET and SPECT scans. PET, positron emission tomography, and SPECT, single-photon emission computed tomography, detect gamma rays emitted by injected radio-pharmaceuticals and record their location.
Ashfaq Mahmood, Associate Director of JPNM Radiopharmacy, has been developing imaging agents that reveal cancerous tumors in mice. In one set of SPECT images taken of a mouse’s lungs, tumors less than a millimeter in diameter appear in glowing vermillion.
There are perhaps only a dozen agents in nuclear medicine, says Amin I. Kassis, Director of the Radiobiology and Experimental Radionuclide Therapy Section of the Laboratory for Experimental Nuclear Medicine at Harvard. “It’s not for lack of trying, but it’s a complicated field.”
Kassis and his co-workers have been developing a thymidine analog that kills cancer cells. While the agent has not undergone significant clinical testing, it was used on a patient in France who had failed all therapies and was projected to die in three weeks. The thymidine analog prolonged her life eight months.
While the term ‘nuclear’ often arouses fears of damage caused by radioactivity, the doses used for imaging are so low that they are not thought to cause significant harm. “They don’t increase the possibility of developing cancer at a later time,” Kassis says. In fact, individuals can be exposed to higher doses of radiation during a dental or chest x-ray, or if they frequently fly in an airplane at high altitudes.
Therapeutic agents, which are meant to treat disease, are given in higher doses and remain in the body for a longer time period. This does slightly increase the patient’s risk for developing cancer, “But you do it because you’re trying to save a patient’s life,” Kassis says.
However, the negative connotations of the word ‘nuclear,’ which is usually associated with weapons or power generation, are still a serious hurdle for nuclear medicine. There is currently a push to change the name of the field from nuclear imaging to molecular imaging, Mahmood explains.
“It gets rid of the word nuclear,” says Robert Zimmerman, Director of Physics and Engineering Services in the JPNM. “It has bad connotations.”
Indeed, in 1963, Harvard professor and surgeon Francis D. Moore graced the cover of Time Magazine for his pioneering work using radioactive isotopes to map the composition of the human body. The hopeful tagline read, “If they can operate, you’re lucky.” But the Time cover most people remember remains the July 1, 1946 edition, featuring Einstein’s creased face with a brilliantly colored mushroom cloud in the background. That tagline said, “All matter is speed and flame”: together, revealing both sides of the nuclear coin.
Sections
Fall at Harvard—it’s magnificent. The days get shorter, the sunlight grows pale, and the wind begins to howl at the leaves. But above all, it’s punch season: that bittersweet, autumnal phase where strapping young lads trade their childish innocence for the duties and graces of life as a Gent.
Punch isn’t easy, especially if you aren’t familiar with the rules of the game. So for the sake of democracy, here are FM’s five big tips for a successful punch.
1. They say that punch should be friendly. This is a heinous rouse devised to distract you from the game at hand. You will go far if you know your enemy: find out exactly who the competitors are—and dig dirt on them. For your average punch, this is simple enough: ask around in the dining hall who else got punched for your club, or make an announcement in large lecture classes. But the real power of this tactic comes into play for minorities. Look around for the other Hispanics/homosexuals/PBHA coordinators and block their every move. You know there’s only space for one of you.
2. Final clubs love interesting gentlemen, so try to stand out at your punch event. Tell them about your collection of Star Trek replicas, your knowledge of Elvish, your foot fetish. You should dress the part, as well: against a sea of beige semi-formal, you’ll be a breath of fresh air with your red flannel shirt, your assless chaps, and your unicycle. In a promising young lad, there’s no substitute for complexity.
3. Wear a well-tailored air of enthusiasm. The line between playing hard to get and being plain rude is a difficult one to tread—so forgo it altogether. Should the resources be available, learn some background information about all the families and ex-lovers of current members; it will be very impressive when you bring these up, unsolicited. Stencil the logo of the club onto every item of clothing where it fits, and consider taking your love to your flesh by investing in a tattoo or a branding.
4. Enthusiasm is one thing, but sycophancy is another—and flattery has never looked flattering on a gentleman. You could talk all day about the club you’re punching, but why not spend some time discussing the clubs of which you are already part? Punch events provide the best environment for recruiting other Gents to your cause. “Are you a member here?” is an acceptable icebreaker, to be sure, but much more memorable lines can be imported from your work at the activities fair—“Are you interested in playing chess here at Harvard?”—or even from those acquaintances in Harvard Square: “Do you want to know what the government hides from you?”;  “Sir, do you have a moment to talk about sin and redemption?”
5. A few slices of freshly cut fruit will make your punch tastier and more exotic. This is not a metaphor.
Sections
The word “sabbatical,” literally “a ceasing,” comes from the Bible, which commands that farmers let their harvest lie fallow every seventh year.  It also relates to the Sabbath: “And on the seventh day, God rested.”
Rest though they may not, sabbaticals offer tenured Harvard professors the chance to escape the Yard, immerse themselves in their academic passions, and take a leave they may not have known they needed.
MULES BEYOND MOUNTAINS
Brian D. Farrell, Professor of Biology and Curator in Entomology at the Harvard Museum of Comparative Zoology (the MCZ), is spending this year at the oldest university in the Western Hemisphere—and that’s not Harvard.
The Universidad Autonoma de Santo Domingo, located in the Dominican Republic, predates Harvard by more than 100 years.
Farrell is part of a Harvard effort aimed at institution-building in Santo Domingo. With support from the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies, the National Science Foundation, and a Fulbright grant, he is building a laboratory there comparable to the labs at Harvard’s own museum of Comparative Zoology, and training local students in museum management techniques.
But Farrell’s sabbatical has been more than a lesson in lab construction—it’s been an adventure.
“In the field, I go to the mountains,” explains Farrell. “There are some places we need to take mules in because there are no roads. We go in for two or three nights, collect insects, and then bring them out for study.”
In the process, he even discovered a species of butterfly thought to live exclusively in the Eastern Hemisphere.
In the museum archives, Farrell discovered the journal of Philip J. Darlington, one of his predecessors at the MCZ, who came to the island in 1938 to study the island’s beetles.
While staying at the cottage of his wife’s cousins in the mountains, Farrell was struck by the parallel paths he and Darlington had traveled. When he showed the photo of Darlington’s expedition to his wife’s cousin, she went “crazy”: the guide, she said, was her grandfather.
LIMA IN THE LIMELIGHT
Family ties go a long way. Sometimes they carry professors around the globe. Professor Steven R. Levitsky’s wife is Peruvian, and he cited family goals as a central motivation for the year he spent in Lima.
Levitsky, a government professor, spent the past year lecturing in Spanish at the Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú and studying the collapse of Peruvian political parties in what he calls a “natural laboratory.”
“I’m a Latin Americanist—I’m supposedly an expert on Latin America,” says Levitsky. “But I had been in Cambridge for 10 years. I hadn’t spent an extended period of time in Latin America for 10 years. If I’m going to pretend to be an expert in Latin America, every once in awhile I need to be back on the ground, in the streets.”
As an academic in Latin America, Levitsky felt he occupied a more active role as public intellectual than he does in the States.
“Political scientist from Harvard hanging around? The media ate it up,” recalls Levitsky.
“I think once in my career I had been interviewed on television in the United States. In Peru, I was on television practically weekly. So that was new. It was fun. I’m not sure I would want to live that way permanently, but it was definitely a change in lifestyle.”
LIVING LOCAL
During sabbatical, some professors leave the continent; others never leave Cambridge.
Professor Mahadevan never wanted to uproot his family. But when he received a prestigious MacArthur “Genius Grant” for 2010-2011, he decided to leave campus ... and move two miles down-river to MIT.
“If you can’t go far away physically, the question is if you can go far away intellectually,” says Mahadevan. “One of the things that you are supposed to do on sabbatical is start anew. So my mandate [for the MacArthur grant] was to try to work on problems which I wanted to but was scared to because I’d probably fail.”
Mahadevan spent the year pondering the “big questions”—everything from trying to understand the role of uncertainty and control in climate change to investigating how humans understand the physical universe.
Professor Tom Conley’s sabbatical stomping grounds makes Mahadevan’s trip to MIT look exotic.
Conley, Kirkland House Master and professor in the Departments of Visual and Environmental Studies and Romance Languages and Literatures, is spending his sabbatical in his Master’s quarters while serving as a fellow at the Radcliffe Institute.
Conley received four offers for his sabbatical year, but decided to stay at Harvard, where the material, he says, is unparalleled.
His current project investigates the moment when cartography and literature become scientific objects, or the intersection of art and science.
ODD ENDS
When professors return to their teaching responsibilities, the projects that form the culmination of a year’s work generally don’t find themselves neatly packaged, gift-wrapped, bow on top.
With the help of a team of co-collaborators in Spain, Professor Luis M. Girón-Negrón is spending this year on the annotation and study of a 15th-century translation of the Hebrew Bible into Old Spanish.
Though he has devoted his sabbatical to the project, Girón-Negrón estimates that the detective work on the Biblia de Arragel, worth 50,000 euros and housed in Houghton Library, will keep him busy for a half-decade at least.
As Mahadevan puts it: “Whether this was useful or not I won’t know it for many years. I mean, that’s the way all sabbaticals are. You do it, you think you’ll do some things. Sometimes you wind up being sidetracked. But that’s part of the fun for me.”
For Professor Conley, sidetracked means a Bernese Mountain dog puppy named Bella.
For Farrell, who plays jazz drums, it means late nights out on the vibrant Santo Domingo music scene.
“All these unexpected discoveries and meetings of people—it’s kind of magical in a way,” he says.
Sections
We hear you before we see you, whistling along to a familiar tune that we’re pretty sure neither of us can place. We think it’s from that one Kia Hyundai commercial, circa 2006. But we’re not brazen enough to approach you, or to inquire about that “doo-da-doo da-doo da-doo” ditty on Yahoo Answers. Here are the five songs you can hum or whistle from start to end, but could never name.
Andrew Bird: “A Nervous Tic Motion of the Head to the Left”
If Bird’s mantank, deftly pursed lips, and charming melodies don’t lure you in, uncontrollable spasms will. He may be moving his head to the left, but he’s sure got something right.
Noah and the Whale: “5 Years Time”
Here’s to preventing the awkward realization that, five years down the road, you’ll have whistled the song for 10, but never known its name. We’ll give you the name, but if you forget the lyrics (“sun sun sun,” “fun fun fun”), you’re on your own.
Edward Sharpe & The Magnetic Zeros: “Home (RAC Remix)”
With lyrics like “Hot and heavy, pumpkin pie, chocolate cake and Jesus Christ,” this song has cross-demographic appeal.  Throw in a dose of nostalgia and a catchy chorus and you’ve got a road-ready recipe for happy-go-lucky whistling.
Paul Simon: “Me and Julio Down by the Schoolyard”
This classics vintage appeal is undeniable.  Whistling along while you walk to the (school) Yard is a chipper way to start any day.
Too Short: “Blow the Whistle”
Sure, it may not be the best for whistling while you work, but this hyphy sampling still deserves a spot on your playlist for expertly transforming cheery whistling into some real hardcore shit.
Sections
For those newly inducted into the 21+ club, knowing what drink to order at a crowded bar can be a pretty overwhelming situation. The taste, the strength, even the color of your drink all say something about you. And the last thing we want our drink to say is “n00b.” So what do you order and how? Let FM give you a lesson on ordering a drink.
Lagers
Lagers are made from the yeast taken from the top of the fermenting vessel. Don’t worry if that doesn’t mean anything to you—what you should remember is that lagers are lighter in color and taste. The amount of lagers out there is reflective of their popularity; lagers are the most popular beer in the world. If you need a suggestion, FM’s partial to Belgian beers so we’re going to have to recommend Stella Artois.
Ales
Ales are made from bottom-fermented yeast. They are darker and dryer than lagers. Pale ales, brown ales, amber ales, stouts and porters all fall under the ale umbrella—each has its own flavor profile. If you like the dryer flavor of beer, and you want to support a local brewery, Harpoon IPA is a godsend.
Craft Beers
Craft beers are usually made in small batches under the special care of brewmasters with a taste for flavor. Learn your craft beers and you’ll be instant best friends with the other beer aficionados at the bar. When it comes to craft beers, Sixpoints Beer is liquid gold. Unfortunately, it’s difficult to find since they only produce a few kegs, and only kegs, at a time.
Martinis
Martinis are normally made with gin but can be ordered with vodka. The big thing is knowing the brand you like. The amount of dry vermouth mixed in determines the type—dry martinis have the most vermouth, and bone dry have the least. After gin or vodka is added, the drink can be stirred or shaken.
The Bond recommendation: order a dry Ketel One martini, stirred and served straight-up with a twist.
Manhattans
The Manhattan is the martini for whisky drinkers. Whiskey replaces gin or vodka, and sweet vermouth is substituted for dry vermouth. Order it “dry” for dry vermouth, and “perfect” for both dry and sweet vermouth.
Margaritas
Where’s the tequila, you ask? In the margaritas, preferably on a Monday. Margaritas are made with tequila, orange liqueurs of varying quality, lime juice, and margarita mix. With variations like golden margaritas (made with gold tequila), or blue margaritas (made with Blue Curaçao), the options are endless.
Sections
Dear U.S. News and World,
We know you didn’t mean anything by it, but no one has childhood dreams of working hard in high school and graduating top of their class just to end up in New Jersey. Sharing the top spot in your rankings is a bit of a low blow, but it’s, like, fine, whatever, we don’t even care. Below are five tiebreakers anyway, as if we have anything to prove. And for the record, when we want your opinion, we’ll give it to you.
1. Campus Charm
Final clubs are WAY classier than eating clubs, as evidenced by the existence of the Delphic.
2. Decorative Shorts
At the end of the day, Nantucket Reds just don’t look the same in New Jersey.
3. Pickup Lines
(Or: Insensitive WWII References) No one’s ever heard of dropping the P-Bomb.
4. Sporting Prowess
We’ve definitely got that big fencing match in the bag, and we prefer gentlemen sports anyway.
5. Gender Equality
“No means yes, yes means anal!”—This one actually goes to Yale, coming in from behind.
Sections
Hey Professor of Political Economy Alberto F. Alesinaw:
Europe has been entrenched in a debt crisis since early 2010, and things recently took a turn for the worse. In your opinion, are the right things being done to correct the situation, and if not, what do you think should be done?
“No. I think the European leaders are being extremely confused and confusing about what to do .... They take steps in one direction and then step back and then step in another direction .... This confusion will result in even more worries in the Balkans, and it really shows that current European leaders are not adequate to deal with the crisis. I think what should have been done would have been, at the beginning, to ask the countries in trouble to engage in very special fiscal correction .... We should have dealt with Greece, which was the first country that was in trouble. Some of the Balkans could have retained the hope of a Greece bailout. Instead, we moved—surged in one direction and then in another, and then that has led to a jumble of confusion in the Balkans.”
Sections
The Music Man told us that we really ought to give Iowa a try. This summer, my family and I listened.
In August, we headed to the Iowa State Fair, an agricultural, recreational, and gastronomical extravaganza that draws about a million people to Des Moines each year.
We saw prizewinning giant boars (topping 1,000 pounds) and monstrous pumpkins (topping the boars). We watched a sheep auction, witnessed a llama costume contest and the state horseshoe tossing semifinals, and saw one-hour-old calves. I participated in a quilting bee and sat on a bale of hay with a strapping blond farm boy from Iowa State who taught me how to milk a cow.
Like the livestock we observed, we also spent much of the fair grazing. We ate corn dogs, pickle dogs (a slice of pastrami slathered in cream cheese and wrapped around a pickle), blooming onions (if you don’t know what this is, Google Images search it right now), a towering potato chip spiral made of a single unbroken potato, fried cheese curds, fried macaroni and cheese, and fried ice cream. We didn’t brave the notorious fried butter on a stick, but we did eat fried Oreos for breakfast one day, so I think we deserve full fair food cred (and high cholesterol).
Perhaps most exciting of all, we are now official Iowa State Fair ribbonists.
On a whim, my brother, sister, and I signed up for the fair’s grape stomping contest. Shocked when our team was actually drawn from a long list of would-be contenders, we realized right away that the other two teams actually knew what they were doing. The closest I’d ever come to stomping a grape was watching Lucy do it on TV when I was six.
Surreptitiously following our opponents’ example, my sister and I removed our shoes and stood beside our knee-high wooden barrel on the crude wooden stage. Our brother took a place below the stage, where a thin spout at the bottom of our barrel led into a waiting bucket. On the emcee’s order, we dumped 20,000 grapes into the barrel and jumped in.
Then we stomped. And stomped. And stomped. Three minutes feels like a very long time when you’re running in place in a wooden barrel, trying not to bang knees with your sister and cringing at each stem that jabs into the soles of your bare feet. Soon, I figured out that by stepping on the balls of my feet, I got more frequent satisfying splats of grapes bursting out of their skins and fewer stem stabs. Our barrel began to fill with flattened grape gel and a clear liquid, the juice we were supposed to evince from the fruit with our feet. While Emily and I jogged frantically in the barrel, our brother Ben filled the role that we learned was called “the mucker.” Using a plastic bendy straw, he diligently tried to clear the grape skins from the spout so that the juice could flow out into the bucket.
When the buzzer sounded to tell us that our stomping time was done, we entered the next stage: mucking. Someone in the audience watching this fascinating entertainment realized at this point that our team was clearly new to pedalian viniculture skills. He came up to the front and started yelling instructions at us on how to muck.
Under our new, self-appointed coach’s guidance, Emily and I hoisted the heavy barrel at a steep angle and attempted to press the grape solids against the back of the barrel with our hands so that they wouldn’t jam the spigot. Ben worked the straw. Little by little, the juice trickled out, but our progress was frustratingly slow. Repeatedly, my sister joked, “What the muck?”
At the end of the three-minute mucking period, we had eked out 11 centimeters of fresh-stomped liquid into our juice-catching bucket, a measly harvest that was clearly beaten by the other two teams. The winners had produced a full 18 centimeters of grape juice. Regardless, we proudly accepted our third-place ribbons, embossed in gold with “Iowa State Fair.”
If you’re curious, the juice that we’d made with our feet was promptly thrown away. Though the technique of stomping grapes to make wine has been around since the second century BCE, the practice was banned due to sanitary concerns by most Western countries decades ago.
Sticky and giggling and exhausted, we washed ourselves off with the waiting hoses. The next day, we left the fair, and the day after that, we left Iowa. My brother and I headed here to Cambridge, a land with food almost as unhealthy and an array of activities almost as dizzying but not nearly so many cows.
Here at Harvard, we spend most of our time working with our heads. We write, we solve, we speak, we think. But the exhilaration of briefly dabbling in an exercise that I’d never tried before served as a powerful reminder of the value of physical labor—of working with your feet.
The school year is starting to pick up now. Course selection is basically over, even for those of us who treat add/drop period as an extension of shopping week, and problem sets and papers are returning in full force. As we settle into the well-worn routine of working with our minds, I encourage you to put your feet to work sometimes as well.
I’ve always loved my shifts at the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter for that reason. After a week of poring over books and crafting sentences, it feels great to use my feet and hands, standing over a stove making dozens of grilled cheese sandwiches. So hike, bike, or run. Seek out a way to use your muscles as a volunteer for a charitable group or as a player for your House IM team. Choose an issue you care about, find an activism group, and take a stand.
Sometimes, you have to put your best foot forward—even if that means jumping into a vat of 20,000 grapes.
Sections
1. Fifteen Minutes: You lead a jazz band but you don’t conduct – what does leadership mean if it comes from the fourth trumpet?
Wynton Marsalis: In a jazz band, the drummer conducts. A leader must embody a spirit. The leader embodies the spirit, and the musicians choose to follow it. That’s how it goes ... but I rehearse the band, you know what I mean? That’s how I lead. There’s a hierarchy, a check down system built on mutual respect and understanding. My band has chosen to accept my leadership.
2. FM: In your lecture, you associated generations with specific musical and dance styles. Which genre of music will speak for my generation?
WM: There is the ignorance, the objectification of women. But there’s something other than that, too. I don’t know what it is. Every generation is defined by something. I have kids your age, we talk about cultural objectives and music. When we speak about it, they say they notice mass crossover. My son tells me that Lil’ Wayne is making a rock album; Rihanna is trying to appeal to the middle ground. They are all just trying to make big money.
3. FM: Do you dance? What are your favorite moves?
WM: I’m not a good dancer. I’m more of the “second-line” type. But I grew up with the dog, the freak, the worm. Remember the worm?
(WM orders Tabasco for his omelet)
FM: Good, you know how to eat an omelet.
WM: It’s a sign of civilization. Tabasco is a sure sign of civilization.
4. FM: How important is it for musicians to know the roots of jazz in America?
WM: It depends on what their aspirations are. It’s like knowing things about someone you are going to marry. If you are going to marry someone, you better know things about them. You better be serious about them. If you are serious about music, know its history.
5. FM: What are your favorite moments in music? Are they the most tender? The most intense? The most frenetic?
WM: If I can understand the music, I like all aspects of it. Music that’s about the repetition gets you with the repetition. Other music has waves, splashes. Every group has a different way of listening to music. When I attend South Asian concerts, I don’t understand the music. The audience will go, “oooh” about something, and I’ll be like, “huh?”
6. FM: How can people with a limited background in jazz best expose themselves to it?
WM: Just listen. Find a thing that you like. Start with a list of people who are great and listen for something you like. I have an idea about this. If an artist was born in 1940, listen to the music they made when they were 25 years old. Everyone has a sweet spot in their musical career .... If they were born in 1930, listen to their music when they are 30. If they were born in 1920, listen to the music from when they were 30. If they were born in 1910, listen to the music they made between 25 and 40. If they were born in 1900, technology hurts us, keeps us from hearing their early stuff, so listen to the music from when they were 45 to 55.
7. FM: What is your favorite musical genre outside of jazz?
WM: European classical. Because I understand that best. But I also like Afro-Cuban music, flamenco, Ghanaian traditional music. If it’s traditional, I like it. I like all forms of American music in traditional form—gospel, bluegrass, country. Tradition is good.
8. FM: What is your favorite song currently?
WM: I usually say Duke Ellington’s "Mood Indigo," just to say something. I don’t listen to music like that, though. I love all of Beethoven’s symphonies. In every one of them, he said something. Bach’s Brandenburg Concertos. There’s so much great music. Miles Davis 1950-69. John Coltrane 1957-66. Basie, Bobby Watson. Kansas City. Charlie Parker. Jo Jones.
9. FM: In your lecture, you said that dance makes people “feel the revolution.” Do you think you have felt or created revolutions through your music?
WM: There hasn’t been a cultural revolution since I’ve been an adult. Music isn’t revolutionary anymore—it’s just loud. It’s a statement on the times. Music became loud when I was a teenager. The musical environment was so loud, it was impossible to have a good time. Music and dance are just ways to meet women now.
10. FM: Where do you meet women?
WM: You can meet a woman anywhere. That’s like asking where you meet people. One of my deepest relationships was with a woman who interviewed me. Phew. She was a Japanese woman, she taught me a lot. This was 15 years ago? Maybe 20. She made me aware of a culture I didn’t know— the art of swords, martial arts. The arts are moving in any relationship. She wasn’t even a jazz fan, really.
FM: Is that important to you?
WM: No. But it is important for a lady to want to be cultured. That’s what I’m into.
11. FM: You family is very musical. Do you think music is usually a family business?
WM: Not necessarily. My father was a jazz musician struggling to make a living when I was growing up. My family life was not centered around music. My brother and I were gigging a lot by the time we could play, though, almost every night …. I grew up in New Orleans, where a lot of families play music, but by the time I got to New York, we weren’t together as a family. We never had a family band. My father was so serious about music, though he got little return economically. I get my talent from my mama’s side, I think. My mama’s great-uncle played with Duke Ellington’s band in the day.
12. FM: When you aren’t playing jazz, teaching jazz, promoting jazz around the world - how do you spend your free time?
WM: I don’t have free time. I have kids, I have work. I’m never free. But it doesn’t make a difference if you have people around you who love you. They see that I work all the time. If you know you have people looking out for you, you can work all the time. I work constantly.
13. FM: How do you listen to music for pleasure?
WM: I just sit down and listen to it. Sometimes I like to put a crazy groove on; it’s fun to feel rhythm in your body. Other times, something like [Giovanni Pierluigi da] Palestrina’s Pope Marcellus, Track 6. Mm, just mm. One day, tears started coming to me. Sometimes I can get in tune with what a person was feeling when the music was made. The 16th century is such a long time ago but it’s such a short time ago, too.
14. FM: You take jazz, “America’s music”, around the world. How does jazz represent America abroad?
WM: Jazz is sophisticated. It has a real deep soul. It is the music of people, freedom, improvisation. Swing makes it very accessible; it makes interfacing with other people easy. Jazz is about playing and leaving space for someone else. Jazz musicians are constantly trying to figure each other out. It’s this sort of dance, like a conversation. Everyone is timid in the beginning, when they don’t know the nature of a relationship. Only by avoiding rigidity, by going with it, can you influence anything. You have to always remember there is more than one influence for anything. In jazz, musicians create together, communicating the whole time. At the end there’s this release, it’s a great feeling. Hopefully the world sees that. Cooperation is a spiritual thing.
15. FM: You have dedicated your life to jazz as a business, an art, and a way of life. Can you pinpoint the record that inspired your life in jazz?
WM: John Coltrane, Giant Steps. The tune is Cousin Mary. (Starts singing Cousin Mary)
FM: I love Cousin Mary. I listened to it while I was getting ready this morning! (Editor pulls it up on iTunes.)
WM (sings along with the music): When I was in high school, I listened to it a lot. I haven’t heard it in so long, but I still know the whole thing. That’s how it goes with music, it sticks to you.
Sections
With the likelihood of a strike by Harvard security guards increasing, the student body is voicing mixed reactions: while some students say the strike would leave them feeling vulnerable, others say that it would not affect their daily life.
The threat of a strike comes after Securitas, the private contractor which employs security guards for the University, introduced a new health care proposal going into the last week of contract negotiations. Security guards were outraged at the new proposal and began circulating a petition expressing willingness to strike over the new health care provisions. Over 80 percent of security guards have signed the petition, which was formally presented to the bargaining committee on Monday.
The disagreement between the security guards’ union and their employer centers on a health care plan that the union says is more expensive for employees while providing fewer benefits.
Now, as contract negotiations enter their final phase, several students said they would feel more vulnerable without the reassuring presence of the security guards.
“I think that not having security staff on campus is a real concern,” said Karen A. Narefsky ’11, a member of the Student Labor Action Movement. “It would probably create lots of anxiety among members of the Harvard community, including the other workers.”
But despite the potential anxiety, Narefsky said she supports the guards in whatever course of action they choose.
“I hope for the sake of the guards that it gets resolved by the end of the week,” Narefsky said. “But I fully support them in the event of a strike, and SLAM supports them as well and asks the rest of the student community to support them as well.”
Other students said they would not feel greatly affected by the potential lack of security guards.
“I think that a lot of people would notice—probably most in the houses,” said Amanda B. Wyatt ’12. “But I’m not sure if I would feel less safe.”
A security guard who wished to remain anonymous to maintain his relationship with his employer said that many of the guards feel bad about leaving the students alone but are not willing to settle for what they see as an unfair contract.
“We love the students, we want what’s best for them,” the guard said. “But we have to make a hard strike, otherwise they’ll just try and walk all over us.”
For the security guards, submitting the petition to the committee represented a major stand but is by no means a guarantee that a strike will occur. Leaders in SEIU Local 615, the union which represents security guards on campus, are currently in negotiations with Securitas to try to work out a contract compromise.
“There is always a chance that we will get it done before the end of the week,” said Wayne M. Langley, director of higher education for Local 615. “There is always a chance we might come to an agreement.”
—Staff writer Mercer R. Cook can be reached at mcook@college.harvard.edu
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Over ten years ago, a rising interest in anime drove a science fiction retailer in the Garage to reinvent itself as Tokyo Kid, a Japanese merchandise store. But now with the rise of Internet-based sales and the weak yen-dollar exchange rate, Tokyo Kid is planning to close later this month.
The store—which specializes in Japanese anime products, including DVDs, manga, posters, and figurines—is facing competition from the Internet, where customers can often find the same videos and comics for free.
While DVDs are only one of many products in the store, owner Andrew Cocuaco said they were a major driver of sales.
“I used to be able to sell 20 copies of any DVD, but now I sell one, maybe two,” Cocuaco said.
Other retailers of anime and manga have struggled with the same problem. Tokyopop, one of the largest international distributors and publishers of manga, shut down its North American publishing division in May.
And the decreasing yen-dollar exchange rate has put additional pressure on American retailers of Japanese products to mark up their prices. In 2008, the exchange rate was over 100 yen to $1, but today it has decreased to about 77 yen to $1.
Cocuaco was hoping to close Tokyo Kid in July, but has been unable to negotiate an exit from his lease. He has now set September 25 as the store’s closing date, but may have to keep it open until the end of the year. Regardless, Cocuaco has decided to let his current stock sell out.
Kofuku, a Japanese gift shop at 30 JFK St., has faced the same difficulties, but is able to continue selling its products despite slightly higher costs.
“We still try to make the customers happy. We’re even trying to expand to another location,” said Kofuku Manager Henry Kawakubo.
Kawakubo said Kofuku is a more family-oriented store than Tokyo Kid, which sells mainly to teenagers and adults.
According to Cocuaco, the changing demographic of Japanese product sales has affected Tokyo Kid’s business. He said that most Tokyo Kid customers used to be middle-aged men, but the consumer base has become younger due to the teenage appeal of some Japanese manga and television shows.
Older customers would purchase more expensive products such as model kits, while teenagers tend to purchase cheaper items, Cocuaco added.
Tokyo Kid was originally opened under the name Man from Atlantis over 20 years ago. The store shifted from selling science fiction products to anime because of the popularity of anime at the time.
Cocuaco, who has been interested in Japanese anime since he was 6, purchased the store in 2000.
“I wanted to be a manga artist, but that would have been difficult being non-Japanese. I had to moderate,” Cocuaco said.
After working nearly seven days a week for the past 10 years, Cocuaco said that when the store closes, he is going to take a vacation and then move into a different industry.
“You can’t download food, at least not yet,” Cocuaco said.
—Staff writer Kerry M. Flynn can be reached at kflynn@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
There exists a correlation between an individual’s belief in God and his or her cognitive style, suggests a study by Harvard researchers published in the Journal of Experimental Psychology: General on Monday.
The researchers determined that those with an intuitive cognitive style tend to have a stronger belief in God than those with a more reflective cognitive style. As defined in the study, intuitive thinkers make judgments quickly, based on automatic processes and instinct. Reflective thinkers prefer to pause and critically examine initial judgments before making a decision.
The study was conducted by three Harvard Psychology Department researchers—doctoral student Amitai Shenhav, Human Biology Lecturer David G. Rand, and Social Sciences Associate Professor Joshua D. Greene.
“Our study shows that although there’s certainly a role for [cultural influence], that’s not the only thing going on,” Rand said.
The study found that intuitive thinkers not only tend to believe more strongly in the existence of God, but their faith also grows more certain over time. Alternatively, reflective thinkers become less certain of the existence of God over time.
To confirm their results, the researchers controlled for age, gender, and IQ and still found a positive correlation between cognitive style and belief in God.
Another part of the study demonstrated that cognitive style can be swayed in the short term, resulting in greater or lesser certainty about the existence of God. Researchers asked study participants to write about personal experiences in which they followed “their intuition or first instinct” or carefully reasoned through a situation.
“What we were most surprised by was the strength of the effect of just having someone write [a] paragraph result in a substantial shift in that person’s reported belief in God,” Rand said.
While the study provides insight into how people think about belief, the researchers were careful to point out that cognitive style is not an absolute indicator of people’s beliefs.
“Each person strikes their own balance when they apply intuitive or reflective style. The findings don’t mean anything about
religious beliefs being rational or irrational,” Shenhav said.
The study’s findings raise further questions about the relationship of cognitive style and politics, the researchers said.
“The way that the political landscape in the U.S. is structured, belief in God is very strongly tied to a sort of sweep of other political beliefs,” Rand said.
Harvard’s Humanist Chaplain Gregory M. Epstein said this research is highly relevant for the humanist community, and he has invited Rand to speak at one the group’s meetings later this fall.
“With the incredible expansion in recent years of the size of the secular community in the U.S., I think people are asking a lot of questions about who are the non-religious in America,” Epstein said. “This is sort of a nugget of insight as to what goes on in the mind of a non-believer.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A new set of regulations that will govern faculty members’ off-campus commitments will be introduced by the end of this academic year.
The Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ revised school-specific conflict-of-interest policies will align Harvard’s rules with federal laws. Many Harvard faculty members rely on both public and private funding sources for their research, which requires them to adhere to federal standards for disclosure of conflict of interest. FAS administrators hope the new, tighter policy will ensure that all faculty research projects pass federal scrutiny.
The FAS-specific policies come on the heels of a University-wide set of policies that were published in July 2010.
“The University, for the first time, has a University-wide policy on conflicts of interest,” said Government Professor Jeffry A. Frieden, the interim co-chair of the University’s Standing Committee on Individual Financial Conflicts of Interest. “We typically need to keep our policies consistent with the federal government, which has quite stringent rules on COI.”
Former Vice Provost for Research David Korn ’54 and former University Provost Steven E. Hyman headed the University-wide initiative with the goal of monitoring collaboration between Harvard faculty and private industry. Administrators expressed concern that in addition to faculty allocating less time for their classes, outside interests might influence professors’ objective academic work.
“Where it gets murky is when a professor is starting his or her own company,” said School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Dean Cherry A. Murray. “If the professor is a founder of the company, then a conflict of interest would arise when graduate students, or undergraduates for that matter, working in the professor’s lab really cannot be funded by that company.”
FAS—along with Harvard’s other schools—is currently developing a more specific set of rules to manage each of its disciplines.
“Someone who’s facing issues with psychological tests on human subjects might face very different restrictions than someone in, say, physics.” Frieden said.
“It’s not like a traffic light, which is red for everyone. Every case is specific,” Frieden added.
Beyond FAS, University President Drew G. Faust confirmed in an interview with The Crimson yesterday that all other schools within the University will publish their individual COI reports by the end of this academic year.
Last year, following an 18-month internal review, Harvard Medical School revamped its conflict of interest policy to prohibit faculty from accepting personal gifts and giving industry-sponsored talks at events where the material was prepared in advance by the company. The new policy also cut the limit on annual faculty compensation from outside companies to $10,000, half of the previous limit.
The policy change stemmed from a 2008 controversy in which U.S. Senator Charles E. Grassley (R-Iowa) accused Joseph Biederman, a Harvard-affiliated psychiatrist, of receiving $1.6 million in consulting and speaking fees from the makers of drugs he had used to treat children for bipolar disorder.
—Radhika Jain, Tara W. Merrigan, and Zoe A. Y. Weinberg contributed reporting to this story.
—Staff writer Gautam S. Kumar can be reached at gkumar@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Julia L. Ryan can be reached at jryan@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the acquisition of new social spaces by Kappa Kappa Gamma, Kappa Alpha Theta, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, five of Harvard’s six Greek organizations now have real estate near Harvard, further expanding the presence of fraternities and sororities on campus. Delta Gamma and Sigma Chi have remained in their previous locations.
The widespread acquisition of property by fraternities and sororities is the latest in the trend toward a growing Greek presence on campus. As the College has grappled with how to address what is seen as a marked lack of social space for students, fraternities and sororities have been quietly stepping up to fill the void by acquiring spaces of their own.
Previously, Harvard’s final clubs were the primary social organizations to own property. A semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine—The Harvard Lampoon—as well as The Crimson, The Advocate, The Signet, and The Hasty Pudding also have their own buildings, though these organizations have historically played a comparatively smaller role in Harvard’s social life.
During the past two years, Greek organizations have become increasingly popular as social groups on campus. Last spring, a record 268 women rushed Harvard’s three sororities, representing the largest rush class in Harvard history, according to sorority leaders. In 2008 The Crimson reported that the sorority rush class averaged about 150 people.
Fraternities also reported an increase in numbers—over 100 men attended Sigma Chi’s first rush event and about 72 signed into Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s first event, according to each fraternity’s leader. Both declined to provide rush numbers from past years.
Now, sororities and fraternities have acquired social spaces of their own in a diverse set of locations around the University.
Theta and DG occupy neighboring buildings on Arrow Street, previously used by the Pierre Menard Gallery and Lame Duck Books, respectively. DG signed a lease for its space in December of last year and officially moved in this past March, making it the first of the three sororities to acquire an official residence.
According to DG President Caroline T. Quazzo ’12, the location is less of a house than it is a social space. Sorority members neither live nor sleep there, but instead use it as a casual hang-out spot, hosting movie nights on weekends and study groups on weekdays. Quazzo said that larger gatherings, like chapter meetings and parties, are held at other locations around the Square.
Both Kappa and Theta acquired their houses over the past few months.
Theta’s building, currently under construction, is slated to open in the coming months. At the moment, the floor of the main room is littered with paint cans and construction tools and the majority of the interior is coated in a layer of dust.
Kappa also recently acquired a building, located on Church Street.
Quazzo said that having a house has brought the members of Delta Gamma closer together. Janet M. Yarboi ’12, the president of the Panhellenic Council, the coordinating body for campus sororities, said that having space also makes sororities more prominent organizations on campus.
“We’re not recognized by the University so we have to do whatever we can  to have the same presence on campus as some organizations,” said Yarboi, who is also a member of Kappa.
“It will show Harvard—at least the students—[that sororities] are growing,” Yarboi said of the increase in Greek property. “We’re here to stay.”
Two of Harvard’s three fraternities—Sigma Chi and SAE—also officially have their own social spaces.
According to Guanyi “Tony” Huang ’12, the consul of Sigma Chi, the fraternity has owned its house at 1124 Mass. Ave. for about 10 years.
SAE, which used to have an apartment on Harvard Street, now rents a house near the Quad at 25 Hudson Street.
—Staff writer Monika L. S. Robbins can be reached at mrobbins@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the Museum of Comparative Zoology staff prepares to move 80,000 mammal specimens—and a few live humans, too—into larger facilities in the Northwest Science Building, employees say they are going to miss the old-world character of their current building on Oxford St., which is over 120 years old.
“[There is a] historic, charismatic charm...desks in the corner, squeaky floors, Agassiz cabinets with glass doors,” reflected Hopi Hoekstra, Curator of Mammalogy. She added, however, that “while they’re very charming, they’re not bug-proof.”
When the move begins in January, the new walk-in freezers and carbon dioxide room in Northwest will help prevent pests from threatening the Museum’s dry specimens. Within the next year, 12 to 15 million of these specimens will move to Northwest, according to James Hanken, director of the MCZ.
Specimen protection is only one of the advantages of the move, which was approved in the spring of 2010.
Climate control—which was lacking in the old building—will also improve conservation efforts.
Totaling nearly 50,000 square feet of space in the Northwest basement, the new facilities also include classrooms and preparation labs.
Although MCZ will not vacate its old building entirely, Hanken said he looks forward to using space more efficiently. Northwest can accommodate high-capacity movable shelves, a feature that was impossible in the old building due to the limited weight bearing capacity of its floors.
The expansion should accommodate acquisition of new specimens for at least 10 years, according to Hoekstra.
“That’s what keeps the museum lively,” she said of adding to the collection, which has grown to more than 20 million specimens over the last 150 years.
Renovation is unfolding in two phases, and phase one is nearly complete.
“The rooms are there, the lights are on, the floors are polished, the water runs,” Hanken said. “The new space...may come across as sterile. It’s so spanking clean—right angles, everything works. Certainly not like this old building, which has stood the test of time.”
Relocation, however, will not begin until next year, following the delivery of new metal cabinets later this fall. These cabinets will eventually house MCZ’s entire collection of mammals—including hundreds of thousands of skeletons, thousands of stuffed skins, and furs, pelts, and hides. The mammals will be joined by mollusks, snail shells, birds, and fossils following the completion of phase two next summer.
The museum is currently reorganizing and cataloguing its collection to prepare for the move, said Hoekstra, but the process has forced MCZ to reduce the number of specimens it loans out to other museums.
How the Oxford St. space that MCZ empties will be utilized is currently undecided, Hanken said, but some space may be allocated to the Organismic and Evolutionary Biology department.
“[There is] a lot of competition for space in this part” of campus, he said.
MCZ’s public exhibitions, which are located in the Harvard Museum of Natural History, will be unaffected by the move.
—Staff writer Radhika Jain can be reached at radhikajain@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Amidst the recent string of controversies surrounding college football—including allegations of illegal payments to student athletes—Harvard football coach Tim Murphy said he would support contentious NCAA reforms that would offer additional need-based stipends to student-athletes at the majority of Division-I schools.
Proponents say the changes would help athletes—who often spend up to 30 hours a week between practices, workouts, and games—cover day-to-day expenses that normal students can defray by working jobs.
Despite mixed opinions from college coaches around the country, Murphy said he felt that a stipend was merited due to the rigors of the student-athlete lifestyle.
“Ten years ago, I would have been adamant that we should not pay major college athletes ... because we are paying them—through scholarship,” he said. “But ... I think you should consider an Ivy-League approach to any payment after room, board, or tuition, books, and fees.”
But Murphy said he doesn’t believe these reforms should extend to Harvard—or any other schools in the Ancient Eight.
“One of the great things about the Ivy League is that they don’t distinguish between the kid who plays women’s basketball or the kid who plays the cello or plays in the band, and they shouldn’t,” Murphy said. “Everyone’s in the same boat from that standpoint, and I think that’s the way you want to keep it.”
The Ivy League is distinct from the rest of Division I in other ways as well. The league does not offer athletic scholarships, unlike most other D-I conferences. In addition, the league is one of the few members of the Football Championship Subdivision that does not participate in playoffs, and is the only D-I league that does not host a conference tournament for men’s basketball.
In addition to serving as Harvard’s head coach, Murphy is also the first vice president of the American Football Coaches Association, and will serve a one-year term as its president in 2012. Though he called the position “ceremonial,” a number of important figures in American college football serve with him on the organization’s board, including head coaches at the University of Texas, University of Georgia, and Texas Christian University.
Former Ohio State coach Jim Tressel—who was allegedly complicit in NCAA rule violations by a number of his players—also sat on the board at the beginning of the year.
Murphy said he recognized the complexity of the current problems in college athletics and the difficulties that major reforms would entail.
“Whatever they decide ... at the scholarship level ... it’s not going to solve all of the problems they think they have,” he said. “It’s going to be imperfect.”
—Staff writer E. Benjamin Samuels can be reached at samuels@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Allston residents munched on Swiss Challah, Pretzel Baguettes, and fresh Swiss Cheese at Wednesday’s Allston Civic Association meeting, in stark contrast to the serious and often tense tones of previous meetings related to Harvard's expansion in that community.
Thomas and Helene Stohr, dressed in bright red uniforms, pitched Swiss Bakers—a 14,000-square-foot commercial bakery that will house its production site in Allston—to residents Wednesday evening. Afterwards, community members unanimously approved the bakery for use of a retail space that used to house a car dealership.
“I welcome them into the community. I think they have a good philosophy for building relationships, and I’m excited to see where they’ll go in the next ten years,” said Alana Olsen, executive director for Allston Village Main Streets, an urban revitalization non-profit.
Moving the bakery’s headquarters from Reading, Mass. to 168 Western Ave. is part of an effort by the University to bring new tenants to Western Ave. after many business leases expired and University properties were left vacant amid Harvard’s efforts to construct the Allston Science Complex. Harvard has said that it would work to transform Western Ave. into a thriving “main street” since construction on the Science Complex was indefinitely halted in Dec. 2009 due to financial constraints. But Allston residents have repeatedly said that they have been disappointed by that effort, fueling tension between the University and local residents.
Now, Allston residents say having to deal with a bakery is a pleasant relief.
“I think it’s a great idea, it’s a good family thing,” said local resident Lenny Kelliher. “It’s one of the best ideas [Harvard] has had in a long time.”
“You’ll definitely be seeing me there,” interjected resident Bob Gale, patting his rotund belly.
Residents said they were also pleased to have access to a space promoting community and authentic Swiss baked goods, which they said would help create a family-friendly environment.
“There’s no infringing on dead space, and they’re not looking to get a liquor license,” said Kelliher, referring to tensions over whether Stone Hearth Pizza Co., another tenant secured by the University, should be granted a liquor license.
But some kinks still need to be worked out before the bakery can call Allston home. Because the owners are in the process of receiving approval from the Boston Redevelopment Authority, no opening date has been set for the bakery. Additionally, store hours are yet to be determined, but the owners said the cafe will be open seven days a week, at least from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
“I always say negative things about Harvard,” said resident Harry Nesdekidis. “But I congratulate Harvard on this choice.”
—Staff writer Nathalie R. Miraval can be reached at nmiraval@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction.
CORRECTION: SEPT. 22, 2011
The Sept. 22 article "New Swiss Bakers Present to Allston" incorrectly identified the meeting where the presentation was held. It was an Allston Civic Association meeting, not an Allston Task Force meeting.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Black Men’s Forum issued an open letter yesterday in protest of the execution of Georgia death-row inmate Troy A. Davis, which was temporarily delayed by the Supreme Court Wednesday evening. Despite international controversy regarding the execution, Davis was executed at 11:08 p.m. last night.
Davis was arrested for the murder of Savannah Police Officer Mark MacPhail in 1989 and later sentenced to death for the crime in 1991.
The BMF letter—which was sent out to a number of major media organizations and the Georgia Board of Pardons and Paroles—enumerates the chronology of Davis’ many trials and suggests an alternative perpetrator, who has been cited by several witnesses, as the possible murderer.
BMF President Damilare K. Sonoiki ’13 said yesterday afternoon that the organization issued the letter because it believed that Davis deserved a stay of execution based on the doubt remaining in the case.
“We’re not saying that he’s innocent, but that there are enough doubts and inconsistencies surrounding the case to justify a stay of execution,” he said. “We believe it would be unjust to execute him if he is possibly innocent.”
In the past 15 years, seven of the nine non-police witnesses from the trial recanted or contradicted their testimony to some degree.
Davis had petitioned the Georgia judicial system several times over matters ranging from a habeas corpus appeal to the state’s use of the electric chair, but each of his petitions was denied.
In a last minute decision, the Supreme Court chose to delay the execution, but ultimately refused to block it.
According to the BMF’s letter, several of the witnesses who testified against Davis later claimed that they were pressured by the police into signing statements that implicated Davis.
Sonoiki said that within the coming weeks, the BMF is going to hold discussions about the execution and the country’s judicial system.
He also said that members of the black community are currently discussing recognizing the execution symbolically—possibly wearing all black or observing a moment of silence—but plans have not yet been finalized.
“We’re going to discuss at our next meeting the topic of justice in America in the context of this case,” he said.
The BMF became active in supporting Davis’ case for a stay of execution, Sonoiki said, because members of the group who have been following the case felt the need to voice their thoughts on the injustice.
“It’s not a matter of race or gender,” he said, “but of doing what’s just.”
—Staff Writer Matthew M. Beck can be reached at mbeck@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Massachusetts Republican party has urged the University to  withhold Harvard Law School professor Elizabeth Warren’s salary while  she runs in the upcoming election for the Massachusetts Senate seat  currently occupied by Scott Brown.
Warren, who announced her candidacy last week, has alternated between  teaching contract law at the Law School and campaigning around the  Boston area.
In the most recent polling data from Public Policy Polling, Warren, a  Democrat, was leading Brown, a Republican, by 46 to 44 percent.
In a letter to University President Drew G. Faust, Nate Little,  executive director of the Massachusetts GOP, expressed concern that  Warren’s Senate run would detract from her academic work at Harvard, and  that her ties to Harvard may suggest that the University endorses her.
“For Harvard to continue to employ her as a candidate is inconsistent  with the academic mission of the college; detracts from the work that  she would be expected to perform as a member of the faculty; and creates  the impression that Harvard endorses, supports and is in fact  subsidizing her campaign,” Little wrote.
University spokesperson John Longbrake pointed to the University’s policies regarding political activity.
Harvard’s policy states that “participation in political campaign  activities by senior officials at the University is appropriate so long  as those officials clearly indicate that their statements and actions  are given in their personal capacities and not on behalf of Harvard.”
The policy also notes that federal law prohibits Harvard from  participating or intervening in any political campaign on behalf of a  candidate for public office.
In his letter, Little argues that Harvard’s “payment of a salary to  Professor Warren causes reasonable-minded people to conclude that  Harvard is supportive of her candidacy.”
Warren will continue to teach her courses at the Law School and does  not believe that her candidacy will adversely affect her work as a  professor, according to her campaign.
“Elizabeth has always loved teaching, dating back to her days as an  elementary school teacher,” Kyle Sullivan, a spokesperson for the Warren  campaign, wrote in a statement.
“She takes her responsibilities to her students and the university  seriously and she will fulfill her commitments in line with all relevant  policies,” he wrote.
—Staff writer Tara W. Merrigan can be reached at tmerrigan@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Zoe A. Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Updated 12:35 a.m., Sept. 23, 2011:
Obituary: Afolabi Remembered as Diligent Educator with Contagious Smile
A student and former teaching fellow at the Harvard Graduate School of Education reported missing on Wednesday has been found dead in Providence, R.I. after suffering an apparent injury to his head.
Kolajo P. Afolabi, a fifth-year higher education doctoral student at the Ed School, had left his home in Providence for a routine morning run at around 9 a.m. on Wednesday, carrying only his iPod and house key.
The local fire department was called at around 9:45 a.m. after an unidentified man, later confirmed to be Afolabi, was found at the intersection of Washington and Greene Streets in Providence, The Providence Journal reported. The man reported having suffered a seizure and was brought to the Rhode Island Hospital at 9:54 a.m.
Meanwhile, Afolabi’s partner and cohabitant Bobby J. van Druff said that Afolabi did not respond to his phone calls throughout the day on Wednesday. Concerned, van Druff left early from work and went home to find that Afolabi’s wallet, keys, cellphone, and ID were still on the dresser, as he had left them before his run.
Annie K. Steele, a close friend of Afolabi and a graduate student at the University of Texas, said that she last spoke with Afolabi over Google Chat that Wednesday morning. Their conversation ended at about 8:45 a.m. when he headed out for his run. Afolabi usually did not take his ID or cellphone with him while running, she said.
Afolabi regularly ran three to four days a week, van Druff said, and just ran a 5-kilometer race in 18 minutes last weekend.
After filing a missing persons report with the local police on Wednesday night, van Druff, along with Steele, reached out to other police departments, media outlets, and social media channels.
On Thursday morning, Afolabi’s mother Kathleen drove with Afolabi’s brother from her home in Western Massachusetts to the Providence Police Department station to inquire about her missing son. The police personnel informed her that a man had been found on Wednesday, with no identification and a key in his shoe.
Kathleen was able to identify the body that had been brought in as her son.
Afolabi attended Brown as an undergraduate and was teaching two courses as an adjunct lecturer there. At Harvard, Afolabi had been a teaching fellow for a few Ed School courses while working toward his doctorate in education. Afolabi was researching the paths to college for students from disadvantaged backgrounds for his dissertation.
The Providence Police Department did not respond to The Crimson’s requests for comment on Thursday.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
 
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s endowment posted a 21.4 percent gain for fiscal year 2011, bringing the endowment’s value up to $32 billion, the University announced Thursday in the annual report of the Harvard Management Company.
The gains are about 1.2 percent above HMC’s policy portfolio benchmark—the goals that the company’s investment managers set for themselves—for the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2011. The increase from $27.4 billion at the close of the 2010 fiscal year is also nearly double the 11 percent rate of growth that HMC posted that year.
But the returns fell 1.3 percent short of the returns of the S&P 500 Index, a standard used by many in the private sector, though HMC President and CEO Jane L. Mendillo noted that the S&P 500 Index might not be the most appropriate metric to judge HMC’s performance.
“We don’t measure our portfolio return against the S&P—our goal is to add value over our benchmarks,” Mendillo said of outperforming the S&P 500 in an interview on Thursday. “Our priority is strong and stable long term returns rather than individual year performance.”
Mendillo said that HMC’s board develops a comprehensive set of benchmarks for each of the asset classes through rigorous analysis and research of market conditions.
The new value of the endowment brings the fund’s value closer to its pre-financial crisis levels, when it reached an all-time high of $36.9 billion. It also exceeds the growth benchmark of 8.25 percent that HMC seeks to maintain each year to provide funding for the University’s schools.
Since Mendillo joined the University as HMC president and CEO in 2008, she has focused on redesigning HMC’s investment strategy, increasing liquidity to facilitate immediate access to cash and reducing its exposure to volatile asset classes. This refocusing followed fiscal year 2009, when the endowment plummeted by 27.3 percent as a result of the downturn. Many of the endowment’s investments at the time were difficult to convert into cash and hampered HMC’s ability to snap up undervalued securities.
In her 2011 annual report, Mendillo noted that the increase in liquidity, or the ability to convert investments into cash, will allow HMC to take advantage of sub-market priced securities.
“We have gained flexibility through the restructuring of the portfolio in recent years which allows us to take some advantage of declining valuations under the right circumstances,” Mendillo wrote.
The 2011 report does not account for the market volatility that has occurred in the months after June 30. With increased exposure to foreign equities, HMC is likely to sustain a blow.
“We are not immune to those impacts,” Mendillo said of the stock market losses sparked by fears of an impending sovereign debt crisis in Europe.
But Mendillo says that despite market losses the endowment will continue to provide for the long-term needs of the University.
“Even with the extreme volatility that has gripped financial markets in the months since our fiscal year closed we are confident that our portfolio, while impacted by adverse markets, is well positioned to support Harvard’s mission,” the report said.
In particular, Mendillo said that HMC’s role is to support the University’s well-being in the long-term, even if that means some short-term losses.
Every asset class saw a positive nominal return in fiscal year 2011. HMC also outperformed its own benchmarks in three of five asset classes. Private and public equities underperformed their internal benchmarks but posted the portfolio’s highest yields.
According to Mendillo, HMC will begin to move a larger proportion of the total portfolio from external firms and place them under internal management, “given the benefits of our hybrid model, including the alignment of interests, cost efficiency, and greater transparency.” In particular, HMC’s fixed income and natural resources desks have performed exceptionally well.
As a part of developing its internal investment team, HMC is devoting its resources to investigating new opportunities abroad, especially in China.
“Not only is it an important market today—but as we look five to ten years down the road. Harvard has enough connections into China, and it’s a really good time for us to be developing our knowledge base,” Mendillo said.
During the financial crisis of 2008, Harvard’s endowment suffered heavy losses, plummeting by nearly 30 percent to $22.6 billion from $36.9 billion.
In fiscal year 2010, the endowment posted a gain of 11 percent. While HMC outperformed its benchmark of 9.4 percent, it fell short of the S&P 500 Index, which rose by 14.4 percent that same year. At the time, Mendillo said that the modest gains were due to the fact that Harvard had 20 percent less of its assets in equities—a strategy that Mendillo is still implementing to minimize year-to-year volatility.
Harvard’s endowment contributes annually to the revenues of each of the University’s schools. While HMC invests the money, the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body, determines the endowment payout rate—or the percent of the endowment that the schools will receive to pay for part of their operations.
“We are increasingly conscious of the importance of results, liquidity, and risk management, given the University’s high level of dependence on the endowment and the significant downturn in the markets since our fiscal-year close,” University Treasurer James F. Rothenberg ’68 said in a press release.
—Staff writer Gautam S. Kumar can be reached at gkumar@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Zoe A. Y. Weinberg can be reached at zoe.weinberg@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Mark F. Atiyeh ’14 took a bite of his first turkey sandwich of the school year in Currier House Dining Hall, he realized something tasted different.
“It was an eye-opening experience,” he said. “The sandwich was always very salty last year, but now it tastes so much better and healthier.”
In response to information recently released by the Department of Nutrition at the Harvard School of Public Health on the harmful impact of high sodium intake, Harvard University Hospitality and Dining Services has worked to reduce the overall sodium on its menus by 25 percent.
The change in the brand of deli meats to Hormel Natural Choice—which is low in sodium, has no artificial colors or flavors, and is gluten and preservative free—is the latest step towards this goal.
“We closely follow [the Department of Nutrition’s] work and partner with them to make our menus healthier,” HUHDS Spokesperson Crista Martin said.
According to the Department of Nutrition, Americans on average consume one-and-a-half (3,000 mg) or more teaspoons of salt a day, which exceeds the recommended daily intake of 2,300 milligrams.
Furthermore, those at high risk of health problems from salt should limit sodium intake to 1,500 milligrams. Nearly 70 percent of U.S. adults possess a high-risk factor, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, or age over 40.
A high-sodium diet can raise one’s risk of high blood pressure, heart disease, and stroke.
Besides the deli meats, Martin said HUHDS has modified its recipes and communicated with vendors about minimizing sodium.
Atiyeh said he is conscious about his sodium intake, and his main diet consists mostly of salads, fruits, and proteins like white eggs, fish, chicken, and turkey.
Since the change in deli meats, Atiyeh said he has been eating turkey sandwiches about two to three times a week.
“You can feel the difference in the taste,” he said.
But Mark R. Theilmann ’12, who was eating a turkey sandwich in Quincy House Dining Hall, said he did not notice a change in deli meats, although he added that he does not usually eat sandwiches. Theilmann also said he does not read the nutrition facts before choosing his meal.
“I just try to stay away from food like chicken fingers,” he said.
Likewise, Stephen L. Kent ’14 also said the deli meats tasted the same as last year. Kent, a clarinetist in the Harvard University Band, said he eats sandwiches about four times a week from Flyby and at football games.
“I care about saturated and trans fat, but not sodium,” Kent said.
Kent said he checked the nutrition facts online once before when someone told him that clam chowder and Alfredo sauce were unhealthy. Since discovering that these two items are high in calories and fat, he said he has been trying to avoid them.
“Sodium is something one can add to taste, but you can’t take it away when it’s already in a recipe or food,” Martin said, adding that she hopes to provide options for students so they can make healthier choices.
—Staff writer Jane Seo can be reached at janeseo@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard football coach Tim Murphy said that senior linebacker Blaise Deal would definitely miss tomorrow's home opener against Brown a week after taking a hit to the knee against Holy Cross last Saturday.
While it’s still not clear how long Deal will be out, it appears he will likely miss an extended period of time.
Deal—who also missed most of last season with a knee injury—tweeted in the hours after the game that “I don’t think I will ever play another sport as long as I live.”
A tweet two days later also seemed to indicate that a return might be unlikely: “Today was the first day in like 10 years that I've woken up and not been a football player.”
Captain Alex Gedeon, who is also Deal’s roommate, said that the senior linebacker has begun physical therapy and is working towards a recovery. But according to Gedeon, though Deal's loss is a significant one for the team, he remains an important presence for the Crimson.
“He’s been incredible," Gedeon said. "He just keeps a positive attitude ... He’s definitely one of the emotional leaders on the team, and to see how he’s handled this situation is inspiring.”
The team remains confident that it can fill the void that Deal leaves while he recovers from his injury. In addition to Gedeon and junior Bobby Schneider, two other starting linebackers, juniors Alex Norman and Josh Boyd—both of whom appeared in all 10 games last season—will play at the linebacker spot while Deal is out, according to Gedeon.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This weekend is a big one for Harvard football. I’m not just talking about normal-sized big, but football-player big.
On Friday, the Crimson takes on Brown in its first league game of the season. This game will be key in terms of gaining momentum and setting up an Ivy League title run.
But before we get to this matchup, here is a round-up of the events that led up to this weekend’s contests:
Last Saturday, Harvard opened its season against Holy Cross. Despite gaining a lead of 14-3 in the first quarter, the Crimson quickly gave the Crusaders a way back into the game.  Covers were blown and Holy Cross completed several long-distance passes. After Holy Cross took the lead 17-14 after a one-yard touchdown run, the team never looked back, scoring 22 consecutive points to push the final score to 30-22. The Crusaders’ win was an upset, as preseason rankings showed Harvard to be on top. Whoops, my mistake, I meant these rankings.
The Crimson’s loss wasn’t the only shocker last weekend. Penn kept its status as the “Social Ivy” by making friends with Lafayette when the Quakers generously rolled over in a 37-12 Leopard blowout. Penn—the preseason favorite to win the Ivy League—blew its eight-game winning streak, losing to Lafayette’s backup quarterback.
While the Ivy’s two top-ranked teams lost several points of self-esteem, some of the lower-seeded squads came out ready to battle. Cornell, who tied with Princeton for the Ivy League's lowest rank, came from a 13-0 deficit to beat Bucknell, 24-13. Touchdown passes of 87 and 64 yards were key moments in the Big Red’s victory. Dartmouth also came out ready, as the Big Green crushed Colgate, 37-20. Dartmouth running back Nick Schwieger came up huge as he ran for two touchdowns and had a total of 175 yards.
Preseason middle-of-the-league teams Yale and Brown pulled out victories against Georgetown and Stony Brook, respectively, while Columbia lost to Fordham. As the Bulldogs handed the Hoyas their first loss of the season, they simultaneously forgot how to count to 100 as can be seen from this pie chart.
When the Bears came back from a 10-point deficit and beached the Seawolves, 21-20, in New York on Saturday night, they proved that they could win close ones. I guess they realized that they couldn’t count the game as pass/fail. Meanwhile, the commute across the River proved to be too much for the Lions who gave in, 21-14, to their newly-found cross water rivals.
Princeton also lost to Lehigh , 34-22—this was not much of a surprise, as the Tigers’ record last season came out to 1-9. They hope to rebound this weekend when the Ivy League season officially begins.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As classes begin to rev up this weekend and the autumn cold begins to come in fast and strong, the fall club sports season is following suit. Tryouts are finishing up, games are starting, and the real competition has begun.
This weekend, Harvard men’s and women’s club tennis teams wrote the inaugural success story of the 2011 fall club sports season, winning the Battle of the Sections Tournament on the U.S Open courts at the Billie Jean King Tennis Center in Queens.
The Crimson teams flooded to New York on Friday, only one week after the conclusion of the U.S. Open, to face the top-16 club teams in the Northeast at the annual invitational round robin tournament.
Harvard’s men’s and women’s teams, who played as a joint team for this tournament, downed UVA 21-13 in the finals. The concluding matches were played on the Louis Armstrong and Grandstand courts, which proved to be a particularly memorable experience for some club members.
“Thinking of all the incredible matches that had taken place on the very courts we were playing on was absolutely surreal,” junior Cerianne Robertson said.
The New York tournament is unique for using the “World Team” tennis competition format, which featured singles, doubles, and mixed double matches to “put the emphasis on the team in what is traditionally viewed as an individualistic sport,” according to former team captain, senior Tarek Austin.
“Winning at NYC was a promising achievement for our team as we look ahead to Sectionals in October, and, if all goes well, Nationals in the Spring, in North Carolina,” Austin said.
Robertson, senior Louise Laciny and freshmen Mari Georgiadis and Tara Jain represented the women’s team, while Austin, senior Greg Leya, senior James Ong, junior Jake Dockterman, and senior Bryan Martin played for the men.
Both teams will head to Northeastern on Saturday to participate in the Tennis Beanpot Tournament, where they hope to champion, this time, over other Boston teams.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Perhaps, as a Harvard football fan, I should be rooting for Ryan Fitzpatrick ’04 and the up-and-coming Buffalo Bills to win this weekend against the much more established New England Patriots. But I’ve been a Pats fan for a lot longer than I’ve been a student here. So to be completely honest, I hope New England manhandles Buffalo. Don’t take it personally; I wish it on everyone the Patriots face.
But I suppose I could tolerate a Fitzpatrick touchdown or two or three, as long as Tom Brady throws for more. And any New England fan who’d also like to see Fitzpatrick perform admirably should be excited about this coming weekend.
In its first two weekends, the Patriots (2-0) have demonstrated themselves to be exactly the kind of team a New England-Harvard fusion fan would want Fitzpatrick to face: one with a soft enough defense to allow Fitzpatrick to score and a strong enough offense to render his moments of glory inconsequential.
In week one, the Pats defense was weak enough to allow the Miami Dolphins to ring up 24 points and quarterback Chad Henne to throw for 416 yards. There are plenty of reasons to believe that Fitzpatrick could be able to dismantle the New England defense similarly. As has become common knowledge among Crimson football fans by now, Fitzpatrick threw for 208 yards and four touchdowns in the Bills’ 41-7 victory over the Kansas City Chiefs (0-2).
He followed it up with another strong outing against the Oakland Raiders (1-1) in which he threw for 264 yards and three touchdowns in Buffalo’s 38-35 victory.
But as impressive as Fitzpatrick’s performances have been this season, it’s hard to know what to make of the Bills’ early season victories. A weekend after falling to Buffalo, the Chiefs lost by an even larger margin, 48-3, to the Detroit Lions. While the Lions (2-0) are supposed to be good this year, it also appears blowout losses may become a habit for Kansas City this year.
Sports Illustrated currently has the Chiefs ranked dead last in its power rankings. The win over the Raiders seems to have much more gravity, as Oakland won its week one contest against the Denver Broncos, who edged out the Cincinnati Bengals, 24-22, this past weekend.
It’s hard to fault the Bills for only winning by 34 points, and the win against the Raiders may prove to mean something down the road.
But the fact remains that Buffalo has yet to face a team of the Patriots’ caliber.
New England’s performance in week two against the San Diego Chargers should cloud the optimism of Bills’ fans. Not only did Brady continue to impress, but the Patriots’ defense had what was, at least in my opinion, a much more respectable outing than it did against Miami (which isn’t saying much).
While the games are statistically similar in a lot of ways, allowing the Chargers 470 yards is much more palatable than allowing the Dolphins 488. While San Diego quarterback Philip Rivers threw for 378 yards and two touchdowns, the Patriots also picked him off twice, which accounted for two of New England’s four turnovers on defense. The Patriots' defense may rank second-to-last in the league right now in passing yards (thank you, Bleacher Report), but its particular brand of defense, though mostly bad, might be able to stifle Fitzpatrick.
While the Harvard grad’s touchdown count has been impressive, he hasn’t thrown for that many overall yards. This should make for an interesting matchup against a New England defense that may not be particularly adept at slowly down offenses but has proven itself to be tough in the red zone and good at picking off signal callers. The Patriots did mount one goal-line stand against the Chargers, and they seem to have improved from their week one nap in Miami. Moreover, New England’s interception stats should have Fitzpatrick worried, as the quarterback was picked off three times in the teams’ most recent matchup, a 34-3 Patriots victory, and twice in the teams’ contest before that, a 38-30 New England victory.
But the Patriots also have reason to fear Fitzpatrick. Though he was picked off three times last December, he also threw for 251 yards, and the Harvard grad had 247 yards and two touchdowns in the teams’ game last September.
I disagree with the Bleacher Report’s prediction that Fitzpatrick will have 320 yards this weekend. I just don’t see him earning more yards against New England than he did against either Kansas City or Oakland. But I do think he’ll get in the end zone, probably twice. I can’t see Buffalo winning. But I certainly predict a chill or two down my spine.
—Staff writer Christina C. McClintock can be reached at ccmcclin@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Freshman Will Whitman’s humble aspirations didn’t quite match up to his stature.
“I was just hoping to make the travel team. That was my goal,” confesses the soft-spoken, 6’6”, 260 lb. freshman right tackle from Kentucky.
And so far, he’s accomplished a lot more than that. As Harvard’s starting right tackle for its opener against Holy Cross, Whitman traveled to Worcester and likely cemented his role as starter for the season.
While other freshman football players settle into their roles on the J.V. team, Whitman, who was recruited as a left tackle, has already been asked to change positions on the line, moving from right guard and then again to right tackle. He’s also had to learn the bulky offensive playbook and step into the void left by Brent Osborne ’11, who recently signed with the Seattle Seahawks.
As daunting as his task may seem, it is one he accepts with realistic expectations.
“I’m just going to try my best to do what I’m supposed to do and help us win,” Whitman said. “I’m not trying to show I can replace an NFL player this year, because there’s no real way I can.”
But what Whitman can do is continue to gain experience—and impress his teammates.
“He’s had some very successful games as a freshman, and I’m definitely excited to see him get after it,” praises junior running back Treavor Scales, who will have Whitman blocking when he runs to the right. “Whit’s already a heck of a player.”
On the line, Whitman has found a group of mentors who have helped him quickly step into a starting role.
“He’s always willing to listen and very coachable, and I think that shows in how much he’s learned in such a short time,” says senior left tackle Kevin Murphy.
Whitman’s confidence isn’t just evident in his ability to move into the starting position at such a young age. He is also one of just a few kids from his hometown to go to college so far away, and is one of a select few to ever come to Harvard from Lexington Catholic, his high school.
Leaving such a tight-knit community has not been always been easy.
“It’s been my first time away from home for longer than a week,” Whitman shares.
He adds that head coach Tim Murphy and offensive line coach Joe Conlin have been very caring and “like dads away from home for me,” becoming a part of the close community he has found within the football program.
“The offensive line is usually among the closest units on the team, by virtue of what they do,” Murphy said. “The upperclassmen have really taken [Whitman] under their wing.”
Family is important to the Crimson right tackle. A native of Lexington, Ky., Whitman earned all-state honors twice in high school and represented Kentucky in the Border Bowl against Tennessee.
But his favorite football memory was going up against his cousin, who played for a rival high school, during his senior season. The two played directly across from each other the whole game—Will on the offensive line and his cousin on the defensive line.
When asked if he won the majority of the matchups, Whitman broke into a proud grin.
“Yeah, but my team won the game, so that was all that mattered.”
For the Whitmans, athletics and family go hand-in-hand. Whitman’s father, Hank, was a defensive tackle at Vanderbilt in the 1980s, and his younger brother Jack is a 6’8” high school basketball standout.
Will’s father—whom he counts as one of his biggest influences—was elated to hear the news that his son would be starting. But as a former college player himself, he also understands that being called upon so early in such a significant role can be overwhelming.
“[My Dad] was excited; [he was] all for it, but nervous because it’s a lot of pressure,” Whitman recalls. “You’re in front of so many people, and you’re already being criticized just because you’re so young. Then if you mess up, it makes it even harder on yourself.”
But so far in his young career, Whitman has performed at a high level for the Crimson—and on a much bigger stage than he has ever been accustomed to. In Kentucky, Whitman says the largest crowd he ever played before was around 700 people.
Tomorrow night, he’ll be donning his No. 71 Crimson jersey and playing each snap at Harvard Stadium. About 20,000 fans are expected to turn out.
“It’ll be rockin’,” predicts the big man, whose excitement to perform in front of a Harvard home crowd for the first time is palpable. “I come from Kentucky, so there’s not much to do there. Not much stuff besides hunting and fishing … It was nice, but nothing really awesome.”
Then, with conviction, Whitman adds, “It already is awesome here. I love it.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With its sights set on an Ivy League Championship, the Harvard men’s tennis team opens the season this weekend at the annual Chowder Fest held at the Beren Tennis Center.
Led by co-captains Ali Felton and Davis Mangham, and with senior Jon Pearlman ranked No. 78 nationally—the highest in the Ivy League—the squad will host three-time defending NCAA Champion USC, along with Texas A&M and Michigan, in a three-day event.
“It’s a great way to start,” assistant coach Andrew Rueb said. “[We get] a chance to see the best in action, to see where we are, and what we need to work on. We’re just looking forward to a chance to test our mettle and see where we stand. It’s a real honor to get in some great teams and battle with the best.”
“We’re looking to build for the rest of the season,” Mangham said. “It’s not necessarily about winning the most matches, but working our way into the season and playing good tennis.”
With these goals in mind, the Crimson is also looking to improve on its record from last year. Harvard finished the 2010-11 season with a 15-5 overall record, 5-5 in Ivy League play, tying Dartmouth for third place in the Ancient Eight behind Princeton and league champion Cornell.
This season, having only lost one starter, former captain Aba Omodele-Lucien, the Crimson is vying for its 27th Ivy League Championship—its first since 2008.
“We’re trying to see if we can establish a team work ethic, a real sort of scrappiness on our team in terms of how we play ... and how we fight out on the court,” Rueb said. “[If] you put that foundation in and then teach guys to the right kind of points … and keep a professional attitude, then the good results will come.”
“We have a really strong team, and [the Ivy League Championship] should be within our grasp,” Mangham said. “We have a lot of good players, and I think some guys can go far, both individually in the postseason and as a team.”
Coming off a year in which many matches in the Ivy League were decided by a 4-3 margin, Harvard will have to fend off these same competitors on its quest for a championship.
“In the Ivies, everyone is gunning for us and we’re gunning for them,” Rueb said.  “There’s much more parity in the league … there’s no juggernaut and there are no weak teams. It’s really going to be decided in those seven matches during the season.”
The team this year consists of a balanced mix of underclassman and seasoned veterans. Five new freshmen have joined the squad, while a strong core of six upperclassmen return to lead the team this year.
“This is a very strong freshman class ... that is going to help us push everyone to work a little harder,” Rueb said. “They are very composed and are a touch bunch. They’re helping us move in the right direction for sure.”
“I think it’s the best [depth] that I’ve ever seen in my three years here,” Mangham added.
While on court preparation is important for the big matches, the squad has also spent a lot of time off the court.
“This year we’ve had a bigger focus on fitness,” Mangham noted. “We’ve increased the amount of time we’ve spent in Palmer-Dixon. That fitness base has changed the team for the better.”
Harvard will play five other tournaments this fall in preparation for the spring season, when dual matches begin, traveling to Oklahoma, New York, and Virginia.
“The fall season … is an individual season, there are no team results,” Rueb said. “If used properly, it’s great training ground to get guys better for the season, and results are really not important as long as guys are developing their games and moving in the right direction. That’s what the fall is for, that’s what the great coaches have used it for … and that’s our model here.”
A highlight of the tournament will be the doubles shootout from 3-6 p.m. on Saturday, but there should be great tennis played throughout the entire Chowder Fest, especially with Harvard taking on competition from around the nation.
“If people want to see what top tennis looks like, this is the weekend,” Rueb said. “It’s going to be a great chance to see college tennis at its best. I encourage people to come out and watch.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The call of the football field has kept life in a cubicle at bay for a few recent Harvard graduates.
While some, like Collin Zych ’11—who made it all the way to the Dallas Cowboys' final cut—had their pro dreams recently put on hold, a few others have taken up pro careers at varying levels around the world.
Former Crimson offensive guard Brent Osborne ’11 has been working out with the Seattle Seahawks’ practice squad for the 2011 season. After initially being cut in training camp, Osborne was recently resigned by the Seahawks.
The seven-man practice squad of an NFL team is essentially a scout team that runs plays for the starters to practice against. For example, Osborne and his offensive teammates prep the Seattle defense for their upcoming offensive opponent.
“I’m doing everything in practice all the other guys are doing, just with fewer reps,” Osborne said.
Current quarterback Collier Winters ’12 attributes Osborne’s success to his dedication and gusto.
“He really led by example,” Winters said. “Every day he would show up and put everything into it.”
Over the summer, Osborne stayed in Cambridge to work out with Crimson strength coaches to prepare for the NFL, along with former players such as Zych and Marco Iannuzzi ’11.
The offensive lineman hopes in the future to move beyond the practice squad and earn a place on the team.
“I’m trying to get better every day, and in the future compete for a spot on the roster,” he said.
Iannuzzi has pursued his football dreams farther north, in the Canadian Football League. The former Harvard wideout was drafted sixth overall by the BC Lions in the CFL draft this summer. He began the season on the practice roster, but has made his way onto the special teams unit.
In an Aug. 16 36-1 rout of the Edmonton Eskimos—yes, that’s a possible score in Canadian football—Iannuzzi returned six punts for 49 yards.
While Iannuzzi has had little statistical impact since, he continues to battle for playing time, both on special teams and offense.
Another former wide receiver, Mike Cook ’10, made the jump across the water for football, and is playing for the Herlev Rebels, a team based outside of Copenhagen,  Denmark.
Cook’s situation is unique. While he is the team’s starting quarterback, he also takes reps at wide receiver and is the offensive coordinator.
“I think it’s safe to say that very few players have been given the responsibility to formulate their own team's philosophy and call the plays,” Cook wrote in an email. “I have thoroughly enjoyed the challenge.”
The oft-injured Crimson standout led the Rebels to a 7-4 record and a playoff victory, helping turn around a 1-9 doormat.
Competition in Denmark varies by club, Cook said, and different organizations have varying levels of commitment. While some have full weight programs and workouts, others treat the sport as a recreational hobby. Cook’s team practices 2-3 times per week and plays a game every other week, on average.
The former Crimson standout said he plans on finishing this season before pursing an MBA at business school in Copenhagen.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Last Sunday, hundreds gathered along the river to celebrate the Autumnal Equinox with music, poetry, and an improvisational sax serenade from an illuminated sun-moon boat floating down the Charles. The Revels RiverSing drew an eclectic crowd of families, friends, and lovers—so our Roving Reporter went to talk to pairs of revelers about, well, each other.
Nita D. Sembrowich ’79 and Michael Higgins
Roving Reporter: Can you tell me how you two met?
Nita: We live in a co-op in Riverside and that’s how we met. Michael always says we met by the garbage cans. I moved in in ’94 and you moved in in...’86?
RR: Why did you decide to live in the co-op?
Michael: We had some control over our destinies.
Nita: We didn’t have to deal with landlords.
RR: And Michael, what would you say is your favorite thing about Nita? I’m putting you on the spot here.
Nita: Something civilized.
Michael: Something civilized? I’d say ... her presentation on Sunday mornings.
Nita: That’s all you can think of?
Charlie A. Rowe and Chris H. Rowe
RR: How old are you, Charlie?
Charlie: I’m four. About to be five.
RR: You’re very tall.
Charlie: That’s because I’m about to be five. Guess what! In a couple days, a tree is going to be taken down in our yard.
RR: Oh, really? Why?
Charlie: It’s sick. We were worried it was going to fall down in the tornado. I mean, in the hurricane.
RR: And who’s this guy?
Charlie: (laughing) My dad! I have a cousin who when she smiles looks just like you. But without curly hair.
RR: Chris, can you tell us something memorable about Charlie?
Chris: You go back more than a month and it all starts to blur. He rode his bike for the first time about a year ago without training wheels. He didn’t ride a bike with training wheels very much; he just sort of rode away. Charlie, can you tell her what you were doing while we were riding our bikes today?
Charlie: I don’t remember what I was doing.
Chris: What did you do if you got to a bump in the road?
Charlie: Oh! I jumped my bike over it.
Chris: Jumping bumps—I think that’s his favorite thing.
Charlie: Pretend I’m going to be on my bike—and here’s a bump. (Jumps). I jumped over it!
Alvin D. Reed & Robert L. Stephenson
RR: What are you two doing out on the river?
Robert: We’re kayaking and paddle boarding.
Alvin: I don’t know what you’re doing. I’m kayaking.
RR: And how do you know each other?
Robert: I’m his Big Brother [in a mentor program]. I guess that makes him my Little Brother.
RR: Alvin, what did you think of Rob the first time you met him?
Alvin: I don’t know.
Robert: You liked me!
Alvin: Sort of.
RR: And Rob?
Robert: I saw a smart, bright kid who needed somebody to kick it with. And a lot more adventure.
Alvin: And now I’m in the middle of a rock pit, dude!
RR: What’s the weirdest thing about Rob?
Alvin: I think it’s your cat.
Robert: But it’s not mine! It’s my roommate’s! We have a Bengal living in our apartment. It’s half-Asian Leopard Cat, half tabby cat. When I tell girls I have a cat, they’re not happy. They think I’m some weird cat guy.
Esther G. Kennedy ‘13 and Chris H. Stock ‘14
RR: What are you doing here?
Chris: Well, I’m trying to find my PAF and I literally ran into Esther.
Esther: We’re on the Nordic Ski team.
RR: How is the Nordic Ski team?
Chris: We had some of our best results last year.
Esther: The athletic director here is still not sure we have a ski team.
(Unprompted)
Chris: Don’t you think Esther here could beat you up? She’s a rock climber, so she’s got giant lats.
Esther: He came up to me at the beginning of the year and said “I wanted to introduce myself, but I was worried you would beat me up.”
Chris: ... Ski team is a good time.
Ryan B. Anderson and H. Bill Bedard
RR: Tell me about Ryan.
Bill: Ryan is a mask-maker, so he works with a puppeteer in White River. We’re of one butterfly flock. Flock? Is that the right word?
RR: So, give me the dirt on Ryan.
Bill: He’s actually kind of nice. He’s not really a dirty guy. Our time together as caterpillars—well, I remember this one time together, drinking nectar. It was a tulip. I’m wild about tulips.
RR: So where are you from, again?
Bill: White River Junction. It’s in Vermont.
RR: I’ve passed through there.
Bill: So has everyone. But no one stays.
(Farther up from the river)
RR: Ryan, tell me about Bill.
Ryan: There was one time that Bill and I, while migrating south, found a field of beautiful flowers. And let me tell you, there’s nothing like butterflying around on a midsummer’s day in a field of beautiful flowers.
Sections
Looking for one last taste of summer fun before the weather changes for good? You might find it this weekend at a water balloon battle planned by The Happiness Project.
 
The event will feature 3,000 water balloons and all sorts of uses for them: bracket-style matchups between four-person teams, target practice, and a free-for-all round, according to Leslie R. Rith-Najarian '12, an organizer of the event and member of The Happiness Project.
 
Over 20 teams have signed up, Rith-Najarian said, and individual drop-in participants are also welcome. The battle will be held on the MAC Quad at 8 p.m. on Saturday.
 
The water balloon blow-out is the kickoff of the Happiness Olympics, a series of five Saturday night events which will include a Nerf dart war, Capture the Flag, The Office Olympics, and a giant obstacle course. Teams that enter multiple events can accumulate points toward prizes like movie tickets and a trip to a trampoline park in Boston.
Sections
With cable TV scarce in dorm rooms, Harvard students have often had to scramble in order to catch the big game or the season premieres of their favorite shows.
 
Last spring, Harvard Student Agencies launched a trial version of a service to aid these struggling students. This year, it's back to stay.
 
Partnering with a company called Campus Televideo, HSA.tv now offers a $15 per month plan that lets subscribing students stream twenty-six HD channels live onto their laptops and other devices. Even without signing up for the service, any student can watch six channels—ABC, CBS, CW, FOX Local, NBC, and TV 38.
 
Extra channels for paying viewers include Cartoon Network, CNN, Comedy Central, ESPN, Food Network, and MTV.
 
Visit the service's website to start watching the free shows instantly or to sign up for a paid account. Just be warned: you'll only get access to your shows when you're on campus. Leave Harvard’s internet network, and the site stops working.
Sections
Two of the most prominent Harvard students from the entertainment world—Tyra Banks and Conan C. O'Brien '85—chatted on O'Brien's show last week about their experiences at Harvard.
Though he actually was a History and Literature concentrator at the College, O'Brien downplayed his academic credentials on air. "I went to the Harvard School of Driving. I was asked to leave after the U-turn didn't work out," he said.
He expressed incredulity when Banks insisted that her classmates in the Harvard Business  School program where she is currently enrolled have not tried to hit on her. Recalling his own undergrad days, O'Brien complained that in contrast to Banks' supermodel looks, some of his female classmates "looked like Emily Dickinson after a bike accident."
O'Brien also suggested that Banks donate money to rename a building at HBS, urging her to call it "The Kiss My Fat Ass Building." Somehow we don't foresee that construction project starting any time soon.
Sections
Ever wonder how far the eggplant in that sauce has come before appearing on your dining hall plate? Sometimes, the answer is simply down the street. This fall, the Harvard Community Garden has teamed up with Harvard University Hospitality and Dining Services to serve its fresh, sustainable produce in dining halls across campus.
Each week, a new dining hall uses at least one ingredient from the garden as the focus of its "Chef's Table." So far this month, chefs have incorporated the Garden's turnips, eggplants, kale, chard, onions, and garlic into their weekly tastings.
In order to decide what veggies the Community Garden would give to HUHDS, co-founder Rebecca J. Cohen '12 and other member of the group used an empirical approach.
"We talked about what were growing and what we would have in enough quantity to supply the dining hall with," Cohen said.
HUHDS spokesperson Crista Martin discussed both the reception of the weekly Chef's Tables and the innovation of the chefs themselves.
"Chef's Tables are opportunities for our chefs and cooks to demonstrate their great skills and great creativity," Martin said.
She added that Chef's Table is just one of the many programs on campus that help promote food literacy.
"Every time people get to engage with food, agriculture, sustainability, and cooking in a new way, they gain a new appreciation," Martin said.
For now, with cold weather approaching, HUHDS' publicized plans for cooking with Garden produce extend only through the end of September, so be sure to sample the Harvard-grown lettuce at Currier next Thursday, September 29.
