News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Attending Fourth of July celebrations as children is associated with an increased likelihood that, as adults, individuals will identify as Republicans and actively participate in the political process, a new study has found.
Co-authored by David H. Yanagizawa-Drott, assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School, and J. E. Andreas Madestam of Bocconi University in Milan, the study examined the political effect of childhood experiences on the Fourth of July.
“These kinds of celebrations can actually have a long-term impact on political preferences and political participation,” Yanagizawa-Drott said.
The study used the presence of rain on the Fourth of July—an occurrence that would decrease attendance at patriotic events like fireworks, barbecues, and parades—to investigate whether there was a link between Fourth of July celebrations and voter tendencies.
The findings revealed that childhood experiences significantly shape adult patterns of voting and civic engagement. For each rain-free Independence Day during childhood, the likelihood that an individual becomes a Republican adult increased by 2.1 percent.
Voter turnout also increased 0.95 percent for each rain-free childhood Fourth of July. These voters were more likely to make campaign donations, work for political parties, and attend rallies.
The research found that Fourth of July experiences between the ages of seven and 10 were most likely to affect adult voting behavior. In addition, the impact on adult political identity from this patriotic exposure remained intact.
“We show these effects are very persistent. In fact, they’re permanent,” said Yanagizawa-Drott. “As you grow older, the effects are the same. They don’t depreciate over time.”
This discovery fits in with recent studies in developmental psychology and neurobiology, the authors wrote, which has revealed the foundational importance of early years in psychological development.
The critical childhood period for voter turnout, however, occurred much later in childhood, between the ages of 15 and 18. Despite this later peak, the effect of patriotic celebrations depreciated following teenage experiences.
“In short, the effects of Fourth of July on political preferences are permanent and occur at a relatively early age while the impact of the celebrations on voter turnout occurs later and fade out over time,” the authors wrote.
Looking forward, Yanagizawa-Drott may be interested in implementing a similar study in another country.
“It’s not obvious that we would expect, necessarily, that political preferences shift to the right in all countries,” he said. “You have to look at each individual country, look at their history. We might potentially see a…reverse effect in other countries.”
—Staff writer Leanna B. Ehrlich can be reached at lehrlich@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Last year, we asked students and tourists around Harvard Yard if they knew the lyrics to our national  anthem, "The Star Spangled Banner." This year, we asked Harvard Summer School students if they know what actually happened on July 4. Check out the video to see how they did.
Sections
In April, we were graced by the songwriting and vocal talents of Grace E. Oberhofer, a senior from Tacoma, Wash. who was waitlisted at Harvard and wrote a song asking admissions officers to let her in.
"Dear Harvard," a YouTube video of her singing and playing the piano, received more than 50,000 views in two months. But on the night of her graduation, Oberhofer heard from Harvard that she had been denied admission. In the description box of her video, she posted an update, announcing that she would be attending Tufts in the fall.
"I'm really looking forward to it," Oberhofer said yesterday in her distinctively cheery voice when she returned our call. (She's been away at a performing arts intensive with limited phone access, she explained.) "[Harvard] is just a T stop away."
Oberhofer said she never expected her video to get as much attention as it did.
"I think I entertained a lot of people," she said. "What's life if you can't have a good laugh?"
During her two-month wait, Oberhofer was contacted by members of the YouTube and Harvard communities in response to her audaciousness and creativity. Another waitlisted senior Rishikesh Ramnarayan Tirumala posted a video response of his original song "Complementary in Kinetic Typography (RRT + MIT)" to convince MIT to let him off their waitlist for the class of 2014—and, according to the video's description, succeeded.
Oberhofer also said that the production team of Harvard's annual Freshman Musical reserved one ticket for her for every night of their show in late April, as a thank-you for the shout out she gave them in her song lyrics. But Oberhofer, who lives 2,500 miles away, said she couldn't make it to see their show.
"I'm a really big fan of that [Harvard] community," Oberhofer said in response to their gesture.
It seemed like Oberhofer's waitlist video saga was coming to an end, but we did have one last question to ask: what's with the glasses? We thought they were a tribute to Harry Potter, but others believed the tribute was directed at Thomas A. Lehrer '47, a pianist, satirist, and graduate of the College.
Oberhofer explained that it was actually neither—she had purchased the glasses while on a trip to China, and she even wears them to school on occasion. She said she wore them in the video for that "geeky look."
Geek on, Grace, geek on.
This post has been revised to reflect the following the corrections:
CORRECTION: July 8, 2011
An earlier version of the July 4 Flyby post "Waitlisted Senior Who Sang to Harvard Denied Admission, To Attend Tufts," misstated that Rishikesh Ramnarayan Tirumala's video was inspired Grace Oberhofer's. In fact, the video that Tirumala posted as a response to Oberhofer's was made in 2010 for admission into the MIT class of 2014.
