News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Mehdy Hazheer, an incoming Harvard College freshman and a member of the  Class of 2015, died on Sunday after falling from climbing a wall,  according to a local ABC News affiliate.
Hazheer incurred an injury that left him in a comatose state, according to a Facebook page created in his honor.
Hazheer was one day away from graduating from Raleigh Charter High  School in Raleigh, N.C., when the incident occurred. His family said  Hazheer loved to climb, but they think the backpack he was wearing  caused him to fall, striking his head on the wall, the Raleigh-Durham  ABC News station reported.
"He changed many lives with his laughter, incomparable personality and character," the description to the Facebook page reads. "He had a never ending desire for knowledge."
Hazheer played soccer and was a leader at his school. He was involved in the Interfaith Alliance, the Social Justice Club, and the Islam Club and coordinated various relief efforts, according to a statement from the school.
"He bridged communities and inspired his fellow students," wrote Thomas E. Humble, the Raleigh Charter High School principal.
Hazheer had applied and was accepted to the First-Year Urban Program, a pre-orientation program where students perform community service in Greater Boston, according to Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman '67. He had not yet been assigned to a freshman dormitory.
"We are devastated in thinking about his mother, father, and friends," said Dingman, who wrote a memo to Hazheer's parents upon receiving news of his death. "We'll feel a big hole in our hearts."
"He really was an inspirational force," Humble said in an interview.
—Staff writer Xi Yu can be reached at xyu@college.harvard.edu.
CORRECTION: June 8, 2011
An earlier version of the June 7 news article "Incoming Freshman Dies  After Falling" incorrectly stated that Hazheer fell from a ladder while  hanging up a graduation banner. In fact, he fell from climbing a wall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Although George A. Miller, professor of psychology, might have been misguided in his claim that computers don't threaten to dominate society, plenty of changes were occurring during the '61-'62 school year.
Students, for instance, could no longer leave their dirty linens and towels outside of their door and expect fresh ones by the end of the day—they now had to make the trek to HSA on their own. Additionally, Harvard and Radcliffe agreed to merge their graduate programs but despite deciding to give Radcliffe graduates a Harvard diploma, the college remained firm that a true merger between Radcliffe and Harvard would not happen. The biggest issue at Radcliffe, however, was the 1 a.m. curfew which due to protest was eventually extended—at least for seniors—although girls still weren't allowed in Lamont.
While the word "Harvard," might normally conjure up historic brick buildings covered in ivy, '61-'62 brought about a few changes in the landscape that today a Harvard student might not even think twice about. University Health Services moved into their current building and discussions regarding the new science center began despite hesitation from the Chemistry Department. Plans were also approved for a large concrete structure, now known as the Carpenter Center.
Students, however, did find a way to relax amidst some of the serious issues of the 1960s including debates over a bomb shelter and demonstrations for peace in Boston and Washington. A group of students, for instance, raised money to enter an elephant named Sonita in the first United States intercollegiate Elephant Race in California and won. Cardullo's also applied for a liquor license, expanding students' options for buying libations to 19 different establishments in the Square, and WHRB got edgy by cancelling their subscription to the good conduct code of the National Association of Broadcasters so they could play ads for hard liquor.
There might have been a law forbidding dances one Saturday, but that didn't stop students from their fun. A semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization which used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine produced a rock n' roll record featuring hits such as "The Harvard Coop, boop-boop, boop-boop." But the prank of the year went to The Crimson as they created a media uproar by distributing a fake Yale Daily News claiming that Kennedy would be at the Harvard-Yale game.
