Sections
House Representative Barnett "Barney" Frank '61-'62, who has been the Congressman for Massachusetts's Fourth Congressional District since 1981, recently announced that he would not be seeking reelection in 2012. With the arrival of this news, many are mourning the loss of his outspoken voice in Congress.
Frank is known for his wit, intelligence, ardent defense of liberal causes, and strength as one of the first and most prominent openly homosexual Congressmen. Here we revisit some of Frank's greatest moments caught on camera and in the press.
On an amendment to the stimulus bill, after Republicans requested more time to read it:
"The bill under consideration is five-and-a-half pages...I believe even the gentleman from Texas could have read it by now. And if the gentleman from Texas has not been able to read this five-and-a-half page bill, I'll talk long and even if he reads slow, he'll get it done."
In response to a woman comparing the Obama health care plan to that of the Nazis:
"On what planet do you spend most of your time?"
When serving as Speaker pro tempore:
"Point of orders [sic] rarely end with a question mark. I've never heard one that did."
"Comments on the past behavior of the Speaker may be interesting, but they are not points of order."
On Newt Gingrich:
"You have to understand when you think you are the intellectual leader of the free world and you find yourself struggling to pass Michelle Bachman in a poll in Iowa, it is unsettling."
 
Here's another montage of Congressman Frank's best moments.
Sections
Do you find yourself wondering how you can spice up your love life? Why is cuddling so important? Look no further—the answers to these questions, along with many more, can be found in "The How To Guide for (Romantic) Relationships at Harvard."On Dec. 11, the night before finals, Wei "Rose" Wang '13 decided to stop procrastinating on her final paper for Psychology 1503: "Psychology of Close Relationships," by sending out a plea to fellow students. Jenny Ye '13, Wang's roommate, gave her the idea to use a Google Doc to gather information for her paper.
Now with over 145 tips plus poems and pictures, the guide, released around midnight, became "read-only" by 2 a.m. Monday morning. Many people in those first two hours clamored to make additions but were unable to because of the 50-person limit placed on document editing.
"After an hour, things got really ridiculous. The first 50 things on there are good advice, but after that it’s just kind of people trolling. I shut it down about an hour after that, because I was trying to censor a lot of little things and I got tired of that," Wang said.
The Google Doc has already gained notoriety in the media and online, and it has received some negative comments from readers.
"I think the problem is that people are taking this too seriously. The comments on Jezebel are trashing Harvard students who are having fun. People are looking way too much into Harvard kids having fun the night before finals," Wang said.
The guide is perhaps a little unconventional, but maybe that's what made it so popular among the students who clamored to include their two cents.
The guide has everything from comical advice (see: 13.37) to inspiring advice (see: 34.)
"It was actually a lot of fun just watching people edit it. I was in Kirkland's library, and no one around me got any work done because we were just hooked to this," Wang said.
A fake Drew Faust even made a cameo appearance.
"I was trying to decide if I should delete this or not, but I think everyone knew it wasn't Drew Faust, so it was harmless."
Although the release of the Google Doc and Primal Scream coincided, according to Wang there is no correlation between both events; however, maybe the raging hormones of college students were amplified by the stampede of naked students in the Yard.
"What is so captivating about this whole Google Doc is that it's a bunch of really opinionated Harvard students who might be a little sexually frustrated," Wang said.
Despite the newfound fame of her guide, Wang is unsure where she wants to take it next. For now, Wang is going to finish what she originally set out to do: hand in her final paper.
"In terms of my actions, I'm just going to come up with something coherent and cohesive with all that information, and, of course, turn in my final paper. I have to gauge the demand before I move forward with something bigger."
The google document has already inspired at least one other student. Seth A. Riddley '12 was surprised by the 50-person cutoff and had the idea to expand the number of potential editors on any one document.
"I immediately thought this could be an amazing web app called SimulDoc.com, and I'm applying to HackHarvard where maybe we can build it," Riddley wrote in an email.
Sections
If you suddenly decide that you want to try something new during Wintersession, don't fret! It's not too late to apply to some programs. Instead of watching re-runs of Friends or eating a third batch of your mom's fudge brownies, explore some of these new and exciting activities.
1. Harvard's Yoga Retreat Week
After lounging around for a couple of weeks watching Netflix, get fit for spring semester by doing yoga. Harvard's Yoga Retreat Week runs from Jan. 16-20, and offers flexibility in times and levels. Students can choose to attend morning classes, afternoon classes, or both, and it doesn’t matter if you are new to Yoga—all levels are welcome. The program is free and applicants are accepted on a first-come, first-serve basis.
2. Winter Break Week at Harvard Forest
Spend a few days exploring the Harvard Forest in Petersham, Mass. The program includes housing, a meal plan, books, supplies, and transportation to and from the forest. It takes place Jan. 15-20, and is free for Harvard students. The deadline to apply is Dec. 16. 
3. Volunteer at the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter Over Winter Break
If you are back on campus any time during J-Term, give back to the community and sign up to volunteer at the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter. No previous experience is required.
4. Respectably French! Wintersession Sketch Comedy Workshop
If you like to make people laugh, join a group of Harvard students to create a video sketch during Wintersession. Respectably French! will hold a workshop to write and film new sketches. E-mail respectablyfrench@gmail.com to request an application.
5. Freshman Arts Camp
Even if you have no artistic experience, unleash your creative side and learn to pantomime, wire sculpt, perform spoken word poetry, and more. Freshman Arts Camp will run from Jan. 18-20. Apply by Jan. 6.
6. Harvard Athletics and Center for Wellness Programs
Have you ever flown through the air on a trapeze or gone snow tubing? Find your adventurous winter spirit by participating in some of the daily activities offered by Harvard Athletics.
Sections
Finals period can be stressful, and sometimes we all need a break or two, or ten. Flyby is here to help. Stay tuned for our version of "The Twelve Days of Christmas," based instead on the eight days of finals.
 
On the second day of finals, Flyby gave to me...
Two writing helpers
And a quiet place to be.
