Sections
I didn't even make first cuts for my high school's freshman tennis team. It was the only sport I had ever really played (in first grade, I was on the soccer team for two practices) and I still lost all six sets in tryouts. I'm just not an athlete. No one in my family is. Our usual definition of sports is carrying a pile of books from one class to another or playing chess. But for some reason, come the annual winter family reunion, we act like the Kennedys and gear up for some healthy competition.
And for one day a year we're so athletic we schedule the games we're planning on playing. My extended family has plenty of players for our teams; my mom's four siblings and all of their kids come each year. In total, we number twenty-six. Two reunions ago we played volleyball. Last year it was prisoner—a game played mostly by elementary school kids, and us. Yes, every family reunion my relatives and I convince ourselves that we're athletic and every family reunion we prove ourselves wrong.
This year, on day two, we all bravely left our chairs in the Club Lounge—clearly marked by the imprints our butts had made—for a game of touch football. I was quarterback of my team and even though every pass of mine ended up in the ground, ten feet away from its target (always a little, or a lot, too far to the right), I remained "El Capitan."
Within twenty minutes, half of our players were sitting out with injuries. If you asked them, they were all quite serious. My sister had a scrape on her arm from my cousin's over-eager tackle—she referred to it as "something that looks really serious" or, even better, "a gash." One cousin had a stomachache, one had run into a prickly bush, two were tired, one had hurt his shoulder, and four just grumbled unintelligibly about being unhappy.
I sat out with my sister, watching what had turned into "three flags up," a complex game in which a thrower tosses the football into a mass of people and whoever catches it gets a point. I think if the afternoon became anti-athletic, this was the turning point.
One cousin stood on the side, wearing a fedora, announcing. "Annie almost caught it, but other people had to be jerks," he yelled. My youngest cousin couldn't compete with the taller relatives for the ball so he ran after the thrower, my sister's boyfriend, who handed it to him. It bobbled in his hands for a few, heart-pounding seconds before falling to the ground.
Another cousin sat amongst the players, tugging at the grass, while everyone ran around him to get to the ball—an obstacle that made the game just a little more challenging. The fedora cousin told everyone, "I'm tired of announcing. I'll start playing!" Twenty seconds later, however, he had already declared, "Never mind. I just remembered I don't like running."
My youngest cousin, now sitting with me behind another relative who was sleeping in the grass, looked up and said, "I really want to play but I really don't." I felt the exact same way.
I bet JFK could hit my brother Ted with a throw tougher to catch than a 5'3", 13-year-old cousin. We don't play at a compound, but at a 100-foot long field on a steep incline. They definitely didn't play with a nerf ball.
But maybe that's not the point. I guess, in the end, it's not what our family can do for football, but what football can do for our family. A few minor injuries and twenty-six rumbling stomachs later, we headed home.
Sections
We were heading out to buy a Christmas tree off Knapp Street. "I thought we were going to Marine Park," my brother said. "Tuh," responded my mother. "We never go there," she said. "We haven't been there in years," she amended: "They're too expensive." I thought I remembered always going to Marine Park to get our Christmas tree—sawdust on the ground, a pile of old cut-up trees in the corner of the parking lot, which would stay there until spring, when the Parks Department trucked them away: same weekend they dragged the baseball fields—but I guess we hadn't been there in a year or two, and three's a pattern for my mother, a math teacher. My father just kept driving. "Is this Katy Perry," he asked Z100 Radio Station.
Avenue R forks like an ornament hook, when you take one out of the box from the basement, and we went left onto Gerritsen. You follow that far enough, you get to the end of the world, where Brooklyn drops into the water, where the houses are small and waterproof. We used to play baseball there, my brother and me, in socks too big for our feet. Across the street from the diamond is the library, where I went a few days ago, but they didn't have power outlets next to the desks, for laptops. I sat on the ground against a bookshelf for a while, not filling out job applications, looking at end-of-year news wrap-ups on the important things people had done in other places. I went home and sat at the dining room table and waited for someone to get back from work.
 The tree was easy this year. They didn't have many left. "Got any Fraser Firs?" my mom asked. "We always buy Fraser Firs," she confided to the tree attendant in an elf hat. "Good trees," he said, the felt ears jangling. "Every year," she said. "What about this little one," my dad asked, pointing at a Charlie Brown-sized one. It was small and squat, wilting, in the warm unseasonable weather.
 We got the tree tied on top of the van, this old green minivan we've had for a long time, and we started driving back. It was all easier than last year, or was it the year before, or the year before that? It was one of those three. That year, we got to Knapp Street and got the tree on top but couldn't make the car start. We called Triple A. Meanwhile, a blizzard started. Soon the snow was up to our ankles, and we were getting cold, and Triple A wasn't coming. I remember walking back to our warm house, all four of us with our hats and gloves on, Avenue R disappearing beneath our boots. The news said things were happening elsewhere, but we couldn't tell. I almost didn't recognize our house until it was upon us, strange and framed by snow-drifts, crowded in by all the other homes. The Christmas lights were on in the window but there was an empty space in the center, for where we would put the tree.
Sections
If there is one list we all strive to be on more than the list at the Fly, it's Santa's nice list. So in the midst of the holiday season, don't forget to be kind to the people around you. If Santa isn't strong enough motivation, try this: studies show that taking moral action can result in increased physical strength and endurance.
As a doctoral student at Harvard, Kurt J. Gray, now an assistant professor of psychology at the University of Maryland, conducted research for an article entitled "Moral Transformation: Good and Evil Turn the Weak Into the Mighty." He found that making moral or immoral choices, as opposed to making morally neutral choices, is associated with increased strength and endurance.
"In that study we wanted to see whether good deeds could make people stronger," Gray said. "It's not only that having self-control helps you do good deeds. Doing good deeds actually gives you self-control or physical tenacity."
In the first study, participants had the option to keep a dollar or donate it to charity. Those who were generous could subsequently hold a weight for longer than those who kept the money.
In a second study, participants wrote stories about taking moral, immoral, or neutral actions while holding a weight. Participants that wrote about moral or immoral actions were able to hold the weight for longer on average.
Gray described one test subject, "a really small vegan girl with no muscle mass," and recalled that she was able to outperform him.
"It really is about the strength of mind," Gray said. "If you want to run the Boston Marathon, run it for charity rather than for yourself. If you want to resist eating the cupcake for lunch, donate your change on the way."
The take away? This is a good study to think about during the holiday season. Be nice. Or not. Just don't be neutral.
Sections
Now that we've said goodbye to HUDS for a few weeks, it's time to satisfy holiday hunger pangs on our own. Sad there's no broccoli stuffed chicken? Try this dish, decadent Crème Brûlée French Toast, for Christmas morning or for New Year's Day brunch. Bon appétit!
Ingredients:
1/2 cup unsalted butter
1 cup packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons corn syrup
1 loaf white bread, brioche, or challah
1 cup whole milk
1/2 cup heavy cream
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon Grand Marnier or 1/4 teaspoon orange zest
2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt or table salt
1/4 cup powdered sugar, for sprinkling
Melt butter, brown sugar, and corn syrup in a saucepan. When melted, pour mixture into a baking dish and arrange six 1-inch thick slices of bread in the dish (trim crusts if desired). Next, whisk together milk, heavy cream, eggs, Grand Marnier, vanilla, and salt in a large bowl. Pour resulting mixture over bread slices. Let bread and egg mixture chill for at least four hours, then bake for 35 to 40 minutes or until puffy. Top with powdered sugar. Serve warm and enjoy!
Sections
We at Flyby enjoy live-blogging the merrier moments of life. Click here and join us for a minute-by-minute chronicle of Christmas dinner à la Jew. For many, Christmas Eve is a time to sing carols, attend church, and kiss under the mistletoe. But staff writer Leanna B. Ehrlich celebrated Christmas with family and friends at Chef Chow's House of Chinese Cuisine.
Sections
As Dec. 25 comes to an end, Reina A.E. Gattuso reflects on a Christmas past.
