News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sporting a velvet cape and a mysterious aura, Herr Drosselmeier knows how to cast a spell. With a small wooden doll—one meant to crack nuts, no less—he transports a little girl through a battle against rats and into a dreamland of sweets and foreign delights. This is the journey of Drosselmeier’s goddaughter, Clara Silberhaus, in the most widely beloved of all classical ballets: “The Nutcracker.”
Boston Ballet Artistic Director Mikko Nissinen’s choreography of “The Nutcracker” is particularly lavish. Last Saturday’s performance at the Boston Opera House was presented like an elaborately wrapped holiday gift. With breathtaking set changes, elaborate costumes, and a stream of light-hearted physical jokes, Nissinen managed to create a “Nutcracker” fit for a virtuosic company that still catered to his youngest viewers.
The first act of Nissinen’s “Nutcracker” boasted wonderful attention to detail: in the opening scene, pedestrians stopped underneath a glowing streetlamp by a street vendor’s brightly painted food cart to taste hot treats. At the Silberhaus holiday party, Clara (Rachel Harrison) and her friends wore finely embroidered dresses in blues and teals that matched the upholstery of the cavernous parlor. Even the party’s minor characters were animated: the party’s oldest and grumpiest couple (Altan Dugaraa and Sylvia Deaton) quarrelled in a corner before springing into a wildly entertaining polka. Drosselmeier captivated Clara and her friends with his party tricks by making his handkerchief levitate across the stage, and—in a feat of illusion—making Clara’s younger brother Fritz disappear and reappear on the other end of the room with the flick of a cloth.
However, Drosselmeier’s most impressive marvels were his dolls. The “Harlequin” (Jeffrey Cirio) and “Columbine” (Adiarys Almeida)—named after the eloping Italian lovers first depicted in 17th-century comic pantomimes—managed technically breathtaking choreography with the stiff, robotic movements of mechanical toys. But the greatest crowd-pleaser of the party scene was undoubtedly “Bear” (Lawrence Rhines), who performed a challenging Russian folk dance in an enormous fuzzy full-body bear suit, complete with red ruff. With a playful roll on the stage floor and a kiss to the audience, Bear lumbered off stage to the audible groans of the youngest theatergoers.
It was only after the holiday party was over and young Clara snuck into the parlor to see her Nutcracker gift that Drosselmeier began to draw her into his dream world. Perched atop the enormous grandfather clock, Drosselmeier directed the Christmas tree to grow twice its size, and called for his creations to return onstage. His dolls no longer danced in mechanical jolts, but rather with balletic articulation. As the parlor became more and more fantastical, young costumed mice began to appear on the stage to herald the classic battle scene between the Nutcracker and the Mouse King.
Surprisingly, Nissinen’s “Nutcracker” battle scene did not put up much of a fight. Perhaps in an effort not to frighten young viewers, the battle was static. It failed to live up to the mystical aura that Drosselmeier had created in the parlor moments before. The mice—who threw cheese and picked up a “fallen comrade” in a stretcher—seemed more goofy than menacing. The now lifesize Nutcracker (Lasha Khozashvili) and military commander grouped his young toy soldiers centerstage but led them nowhere. Mice and soldiers clustered around the stage, dancing around but not with—or against—each other. Their lack of contact made Clara’s fear seem artificial and Nutcracker Khozashvili’s mournful death and resurrection as a handsome “Cavalier” unconvincing.
While the first act of “The Nutcracker” was primarily plot-driven, the second act showcased Boston Ballet’s talent as Nissinen’s dancers welcomed Clara to the glittering Kingdom of Sweets. As one of the few productions in which the ballet school’s youngest students dance alongside the company’s most renowned principals, the second act is special for Boston Ballet’s repertoire. In the “Chinese” dance, Dalay Parrondo and Irlan Silva’s energetic pas de deux—or dance for two—was framed by children clothed in red silk who twirled brightly colored parasols in perfect time. In the “Pastorale” dance, it was difficult to decide who was more charming, the three delicate professionals or the five tiny children dressed as lambs—four white and a mischievous black one who always danced out of time. Even Clara joined her fellow students; she danced with Drosselmeier in the “Pastorale” with all of the vivacity and charm of a girl under 10 but the technique of a dancer far older.
The other professionals held their own. In “Arabian,” Rie Ichikawa and Jaime Diaz captivated in a dark, sultry duet with seamless partnering, while the men of the “Russian” dance (Bo Busby, Boyko Dossev, and Duncan Lyle) thrilled as they turned and leapt in flawless synchrony. Though Whitney Jensen and Khozashvili performed a respectable pas de deux as Sugar Plum Fairy and Cavalier, it was Misa Kuranaga—the Dew Drop in the “Waltz of the Flowers”—who captivated the most. With balances and leaps suspended just a moment longer than anticipated, and unparalleled carriage of her arms and head, Kuranaga moved while others only entertained.
But perhaps the “entertainment” factor—the unabashed holiday cheer of it all—should not be downplayed. Nissinen’s choreography can satisfy a first-time ballet-goer, young or old, and in that respect, the wish for something more artistically engaging lingers only for a brief moment.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: Dec. 16 AT 12:42 a.m.
Harvard College announced Thursday that it accepted 18 percent of the 4,231 early applicants to the Class of 2016. These 772 students mark the first group to be admitted early since the College eliminated its early admission program four years ago.
“Their academic, extracurricular, and personal promise are remarkable by any standard, and it will be exciting to follow their progress over the next four years and beyond,” Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 said in a statement.
The Office of Admissions deferred 2,838 students, roughly two-thirds of the total number of applicants. Those applications will be reconsidered in the regular application process. It rejected 546 students.
When Harvard eliminated the early admissions program four years ago, admissions officials said they were aiming to make the College’s admissions process more equitable, arguing that the early program provided an advantage for students of more privileged backgrounds. But the University states that this year’s group is the College’s most diverse pool of early admits to date and its ethnic makeup is on par with the current freshman class.
Fitzsimmons has previously remarked that this early applicant pool was of a “very, very high” quality. He said last month that his office set a particularly high bar when determining which students to admit.
“If we’re 100 percent certain that we would take the person later, we’ll take the person early,” Fitzsimmons told The Crimson last month. “We have no quotas in our minds, no numbers. We don’t go there.”
Fitzsimmons said that all deferred applicants would receive “a complete review later in the regular process.”
“We’re not one of these places where one would expect that almost none of the deferred applicants would get in,” Fitzsimmons added.
Still, Amy Sack, president of college counseling company Admissions Accomplished, said that the numbers indicate that the chances are low for deferred applicants. Nearly 77 percent of students accepted to Harvard’s Class of 2015 matriculated, and the total class size is less than 1,700.
“Deferral means I’m acceptable to Harvard, but they’re still looking for better,” said college counselor Lucie Lapovsky. “The acceptance rate is going to be driven down for the rest of the class.”
Sack said she believes the admissions numbers are evidence that the College has been able to attract strong applicants to its early pool who might have applied elsewhere in previous years.
“I think they were trying to [create] a very strong class, and I think that’s exactly why they did it,” Sack said.
Though it is difficult to approximate the yield for early applicants, Sack said that students who are accepted early often become “psychologically committed,” which eventually leads them to accept their early offer.
Last week, Stanford admitted 755 of 5,880 early applicants. Numbers at most of Harvard’s peer institutions have not yet been released.
Though admitted, successful early applicants are not required to commit to Harvard until May 1, the same date all accepted students must indicate whether they plan to matriculate.
Fitzsimmons said Harvard plans to reach out to students admitted early in the coming months before the regular application decisions are released.
The admissions office has roped in students and faculty members to make phone calls to admitted students, as it has done in the past. Local Harvard alumni associations are also planning holiday parties.
New to the outreach, all early admits will receive free merchandise from the COOP and a handwritten note from the area representative who reviewed their applications.
“It’s a reminder to students that this is a process that is personal and that this is an institution that is personal,” said Fitzsimmons.
Still, Fitzsimmons said that students should take the time to make a careful decision.
“I would prefer to see people be 100 percent sure that they want to come to Harvard,” Fitzsimmons said. “And if that takes until May 1, that’s fine.”
Decision emails were sent to applicants after 5 p.m. Eastern time on Thursday.
—Staff writer Justin C. Worland can be reached at jworland@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Finals period is always stressful, but if you have the chance, try this fun Puerto Rican twist on the perennial holiday favorite: eggnog. Naturally, being of the procrastinating type, we took time away from studying to duck into the kitchen and whip up some Coquito. It may look complicated, but the mixture of tropical flavors and spices certainly warmed up our study break and made the effort worth it!
Ingredients:
2 egg yolks
1 1/2 cups evaporated milk
1 3/4 cups coconut milk
1 3/4 cups sweetened condensed milk
1/2 cup spiced rum
1/2 cup water
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Mix the egg and evaporated milk in a small bowl. Pour the contents of the bowl into a pan and heat until the mixture begins to steam, stirring constantly. When heated, pour this mixture into a blender and add the rest of the ingredients. Blend briefly, then chill before serving. Enjoy!
Sections
As the temperatures took a frightening plunge this week, many an impromptu performance of the holiday classic "Baby, It's Cold Outside" have been seen across campus. Given some of the lines in the song, which range from "your eyes are like starlight now" to "man, your lips are delicious," and responses that include "say, what's in this drink?" we're not surprised that the odd version comes out sounding more predatory than not. Here are our judgments of five of the better-known covers of the song.
Rod Stewart and Dolly Parton
Stewart and Parton perform the song as two older singers flirting and falling in love. In this version's slower tempo, Parton holds her own as a strong, independent woman. ADORABLE.
Dean Martin
 Martin's version features several young ladies singing the female lead in harmony, lending it a cutesy vibe—that is, until you realize that Martin is trying to get several of these young, innocent, and naive-sounding ladies to stay over. PREDATORY.
Ella Fitzgerald and Louis Jordan 
 
 The power of Fitzgerald's voice complements Jordan's well, avoiding the inequality of a dominant male lead that characterizes many other versions. The 1920's swing sound of the arrangement also brings this cover closer to the song's origins as a duet for a husband and wife to perform together at holiday parties. ADORABLE.
Norah Jones and Willie Nelson
 This is one of the more popular versions out there today, but we don't get the feeling that Jones really wants to stay over with Nelson. Nelson's voice seems harsh in contrast with the ethereal wistfulness of Jones', making this one feel a bit too Demi-Ashton for our tastes. PREDATORY.
Chris Colfer and Darren Criss
 The only version of this song recorded by two men, the "Glee" cover is a perennial favorite among fans of the show. Even though both characters play coy throughout the song, the fact that they are madly in love with each other comes through strongly. ADORABLE.
Sections
Finals period can be stressful, and sometimes we all need a break or two, or ten. Flyby is here to help. Stay tuned for our version of "The Twelve Days of Christmas," based instead on the eight days of finals.
On the fourth day of finals, Flyby gave to me...
Four delicious food blogs
Three feel-good links
Two writing helpers
And a quiet place to be.
