News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two Ivy League men’s soccer teams face a different kind of competitor this weekend: the Haiti National Team.
To raise money for the continuing relief efforts in Haiti, the country's national team visited Dartmouth last night and faces off against Harvard tomorrow night at Harvard Stadium.
The 99th-ranked team in the world, the Haitian squad has a proud soccer tradition, especially for a country of its size. The champion of the 2007 Caribbean Nations Cup, Haiti qualified for the World Cup in 1974, though it failed to make it past the first round.
As of late, however, the team’s ranking has plummeted, thanks in part to the 2010 earthquake in which at least 30 people involved with Haiti soccer were killed. In fact, from its peak FIFA ranking of 66 in November of 2007, Haiti has fallen 33 spots.
And so the still-recovering soccer program made the nearly 2000-mile trek to Hanover, N.H., to meet up with the Big Green on Friday night at the Burnham Field. In a close contest, Haiti barely sneaked away with the win, capitalizing on a second-half goal on a penalty kick to take the 2-1 victory.
Next up for Haiti is a trip down south to Cambridge to face the Crimson tomorrow. Thanks in large part to the large Haitian community in Boston, the stands should be pretty full.
In addition to the strength of its adversary, Harvard will have to deal with another hurdle: rust. The Crimson hasn’t played in a competitive match since November of last year.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Still scrambling to find summer housing in Cambridge? While PRISE and Harvard Summer School participants can snag on-campus rooms, others aren't so lucky. But not to fear—Craigslist isn't the only path to housing still available. You have plenty of choices, but they're filling up fast. Secure your spot at one of these great options soon.
 
Suffolk University
Suffolk offers housing for college interns in Boston—but only if the intern is receiving academic credit. Daily breakfast is included, and students can add a meal plan for an extra cost.
Rooms: Apartments (double, triple, and quad rooms) and suites (single and double bedrooms)
Rates: $345-385/week
Directions to Harvard: Take the Red Line from Downtown Crossing.
Boston University
Housing is available for non-BU students participating in a summer internship or academic research program in the area.
Rooms: Apartment-style multiple-occupancy bedrooms (no singles)
Rates: $241.66/week
Directions to Harvard: Take the Green Line from Boston University East.
MIT Interfraternity Council 
Despite the less-than-classy "Animal House" connotations, living in a frat house is probably the cheapest and most social option for college students in the summer.
Rooms: Singles through quints, depending on the fraternity. Kitchen and laundry room use usually included.
Rates: $1200-2200 for the summer
Directions to Harvard: Locations throughout Cambridge and Boston.
At Home in Boston
This program organizes homestays with host families throughout Boston. While it was originally targeted toward international students learning English, college students who will be in Boston for the summer are also accepted.
Rooms: Private bedrooms in residential homes
Rates: $650-$825/month, plus one-time enrollment fee of $195-$295 depending on duration of stay
Directions to Harvard: Locations vary, but all homes are within a ten minutes' walking distance of public transportation.
Sections
With temperatures rising, students looking for more opportunities to spend a stress-relieving hour outside can join Harvard's Center for Wellness outdoor tai chi or yoga class.
Working with the Common Spaces Chairs Project, the Center for Wellness is bringing tai chi and yoga to the Yard throughout April. The program began last week.
"It's really nice to be outside and breathing fresh air," said Jeanne M. Mahon, director of the Center for Wellness. "It's also a little bit in keeping with Harvard On the Move, bringing students together with faculty and staff across the campus."
Although the weather was a little chilly for the first round of classes, Mayhon hopes more students will join in the relaxing recreation. If enough students show interest, the Center for Wellness is considering extending the program through spring and into summer.
Classes will be held weekly in front of Memorial Church. Tai chi classes are each Monday from 5-6 p.m. while yoga classes run Wednesday from 12-1 p.m.
"It's open to beginners. We're doing a bit of flow yoga, some sun salutations," Mayhon said. "Nothing crazy, but there's something there for everyone."
No advance registration is necessary, and the classes are free. Yoga participants are required to bring their own mat.
Sections
It looks like Drew Faust's interest in Americana stretches beyond her area of expertise in the Civil War.
Harvard's president recently wrote an article for the Philadelphia Inquirer about her passion for baseball, relating America's pastime to her work as a historian. Both, she writes, offer a different perspective on American life.
Tracing the course of her fandom—from the Washington Senators to the Philadelphia Phillies to the Boston Red Sox—she discussed how her own personal life and challenges as an academic drew her back to the game.
Like any good historian, she demonstrates a sound knowledge of the names of the game, from the great Harmon Killebrew to the not-so-great Lenny Dykstra.
Faust already made a splash onto the professional baseball scene last season. She threw out the first pitch at Fenway on Sept. 22, when the team honored Harvard's athletic national champions and the Kuumba singers performed the national anthem.
But both Harvard baseball and the Sox could use a little bit of help this year. The Crimson has started its year at 3-23 this year, and the Red Sox haven't fared much better, posting a 1-7 record so far.
Although with some of the teams that Faust has followed, she's probably used to it.
