News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s squash team preserved its undefeated record with two wins against No. 8 Dartmouth (1-1, 0-1 Ivy) and No. 12 Middlebury (0-4) last night in Hanover, N.H.
The No. 1 Crimson (4-0, 1-0) defeated the Big Green, 8-1, and the Panthers, 9-0, as Harvard’s top eight swept the competition in a dominant showing in the early season matchups.
“Everyone played well,” co-captain Nirasha Guruge said. “It took some of us a bit of time to get used to the courts. But I think once we settled down ... I think we did a pretty good job.”
Freshman Megan Murray and junior Eliza Calihan didn’t travel with the team to Dartmouth yesterday, so players on the bottom of ladder moved up two spots to fill in.
“I think if we had [Murray and Calihan] we would have won 9-0 against Dartmouth too,” Guruge said. “But I am proud that we still we won ... against both schools even without these two players.”
HARVARD 9, MIDDLEBURY 0
Harvard hadn’t played Middlebury since 1980, but the team didn’t miss a beat yesterday. The Crimson easily handled its opponent, not losing a single game in the second match of the night.
“We really are a bit of a powerhouse,” Crimson coach Mike Way said. “It was just business—getting on with it, executing the game plan, and coming away with a score line that reflects the strength of our team.”
“It wasn’t hard for us, but it was a good experience,” Guruge added. “It’s good to play a lot of different schools.”
Although this was the second consecutive game for the Crimson, Way said fatigue was not a factor because of the team’s early-season focus on fitness.
“We train pretty hard in the fall and then taper off in the spring because that’s when we have all the really tough matches,” Guruge said.
“We’ve been training for months, and everyone came to play today and played really well,” junior Laura Gemmell added. “Playing back-to-back didn’t rattle us at all.”
HARVARD 8, DARTMOUTH 1
Ivy League rival Dartmouth proved to be no match for Harvard in its first match of the evening, as only three of the eight Crimson wins went beyond the minimum three games.
“Dartmouth is a good school,” Guruge said. “They have some good players, but we’ve been training hard. There were some long rallies, but everyone managed to just pull through.”
The only loss came at the No. 9 spot, with freshman Yuleissy Ramirez dropping a tight 3-0 match against Katherine Nimmo, 11-9, 11-7, 11-7.
In addition to moving up because of two teammates not traveling, Ramirez also climbed up a spot in place of injured co-captain Cece Cortez.
The Crimson was also without freshman and 2010 World Junior Champion Amanda Sobhy, who would likely play at the number one spot but is ineligible for the first semester.
Despite those losses, the visitors were able to take care of business against their two lower-ranked opponents.
“There’s always a little bit of added stress when you are a higher ranking and you are expected to win,” assistant coach Luke Hammond said. “The women handled themselves very well. They were all very poised, and they did a nice job.”
At the number one spot for the Crimson, Gemmell—who missed Harvard’s first two matches—started off her season strong with a 3-1 win against the opposing Dartmouth No. 1, Corey Schafer, 11-7, 11-7, 7-11, 11-1.
“She was a really good runner, and we had a good match,” said Gemmell of her opponent.
The early part of the women’s squash season for the Crimson does not usually include many highly contested matches, as more focus is placed on building fitness. But overall, the team was happy with its play in Hanover.
“We couldn’t be more proud of the way the girls played tonight,” Hammond said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s squash team took care of business on the road last night in an early season two-match contest.
Led by sophomore Brandon McLaughlin, the No. 5 Crimson (3-0, 1-0 Ivy) dropped No. 7 Dartmouth (3-1, 0-1) in convincing fashion, 8-1, and immediately followed that up with a 9-0 sweep of No. 17 Middlebury (0-3).
An impressive Ivy League victory over the Big Green was highlighted by three-game sweeps in seven out of the nine contests.
“Our guys worked very hard, and we’re very pleased,” Harvard coach Mike Way said.
HARVARD 9, MIDDLEBURY 0
Harvard dominated from one to nine in the lineup, with the entire team losing a combined three games while cruising to the lopsided win.
It was the second of two matches on the night for the Crimson, who just moments earlier had sealed a win over Dartmouth.
“Playing right after [the Dartmouth match] definitely made it more difficult,” said McLaughlin, who opened the match with a straight-game win over Middlebury’s Valentin Quan.
After dropping his second contest, sophomore Gary Power bounced back to win two straight and defeat Jay Dolan, 3-1.  Sophomore Nigel Koh won by the same margin after taking the final two games from the Panthers’ Parker Hurst.
Hurst also lost to freshman Nick Hopkroft in a three-game sweep in the next match.
In a matchup with Middlebury’s Cooper Redbath, freshman Tyler Olson took the first two games, 12-10 and 11-9, before dropping the third, but sealed the victory with an 11-3 tally in the fourth game.
Sophomore Thomas Mullaney and freshman Julian Kirby both dominated their opponenets in straight-game victories. Mullaney only dropped 10 points in his contest, while Kirby dropped just six for the most convincing win of the night.
Junior Alexander Ma took his first game before his opponent retired with an injury, giving the Crimson a clean sweep.
Despite the one-sided result, Way praised Middlebury for its preparation and fitness.
“They gave our guys a good run for our money,” he said.
HARVARD 8, DARTMOUTH 1
The Crimson won handily against the Big Green, dropping only five games to a team that graduated only one player after finishing last season ranked seventh in the nation.
In the first matchup, McLaughlin was pitted against Dartmouth junior and two-time All-American Chris Hanson. After a strong performance, the Harvard sophomore came out with a 3-0 victory.
“[Hanson] is a bloody strong player,” Way said. “Brandon just played a remarkable match.”
After a rare stumble from Power in a five-game match against Big Green senior Nick Sisodia, the Crimson would not lose another match on the evening.
Koh defeated Chris Jung in straight games. After an 11-8 victory in his fifth and final contest, Hopcroft pulled out a 3-2 victory over Dartmouth’s Luke Lee.
Fellow rookie Olson then swept Big Green junior Robbie Maycock in straight matches, 11-9, 11-5, 11-7.
Way was particularly pleased with the play of Olson. The rookie is undefeated early in the season and has yet to drop a game.
“He’s showing a maturity beyond what I would expect at this juncture,” the coach said.
Despite two close games, junior Zeke Scherl swept Dartmouth senior Stephen Wetherill with an 11-5 third-game victory to continue Harvard’s winning streak.
Mullaney earned a sweep of his own, as did Kirby, who dropped only eight points en route to his win over Big Green senior Brian O’Toole.
Ma closed out Harvard’s victory with a convincing straight-game victory over Dartmouth’s Fletcher Pease.
Way was quick to credit Dartmouth, saying the score line didn’t properly reflect the Big Green’s talent.
“They’re actually a very strong team,” he said.
On the whole, the coach was pleased with his team’s play in its first Ivy League matchup of the young season.
“[The group] has been training very hard, and they clearly looked to be the fitter team,” he said. “I was very proud of our guys.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
North Face tents were assembled in the Yard. Protesters congregated around the tents, milling among them. And by 9 p.m. on April 18, 2001, 52 Harvard students had settled comfortably into their occupation of Massachusetts Hall.Nearly 100 supporters had gathered just outside for a candlelight vigil. A brunette with glasses leaned out the second-story window of Mass. Hall, fist clenched, jaw set. Next to her, a boy balanced his laptop precariously on the windowsill.“1,000+ Harvard Workers Live in Poverty,” proclaimed a poster taped to the wall next to them. The word “Veritas” was written repeatedly around the phrase, a border framing it. Another one, more official, was pasted below the window, the words written in red and black block letters: “Living Wage Sit-in.”
MOMENTUM
In February 1999, Harvard’s Progressive Student Labor Movement (PSLM) had launched a four-month living wage campaign for Harvard employees. Its members based their demands on a distinction between the federal minimum wage ($5.15 per hour at the time) and a wage considered “livable” in a specific city of residence (then set in Cambridge at $10.25 per hour, plus benefits and adjustable for inflation). A report released by Harvard on Feb. 20, meant to stymie any outcry, revealed that only 2.7 percent of Harvard’s “regular employees”—those who worked more than 17.5 hours a week—made less than $10 an hour.The report had the opposite effect. Supporters of PSLM’s campaign latched onto the data showing that 49 percent of Harvard’s “casual employees,” its part-time or temporary workers, made less than $10 an hour, often with no benefits. They also called into question Harvard’s increasing reliance on outsourced, subcontracted workers, who were not included in the data.Throughout the winter of 2000 the Living Wage Campaign continued to gain steam, bolstered by the support of prominent faculty, such as then-Du Bois Professor of the Humanities Henry L. Gates Jr., and then-Fletcher University Professor Cornel R. West ’74. By April, then President Neil R. Rudenstine promised to assemble an Ad Hoc Committee on Employment Policies.Yet, 13 months later, PSLM was less than satisfied with the Committee’s results. It recommended against increasing wages for Harvard’s workers, instead promoting the expansion of free education programs and the official launch of Harvard’s Bridge to Learning and Literacy.
ESCALATING TENSIONS
To PSLM members, this was not enough. “Harvard needed to pay its workers a living wage given the enormous disparity of the wealth of Harvard, the very princely conditions that we all lived in, while our dining hall workers, our janitors ... were being paid so-called market rates—which are poverty rates.” says Elfenbein.“We said Harvard can afford to—and it should—fulfill its obligation as the largest employer in Cambridge,” she adds.After meeting with administrators throughout the 2000-2001 school year, PSLM decided its tactics needed to change. The group published its platform on its website, demanding a “living wage with benefits for all Harvard workers, whether directly-employed or hired through outside firms.”
OCCUPATION
The PSLM members, precursor to today’s Student Labor Action Movement (SLAM), had slipped into Massachusetts Hall earlier that day, at 1:30 p.m., through the basement of Matthews. Some had grasped their laptops. Others carted bags of granola and tanks of water. Once inside, they linked arms, chanted slogans, and read testimony gathered from Harvard workers.“This is not a decision that was made lightly, by any stretch,” says Madeleine S. Elfenbein ’04, a former Crimson columnist and a member of PSLM at the time. The students affiliated with PSLM had hosted rallies; they had passed around petitions; they had lobbied for over four years, since the organization’s founding in 1997, in support of a “living wage” for Harvard’s workers.  “A sit-in,” Elfenbein acknowledges, “is a pretty major scaling-up of tactics.” The Mass. Hall sit-in would last 21 days, garner the attention of CNN and The New York Times, and spark campus-wide debate: centered, at least among the students, more on the methods of radical activism than on its goals. It was novel in its achievements, improving wages and benefits for Harvard’s lowest-paid workers, though it was not the first occupation of Harvard property by students; nor, clearly, would it be the last.The three-week sit-in, while fundamental to the platform, was not its only manifestation on campus. Nearly 100 people set up tents in Harvard Yard. The campaign organized daily pickets and rallies, which drew up to 2,000 people. The campaign received impromptu messages from U.S. Senator Edward M. Kennedy ’54-’56, former Secretary of Labor Robert Reich, and AFL-CIO President John J. Sweeney.Some Harvard employees became involved: one dining hall employee in Adams House, according to Elfenbein, coordinated the food effort for the PSLM sitters-in, so that HUDS food was brought to them daily by dining hall workers.In a contemporaneous piece in the L.A. Times, PSLM member Benjamin L. McKean ’04 discussed the irony of strategizing on behalf of Harvard’s lowest-paid workers within “the plush trappings of Ivy aristocracy.”“We sleep on expensive rugs, and strategize in antique chairs,” wrote McKean. “Our meetings take place amid 18th century paintings and 19th century prints.”
SUPPORT, DISSENT
President Neil R. Rudenstine, who had not returned to his Mass. Hall office since the start of the sit-in, arrived one day, as Elfenbein says, “to visit us and talk to us, and ask us to leave.”“That was painful,” she says. “Neil Rudenstine was personally a very nice man, and from a working class background—he was personally a very sympathetic guy.” She also acknowledges that PSLM was much more critical of the Harvard Corporation than of Rudenstine, who she says probably didn’t have as much power in this situation.By May 8, 2001, PSLM had not yet achieved its specific demands—but Rudenstine had agreed to establish another committee, the Harvard Committee on Employment and Contracting. It was enough to end the sit-in. This time, the Katz Committee, as it came to be known, would be made up of students, faculty, and workers in addition to Harvard administrators. It was meant to examine “issues related to the economic welfare of lower-paid employees at Harvard,” according to the University’s Labor Relations website.The Katz Committee did recommend, in December 2001, that Harvard establish a living wage for its workers, and promoted the implementation of a Wage and Benefit Parity Policy to ensure that contracted workers receive total compensation comparable to that offered to University employees. “We couldn’t have achieved what we did,” says Elfenbein, “without the sit-in and the tent city in Harvard Yard.”Elfenbein recalls being impressed with the level of support from students, faculty, and the larger Cambridge community. Yet, like the ongoing protests today, there was hardly an on-campus consensus: some objected to the goals, many others to the tactics, while one Crimson editor diagnosed a “wall of cynicism” keeping Harvard students apathetic throughout the sit-in. In a Boston Globe op-ed, Professor Gregory N. Mankiw called the protesters “laudable in their intentions but deficient in their analysis,” claiming that the passage of a living wage would mean that fewer workers would be hired.On June 5, an editorial by the Crimson editorial staff stated its support of a living wage for Harvard’s workers, but decried the sit-in as “a blatant disruption of University life.”Elfenbein agrees that many students felt uncomfortable with the methods employed by PSLM. She says that she wasn’t quite comfortable with them either.“It’s a tactic that is inherently disruptive,” she says. “That is what lends it its effectiveness—but it is also inevitably a polarizing tactic as well.”Nevertheless, Elfenbein objects to the characterization of the sit-in as “anti-scholarly,” “un-American,” and “illiberal,” rhetoric that, according to her, became common discourse at the time.“Our demands were not an idle whim,” she says. “They were demands that had an entire community of support on its side.”
Sections
Are you sick of watching people open your gifts and immediately search for the receipt? Tired of hearing “um ... what is this?” in response to a “creative” present? Worry no more, FM has the solution to your holiday doldrums and foolproof suggestions for every person on your list.
Grandmother
Conventional:
Sweater—$68-$108, Ann Taylor
A great thank you gift for all of the sweet care packages grandma has been sending you. What better way to say “I love you” than with dry-clean-only cashmere?
Unconventional:
An empty cardboard box with a pre-addressed label for your dorm—$5, FedEx
It’s hard to get all that packaging together. You’re saving grandma time and money.
Brother
Conventional:
Video Game—$40, Best Buy
Don’t worry if you don’t know anything about video games. Simply pick out whichever game has the most guns and/or footballs on the cover.
Unconventional: Educational video (Think “Schoolhouse Rock”)—$30, also Best Buy
Preferably one that relates to a class that you’re taking. He gets to watch a movie and help you with your work. It’s a win-win.
Blockmates
Conventional:
Necklace—$18-$30, Urban Outfitters
Nothing says, “I’m glad we blocked together,” like some holiday bling.
Unconventional: Housemaster email addresses—free, Harvard directory
Nothing says, “We need to transfer out of the Quad together,” like the personal information of administrators in high places.
Roommates
Conventional: Headphones—$60, www.skullcandy.com
For all the loud music he/she is always playing when you’re trying to finish a problem set or start your thesis.
Unconventional:
The Holy Bible: King James Version—$13, www.amazon.com
This gift sends the “Stop sexiling me!” message loud and clear.
Significant other (Boyfriend, girlfriend, or “We don’t believe in labels,” person)
Conventional:
Scarf—$19-$40, American Apparel
Keep it casual with the least intimate of the accessory options.
Unconventional:
Timex Extra Loud Alarm Clock—$10, Radio Shack
Maybe it’s time to put a label on the relationship.
Sections
December hasn’t always been the 12th month in the calendar. “December” comes from the Latin word “decem,” meaning “10,” and was originally the 10th and final month in the Roman calendar.
December’s place changed, however, when Julius Caesar decided to reform the Roman calendar, which was so irregular that the celebration of festivals occurred during the wrong seasons of the year.
So after consulting the Egyptian astronomer Sosigenes, Caesar established his new 365 day Julian calendar in 45 B.C.E., which was longer than the Roman calendar and increased the number of days in December from 29 to 31.
In 2011, December’s 31 days mean the inevitability of snow and the imminent transition to a new year. Usually, the last of those 31 days also carries with it the idea of an end.
Despite the addition of days and debates on how to properly measure time, December, as an end, is primarily symbolic: A new calendar is tacked on the wall in place of the old one, and the countdown begins again.
Sections
As a child, Economics 1010b Professor Christopher L. Foote remembers being stunned by conversations about inflation and unemployment during the major economic recession of the 1970s. “I was 10 years old and had just started to pay attention to things around me,” Foote says. “Once I’d learned that economics was a science, I felt that it was so important that it never really left me.” Just a month after Baghdad fell in 2003, Foote was asked to go to Iraq and aid the Coalition Provisional Authority, the nation’s transitional government, in rebuilding the war-torn economy. There, Foote served as part of a team tasked with ensuring the nation’s smooth transition to a free-market economy. With President Obama’s promise to have every American soldier in Iraq home by Christmas, Foote’s work takes on new relevance.
THE ROAD TO CAMBRIDGEAfter earning a B.A. from the College of William and Mary in 1987, Foote spent two years writing about business and economics for a small newspaper in Harrisonburg, Va. He then received his Ph.D. in macroeconomics and political economy from the University of Michigan. Upon graduating in May of 1996, Foote began teaching at Harvard, where he currently teaches Economics 1010b: Macroeconomic Theory. Economics Professor David I. Laibson ’88, a friend and colleague of Foote’s for 15 years, is impressed by Foote’s ability to consistently relate the material he teaches to the real world. “[Foote] brings the material alive,” says Laibson. Foote has served as a senior economist and policy advisor in the research department at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston since 2003, and he is also an advisor to the Center for Behavioral Economics and Decisionmaking. The research he does for the Fed spans issues from the housing market to interest rates, and Foote makes sure to address these real-world topics in class.“When he talks about the housing crisis, it’s not in an abstract way,” says Benjamin B. Wilcox ’13, who took Economics 1010b last year. “It’s with the understanding that this is a public policy issue that he has wrestled with, that he has researched, and that he’s still actively pursuing answers to.”“He’s the warmest professor I’ve met in my time here so far,” says Michael E. Mitchell ’14. “His enthusiasm for macroeconomics seemed grounded in a conviction that his work could make a difference in people’s everyday lives by improving policy, especially for homeowners and people with mortgages.”
FROM CAMBRIDGE TO IRAQ During the 2002-2003 academic year, Foote worked as a senior staff economist—and later as chief economist—at the Council of Economic Advisors. When Baghdad fell following the U.S. invasion, Foote was asked to travel to Iraq as part of a team of economists. He served as an advisor to the Coalition Provisional Authority from May to Sept. of that year and returned to Iraq for a short time in January and Feb. of 2004. Foote worked primarily with economists at the Central Bank of Iraq on exchange rate and currency issues. “They were eager to work with us because they also knew that their economy was in bad shape before the war,” Foote explains. He cites corruption in government, lack of infrastructure, and an unstable education system as major challenges. Foote returned from Iraq with a changed perspective on developmental economics, a better understanding of the difficulties of establishing stability in Iraq, and a newfound appreciation for the American military.“I clearly got a sense that people were promoted based on their ability, that people treated each other with respect, that people followed orders, but also that people were chipping in opinions where they were appropriate,” says Foote. In 2004, Foote co-authored a paper entitled “Economic Policy and Prospects in Iraq” in the Journal of Economic Perspectives, along with William Block, Keith Crane, and Simon Gray. All four served as economists in Iraq, and the paper chronicled their observations while also assessing long-term solutions.“[Foote] speaks about Iraq matter-of-factly,” says Laibson. “He describes the challenges and frustrations [but] doesn’t make a big deal of it.” Wilcox says that Foote occasionally discusses his experiences in Iraq with his students. “Mostly, I think that his work in Iraq served as an example of the way that the ideas that we studied had very real implications for economic development in today’s world,” he says.
LOOKING TO THE FUTUREFoote is uncertain about Iraq’s future after the departure of the last American soldier later this month. “I worry that, because of the way Iraq’s economy is structured, there is an incentive for people to try to take over the government so they can try to get control,” he says.Expanding upon his work in Iraq, Foote hopes to become an economic consultant after he retires, traveling to different countries offering advice on how to set up basic but vital systems such as a central bank or treasury department.  For now, though, Foote is immersing himself in his passion for economics and his love of research and teaching. “It’s one of these things where my wife will constantly say, you don’t have hobbies because your job is your hobby,” says Foote.
Sections
Peter D. Davis ’12 is known to many at Harvard as the “funny guy,” as a member of the comedy show On Harvard Time, the co-president of Harvard College’s Stand-Up Comic Society (HCSUCS), and one half of last year’s joke ticket for the UC Presidency.
Davis, who ran as the vice presidential pick of Collin A. Jones ’12, was frequently spotted holding a large felt board with three pillars, representing the campaign’s three-pronged platform—democracy, safety, and the 21st century—while Jones donned a Tigger suit and wielded a pogo stick.
“I wanted to have some original memories of things that happened here,” says Davis. “You have one college life to live so might as well go big.”
Like many other Harvard students, Davis has a laundry list of extracurricular achievements. What distinguishes Davis, aside from his Elmo shirts and broad, toothy grin, is his involvement in projects including Harvard Thinks Big and the recent Occupy The Facts movement.
Behind their hilarious antics and comical YouTube videos, there was a meaningful message to the campaign: “I hope that [Collin and I] were entertaining, and that in our satire, we’ve inspired the UC to be more accessible to the students,” says Davis.
THE CREATOR
Although he dabbled in a number of things, Davis advocates a “push back against solely a culture of joining.”
“Joining things your freshman year is one part of the Harvard experience that educates you and allows for the seniors to teach you wisdom,” says Davis. “But another part can be creating, transforming, and re-imagining; you don’t have to accept our present institutional forms but you can re-imagine them.”
One of the things that Davis created, together with Derek Flanzraich ’10 and the organizational help of the College Events Board, is Harvard Thinks Big, which brings together 10 Harvard professors to talk about their ideas.
“I wanted to inspire people that school is not just about grades and getting a job, but also about thinking hard about the great ideas of our time that are coming out of Harvard,” says Davis. “Exciting ideas can be the sexy thing; it doesn’t have to be drinking parties and football.”
The project took 16 months to materialize. Still, Davis sees Harvard Thinks Big as a move in the right direction.Harvard needs to be an ideas-friendly environment, where we shouldn’t be afraid of the new and untested.
“We should have a spirit of democratic experimentalism on campus,” Davis says. “The churn of new ideas and organizations is always a good thing, even though 80 percent of them are going to fail. Eventually you’ll find keepers that really make life better.”
THE OCCUPIER
Davis spent the first 18 years of his life in Falls Church, Va., a small town outside of Washington D.C., where he was immersed in a tradition of activism. His grandfather was a part of FDR’s presidential campaign. His father was a public-interest anthropologist and an activist on indigenous rights issues.
“We always emphasize participating in your community and engaging to make the world more just,” says Davis. “My mom always told me that any average citizen is as important as the president of the United States, so you have to treat everyone with dignity.”
At Harvard, the Currier House resident concentrates in government, and focuses on issues of civic life, institutional innovation, and “civic creativity,” a term he uses to denote the art of imagining possibilities for our society.
Earlier this month, Davis helped jump-start Occupy the Facts, a burgeoning student organization that aims to provide the resources and public policy research surrounding the demands of the Occupy movement, making them engaging and accessible to a broader audience.
“We’ve been inspired by the Occupy movement’s call to be active citizens and to not let a certain subset of the country run the country,” Davis says.
The group, which initially consisted of five founding members in the senior class, now has around 50 people on its mailing list. Out of them, 25 are working on creating public policy fact sheets, which will then be converted into informational packages, such as infographics, YouTube videos, and a puppet show.
“At worst, we can educate ourselves and the Harvard community on some of the aspects of the demands made by the occupiers,” Davis says. “The middle goal is to help distribute information to a wider group about the movement.”
Davis considers himself an occupier, and keeps a level head as he ponders the movement.
“When Occupy Harvard makes the claim that Harvard was complicit in the financial crisis, I’m open to hearing the reasoning, but eventually they have to do the hard work of educated comprehension of what their claims are,” says Davis. “We have a duty as citizens when making claims to not just drum up anger, but also to educate.”
While Davis calls on the administration to consider alternatives to extreme measures such as closing off the Yard, he ultimately doesn’t aspire to be a critic, but rather a creator of solutions.
“The Peter Davis School of Social Change is about building things that matter,” says Max D. Novendstern ’12. “While our peers are sitting in tents and chanting, Peter is doing hard, serious, obscure work required to create stuff that really helps people. Publicity isn’t his goal; he wants to create institutions that last.”
THE LEGACY
After graduation next year, Davis is working full-time on CommonPlace, a web platform for local community engagement that he created with Novendstern. The website, which Davis calls “Facebook for local community,” has been launched in 10 cities and aims to help people get connected to their neighbors.
As his penultimate semester at Harvard is coming to a close, Davis hopes that the legacy of his class will be to prove to younger and future students that Harvard is a platform for creativity and solutions to public problems.
“Don’t feel like your only option is to climb the hierarchy of previously created organizations; you can join in organizations and transform it, or you can even create new organizations,” Davis says. “The barriers to entry for making ripples on campus are not as high as you think they are.”
Sections
1. Fifteen Minutes: As the first gay couple serving as House Masters at Lowell House, do you feel a responsibility to advocate for or act as a representative of the gay population?
Diana Eck:  We do advocate. We’re not the world’s biggest gay activists, because both of us do have other jobs. Not all gay people are gay activists. We’ve been involved with the court cases in Massachusetts, when marriage was made finally legal. And we went right down to City Hall and got a marriage license. We were married in 2004, on the 4th of July. And it was wonderful. We sang “My Country ’Tis of Thee” at the wedding. But I think that the way that we’re most effective is that we are basically a gay couple. When we greet all the parents at Junior Parents Weekend, or all the families and all the grandmothers and the cousins at commencement, we’re ourselves. There are many families that have never actually met a gay couple before. And so who knows what’s in their minds! But in our mind, it’s just, “Hey! These are the moms and dads of our students.” I think that level of normalization is really good.
2. FM: In what capacity did you first arrive at Harvard?
DE: Actually, I went from Smith College to The School of Oriental and African Studies in London and studied Indian history and South Asian history. I ended up in Cambridge for a variety of reasons, but I couldn’t find a really good job, so I worked as a receptionist in Harvard Square with a master’s degree from University of London . . . And as I was doing that I thought, “if I’m going to be sitting around all day, I think I better go to graduate school.” So I did; I applied. Once I finished graduate school, Harvard was just about convinced that it was okay for undergraduates to undertake religion as a major, because up until that time you could only do religion as a special concentration, which was ridiculous.
3. FM: Tell me a little about the Pluralism Project.
DE:  The pluralism project started in 1991, and it really began with the changes in the demographic composition of Harvard. These changes at Harvard got me interested in things that I hadn’t been paying much attention to. I’d always been studying religious life and religious communities in India, but now a lot of those religious communities were right here and no one was paying much attention.
There are really three kinds of questions that we ask. One is: “Who’s here and what is their history?” The second is: “How are these traditions changing in the American landscape, as they become more ‘American’?” And the third is: “How is America changing, as we become truly multi-religious?” It’s always been part of our blueprint, I suppose, but now there are a lot of new things that have happened.
4. FM: This year we marked the tenth anniversary of 9/11. How do you think that event changed our perceptions of religious difference and pluralism?
DE: It really amplified much of what we had already been looking at in the Pluralism Project. America has a long history of the people who were already here being wary of newcomers. But now the “belongers,” you might say, in American society were suddenly seeing a lot more people they considered to be strangers. Non-Muslim Americans began to become much more aware of Muslim communities in their own towns. For a while after 9/11 there was a lot of outreach on both sides because there was just this huge, awful thing that had happened. That was at the beginning. And then, once the Patriot Act had been enacted, people followed the lead of the government and became rather suspicious and more scrutinizing. And then most recently, I think we would have to say, quite frankly, that the wave of hostility to Islam that has happened in the past couple years was very largely politically motivated. I think that we need to be fairly astute about the fact that this is not a direct response to 9/11. It’s a political response that has been engineered over the past couple of years.
5. FM: You talk about diverse societies extensively in your work. What’s your current metaphor for cultural pluralism?
DE: I don’t use “melting pot,” because a melting pot is a kind of assimilationist view. And yet a “mosaic” gives the impression of these various different colored pieces that fit together, and it’s all very beautiful. I think jazz music would be a better one now. We’re making something out of differences. It’s not always total harmony either, but we’re working at it. My metaphor is not mosaic, it’s not salad bowl, it’s not melting pot. It’s really music.
6. FM: Are you satisfied with Harvard’s efforts in pluralism?
 
DE: I think so, certainly. What the students do is almost more important than what “Harvard” does. What the students do is have some pretty active interfaith groups. They have very active cultural groups and religious groups. I’m on one of the committees that’s advising the president on how to find a new minister and professor to take over Memorial church. One of the things that’s very much on the President’s mind is that, in this day and age, whoever is there needs to have a very astute awareness of the importance of cultivating communication and understanding across religious communities.
7. FM: In addition to your professional area of expertise, you’ve also published a book about your personal spiritual journey. Do you think there’s such a thing as cross-religious common spirituality?
DE: I was a Christian kid who grew up in the mountains of Montana, but I learned a lot about faith and about my own faith from the Hindus that I’ve lived with. I feel quite, not only at home, but embraced in Hindu or Muslim or Buddhist or Sikh communities. That’s a tremendous gift—to experience the hospitality of others. These are not moments of dogma; these are the moments in which we talk about what deep meaning things actually have.
8. FM: What does religious utopia look like?
DE: I think religious utopia, if there is such a thing, is in the cities of the future. My hope for the future is that in the cities in which we live, we will have not only religious difference and religious color, but an increasing number of what I sometimes call the interfaith infrastructure. One thing you could say for sure since 9/11 is that the number of interfaith initiatives across the country has probably quadrupled. Now they’re everywhere.
9. FM: You’ve lived some fairly adventurous spiritual experiences in the course of your journey. Was there ever a moment where you burst out laughing? Where you couldn’t control yourself?
DE: There are moments like that. Well, I’ll tell you one. Dorothy and I were traveling in South India, and poor Dorothy, she’s been to every temple. We were in one of the very beautiful Vishnu temples in Tamilnadu—it’s on an island in the middle in the Kaveri River—and I was trying to explain to Dorothy, “This is Vishnu here and the two consorts, Shri and Bhu.” And I said to her, “Bhu went to Wellesley.” And we both just started laughing! Because I went to Smith, and there was this idea that everyone had these names: Bhu and Banana and Perky. And we both had sort of had it with our spirituality, and when I said, “Bhu went to Wellesley,” we both lost it. I think the Hindu tradition is one in which humor is really a big part. Because there are just so many gods! And they have so many heads and arms and expressions!
(Austin walks in.)
 
DE: Hi, Dorothy! I was just talking about how Bhu went to Wellesley.
(Austin laughs.)
 
Austin: Bhu went to Wellesley! Exactly! (Laughs.)
10. FM: Last question. What’s the most enduring custom that you’ve incorporated into your life from all of your various experiences?
DE: That’s an interesting one. Namaste is the most common reflex I have when I meet people. I’m actually not a very good hand-shaker. I mean I do shake hands with lots of people. You have to. But it is much more natural for me, and I like it better, to offer this greeting of Namaste—a genuinely reverential greeting to one another.
FM: Well then, Namaste. 
DE: Namaste.
Sections
When the weather outside gets frightful, what’s more delightful than curling up and sipping on some holiday-themed drinks? Here are some beverages approved by F.M. to get you in the holiday spirit(s).
Red Hot Chocolate
- 1 package of hot chocolate
- 1 shot cinnamon schnapps
- Marshmallows and/or whipped cream as desired
Mixing instructions:
1) Prepare hot chocolate as directed in package. Make sure it’s piping hot.
2) Stir until it reaches your desired consistency.
3) Slowly pour in schnapps and continue stirring.
4) Top off with marshmallows and whipped cream.
Hot Buttered Rum
- 1 shot dark rum
- 1 tbsp. brown sugar
- Boiling water
- 1 small slice of butter
- Pinch of cinnamon or nutmeg
Mixing instructions:
1) Place brown sugar, a slice of butter, and cinnamon or nutmeg into the bottom of a glass.
2) Pour in boiling water and stir until sugar is dissolved.
3) Add rum and stir.
Caramel BruLeE Latte
- 1 cup of milk
- 1-2 tsp instant coffee
- 1 tbsp. Coffee Mate Crème Brulee Creamer
- 2 tsp caramel sauce/syrup
Mixing instructions:
1) Heat milk in a microwave-safe cup for about 1.5 minutes.
2) Stir in coffee and creamer.
3) Drizzle in caramel syrup, and stir again.
Candy-cane Eggnog
- 1 cup eggnog
- 15 oz. milk, whipping cream, or half and half
- ½ tsp. vanilla extract
- Dash of cinnamon or nutmeg
- 1 candy cane
- 1 shot Kahlua or chocolate liqueur, if desired
Mixing instructions:
1) Pour a cup of eggnog, or prepare from package.
2) Stir in milk, whipping cream or half and half, and vanilla.
3) Refrigerate.
4) Mix again, and sprinkle with cinnamon or nutmeg. (Add alcohol as desired).
5) Garnish with candy cane.
*If you would like your drink warm, reheat in microwave for one minute after refrigeration.
To add panache to any of the above, serve with a cinnamon stick and swizzle away.
Sections
Perhaps best known for his legendary athletic career, starring role in “Kazaam”, and towering 7’1” stature, Shaquille O’Neal (aka Shaq, Shamroq, and Wilt Chamberneezy) also boasts a collection of four rap albums, the first of which (“Shaq Diesel”) went platinum. As he claims in one of his top singles, “(I Know I Got) Skillz,” Shaq has never been shy about throwing down. Here is what FM had to say to the multi-media mogul.
Dear Shaq,
We at FM want to congratulate you on your retirement from the NBA by challenging you to a competition with a different kind of hustle (and flow). You never drop the ball on the court, but will you drop the beat on the street? You know what we’re getting at—the illustrious rap battle. Used to settle the score for generations, this is the one and only platform of choice.
So here’s what’s at stake: If we win, we would love the opportunity to sit down with you for an interview (15 Questions to be exact). And if you win, well, you can name the terms.
We also figured that since we’ve had the chance to sample your tracks and see what we’re up against, it wouldn’t be fair unless you could do the same. Check it:
Here since before Franky D.R., since 1885,
Crimson been getting out the story err’day we alive,
For the moment, in the meantime, always stuntin’, never behind,
No matter the situation, though, we make the headlines,
You craving a venn diagram, a 15 list du jour?
Shit, we’ll get you laughin’ yo’ ass off while you rolling on the floor,
Interviews with Wu-Tang, Goodall, and Christakis,
FM’s your resource every Thursday for more than 15 Hottest.
So hit us up, you know what you gotta do,
Turn us down? Man, only one lookin’ bad be you.
So what do you say, Shaq? The ball’s in your court.
Keep on keeping on,
FM
Sections
“Self Magazine,” the self-proclaimed titan of “health and beauty, fitness and nutrition, happiness and personal style, celebrity and sex” recently named Cambridge the country’s Healthiest City for Women.
FM played Mel Gibson to Self Magazine’s Helen Hunt to explore what criteria, if any, factored into the magazine’s calculation of What Women Want.
1. University President Drew G. Faust will tell you that walking is healthy. A 2008 study conducted by American Podiatric Medical Association and Prevention magazine will tell you that Cambridge is the best city for walking. See also: tiny parking spaces, stringent parking permit laws, ridiculous parking garage prices, being quadded, nice sidewalks.
2. In coldest Cambridge, we burn more calories, even without working out.
3. Mary Jane is decriminalized in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
4. Fro yo.
5.Would you like an Urban Outfitters to go with your 11 Starbucks stores? Skinny jeans, skinny lattes. It’s all in the adjective.
6. In 2008, Cambridge was ranked as the sixth Greenest City in America. Cambridge <3 recycling.
7. There are at least 10 hot yoga studios in Cambridge. Bikram, anyone?
8. Fro yo.
9. Smart girls or skinny bitches? According to a study by the University of Southern California, the fine ladies of Cambridge may be both.
10. Stephen M. Shelton ’12.
Sections
People will tell you that creative writing at Harvard is an exclusive sphere. They say that the Advanced Fiction Workshop with Amy Hempel can be the literary equivalent of Math 55, that The Advocate is the final club for the Moleskine-wielding variety of Harvard student. And maybe there is some truth in these statements. You must comp The Advocate, The Lampoon, and The Crimson; introductory creative writing courses require an application. Even the two-week writers’ program to be conducted by Princeton Professor Evan W. Thomas ’73 and Harvard Overseer Walter S. Isaacson ’74 during Optional Winter Activities Week, which selected students via a lottery system, had fewer places than interested students. Meanwhile, the veneers of literary organizations are sometimes considered off-putting to younger students and newer writers. Rumors circulate about the creative writing community’s exclusivity, competitiveness, and pretentiousness. But to what extent are the rumors true?
A SELECT GROUP
Harvard’s Creative Writing Program is hardly unique in its selectivity. Many courses given by the Department of Visual and Environmental Studies (VES), for example, also require an application for admission. And while the Creative Writing website features words of encouragement for unsuccessful applicants—“Reapply the following semester ... you may fare better the next time”—VES’ chicly minimalist site offers no such consolation.
“I think the communities are probably perceived similarly in that it’s hard to get into a VES class—a painting or drawing class—just like it’s hard to get into a creative writing class,” says Molly E. Dektar ’12, an English concentrator, member of The Advocate, and creative writing thesis candidate with a secondary field in VES.
Whether or not students agree, Bret A. Johnston, the director of Harvard’s Creative Writing Program, finds the current number of classes offered sufficient. “In terms of creative writing courses,” he says, “the numbers are very much on the students’ side.”
Independent of creative writing courses, extracurricular writing communities defend their need to keep a certain standard in order to maintain their reputation and stimulate their members.
“An advanced poetry workshop should have a certain level of expectation because you want the people who do have more experience to be challenged,” says English concentrator Stephanie L. Newman ’13.
A demanding application or comp process also ensures self-selection.
“The Lampoon can’t just accept everybody [because] at heart it’s publishing a humor magazine,” says Christopher Frugé ’13, a Lampoon member.
FIRST IMPRESSIONS
To an outsider, it may seem like the prerequisites for membership of Harvard’s creative writing community are tortoiseshell-rimmed glasses and a habit of rolling cigarettes, or, at the very least, the ability to discuss Derrida at length. Newman, who is planning to apply to write a creative thesis, says that despite her love for poetry, she initially thought Harvard’s literary community was somewhere she couldn’t belong. “Frankly, I was pretty intimidated and didn’t think I would fit in with people who smoked cigarettes inside and drank lots of wine and talked about literature,” she admits.
After becoming more involved with creative writing on campus, she found her initial impression was distorted. “I think it’s more a matter of people being open-minded and less critical of the aura of an organization than it is a matter of the organization trying to change itself and change its traditions,” says Newman.
The image is complicated by the perception that members of Harvard’s extracuricular literary scene dominate the workshops offered by the English department.
Johnston asserts that “an applicant’s publications have never and will never be a consideration” during the process of evaluating applications.
Frugé, a veteran of fiction and creative non-fiction workshops, says that he has found little overlap between his classes and the extracurricular writing scene. “For my basic [fiction class] I don’t think anyone did any kind of writing extracurricularly. For advanced, there was one person in The Advocate, and there was a journalist,” he says with a laugh.
STAYING ON TOP OF YOUR GAME
Frugé describes both the academic and extracurricular writing communities as demanding commitment above all else. “You just have to work incredibly hard, and you have to care a lot about it ... I think if people work hard they can definitely succeed.” He considers this for a moment, before politely adding that it helps to read a lot, too.
Even as a freshman, Tomi J. Adeyemi ’15 has established a place for herself within the creative writing scene on campus. She gained a coveted spot in Daniel J. Rubin’s screenwriting class and was also selected as the freshman musical’s book writer. “You have to be on top of your game, and you have to be seeking these opportunities out, otherwise they’ll slip from underneath you,” she says assuredly.
Frugé maintains that the Lampoon’s comp is an educational process. During the comp, he explains, “You’re writing several hours a week; you go and you show them, and they tell you what they like, what they don’t like ... the comp process is like a mini-writing community.”
The same benefits can be claimed of the application process required by creative writing classes. “When you have to do this whole application for a workshop and then you get it, you feel obligated to really work hard on your stories,” says Dektar.
But the story ends with neither comp nor application. Writing can, after all, take place outside a classroom or a magazine. “All writing helps one grow,” Johnston asserts, adding, “if a person wants to write, nothing is going to stop her.”
Sections
It was 10:00 p.m. on a Thursday night and the Occupy Harvard encampment was deserted.
Ten minutes passed and still no one was there. I peeked into a few tents. Nothing.It seemed that the question being tossed around by my peers—“Do they actually sleep in the Yard or do they just have tents?”—had been answered. Still, it would have been hard to blame them for not wanting to sleep outside in a tent. The night was cold and rumors of the season’s second snowfall had circulated.
Perhaps there would be no occupation.
Just as the scene could not have appeared any more devoid of activity, the occupiers began to arrive as if by clockwork. The movement’s leaders were absent, but the protestors knew the drill—with a glance at the centrally located white board they learned their tent assignments. Backpacks and sleeping bags in hand, they headed to their shelter for the night.
By 10:30 p.m., 10 to 20 protestors had arrived, including the movement’s leaders. Gabriel H. Bayard '15 would handle logistics for that night and Sandra Y.L. Korn '14 was in charge of the group’s media outreach. She had slept in the tents every night since the occupation began. That had been nine days before. I decided to spend a night with Korn and her compatriots, in the center of Harvard Yard, under the shadow of the John Harvard statue.
* * *
I hadn’t yet been assigned a tent when the Harvard University Police arrived. The HUPD car had been idle on the opposite end of the Yard, but quickly sped from its perch to the periphery of the campsite.
The moment of the raid had come, I thought. Oddly, no one seemed alarmed at the fast approaching authority figure.
“Where’s the boss lady?” the officer asked in a light-hearted tone without getting out of the car. He wanted to speak to Korn, who was perhaps the most familiar face for HUPD.
“She’s not here, but I can help,” Bayard told the officer.
“Alright. You guys doin’ alright tonight? Anything you need?”
“No, we’re all good. Thanks.”
“How many you got sleeping out tonight?”
“It’s tough to say, I think we’re at maybe 70 percent to 90 percent.”
While a considerable number of people were sleeping out, the figure seemed exaggerated, from a quick glance around the tents. The officer appeared skeptical, but not particularly concerned with the figures.
“Any propane?” This was apparently a standard question. Propane is strictly forbidden.
“No propane.”
“Alright, you guys take care and have a good night.
The officer drove off. I expressed my surprise at the friendliness of the interaction to the occupiers.
“They like us,” Korn told me later. “They’re the 99 percent too.”
* * *
Protests and encampments at universities have been the most recent iteration of the Occupy movement that began on Wall Street in September and spread across the country throughout the fall.
When a group of Harvard students set up camp in Harvard Yard in early November to protest what they described as the problems of income inequality, unfair treatment of workers, and Harvard’s questionable investments, the University took a measured approach. Though Harvard Yard was closed—and remains closed—to non-Harvard affiliates, University officials took the stance that students have the right to protest.
It’s hard to imagine the University ordering that the occupiers cease and desist anytime soon. Even if officials did, the overtly sympathetic attitude of the officers makes it hard to imagine a scene like the one at University of California at Davis, where officers—also perhaps the same “99 percent” as HUPD—pepper sprayed peaceful protestors. There, police officers were suspended and calls were made for the university chancellor’s resignation. Here, on the other hand, Harvard students know HUPD officers to be the most friendly of local law enforcement.
There’s also, of course, the added monetary factor: the overtime pay is an extra incentive for the police to keep the occupiers happy. The longer the occupation lasts, the longer HUPD earns overtime.
* * *
Another pair of uniformed officials visited later in the night, this time from Securitas, an outside security company that Harvard contracts to assist with campus safety.
“I heard about the contract,” one of the security guards told Korn. “It sounds awesome.
”The previous day Harvard had reached a tentative agreement with the union that represents Harvard custodial workers to provide all outsourced employees with access to childcare and a tuition-assistance program.
The officer thanked Korn and the Occupy folks for supporting the cause. Korn acknowledged that she didn’t really know the terms that had been tentatively agreed upon, but was elated nonetheless.
“I can’t believe it,” she said after hearing a few of the take-away points. “Oh my God, that’s awesome.”
“Hey, do you guys want some pizza?” the Securitas officer asked. It was unclear where the pizza was coming from, but it was a generous offer regardless.
“I’m going to bring you guys some pizza,” the officer decided, responding decisively to a moment of hesitation among the occupiers.
Korn asked to tag along so she could hear the details about the contract negotiations. The pair departed only to return a few minutes later with a cheese pizza. The pizza was cold, but delicious. In 35-degree weather at one in the morning, any sustenance becomes welcoming.
Korn said farewell to the security officer and explained that such generosity from Harvard employees is something the occupiers had come to expect—a group of service employees often drops off a helping of coffee and doughnuts in the morning.
For Korn and Bayard, the relationship with service employees and Harvard goes back much further. As members of Student Labor Action Movement (SLAM), they have campaigned to decrease the gap between the salaries of the highest and lowest-paid Harvard employees. A 180:1 ratio of the salary of the highest-paid Harvard employee to the salary of the lowest-paid employee is unacceptable, they argue. Though nominally different, their aims and membership overlap a great deal. With Occupy Harvard, SLAM has been able to garner more attention for its concerns.
Alone again, the occupiers continued their conversations. The diverse group of Harvard affiliates—undergraduate and graduate students, psychology post-docs and freshmen at the College—isn’t usually found interacting together. Unsurprisingly, discussion quickly turned to the common denominator—the movement.
That evening’s forum at the Institute of Politics had apparently gone well. But the previous night people had run across the Yard yelling foul slurs and telling the occupiers to go home. And there’s that one proctor—they say he’s attractive, but has a knack for disturbing their peaceful nights with constant complaints and nagging. He repeatedly advises them to leave and use their time more constructively, they said.
While the proctor’s criticism doesn’t fall on deaf ears, the occupiers are insistent that their movement’s demands are not pointless or nebulous. Although it is often difficult to discern the goals of other embodiments of the Occupy movement, the group at Harvard has moved beyond the slogans. The specific demands include fair pay and contracts for service workers and divestment from corporations that they say exploit laborers.
But while the occupiers strongly hold on to those aims in conversation, there is also a tendency to move beyond them.
After I explained that I cover admissions for The Crimson, a graduate student from Ireland asked me to explain legacy preference in the admissions process. That’s something that people are concerned about, she said.
But a set of concrete goals did not keep some from arguing for more abstract aims.
“The movement at Harvard has a broader purpose beyond the institution it occupies,” said Justin A. Jung ’03, a psychology post-doc from Orange County, Calif. “I want to show the other Occupy movements that there are allies in places of power and of course to bring the issues here.”
There is no disputing that the movement has brought the issues of the broader Occupy movement to the forefront of discussion at Harvard. Students and faculty all face ID checks and empty pathways in the Yard—constant reminders that an encampment lurks in front of University Hall.
But success with Jung’s other goal—demonstrating that there are allies of the broader Occupy movement at elite institutions like Harvard—seemed a little less certain. Do other occupiers know? And do they care? What do the tents, empty or not, really mean?
* * *
Despite not wanting to join in the sleepover, most people seem sympathetic to the movement’s concerns, Bayard suggested to me. He commented that even the petition requesting that they move—freeharvard.com—complains just about the inconvenience of the movement rather than concern with its aims.
“There has to be disruption to get people’s attention!” he declared, dismayed that his classmates started a petition solely because they felt inconvenienced.
Bayard remained focused on the convenience question. Most people who stopped by the camp’s info desk were tacitly supportive or just curious, he said. Nearly all of the audience at the IOP forum was supportive. But Bayard said little of the principled opposition that is expected with a movement like this.
It didn’t take long to see such principled opposition, a little after one that night. Like overly eager students in section, a group of four freshmen approached the camp, ready to debate.
“I have a question! Literally, I’m not judging. I have a question,” shouted the first freshman. Let’s refer to him as Matt. In drunkenness and attitude, he was the leader of the pack. He spoke louder than his companions with a tone that was notches more condescending.
The occupiers waited for his question.
“How many of your tents are actually occupied?” Matt finally asked.
“Seventy to ninety percent,” Bayard responded. The camp is certainly not empty, but this is probably a stretch.
“Matt. The tents are occupied,” said one of the freshman’s more sober friends with an unexpected biting sarcasm.
“I’m sobering up and I have a question,” Matt declared. “Do you think 12 dollars an hour is unreasonable?”
The occupiers argued that the situation for Harvard employees is more complicated than wages would indicate. Some work only part-time and couldn’t support a family with that income. Others are subject to split shifts that force them to work odd hours that disrupt family life. More brashly (and perhaps counter-intuitively), one of the occupiers corrected the freshman for an error in his figures. Harvard’s lowest paid employees likely make more than 12 dollars an hours—14 or 16 perhaps—still not enough, in the occupier’s mind.
Another freshman—I’ll call her Helen—stepped in this time. Larry Summers spoke at her freshman seminar earlier that day. This made her, it seemed, an expert on economic policy, fiscal policy, and fundamental questions of human nature.
“We’re altruistic to our family and our kin,” she explained. “Why are you guys on the side of the janitors?”
While the other occupiers were patient, William P. Whitham ’14 was not amused.
“You’re talking about people who clean the vomit you leave everywhere,” he said, directing this comment at Matt with a hint of derision. “Can you show some respect? People are trying to sleep.”
“Our vomit?  You live here too, don’t you?” asked Matt, pointing out the divisiveness of Whitham’s comment with surprising coherence. Perhaps this wasn’t what Matt expected from a movement arguing for unity. But it seemed that Matt was associating himself with that one percent.
Regardless of Whitham’s intentions, the conversation devolved, making it difficult to determine who said what. Finally, one of the previously silent freshmen jumped in to end the confusion.
“Matt, there’s a girl that I know who really wants to meet you.”
“Come on, Matt, she really wants to meet you.”
This was sufficient distraction for Matt. His willingness to argue broken, the group departed to meet the anxious and perhaps fictional girl.
The exchange between these two groups, certainly representing ideologically distinct factions of the student body, reminded me of outside criticism of Occupy Harvard.
They’re just a bunch of elite college kids creating a disturbance, the critics say. When enflamed, both sides, it turned out, could play the part of the obnoxious Harvard elite.
Bayard seemed a little dismayed by the exchange.
“We always try to be friendly,” he assured me. “We also keep alcohol out at all costs. You see why.”
* * *
The night quickly became quieter. Discussion continued around the info desk. Eventually, Jung went on a Starbucks run to pick up hot tea. I learned that as a non-freshman I would need to run to the Science Center to use the bathroom.
With most of the campers already in their tents, I announced my intention to retire. Bayard offered me an extra sleeping pad to help me stay warm. I shrugged, questioning whether I should accept the extra luxury.
“Take it,” he told me. “You can never have too much.”
I accepted, chuckling at the irony. Was the 180:1 ratio too much?
* * *
But as I soon found, you really can’t have too much padding in 30-degree weather in a cold tent in Harvard Yard.
The tents are not the top-of-the-line luxury shelters that people have accused the movement of buying. As Bayard explained to me, SLAM bought the cheapest tents possible. A night sleeping in one certainly makes this claim believable.
Though I eventually grew accustomed to the cold, I never ceased to be amused by the occasional taunts of passersby.“
We are the one percent! We are the one percent!”
“Get out of our Yard."
“I occupied your mom last night!”
Although the jeers were met with silence from the occupiers, I couldn’t suppress a little laughter. I wondered whether the taunts in the Yard were the most cogent existing articulation of the opposition to Occupy Harvard in the student population. Regardless, the occupiers were starting a conversation.
I made it through the night, but left early the following morning, before the others had woken up.
As I left the Yard, I overheard a snippet of a conversation between two HUPD officers. One of them had been asked to work the graveyard shift, keeping the Yard secure by standing overnight at the now-closed gates. The situation wasn’t ideal, but he was glad to accept.
“It’s big money,” he said to his partner. “I can’t turn it down.”
Sections
A few blocks from my high  school in the middle of town is store number 7271 of the Starbucks  Coffee Company. A fairly unassuming café with five small tables and a  counter, the Starbucks, situated right across from a train station,  caters to a mix of commuters traveling to New York, parents picking up  and dropping off their children, and teenie boppers craving their daily  dose of sugar and caffeine.
The manager who hired me as a barista said the goal was for the  café to be like Cheers, a place where everyone knew the customers’  names, their drinks of choice, and a little bit about them. After  spending time working morning shifts throughout the summer and evening  and weekend shifts while school was in session, I became acquainted with  the loyal regulars who sought out the Green Siren as part of their  routine.
There were the fixtures of the store, like the French couple who  ordered straight shots of machine-produced espresso and managed to sip  it over pleasant conversation as if they were back in Europe when the  coffee here was so obviously inferior. During holidays, their children  and grandchildren would come in to town, and on those Saturday mornings  or Sundays after church, the extended family would take up all the  tables running along a wall of the store, eating madeleines and spending  hours reconnecting.
Even the slightly difficult visitors left their mark. There was the  customer who insisted that her coffee be brewed within 15 minutes of  her order. She alleged she could taste the difference, and while I was  skeptical, she was nice enough that I didn’t mind. One evening, she came  in, looking dejected. The other barista and I asked her what was wrong.  She had been laid off, she said. We gave her a cup of coffee for free  that day, but within a month or two, she stopped being a regular.
It wouldn’t be foodservice, though, if there weren’t those customers. I’m talking about the woman who would come in decked in fur  and order a Venti cappuccino with caramel sauce and an elaborate mix of  complexities, judging the quality of the beverage by its final weight.  (“This just doesn’t feel right,” she would say, bobbing the cup over the  counter. The proper response would be to take the drink back, do  absolutely nothing to it, and return it to her. She would then be  pleased.) Another would enter during the middle of the morning rush and  order four Venti beverages, insisting on distinct milk and syrup  permutations to her friends’ pleasure, for sure, but her baristas’ ire.
And then, there was the guy with the face of a stern father and a  stocky frame that filled out his blue sweatshirt. He was a customer who  walked in nearly every afternoon at about 2 p.m. and didn’t need to say a  word to get what he wanted. Conversation with him was difficult, and  gossip among the baristas towards him was not kind. He was reticent and  gruff, ordering his iced tea and retiring to the counter facing the  window where he thumbed through a copy of the newspaper and appeared to  ruminate on his life. He was solid, impenetrable, and rarely smiling.
The first time I was on deck to make the drink of a man whose  reputation preceded him, I felt like a marionette, having every move of  mine guided so I wouldn’t mess up. Not too little of the extra-strength  iced tea; otherwise, it’ll taste diluted. Not the normal six pumps of  simple syrup; otherwise, it’ll taste too sweet. But the product—which,  in ’Bux lingo, would be an iced Venti, two-pump classic, no water, very  light ice, black tea—mattered less than the person.
Despite it all, there is something to be admired in a man who knows  what he wants, who is so established in life that he can adopt a calm,  unfazed set of habits in a store that makes most of its revenue off of  bustling commuters. I wanted to talk to him.Let’s start with his name.
No one behind the counter referred to  him by his name, so I didn’t have the head start that I had with  Gabriel, Elisabeth, and the others, but this wasn’t a fatal setback. If  anything, it was a conversation opener, as basic as they come, really.  He introduced himself, and I introduced myself. That was about it.
We didn’t really talk more than that. That was all we needed,  though. The next time he came in during my shift, I addressed him by his  name, and he by mine. There was a different sort of warmth as I poured  the extra-strength black tea straight into a cup instead of the shaker  we use with everyone else. He still wasn’t as talkative or open about  his life as the other regulars, but years after I left town to attend  college, I paid a visit to my hometown Starbucks and ran into him, who  asked me to my surprise, “How’s Harvard?”
Really, it was familiarity with so many people in the community  that made the job rewarding. There is value facilitating the entrance of  a cup of coffee into the lives of people going to work, bonding with  family, talking with friends, writing novels, completing resumes, and  doing whatever else it is they may feel like doing. The real joy,  though, came from talking to them, learning about as much of their lives  as they’re willing to share—at least while you’re on the clock.
—Naveen N. Srivatsa '12, the President of The Harvard Crimson, is an economics concentrator in Leverett House. He enjoys the odd Venti caramel macchiato now and again.
Sections
To passersby, Grolier Poetry Book Store on Plympton street might  look like an intriguing but practically irrelevant building, a place  that could exist only near Harvard. The one-room shop is small, but its  high ceilings are fully stuffed with poetry books, anthologies, and  criticism. Bookshelves are separated into Children, Native American,  African-American, Bilingual, and country-specific sections. The other  day, two customers from Montreal wandered in and were directed to the  Canadian section. Covering every exposed space are other  artifacts—photographs of poets, a scrapbook cataloguing Grolier’s  frequent poetry readings, a candy jar. Hanging on one wall is a 1994  Best of Boston award for “Best Poetry Bookstore.”
As a freshman, I would wander past Grolier, always telling myself  that next time, I would go in. I went once, but without any idea what I  should be looking for, I did not buy anything. Poetry seemed so removed  from my life experience.
Had I said all this to Ifeanyi Menkiti—philosophy professor at  Wellesley College, poet, and Grolier’s owner since 2006—he probably  would have objected. His work in literature and philosophy functions on  the belief that, beyond their intellectual richness, they are relevant  to the world in ways outside of the aesthetic.
“If it is about words alone, why bother? There is only so much  fascination with words,” Menkiti says. He is a large man, with a deep  voice, heavy Nigerian accent, and important-looking beard. Pound, he  continues, was very interested in real-world questions, whether  concerning World War I or China. Some of Menkiti’s other favorite poets,  such as Christopher Okigbo and David Ferry, also engage the aesthetic  in order to better understand the political and the historical.
To Menkiti, philosophy, like poetry, is not merely a self-indulgent  effort. He hates the saying that philosophy bakes no bread. “It doesn’t  have to shout,” he says. “There are lots of problems in the world. To  think that philosophy and literature don’t have anything to do with  [fixing them] is wrongheaded.”
It was for this reason that Menkiti enjoyed studying under  political theorist John Rawls, who “laid out something, then defended it  with great analytical rigor.” A native of Nigeria, Menkiti moved to the  United States to attend Pomona College on a scholarship, and later  continued his studies at Columbia, New York University, and finally at  Harvard, where he received his Ph.D under Rawls.
His senior thesis on Ezra Pound’s poetry earned him the top prize  in Pomona’s English department. The very fact that a non-native English  speaker could win this honor in the English department of a prominent  American university was significant to Mentiki. “I thought it took a lot  of guts for them,” he says. “Maybe on some level, this experience at  Pomona has made me feel a certain level of integrity with the academic  enterprise.”
Since 1973, Menkiti has taught philosophy at Wellesley. He does not  believe in merely passing on the tradition of the liberal arts, but  instead aims to empower students with the analytical skills necessary to  improve the world. “We have to take that job seriously,” he says. “We  are molding minds.” To that end, philosophy is not just an intellectual  endeavor, but a solution to the world it seeks to explain.
We returned to Grolier, where Menkiti gave me two of his own books  of poetry, in which he articulates his vision for the world. (“And I  have called out to you, / Children of an undivided earth, / That you  join your hands together / And be of one accord before a common soil—”)  Although I tried to refuse, my efforts were fruitless. Mentiki hugged me  as he left the shop, but I stayed a few minutes after to browse. This  time, I was less overwhelmed. I looked at the poems as resources, as  offering practical insight into the world. It seemed like a better  philosophy.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
World AIDS Day is commonly observed as a day of remembrance, raising awareness of HIV/AIDS and honoring the memories of those who have died from the global pandemic, but on this symbolic day we must not stop at mere memories. Without a strong activist movement centered on increasing access to AIDS treatment and prevention programs through a piecemeal approach with long-term solutions we risk losing crucial momentum in the fight against AIDS.
While efforts protesting today’s harsh political and economic realities such as the Occupy Movement prove essential in shaping public discourse and vocalizing unheard voices, we, the Harvard Global Health and AIDS Coalition, hope that the energy and discontent of the majority can be harnessed together with our research capacity as university students towards specific, measurable solutions to these particular and important global problems. Programs that have proven effective at saving lives, whether longstanding like the president’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria or newly instituted like the Medicines Patent Pool must be maintained with rigor and hope.
This past year alone has witnessed a number of scientific advances in the realm of HIV/AIDS. The HPTN052 study proved that people living with HIV who are on antiretroviral treatment are 96 percent less likely to communicate HIV. Thus, treatment is in fact prevention. Another study held by the Center for Disease Control found that antiretroviral pills drastically reduce the risk of infection among heterosexual couples. Finally an economics study concluded that investing in AIDS treatment pays back between 81 and 287 percent within just ten years. But information alone is not enough to foster a world free of HIV infections, AIDS-related deaths, and HIV/AIDS stigmatization.
Now more than ever, actions must be made to reach our vision of an AIDS-free world. Just two weeks ago Secretary of State Hillary Clinton addressed the National Institutes of Health, praising the role of the U.S. in spearheading research and development for antiretroviral drugs and funding lifesaving treatment and prevention programs. Secretary Clinton proclaimed, “Our efforts have helped set the stage for the historic opportunity the world has today: to change the course of this pandemic and usher in an AIDS-free generation.” It is our role as global citizens and well-informed students to ensure that these are not just empty words. For without public pressure, public and private actors will lose sight of the moral imperative to fight for the lives of impoverished, dying people.
Just last week, the Global Fund declared that it was canceling its next funding round, … and will not be offering new funding until 2014. In the meantime, millions of people will be denied access to antiretroviral treatment, bed nets, and Tuberculosis medications because of global leaders reneging on their commitments. As President Obama and Congress make excuses about necessary budget cuts we need to realize that the Global Fund makes up merely 0.001 percent of the budget and foreign aid at large makes up only 0.01 percent of the budget. While politicians claim that drastic cuts need to be made in order to reduce the U.S. deficit, global health funding is not only just a drop in the bucket, it is also crucial for America’s moral integrity and, more pragmatically, national security. Aggressive cuts to lifesaving foreign assistance is no way to balance the budget.
But the current political system is not wholly to blame. Corporations including pharmaceutical companies are deeply embedded in profit-driven mentalities that can often lose sight of human variables. For instance, Gilead is the only big pharmaceutical company to join the Medicines Patent Pool, an innovative mechanism in which patent-holders share intellectual property to allow generic access to antiretroviral medicines. And while a number of pharmaceuticals have entered negotiations with the Pool, including Bristol-Myers Squibb, Roche and Boehringer-Ingelheim, many companies—Merck & Co., Abbott Laboratories, and Johnson & Johnson—refuse to even negotiate with the foundation. Corporate greed is not entirely at fault. Multinational agreements such as the still developing Trans-Pacific Partnership, which could reverse the Bush-era trade reforms that enhanced access to drugs, similarly foster morally unconscionable behavior.
Today, on World AIDS Day, the Harvard Global Health and AIDS Coalition will hold a Pool Party demonstration outside a pharma-attended conference in Boston, urging Merck specifically to join the Medicines Patent Pool and reformulate its AIDS policies. But this is only a sliver of a much broader access to medicines movement that urgently needs to be revitalized. For now more than ever the end of AIDS has become a legitimate scientific possibility—we just need the political and corporate support to make this vision a reality.
Alyssa T. Yamamoto ’12 is a comparative religion concentrator living in Dunster House, Lulu R. Tsao ’12 is a chemical and physical biology concentrator living in Currier House, and Melissa J. Barber ’13 is a social studies concentrator living in Kirkland House. All three are members of the Harvard Global Health and AIDS Coalition. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Monday, a group of Occupy Harvard Protesters attempted to disrupt  a Goldman Sachs recruiting event at the Office of Career Services on-campus interview facility on Mass Ave. The protest began as a free speech protest in solidarity with UC Berkeley and Davis students who were the victims of police brutality but it later split, with a contingent heading to the OCS building to disrupt the event.  The protest attempted to highlight the alleged pre-eminence of Goldman Sachs in causing the 2008 financial crisis, as well as challenge the undergraduates seeking careers there. And while many experts agree that Goldman was part of the problematic system that created the financial crisis, Occupy Harvard’s targeting of a Goldman Sachs recruiting event presents a facile and trivializing interpretation of the root causes of the economic catastrophe and debases our national conversation on the issue.
Obviously, Goldman Sachs is not without blame in the financial crisis.  The deceptive and irresponsible peddling of financial products known to be “crap” by their traders stands as a monument to the dangers of an insufficiently regulated financial sector.  If Goldman Sachs employees had resisted the kinds of dealing that lead to high bonuses and long-term financial instability, it is possible that the mortgage crisis would not have been as severe as it was.  However, to single out Goldman Sachs as a single target of opprobrium for causing the financial crisis is myopic and unoriginal; Goldman has been in the eye of the storm of banker bashing for close to three years now. No one has successfully proven yet that this one investment bank caused the financial crisis and benefited unduly from it. Instead, the bank was simply one actor out of many, and certainly doesn’t fit the role of super villain as well as the Occupy Harvard folks imagine it does. For example, an excellent argument could be made that the millions of Americans who took on mortgages beyond their means are equally responsible as a group for the financial meltdown.  Certainly, the 1999 repeal of the Glass-Steagall Act also figures prominently in our nation’s pre-crisis financial instability. It would be convenient if we could easily paint Goldman Sachs as the evil enemy of the 99 percent, but it’s more complicated than that.
More unsavory, the protest carried with it a strong sentiment against Harvard undergraduates seeking careers in the financial services industry. Perhaps it is not ideal that so many of us go on to Wall Street, but targeting individuals looking at career options in this way is hardly the appropriate remedy.  Many students who enter these fields are not the scions of banking families but rather hard-working students looking for a challenging job that lets them experience a newfound financial prosperity. To exhort students to consider their contribution to society when choosing a career is one thing but to target those who want to work for Goldman Sachs misses the point; whatever negative impact the company has on our economy is due to structural issues rather than questions of individual morality.  Deterring a couple dozen Harvard students from working at Goldman will not change income inequality nor will it create a more equitable society. Goldman will just hire the next people in line.
Occupy’s actions continue to erode whatever student support it gained on the heels of a successful janitorial contract. Pitching a simplistic conception of the financial crisis and targeting fellow students is not the way to have a successful movement.  Occupy ought to refrain from such ill-conceived protests in the future.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editors:
I am writing in response to the article published on Nov. 29, "At HLS, Editor Calls For Freedom In Bahrain" by Jared T. Lucky about a talk given by Mansoor Al-Jamri at your esteemed institution. I would like to take issue with the outrageous allegation that "the government [of Bahrain] planted false stories in his paper".
The Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry report specifically states in paragraph 1609 that Mr. Al-Jamri publicly acknowledged that 6 articles that were false and misleading were published in Al-Wasat but claimed he didn’t knowingly publish any misinformation. He then stated that he opened an internal investigation into the source of this information and traced all 6 emails (sent from 6 different email addresses) to an IP address in a neighboring country. If Mr. Al-Jamri had evidence that the government of Bahrain was involved in planting fabricated information in Al-Wasat in order to defame him or the newspaper, why didn’t he include that accusation in his meetings with the BICI?
With regard to the unfortunate attack on Al-Wasat’s offices and printing presses, I would like to draw your attention to paragraph 1632 in the BICI Report which states the finding that although photographic proof of vandalism at Al-Wasat was presented to the commission, “[the] commission does not have evidence to find … that this was the result of any incitement to violence by the government of Bahrain or any other persons.” These are both very serious accusations aimed at defaming the government of Bahrain and we want to see this matter set straight.
Mr. Al-Jamri’s statement that “the regime’s failure to work with moderate reformers who want to overcome religious inequality in the kingdom” is a mischaracterization of the nature of many of the demonstrators, as well as that of the Bahraini culture itself. Bahrain has a long history of religious tolerance, as a home to Muslims (both Shia and Sunni), Christians, Jews and other faiths. We have a proportionate number of places for worship according to the needs of the population and recognize a number of religious holidays according to faith. Moreover, our legal system does not tolerate religious discrimination and the sectarian character of recent events is a dark blot on our history of peaceful co-existence which we are determined to overcome.
Lastly, while Mr. Al-Jamri may view Bahrain as a “lost opportunity”, fortunately the overwhelming majority does not agree with him. It will take a big commitment and a lot of hard work to overcome the problems we have faced this year but the BICI has helped us make those crucial first steps to reconciliation and a brighter future.
Nawaf Al-Ma'awdeh
General Director of Press and Publications
Information Affairs Authority
Kingdom of Bahrain
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The fact that same-sex marriage has not yet been legalized at a federal level in the United States is an embarrassment to our system of government. The argument in favor of allowing loving couples equitable rights should be easily affirmed by the human struggle faced by the gay community. However, if the dialogue of “rights” and “equality” is still insufficient to drown out the unbearably staunch position held by religious objectors, perhaps economics can rationalize the debate.
Same-sex couples, as they are barred from marriage in many states, face disadvantages from the current federal tax codes by being unable to claim various benefits including the ability to engage in a non-taxable transfer to a partner, establish estates together, and split incomes in order to file jointly. However, in states such as California, Nevada, and Washington, due to the filing process, same-sex couples experience tax advantages. Although complaints indicate that joint filings have become more complicated and thereby result in larger upfront filing costs (i.e. due to higher accountant fees), couples may benefit from filing in a lower income bracket. This results from the ability to divide aggregate household income by two for each partner, thereby lowering net taxes in households wherein one high-earning and one low-earning individual cohabit.
In states with this net income divided by two rule, same-sex couples have been reaping the benefit of filing separately. In certain cases, the economic difference may be drastic. From the 2010 Census, we can see that in Iowa the average aggregate household income for unmarried same-sex couples was $77,561. By using the National Bureau of Economic Research Tax Simulation program, we find that the ability to file jointly means that if each of these partners were to marry, an average of $767 per household would be gained by the state government. Certainly, the significant gains in health insurance, retirement plan benefits, and various other financial capabilities would more than compensate couples for the loss of tax benefits. Every gay marriage forgone is another missed opportunity for communities to benefit from the associated financial injection into the local economy.
Therefore, the only parties currently at a loss are local governments and gay couples. Insurance agencies that provide health and life coverage programs are currently allowed to reap the revenue benefit of technicalities such as two policies per household while state governments have the potential to utilize these newfound funds to reinvest into the community. Rather than allowing such capital to be merely absorbed by these insurance agencies, governments must enable equal taxation of same-sex couples to provide for local support. Occupy marriage, anyone?
Beyond whether legalizing same-sex marriage is economically profitable, its time has come. Stonewall is more than four decades old, yet marriage discrimination is an issue that still pervades the United States at an unacceptable level. Although political figures consistently tout American global supremacy, the United States is now over a decade behind the Netherlands in terms of marriage equality. In 2011, 53 percent of the United States public believed that same-sex marriage should be legally recognized compared to just 26 percent fifteen years ago. The hatred espoused by the now minority perspective cannot be used as a rationalization to deprive local economies of necessary revenues.
The tide has drastically turned and politicians must get on board with the popular opinion. It is no longer acceptable that serious (I use the term loosely) presidential candidates for the nomination of a major political party consider the gay lifestyle as “personal bondage.” The gay community will never stand down until the law has come to reflect the needs of the people.
Saieed Hasnoo ’12, The Crimson’s associate business manager, is an economics concentrator in Currier House. His column occurs on occasional Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The fallen leaves that carpet Harvard Yard as the weather grows colder serve a purpose beyond offering a colorful treat for the eyes. The leaves, which are gathered up every year by Landscape Services, a unit of Harvard Campus Services, will be converted to soil and mulch that will nourish the Yard.
Under the direction of Landscape Services, workers for Facilities Maintenance Operations are currently engaged in the annual task of raking, blowing, sweeping, and collecting leaves on a daily basis across campus.
The collected leaves will be ferried away from the Yard—to the Arnold Arboretum in Boston, where they will be made into nutrient-rich mulch. But though they will be laboriously transported away from Cambridge, the transformed leaves will eventually return to their roots. Landscape Services will place the resulting mulch, sent back from the Harvard-owned arboretum, across the University’s grounds, according to Michael D. Conner, the director of strategic planning and communications for University Operations Services.
According to the Harvard Campus Services website, FMO recently expanded its organic landscaping program to produce over 100 tons of high-quality mulch—enough to satisfy the landscaping needs of all of Harvard Yard.
Not just the fall foliage is part of this production process. FMO collects all of the College’s herbaceous and woody materials for composting, along with a growing portion of food waste from dining halls and cafeterias, according to the Campus Services website.
The recycling of leaves picked up in the Yard, according to Conner, is a “key component” of the organic landscaping initiative.
“[This is] the busiest time of year,” said Luke R. Leighton moments after climbing down a ladder from the roof of Wigglesworth Hall, where he was cleaning fallen leaves out of a gutter. Leighton works for W.S. Aiken, an outside company contracted solely for rooftop jobs.
FMO employees take care of the leaves everywhere else. Anthony J. Pacillo, the senior manager of Harvard Yard and freshman dormitories, said that the schedule and method of leaf pick-up varies from year to year.
“Every fall is different,” Pacillo said. “A lot of it’s weather-dependent.” Both Connor and Pacillo declined to provide information about the number of hours spent by FMO workers gathering leaves or the cost of leaf pickup.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“There are rock stars in our presence,” began Lisa Abend, a correspondent for Time magazine and moderator of Wednesday night’s panel discussion, “Evolutions and Revolutions in Food Science.”
Among Abend’s rock star panelists were renowned American author on food and science Harold McGee; former chief technology officer at Microsoft and a leading expert on modernist cooking techniques Nathan Myhrvold; and acclaimed Catalan chef Ferran Adrià, whose restaurant, El Bulli, was named the number one in the world five times and is currently in the process of reinventing itself as an international institution for culinary creativity.
The evening event, sponsored by the Office of Faculty Development and Diversity, aimed to offer Harvard professors—from a range of disciplines and affiliations—the opportunity to explore an interest that does not demand a common academic background: dinner.
Dominating conversation was a lively discussion on the future of food innovation in both the home kitchen and at the chef’s table.
“My working day starts at 9 a.m. and ends at 2 a.m.,” said Adrià through a translator. “I work 330 days per year. And the work is very important.”
All three panelists agreed that while food is enjoying a golden age in the media and in the cultural zeitgeist, it still lacks recognition at universities and within academia.
“You are all researchers,” said Adrià, pointing to his audience. “No one argues with you. To me, that happens every day. Every day someone in the restaurant says, ‘Ferran, this is good, but my grandmother cooks better.’”
Myhrvold said he still questions why cooking has yet to be formally acknowledged as a subject within the humanities. Comparing cooking to architecture, Myhrvold said, “Most buildings are utilitarian, like parking garages or warehouses. And most meals are just fuel. But some buildings can be art, and food can be art.”
History of Art and Architecture Professor Joseph J. Connors, who attended the lecture, admitted that his wife does most of the cooking at home. But he said he could still appreciate the culinary expertise of the panelists.
But on one issue, he respectfully challenged the much-admired Catalan chef. “My wife’s grandmother’s cooking really is better than Ferran’s.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Less than three minutes into the third period of last night’s contest in Hanover, N.H., the Harvard women’s hockey team (6-4, 6-2 ECAC) went down a goal to Ivy League rival Dartmouth (5-5-1, 4-3-1), as the Big Green broke the two teams a 0-0 stalemate.
But the Crimson would not be denied retribution for a 3-2 Dartmouth upset on Nov. 23, as two Harvard sophomores—forwards Elizabeth Parker and Lyndsey Fry—scored midway through the final frame to help Harvard earn its first Ancient Eight victory of the 2011-2012 season, 2-1.
“It was a pretty even game,” Fry said. “Play was back and forth. If you look at the stats about shots and time in other zones, it’s really even. It just came down to a final gut check for us in the third.”
Down, 1-0, midway through the final period, sophomore defenseman Marissa Gedman placed a shot on frame after receiving a pass from freshman defenseman Sarah Edney in the thirteenth minute.
The attempt was deflected by Big Green goaltender Lindsay Holdcroft, but Parker collected the rebound and netted her third goal of the season to tie it up for the Crimson at 12:52.
Riding on the momentum from the game-tying tally, Fry netted a goal of her own at 13:57 to give the Crimson its first lead of the game, deflecting a shot from junior defenseman Kelsey Romatoski into the back of the net.
“[The] goals were pretty similar,” Gedman said. “We’ve been focusing on rebounds, because we had been so close [in recent games] and hadn’t been burying shots. We buried pucks in the net tonight. They were dirty goals, but a goal is a goal.”
Although the first few frames were scoreless, neither team was without on-goal opportunities in the evenly fought contest. Harvard earned some of its best chances on the net after Camille Dumais was sent to the penalty box—her second trip to the box in the second period of Wednesday’s game—at 16:10 for checking.
The Crimson racked up three shots on goal during the subsequent power play and earned the last shot on goal of the period soon after the penalty expired.
But despite momentum tilting in Harvard’s direction at the start of the third, Dartmouth was the first to capitalize, as Big Green senior forward Kelly Foley converted a pass from teammate Ali Winkle at 2:49 in the third period.
Junior goaltender Laura Bellamy earned 25 saves in the Crimson’ victory, as Harvard claimed a slight 27-25 edge in shots on goal.
“Lou [Bellamy] is an extraordinary kid,” Gedman said. “She’s always working hard on and off the ice. She’s an excellent student and really dedicated to the sport. … She really came ready to play. It’s not a mistake that she played well for us tonight. She deserves all the praise she’s been getting.”
The Crimson also earned a narrow advantage in faceoffs, winning 24 to Dartmouth’s 21.
One week ago, Harvard met the Big Green in its second Ivy League matchup of the year. Despite the Crimson scoring during the first minute of play, the Big Green came out on top in that contest.
“We definitely didn’t feel like we should have lost that last game,” Fry said. “We felt we were the better team and definitely wanted revenge tonight. I think that was our goal going into this game. Dartmouth considers us their biggest competition, so we didn’t want give them the satisfaction [of beating us]. Losing to them at home definitely left a bitter taste in our mouth.”
“We had a bit of a chip on our shoulder because we lost to them a week ago,” Gedman added. “That definitely fueled us going into the game [on Wednesday]. Obviously we were pleased with the win. It wasn’t our best game, but the mark of a good team is being able to win when you don’t play your best.”
The victory against the Big Green snaps the Crimson out of a three-game losing streak, including two dropped contests this weekend to No. 2 Minnesota and Harvard’s previous loss to Dartmouth.
“We really needed that win,” Fry said. “We only have two games left until Christmas. If we can just keep going from here and get those next two wins, we’ll be in a good position.”
—Staff writer Catherine E. Coppinger can be reached at ccoppinger@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Facing a situation similar to last week’s matchup against Holy Cross, the Harvard women’s basketball team (2-4) held the lead going into the last seven minutes of Wednesday night’s game against Boston University (3-3).
But after falling to the Crusaders, this time, the Crimson prevailed, 62-57, at Lavietes Pavilion. Fueled by junior forward Emma Golen’s first double-double of the season, Harvard was paced by a balanced offensive attack that saw four starters score in double figures.
“We are a really good team,” Crimson coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said. “That is the irony of being 1-4 [coming into this game]. We really should be 4-1, but we’re not.”
Squandering a 13-point lead at home against Holy Cross in its previous matchup motivated the Crimson going into last night’s contest.
“Losing to Holy Cross was pretty disappointing,” Delaney-Smith said. “I thought we were a better team, and we don’t usually lose in our gym. And the fact that we were up 13 and let it slip away—it [was] an all-time disappointment.”
Riding on the shoulders of co-captain Brogan Berry's layup and pair of free throws—in addition to a late Golen steal—the Crimson redeemed itself, putting away BU in the final two minutes.
Along with her late-game heroics, Golen recorded a season-high 10 points and 10 rebounds to help Harvard to a win in a tight contest that featured 10 lead changes and no double-digit leads by either side.
“My job was to play defense on a pretty good scorer,” Golen said. “I knew going into it I was going to have to box out.”
The Crimson was the stronger team out of the gate, stringing together two consecutive baskets to take an 11-8 lead.
Golen began the scoring with an acrobatic lay-up around Boston University's leading scorer, Rashidat Agboola. Sophomore guard Christine Clark was then the beneficiary of a turnover forced by sophomore wing Missy Mullins.
Harvard rode the momentum swing to a 20-14 advantage before Boston University responded with seven unanswered points.
“BU is probably the second strongest team we have played,” Delaney-Smith said. “We knew we were going to see a much stronger team tonight.”
At the beginning of the second half, the Terriers pulled ahead and took a 34-29 advantage. But the Crimson responded with a 20-8 run highlighted by two consecutive coast-to-coast Clark layups.
“I think that we’ve been in that situation before with Holy Cross and URI, where they made runs at us late in the game,” Clark said. “This game we did a great job of coming together and not fouling them like we did in past games.”
Junior Chantell Alford, who had 14 of Boston University’s 27 second half points, carried the Terriers to within one with a three-pointer with 1:44 left in the contest.
But Clark and Golen completed back-to-back field goals to keep the Crimson ahead.
Despite the narrow margin and back-and-forth nature of the game, BU could not manage to take the lead. The Crimson held the advantage from 14:33 in the second half until the contest’s end.
“We had a few breakdowns offensively and a couple unnecessary turnovers that gave them a couple fast-break points, and they started to get a little momentum,” Golen said. “We just dug deep and knew we needed to get stops.”
Delaney-Smith's preaching of defense all week in practice paid off, as the Crimson forced 15 turnovers and held Boston University to 36 percent shooting from the field.
“I just think it was our defense tonight,” Delaney-Smith said. “That’s been our problem all along—holding teams to a reasonable number [and] getting consecutive stops. We’ve been working on it, and I thought tonight was terrific.”
Clark finished with 16 points for the Crimson, while Berry had 10 and junior guard Victoria Lippert scored 11.
Agboola was held to 12 points by the Crimson defense, and Mo Moran scored 18 for BU.
Although the Crimson outrebounded the Terriers, 47-34, Harvard shot a season-low 35 percent from the field and committed 18 turnovers.
“Rebounding has always been a point of emphasis for us,” Delaney-Smith said. “I have to credit BU for our low shooting percentage. Shooting percentage, turnovers, defense, and rebounding—either one or two of those have been a nemesis for us, and so if we can get it all in order we will be okay.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Americans form attitudes toward taxes based mostly on rational self-interest, but subjective factors like trust in government and prejudice can play a very significant role, a writer working on a book on the subject argued at a Kennedy School lecture on Wednesday.
Andrea L. Campbell, an associate professor of political science at MIT who is doing research for her book about American attitudes toward taxes over the past several decades, lectured before a full house at the Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation.
Campbell’s talk presented her research and addressed her incentive for pursuing it. “One of my main motivations is how shockingly little work has been done in political science on attitudes toward taxes,” Campbell said.
Campbell found that, predictably, higher taxes elicit more negative attitudes.
But she also presented cases in which irrational concerns like knowledge of the tax system, the design of particular taxes, confidence in government leaders, and even racism influenced citizens’ attitudes. She also highlighted the relative lack of correlation between an individual’s political party identification and his attitude toward taxes. Democrats and Republicans are equally likely to resent income taxes, according to one study that Campbell examined.
In almost all cases, Campbell said, a person will favor a system that benefits him personally rather than one that conforms to views he might hold about tax systems in general.
“Americans are ultimately more apathetic about redistribution than they are about their own tax rates,” Campbell said.
Campbell’s current work is only the most recent chapter in her long-standing interest in the relationship between public policy and public opinion.
“One of Professor Campbell’s main concerns is reversing the causal arrow that is commonly thought to extend from public opinion to policy and looking at how the shape of policy affects public opinion,” said Archon Fung, a Kennedy School professor who introduced Campbell at the event.
In the question and answer session that followed her lecture, Campbell addressed several audience members’ concerns about the surveys she cited to reach her conclusions.
Most of the surveys included questions like, “Do you think income taxes are too high?” or, “Which type of tax do you dislike the most?”
In reference to the second question, Alex Keyssar, a professor at the Kennedy School, said, “If someone asked me that question, my inclination would be to say, ‘What do you mean by that?’” Campbell said that she should address such concerns as she continues research on her book.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, Massachusetts Governor Deval L. Patrick ’78, a Democrat, signed a state-wide redistricting bill that will divide the city of Cambridge into two voting districts.
The Massachusetts constitution dictates that the district lines be redrawn after every census to better reflect the “face of the state.”
Before the bill passed, one Congressman, currently Michael E. Capuano, represented a district that included the entirety of Cambridge and Sommerville and part of Boston. Now, the north portion of Cambridge and a large section of its center will join the 5th district, currently represented by Edward J. Markey.
Some Cambridge politicos were unhappy with the change, because, as City Councilor Leland Cheung told Cambridge Day, “We’d go from being one seventh of a district to one fourteenth.” Additionally, he told Cambridge Day that the interests of Cambridge, a mostly urban area, fall more closely in line with Capuano’s district than they do with Markey’s, which is more suburban.
Cheung said committee members asserted the redistricting approved by the governor made the best effort to fairly represent all areas of the state.
Opposition to the division led a few city representatives to encourage the public to send messages to the redistricting committee in a last attempt to keep the city united. Timothy J. Toomey Jr., a member of the Cambridge City Council, helped sponsor an amendment to the bill that would preserve the unity of Cambridge while still allowing for a minority and a majority district to exist independently, Cheung said. However, the amendment was rejected by the House.
Critics alleged that the 2000 redistricting did not give minority groups the voting power they deserved with respect to their population size. This year’s redistricting aimed to address those concerns.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A team of Harvard scientists led by chemistry professor George M. Whitesides ’60 has developed a flexible robot inspired by animals without skeletons.
The new robot is more resistant to damage and more maneuverable than existing metal robots, Whitesides said.
The device is made of a flexible elastomer similar to the caulk used to seal bathtubs. Whitesides said it represents a new class of robots that can provide additional capabilities without necessarily replacing the conventional robot.
Adam A. Stokes, a postdoctoral fellow who works with Whitesides, said the robot, whose development was funded by the Pentagon, could potentially be used for applications ranging from search and rescue to surgery.
“Our soft devices have none of the elements that would comprise a traditional robot,” Stokes said. “This gives them several unique aspects: low cost, flexibility, and agility.”
The five-inch-long robot design mimics the flexibility of squids but assumes a crawling, human-like form. Its four limbs are controlled by pumped air.
“These robots are in some ways more resistant to damage than structures that have metal rods and strings in them,” Whitesides said.
The current model can move but cannot perform other functions like picking up items and turning, and it is still tethered to a gas pump. But the researchers are investigating ways to give the robot more of the capabilities of conventional robots.
“Ultimately, we’re looking for robots that don’t have a tether, a pressurized gas source. It would be nice to think about making devices that can move freely,” Whitesides said. “There’s no question that one can combine functions.”
Whitesides said that the team is looking into integrating visual capabilities into the robot.
The team’s most recent model comes after years of research. “We’ve been working at this for a few years now,” Whitesides said. “Our first publication was a year ago, and that device just picked something up—it didn’t move.”
Whitesides’ team is not alone in researching flexible robot design. Similar projects are underway at MIT and Tufts.
“I think the robotics community is just beginning to wake up to the idea of using elastomers as components for making robots,” Whitesides said. “We are all collectively beginning to develop this class of objects to see what they can do.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Petroleum industry executive Jim T. Hackett, speaking at a presentation hosted by the Harvard University Center for the Environment Wednesday, argued that natural gas is more efficient and cost-effective than commonly perceived.
Hackett, the chairman and CEO of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, spoke in the last installment of “The Future of Energy” lecture series.
Hackett’s presentation focused on what he described as the vital role of natural gas in the United States energy economy. Throughout the presentation, Hackett, who graduated from Harvard Business School in 1979, frequently referenced a study conducted by the National Petroleum Council, an advisory group that represents the oil industry to the Secretary of Energy, that concluded that natural gas is more cost-effective and results in less pollution than coal.
Hackett said Americans ought to look at fuel and its impact from a broader perspective.
“Every energy technology has consequences to the environment, not just greenhouse gases,” he said, citing water pollution and land contamination.
Hacket said that compared to coal the environmental impact of natural gas is relatively small.
Harvard Professor of Atmospheric Chemistry Jim G. Anderson attended Wednesday’s talk and said that Hackett’s company stands to gain by presenting its product as a winner for the environment.
“You can see the playoff between natural gas and coal. If natural gas can make an argument based on efficiency and environmental impact, it opens up a huge potential lobbying effort against the coal industry,” Anderson said.
He added that expanding the use of natural gas may have a negative impact on the development of alternative energy sources.
“Because natural gas is so cheap, it prevents the development of wind, solar, and thermal,” he said.
Anderson said that the use of natural gas may have a smaller environmental impact than coal but added that the damage it does inflict is still problematic.
“It depends on how you view the climate structure ... The thing [Hackett] clearly avoided is [natural gas’] climate impact,” Anderson said.
In his remarks, Hackett noted that differing points of view exist in the research on natural gas.
“I have to be very careful to say this is not incontrovertible,” he said.
But Hackett also said the industry can be misrepresented as uncontrolled. “[Oil and gas] is one of the most regulated industries in the country. It isn’t always regulated well, but it is regulated. The press might tell you otherwise, but it is stunningly regulated,” he said.
Hackett’s firm—Anadarko—owned a 25 percent stake in the Macondo well that was the source of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010. In October, Anadarko agreed to pay British Petroleum $4 billion to settle claims relating to compensating those who were affected by the spill, which was the largest offshore spill in the history of the petroleum industry.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Eating canned soup may increase consumers’ levels of a chemical linked to obesity and cancer, according to a study published last week by scientists at the Harvard School of Public Health in the Journal of the American Medical Association.
Prior research has linked the substance, bisphenol A (BPA), to weight problems, neurobehavioral deficits in children, and increased risk of breast and prostate cancer.
Results of the HSPH study showed that volunteers who consumed a 12-ounce portion of vegetarian canned soup daily for five days experienced over a thousand percent increase in urinary BPA concentration compared to volunteers who ate fresh vegetarian soup.
Jenny L. Carwile—a doctoral student in epidemiology at HSPH and lead author of the study—said she was not expecting such drastic results.
“The increase in BPA was surprising because we gave the candidates just one 12-ounce serving of soup per day,” Carwile said.
Carwile previously conducted a study on consumption of liquids from polycarbonate water bottles which found that water bottle use caused a 66 percent increase in BPA.
“The results from the tests on the polycarbonate water bottles showed a much more modest association to BPA,” she said. “I was expecting something more on par with that.”
Consumer Reports magazine established a connection between canned food and BPA in a study published in 2009, and Carwile and her colleagues, led by senior author and Harvard professor Karin Michels, sought to build upon that link in this most recent study.
“We extended the study [in Consumer Reports] to look at the association between consumption of canned foods and the BPA levels in the people themselves,” she said.
Though her study focused exclusively on canned soup because of the utility of its preparation, Carwile emphasized that it is not only soups that can increase BPA levels.
“This is not about the brand of canned soup,” she said. “It’s not even about canned soup. It’s about canned foods.”
Carwile said that she believes similar results would have been found had the subjects eaten other canned foods.
According to Harvard University Dining Services spokesperson Crista Martin, Harvard College dining halls do not serve canned soup.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Creative individuals are more likely to rationalize their behavior through ethical shortcuts, according to “The Dark Side of Creativity,” a new study by Harvard Business School Associate Professor Francesca Gino that shows a link between creativity and cheating.
The study featured several experiments designed to test the impact of creative thinking on ethical decision making. Participants took personality tests to determine their creativity and were then presented with opportunities to cheat in a variety of mediums, ranging from multiple choice tests to simple dice games. In every trial, Gino and Dan Ariely, a professor at Duke and Gino’s collaborator on the project, discovered a clear correlation between creative thinking and a willingness to cheat.
According to the study, simply encouraging individuals to think creatively increased dishonest behavior on multiple choice exams. The authors concluded that “creativity promoted more reasons and justifications to believe that cheating is morally appropriate.”
“They want to be moral, and they want to be seen as moral, but they succumb to the temptation of benefiting from cheating,” Gino said.
According to Gino, the study was inspired by cases of corporate corruption and the perception that innovative individuals are more prone to moral lapses.
Gino was especially fascinated by the media coverage of Bernard Madoff, who she said was described as “a sort of evil genius.”
Gino said she hopes the study can contribute a new dimension to the existing scientific literature about creativity, a field of study that has primarily focused on finding ways to increase creative thinking for the sake of its perceived benefits.
“Yes, it’s true [that creativity can be good],” she said. “But there are some potential side effects that should be considered.”
John “Jack” A. Ausick ’13, who is considering pursing a career in music, said the study mischaracterizes creative people.
“My understanding of the creative communities that I’ve been involved in is that they’re full of kind, honest people,” he said.
Still, Ausick said he recognizes the difference between artistic creativity and creativity in problem solving.
“It’s an interesting question as to whether creative people have more propensity towards dishonesty, or if they’re just better able to execute the dishonest tendencies that are in ordinary people,” he added.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While Yale administrators have launched a review of the school’s tailgate policies after a U-Haul truck struck and killed a 30-year-old woman at this year’s Harvard-Yale tailgate, Harvard administrators say they have made no decision to conduct a special review following the accident.
Harvard reviews its tailgating policies every year, and according to Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Jeff Neal no decision has been reached as to whether an additional review is necessary.
Director of the Office of Alcohol and Other Drug Services Ryan M. Travia said that he was “not sure” if the incident at Yale would directly impact future decisions about tailgate regulations.
“There’s certainly going to be conversation about this as the investigation continues,” Travia said.
At Yale, the administrative impact of the U-Haul incident is not yet clear. Yale administrators have told the Yale Daily News that the college’s review would center on the “logistical issues of tailgating” such as the use of U-Hauls.
Brendan Ross, a junior at Yale, was driving a U-haul truck transporting kegs to the tailgate when his truck struck and killed Nancy Barry, a resident of Salem, Mass., and injured two other women. Eyewitnesses said that as Ross’ U-Haul turned into the tailgating area it accelerated rapidly and hit three women before crashing into another U-Haul, which, in turn, hit a third.
According to a statement from the New Haven Police Department, Ross passed a field sobriety test shortly after the incident. Ross’ attorney, William F. Dow III, has said that the accident was the result of vehicle malfunction, a claim that has sparked a war of words between Dow and U-Haul.
In a written statement, Pete Sciortino, the president of the U-Haul Company of Connecticut, called Dow’s characterization of the incident “reckless” and “inappropriate,” and cautioned against drawing premature conclusions about the cause of the accident.
“Since the time of the accident, the vehicle has been under the exclusive custody of the police and now resides within a protected police impound—which is exactly where it should be,” Sciortino wrote. “As Mr. Dow has not had any access to the equipment, it stretches credulity that anyone would be able to intelligently make a comment such as the one Mr. Dow made regarding a vehicle malfunction.”
Dow did not return repeated requests for comment on Wednesday.
The NHPD  has launched an investigation into why the U-Haul truck accelerated and said in a statement that it would review the mechanics of the U-Haul truck and solicit witness statements as part of their investigation.
The accident has also led to heightened scrutiny of box trucks like the one involved in the accident.
On Monday, Sen. Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat, called on the Department of Transportation to investigate whether there is a need for nationwide safety standards for rental trucks.
“I understand that many of these vehicles are similar in size and carrying capacity to trucks used in commercial fleets but are not subject to the same stringent federal safety standards,” Blumenthal wrote in a letter to Ray LaHood, the Transportation Secretary. “This absence of safety oversight is particularly troubling because many rental truck companies have fleets that are older and more heavily used than similar commercial vehicles. Recent reports of rental truck safety violations are revealing and alarming.”
Harvard students have come to expect laxer tailgating rules in New Haven, where kegs, U-Hauls, and hard liquor—all banned at Harvard—are tailgate staples. Yale tightened its rules this year, requiring tailgate attendees to show IDs and wear wristbands attesting to their legal drinking age before they could be served alcohol.
—Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Occupy Harvard protesters interrupted a mayoral panel at the Institute of Politics on Wednesday evening, protesting perceived injustices at the Occupy Philadelphia camp.
“You can’t evict an idea,” hecklers yelled at Philadelphia Mayor Michael A. Nutter. After a call-and-response shout in the “mic check” style characteristic of the nationwide Occupy movement, the protesters were led out by security.
The protesters said they were upset at distortions in how Nutter presented the relocation of Occupy Philadelphia.
“Mayor Michael Nutter made it clear by eviction action and his statements at the Forum that free speech in American cities has a curfew,” Maryam M. Gharavi, a supporter of Occupy Harvard and a Harvard doctoral student, wrote in an email.
“Even after ordering a midnight police raid, one that used police on horses trampling people, he claimed that his forces acted with no violence and caused no injuries,” she wrote, referring to the only hospitalized protester, who sustained foot injuries.
“At the beginning of the event and in the Forum pamphlet, people were told that disruptions would be met with possible arrest and legal proceedings,” she added. “It appears Mayor Nutter gets to determine the boundaries of free speech in public space.”
The interruption fit the topic of the panel discussion, which addressed the participating mayors’ policies on the Occupy movements in their cities. Nutter was joined by the mayors of Baltimore, Md.
Each mayor recognized the importance of free speech and the right to protest but expressed concern about the potential repercussions of the Occupy movements.
“You have to get to a point where you turn this movement to action,” Nutter said.
He expressed concern about the ability of city governments to address Occupiers’ demands.
“I can’t do anything about bank policy. That has to be done in D.C. They are not within our realm,” Nutter said.
The mayors also faced critical questions from audience members about their policies on issues ranging from pension cuts to cooperation with public officials.
In their responses, they said that they must make difficult decisions on a daily basis to balance the concerns of various parties.
“If you have a deep-seated need to be loved and admired, then you should not be in this job,” Nutter said. “You should work in a pet shop.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard athletes were recently warned not to take a supplement called Antler Velvet Max in an email from Brant D. Berkstresser, Harvard’s head athletic trainer and the assistant athletic director for sports medicine.
According to Berkstresser’s email, the supplement company has been sending emails to athletes advertising the product.
“If you do receive such an email it will look very credible but we recommend you do not take this or any similar product,” Berkstresser wrote.
But Joel Sauceda, co-founder and CEO of MaxLifeDirect.com—the exclusive distributor of Antler Velvet Max—claimed that the company has not been advertising the product to Harvard affiliates.
“Nobody within our company has solicited any students or faculty of Harvard with regards to Antler Velvet Max,” Sauceda wrote in an email.
Rick Lentini, CEO of Nutronics Labs, which manufactures Antler Velvet Max, asserts that the product is all-natural and void of any steroids.
Antler Velvet Max is a spray with deer antler velvet extract, which contains insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), a hormone that helps contribute to human growth, according to the Nutronics Labs website.
Berkstresser wrote that the supplement has been credited with increasing testosterone above normal levels, resulting in failed drug tests for collegiate and professional athletes.
“Deer antler velvet increases your own testosterone naturally,” Lentini said. “It doesn’t increase testosterone levels like crazy. It does it naturally.”
Lentini also refuted the allegation that athletes have tested positive for performance enhancement drugs while using Antler Velvet Max.
“There is no way of testing positive for our product,” Lentini said. “It’s an all-natural substance from velvet deer antler.”
Lentini added that the supplement has received only positive testimonials for the past 15 years, but no studies have been conducted on its long-term effects.
“I just think that Harvard might be jumping the gun here, and it might be a wise move to do the due diligence because it is something that will benefit your student body and athletes,” Sauceda said.
Berkstresser wrote that he is unaware of any Harvard athletes who have taken this product.
“The problem with supplements is that they are not regulated by the federal government, so they do not have to prove they are safe, do what they claim, nor do the ingredients have to be listed on the product,” Berkstresser wrote in a follow-up email to The Crimson.
While Harvard’s Strength and Conditioning Director James L. Frazier knew of the supplement, he did not know any specifics about its composition or whether Harvard athletes have used it.
“Specifically for our student-athletes, we recommend that they only use supplements that are approved by our nutritionist or our NCAA and National Drug Free Sport Supplement Representative,” Berkstresser said. “We educate our student athletes to be very cautious with any supplement since they are not regulated.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Israel Defense Forces veterans studying at Harvard say that they have encountered a diverse array of American perspectives on Israel since coming to college in the U.S. At a panel at Harvard Hillel Wednesday night, four Harvard students who served in the IDF spoke of the importance of engaging in open discussions on issues surrounding Israel.
“It is important to go abroad to see things from a new perspective, tell people how you feel about Israel, and listen to what people are saying about Israel,” said Tom Dan ’13, who served in an IDF intelligence unit.
Dan said that he is glad to be at a campus with diverse student groups and perspectives.
“Some of the most amazing conversations I have had here were with pro-Palestinian students who understood the history, facts, and also the human side of it,” said Yoav B. G. Schaefer ’15, who was born in California and chose to move to Israel in 2006.
Dan said that he decided to come to the United States to realize his dream of studying at Harvard.
“My commanders were very understanding,” he said. “They gave me two weeks off to study for my SATs.”
Zaki Djemal ’15, who worked as a journalist for the IDF radio station, said he came to Harvard because of the unique academic opportunities that Harvard offered.
He said that in Israel, he would have likely worked a full-time media job while going to school.
“I wanted the chance to learn, develop, and study,” Djemal said.
Schaefer, who served in a combat unit and fought in Southern Lebanon and throughout the West Bank, said that some Americans fail to appreciate the nuances and complexities of the situation facing the IDF.
“I really do think the IDF is the most moral army in the world,” Schaefer said. “That being said, I really struggle with my army service. The situation is complex and difficult. War is never nice, no matter how we want it to be.”
Yael Bar-Tur, who is currently studying at the Harvard Kennedy School, served in an IDF spokesperson unit and also spent time working at the Israeli Consulate in Los Angeles.
Panelists noted discrepancies between American conceptions and the reality of the IDF, in which all Israeli citizens must serve, aside from some special exemptions.
“People don’t always understand that the army is a lot more than a fighting force,” Djemal said. “It was founded from a social dream of creating a melting pot, which is why the army has an education course.”
Schaefer seconded Djemal’s sentiments.
“Culture, language, and identity from the years that Israelis spend in the army are very much a part of what defines the Israeli identity,” Schaefer said. “The military is a much less rigid form than you would expect.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Clark doll tests, a series of experiments regarded since the 1940s as evidence that black children were taught to ascribe negative attributes to their own race, actually reflect media portrayals of black dolls rather than psychological damage, a Harvard professor argued Wednesday.
Robin Bernstein, a professor of African and African American studies and women, gender, and sexuality, presented a critique of the historic study at a W.E.B. DuBois Institute Colloquium.
The Clark doll tests were a series of experiments conducted by black psychologists Kenneth B. and Mamie P. Clark to study children’s attitudes about race. Black children in the study were given white and black dolls and then asked which dolls were “good,” “bad,” “nice,” and “mean.” The majority of children associated positive qualities with the white dolls and negative qualities with the black ones.
Bernstein said Wednesday that the Clarks’ tests were scientifically flawed. But she said that the tests did reflect a negative portrayal of black dolls in American theater and media that dates back to the Civil War era.
Bernstein studied the history of black dolls and found that they were often featured in theatrical scenes of servitude and comic violence. Black bodies, often the subject of this violence, were portrayed as unfeeling to pain.
These representations sent the message to children that they should play with white and black dolls very differently, Bernstein said.
White children in the 19th and 20th century commonly beat, hanged, dismembered, and buried their black dolls, but they were punished for committing the same atrocities against white dolls, which their elders expected them to cherish rather than abuse.
Thus, Bernstein said, the choices made by the subjects of the Clark doll tests was not necessarily an indication of black self-hatred. Instead, it was a cultural choice between two different toys—one that was to be loved and one that was to be physically harassed, as exemplified in performance and popular media.
According to Bernstein, this argument “redeems the Clarks’ child subjects by offering a new understanding of them not as psychologically damaged dupes, but instead as agential experts in children’s culture.”
Attendees said they were impressed by Bernstein’s ability to shift the evaluation of the Clarks’ experiment from a scientific perspective to a cultural one.
“It was fascinating the way that [Bernstein] presented the Clark doll test not [as] great science, but as a test that had a narrative arc,” said Elliot A. Wilson ’15.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At an event titled “Palestine After the UN: What’s Next?,” Middle East analyst Mouin Rabbani had a simple answer to the question posed.
“Nobody really knows,” began Rabbani, who specializes in the Israel-Palestine conflict.
Rabbani continued by explaining to the audience of nearly 30 his belief that the Palestinian Authority has no coherent strategy. Rabbani also said that many of the leadership’s tactics are a reflection of President Mahmoud Abbas’s “petulant personality.”
Rabbani introduced the topic by jumping back in time to 2008 and reminding the audience of the optimism Palestinians had about the coming Obama presidency.
“From the perspective of the Palestinian leadership, the state of Palestine was all but established,” Rabbani said.
But he said their hopes were repeatedly dashed.
“As an international official I spoke to put it so well, Obama appeared to the Palestinians as a Jesus-like savior figure, but within not too many months became much more akin to a Judas,” Rabbani said.
After losing hope in Obama—who, Rabbini said, failed to understand how much Israel has changed over the past two decades—the Palestinians have failed to execute a consistent strategy, according to Rabbini.
He argued that a major reason for the lack of a strategy is the schism between Hamas and Fatah, the two largest rival factions in the Palestinian territories.
In his second appearance at Harvard, and first in nearly five years, Rabbani outlined a number of recent Palestinian attempts to kick-start negotiations with Israel and revive the United States’ interest in the peace process.
“I think he mentioned very good points about the sort of internal politics between Fatah and Hamas and the importance of reconciliation from their perspectives,” said Richard C. Wright, a fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs who attended the event.
“I know there are a number of issues on which there are divergent views, but it was a very good scene-setter for the current scene of play. He touched on all of the main issues.”
Rabbani said he hopes to see the Palestinian leadership govern more in their own national interest than act with potential U.S. and Israeli reactions constantly in mind.
“What was interesting was his careful critique of the current Palestinian Authority leadership and Mahmoud Abbas,” said Everett Mendelsohn, an attendee and professor of history of science emeritus. “His major thrust was that he didn’t see a careful enough policy guidance.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Thursday morning, Matthew A. Aucoin ’12 will direct a string ensemble in the premiere of a piece that he composed in about three days, performing for the final lecture of the course Aesthetic and Interpretive Understanding 24: “First Nights: Five Performance Premieres.”
Aucoin is stepping in at the last minute for Michael A. Einziger, a composer and special Harvard student who has achieved fame as the guitarist for the rock band Incubus.
Incubus announced on their website last Friday that Einziger had become ill and they were therefore canceling three shows in Europe. Einziger also backed out of Thursday’s premiere for the First Nights course, which he had been working on with a string ensemble at Harvard.
“I was disappointed, of course, but mostly sorry about Mike, because I know how much he was looking forward to this,” said music professor Thomas F. Kelly, instructor of the course, which examines five famous pieces of classical music and ends with a piece specifically commissioned for the course. “He had taken First Nights in the past and was working hard on his composition study in general. We are all sorry he’s ill, and we wish him well.”
Aucoin, who is friends with Einziger, was already slated to conduct Einziger’s piece at its premiere. When Einziger backed out, Kelly sent out an emergency call asking for last-minute compositions.
“[Aucoin] volunteered that he had a string piece he was working on, and that if he dropped everything he might be able to finish it in time,” Kelly said.
The piece, according to Aucoin, grew from a simple melodic idea to a full-fledged seven-minute piece in about three days. “I had a fragment that I was hoping to turn into a big piece for strings,” he said. “I thought, well, you know, if I really don’t sleep for a couple of days, I can write a piece based on this and arrange it for string orchestra.”
The piece’s hectic premiere fits in nicely alongside the rest of the works surveyed in the course, many of which had chaotic debuts themselves, according to Kelly.
“This new and very beautiful piece gives us a chance to be part of the excitement and frantic rush involved in getting a performance on stage,” Kelly said. “It’s a real-life situation, not a matter of taking a marble monument down off its shelf.”
And some of the students in the course seemed to feel the same way.
“I read [Aucoin]’s bio, and I was kind of excited to have something thrown together at the last minute,” said Maria I. Romero ’15. “I feel like it’ll be a more genuine and raw performance, as opposed to something that’s been polished for a while.”
The piece will be performed at 11 a.m. Thursday in Sanders Theatre.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We’re thrilled to announce two new ways for you to interact with The Crimson: The Harvard Crimson iPhone and Android apps, which give you on-the-go access to the latest in Harvard news, and The Harvard Crimson email newsletter service, which conveniently delivers the top stories of the day to your inbox.
The Harvard Crimson iPhone and Android apps put The Crimson’s award-winning news and commentary in the palm of your hands. Now you can access articles, photos, and videos from all of our publications, including Flyby, no matter where you are. Programmed by Crimson IT Chair Sophie Chang ’13, the apps also feature tightly integrated social capabilities, allowing you to share articles via email, Twitter, Facebook, and other social platforms without breaking a sweat.
We’re also excited to launch our email newsletter service, delivering the top stories from The Crimson along with helpful information every Harvard affiliate needs, including the weather and dining hall menus, directly to your inbox. Signing up for our daily newsletter also allows you to receive instant alerts from us, so that when important news breaks that you need right away, you’ll be the first to know.
Both of these are free to all of our readers. Our apps can be downloaded from the App Store and Android Market, which you can access directly on your phone or through our mobile apps site. And while they’re downloading, subscribe to our email newsletter service here.
We hope you enjoy these two new services. If you encounter any difficulties or have any cool ideas for new features, email me directly at president@thecrimson.com, and we’ll be in touch.
Sincerely,
Naveen N. Srivatsa
President, The Harvard Crimson
Sections
In the year that has gone by, my predecessors on this page have written about everything from an experience as a failed youth basketball player, an abiding fear of monsters in the deep, to a memory of a dying family member. Some were excellent. Others probably needed some work, but, hey, this is college, man. Risks were taken. Sometimes they paid off.
Either way, if you, dear reader, are part of that dwindling tribe who reads this magazine in its print form, then you hold in your hands a page and a magazine that was lovingly produced, pored over, and scrutinized by an overworked and underpaid staff with 23 magazines under its belt. At some point in the night, they pulled the trigger on their last issue and handed it off to the Crimson’s two pressmen, Brian Byrne and George Dioguardi.
And it was by these two men—with 50 years at the Crimson between them—that this last magazine was finally made.
In the basement of the Crimson sit a set of refurbished and aging Goss community presses that roll with a clattering hum. They sit in a sea of paper rolls and bathe in the distinctive smell of industrial vats of ink. They’re cranky as hell and far from cutting edge. But for anyone with a nostalgia for newspapers, they’re beautiful machines.
Brian has worked for the Crimson for the past 30 years and over that time hasn’t missed a single day of work. He wears black sweatshirts and jeans (good for dealing with ink stains). He smokes thick cigars that he leaves hanging off the edge of a table while the presses run. He speaks in a Boston accent, loves the Red Sox, and is something of a mechanical miracle worker.
And he’s got stories. Some years ago he arrived to work at 5 or so in the morning to find that the Lampoon had dumped hundreds of pounds of manure in front of the Crimson’s doors after an enterprising editor stole the metal ibis that sits atop the magazine’s neo-Flemish castle. He was also there to corral some large(ish) hogs that the aforementioned humor magazine had let loose inside 14 Plympton St. On another occasion, he picked up a Crimson president he particularly disagreed with and put him in a dumpster.
But this is all stuff of Crimson lore. The Brian of the everyday is the guy who grouses about how there aren’t any ads in the paper, worries what his son will do once he graduates from college, and, then, somehow, makes those old presses hum again, turning and twisting an infernal combination of knobs and levers to make the colors all line up.
His partner in all of this is George, a cranky, squinty-eyed man who shows up at around 3 every morning in a plaid barn coat and a cup of Dunkin’ coffee in his right hand. He usually sports a couple days’ growth, which he sometimes shapes into a trim mustache. He’s missing most of his middle finger and smokes long, generic cigarettes. He speaks with a wheeze that can be difficult to understand and is sometimes described as a bit “scary.” When things go wrong at the Crimson—and they often do—it’s George I get a call from. The call is always the same, and the wheezy voice on the other end has probably made it hundreds of times to dozens of managing editors.
“Hey Elias. It’s George down at the Crimson. I got a problem.” “Fuck. What is it this time?”
“It’s page seven again. Somebody needs to come in.”
Cursing all the way, I’ll drag myself down to 14 Plympton St. through whatever weather Cambridge decided to dial up that morning to fix dates, blurry photos, misplaced ads, malfunctioning computers, or whatever else has decided to go wrong.
But things always get fixed one way or another, and the paper goes to press. And there, in the basement of the Crimson, I’ll share a cig with the pressmen, the two guys who every day coax the paper into existence some time between 5 and 7 in the morning.
Brian and George are the last of a dying breed, the middlemen of a disappearing product, two Bostonians who made you this magazine using their time worn hands. They bear ink stains that won’t fade, and the markings of a soon to be bygone era. Brian and George are men who still make things, who know about ball bearings and understand the importance of perfect alignment, whose hands are calloused.
This issue of FM might have been the last time George called me in to the Crimson in the middle of the night. If so, I cursed the FM chairs for messing things up again and had a smoke with George before making the fix.
For the sake of seeing something made, I probably stuck around until the bitter end to watch the presses roll.
—Elias J. Groll ’12, the Managing Editor of The Crimson, is a social studies concentrator in Leverett House. He claims to be only faintly nostalgic.
Sections
Last reading period, our neighbors at Fifteen Minutes Magazine made video with three faculty members reading "Goodnight Moon" by Margaret Wise Brown.
This time around, they're back with another childhood treat. Here are three more faculty members—Psychology professor Steven Pinker, Kirkland House Master Tom C. Conley, and College Dean for Administration D. E. Lorraine Sterritt—reading "If You Give a Mouse a Cookie" by Laura Numeroff.
This post has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: December 5, 2011.
An earlier version of the Dec. 1 post "Distracted? Pinker, Conley, Sterritt Read 'If You Give a Mouse a Cookie'" misspelled the book author's name. In fact, the author of "If You Give a Mouse a Cookie" is Laura Numeroff.
Sections
If you're celebrating the end of classes Friday night and need a bite to eat, DAPA and UC Restaurants have you covered. From 9 to 11 p.m., stop by b.good on Dunster Street for free fries and a shake. All you have to do is sign up for b.good's rewards program and bring your Harvard ID.
According to Hilary A. Hayssen '13, a member of DAPA's Community Education and Outreach team, the deal is meant to get drinkers to eat during their night of partying and to give students who are not drinking a fun place to go.
