News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Hopefully, after splurging on that engagement ring, Josue Ortiz still has enough money left over to buy himself a nice big trophy case.
Because he’s going to need it.
On Friday, the Harvard senior defensive tackle added another accolade to his growing list, as he was named an AP third-team All-American for the second straight year.
The honor came one week after Ortiz won the Asa S. Bushnell Cup as the Ivy League Defensive Player of the Year on Dec. 5 and the Harry Agganis/Harold Zimman Award for the New England Senior Player of the Year on Dec. 8.
The defensive tackle was also named a third-team All-American last season, when he recorded 7.5 sacks. But in 2011, he took his game to a whole new level, finishing with 10 sacks—best in the Ancient Eight—and 14.5 tackles for loss.
The fifth-year senior also anchored a dominant Harvard defensive line that led the Ivy League in rush defense by a wide margin, allowing just 89.7 yards per game (in second place was Penn, which allowed 117.1).
The season marked the end of an elite career for Ortiz, whose 20 career sacks are second-most in Crimson history. But that came after an inauspicious start: after redshirting his freshman year due to a wrist injury, Ortiz saw minimal action the next season and was labeled “a disappointment” by Harvard coach Tim Murphy.
But then Ortiz began to emerge as a dominant force. In 2009—his second year of eligibility—the  Avon Park, Fla. native earned a second-team All-Ivy nod. For his play, Ortiz earned a starting role on the defensive line in 2010 and never looked back.
With Ortiz’s second consecutive All-American accolade, the Crimson now has at least one All-American in each of the last 13 years.
The defensive tackle was also just the fourth Harvard player to earn the Agannis Award since its 1966 inception, and the first since Carl Morris in 2002.
Ortiz was also a unanimous first-team All-Ivy choice and earned the Frederick Greely Crocker Award as Harvard’s MVP.
Safe to say, Murphy’s probably not too disappointed anymore.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Finals period can be stressful, and sometimes we all need a break or two, or ten. Flyby is here to help. Stay tuned for our version of "The Twelve Days of Christmas," based instead on the eight days of finals.
On the sixth day of finals, Flyby gave to me...
Six Flyby blog posts on health
Five super fun online games
Four delicious food blogs
Three feel-good links
Two writing helpers
And a quiet place to be.
