News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While many people desire access to elite and selective groups, those who are rejected often harbor strong resentment of the chosen few. As members of one of the most elite and selective groups in the world, Harvard students are on the receiving end of a hearty portion of both envy and disdain. We have a reputation for exhibiting many qualities: extreme intelligence, nerdiness, socially awkward behavior, arrogance, and snootiness. It is not a coincidence that only one quality on this list is complimentary.
It is this reputation that causes many Harvard students, myself included, to feel hesitant about advertising where we go to college. If I know I will be leaving campus during the day, I almost always put my Harvard t-shirt back in the drawer and pick something more unidentifiable. If it slips my mind and I find myself in Central Square with “Harvard” emblazoned across my chest, I suddenly become self-conscious. It’s not that I’m ashamed of where I go; it’s that I know what people will think of me if I wear it for all the world to see.
I remember seeing a man wearing a Yale shirt three summers ago before I was accepted into Harvard. Without exchanging any words with him, my first thought was that he must be a snob. He just had to make public that he was somehow associated with an elite university, rubbing it in the faces of us commoners.
That many students fear this reaction to wearing Harvard gear in public is laudable. If one is aware that doing something, as innocent as its intention may be, will likely cause a negative misunderstanding, refraining from that action is both wise and thoughtful.
There is another habit, however, that Harvard students have that stems from a similar reluctance to rub Harvard in other people’s faces, but generally backfires miserably. This is the tendency, when asked where they go to college, to reply with anything but Harvard. “Massachusetts.” “Boston.” “Cambridge.” Or as was demonstrated on one episode of 30 Rock to an unfortunately realistic degree, “You know, I went to college in Boston. Well, not in Boston, but nearby. No, not Tufts…”
This tactless Harvard custom needs to stop. If you are speaking to anyone but the most disinterested conversation partner, you will be questioned further until the truth finally comes out: “I go to Harvard.” This is when it gets really awkward. Now your acquaintance knows you were trying to conceal that you go to Harvard, and will assume this is because you didn’t want to hurt his or her simple feelings about being so much stupider than you. You’ve succeeded, by trying to avoid looking arrogant and condescending, in exhibiting both qualities. This is different than refraining from wearing a t-shirt. You’ve engaged with someone and then concealed information. It’s a rare conversation—much less relationship—that can recover from this type of disaster.
I’m convinced that this behavior is responsible for the poor reputations of many Harvard students. It should not be surprising that acting pompous has led to our reputation as pompous students. While I hope that most of the time this habit is the result of well-meaning consideration for others’ feelings, the tone of voice used by some students when prevaricating about their college indicates that they get some kind of satisfaction from what they consider their own personal form of noblesse oblige.
Harvard students have achieved something incredible in one aspect of life in gaining acceptance to the college, and have the right to feel proud. But students are not better people because they go to Harvard. I believe most students agree, but if they want fewer people to think they’re snobs, they need to stop acting like it, whether intentionally or not. Like a howler in the Harry Potter series or a band-aid that needs to be ripped off, once the awkward question has come up the H-Bomb is best dealt with sooner rather than later. Avoid making an uncomfortable situation worse, and just tell people you go to Harvard when they ask.
Wyatt N. Troia ’14, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Winthrop House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Many students might not feel comfortable sharing a room with a four-foot python, but most would not mind a few friendly fish. Harvard, however, has no tolerance for any critter on campus, be it mammalian, reptilian, or piscine. The administration argues students may be disrupted and even have allergic reactions to these animals. Furthermore the administrators feel that the transitional nature of student life is ill-suited for pet ownership. But, surely, such a strict stance toward pets is too extreme. Instead of banning all animals completely, the college should allow students to enjoy the companionship of their pets as long as they follow regulations that provide for the well-being of all parties involved.
Such a step would not be unprecedented; a plethora of other colleges have effective policies that allow students to own pets in dorms. MIT welcomes cats as long as they are neutered or spayed. Eckerd University in Florida allows students to have snakes as long as they are less than six feet and are non-venomous. Stephens College in Columbia, Montana, has a three-week grace period at the beginning of each semester that allows students and their pets to adjust to life in the residence hall. If there is continued disruption after this period, then students can find other living arrangements for their pets. University  of California’s policy is not nearly as generous, but it at least accepts fish.
Many of these colleges recognize the complications that come with owning a pet during college. However, instead of banning them completely, as Harvard does, they have very detailed plans that clearly tell students what is permissible on campus. For example, Washington & Jefferson has a pet-designated form. They also lay out registration procedures, restrictions on the number of pets allowed, rules of conduct, visitor policies, and consequences of any violations of these guidelines. If Harvard adopts similar policies, it could easily avoid having a pig in Adams.  
Despite the potential of such reforms, administrators are nevertheless concerned about the well-being of the pet. Katie W. Steele, director for freshman programming, said in a recent Crimson article, “Is a college dorm really the best place for [a pet]?” If space is a concern, then Harvard can simply designated certain dorms for pet ownership. Freshman dorms may be cramped, but upper classmen dorms, such as Pforzheimer, have spacious rooms with more than enough room. It should be added that not every student wants a dog, and so the suitability of a pet-space could easily be determined on a case-to-case basis. Such a case-to-case policy will also help prevent medical and allergy issues from arising with pet ownership.  For example, the college can require students to screen the animal, confine it the dorm, and receive the consent of all roommates before bringing it in.
Furthermore, enforcing such restrictions on students can only feed their desire. Students are already illegally keeping pets in their dorms, hiding snakes in pillows and hamsters under their beds. Such desperation makes students raise their pets in conditions that are not safe. By allowing pets on campus, Harvard can avoid such treatment. If students know that they can have pets, then can assume responsibility and feel more comfortable putting their pet out in the open. At last, the little hamster can crawl out of the darkness of the bed.
Having pets on campus is not just possible—it also can greatly improve the quality of life by relieving stress and providing companionship. Sara Staats, lead author of the study and professor emeritus of psychology at Ohio State’s Newark Campus, conducted a research study which found that pets bring many health benefits to younger age groups. According to Staats, “Many students said that their pets fulfill a significant role that is missing in their lives.  The pets are not a substitute for human social interaction and support, but they do provide important interaction for these kids who might otherwise feel isolated from their current environment.”
Considering the positive influences that pets can have on students, Harvard should reconsider their policy and give students the option of having pets. If the college provides clear dos and don’ts in their rules, they can avoid the messes, clawing, noises, and allergies those pets can bring. Lastly, let us not forget that students have the potential to be just as disruptive and unsanitary as their pets. However, they get to survive in relative peace because the college provides clear guidelines and regulations. If students are given a similar set of rules on how to take care of their pets, then they too can provide a safe environment for their friends—if not a cat, then a little goldfish.
My Ngoc To, ’14, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator living in Pforzheimer House
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Having spent the summer in Silicon Valley, I’ve come to see it as a unique community of innovators where there is a constant flow of communication and ideas, a culture of mentorship, and an acceptance of failure as a natural, and not immediately negative, process.
This last piece appeared over and over again, in a way that I have not encountered elsewhere. It is this aspect of the Valley that makes it interesting and unique.  This support for and belief in second chances and risk-taking seems to be the keystone to the rest of the growth and innovation that abounds in the Bay Area.  The Harvard community would benefit if we encouraged similar risk-taking, created support structures that offer resources for experimentation and provided a safety net when those experiments fail.
In San Francisco, I met many people who had failed, some after taking tens or hundreds of millions in venture capital funding, who were now successful entrepreneurs.  One entrepreneur who was fairly senior at Go.com, a tech company that took a huge amount of VC funding before going bust, stands out particularly.  Rather than causing his career to stall, his experiences at Go.com helped him build a reputation as a tough entrepreneur who was willing to keep trying to innovate and work hard at new ideas, a tenacity that was rewarded as he received VC funding for his latest startup.  In that environment, where failure can be an asset, it is no wonder that new startups appear and innovate at a rapid pace; many fail, but there is little stigma to that outcome.
That altered reward structure around risk also appeared very close to home this summer, at the tech startup where I was working.  I grabbed lunch with one of the co-founders, Eric, and discussed the challenges around picking a good founding partnership or team.  We talked about how he found his co-founder, James, and he said very simply, “It was because of Harvard.”  No, he did not have some particular attraction to the university; it may have been a negative for him as a Yalie.  Instead, it was the fact that James had dropped out of Harvard to try to pursue a different career path that made him a suitable partner; that willingness to take a risk set him apart for the myriad people who had ideas but could not commit, could not see it through properly.  Of course, dropping out is a somewhat extreme case, but having a similar approach to risk-taking and ideation could allow us to similarly create new, important innovations.
This openness to failure is indicative for people lower on the company food chain, also. A Stanford graduate I know was working for the data analytics company KISSmetrics, a job for which he had to complete many challenging coding assignments. On one of his first projects he messed up his code pretty badly, and the entire product was flawed. Instead of punishing him or firing him, his bosses acknowledged that coding is tough and explained the error; he went on to become a highly successful programmer at the company. Moreover, these same people who have seen him fail on a high level, are now some of his biggest advocates as he looks for new opportunities.
Harvard students in general are very smart and fantastically hard working, but the same focus and understanding of systems that helped us become a part of this community becomes a limitation in terms of our exploration.  Everyone here generally has met with much success and little failure; this pattern can be problematic because a lack of experience with failure creates an atmosphere where failure is stigmatized.  In an educational environment, that aversion to failure is disastrous, encouraging us to move along set routes that are known.
Harvard is seen as a leader around the world and takes in many top thinkers and future leaders.  Thus, it seems particularly important for our community to encourage members to take risks that have the potential to move our economy and country forward.  Harvard should aim to educate leaders, not skilled workers, and leadership requires a willingness to think in the big picture and take calculated chances, a willingness to try new things, learn from them, and incorporate them into one’s next endeavors.
Francis G. Thumpasery ’13, a Crimson video editor, is an economics concentrator in Adams House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On the tenth anniversary of September 11, 2001, people across the nation stopped and put aside their weekend plans to commemorate the destruction and loss of life from the most infamous terrorist attack in recent memory. Here, however, the Harvard community seemed to use the anniversary primarily as a means of decrying post-9/11 discrimination in America and the subsequent foreign policy of the Bush administration.
Despite their good intentions, the day’s organizers seemed to conflate remembrance of the tragedy with commentary on the political aftermath of the event itself. This, in our view, was an unfortunate mistake. While the rest of our nation, and, indeed, many others across the world, united to honor the lives of those killed in New York City, Arlington, Va., and Shanksville, Pa., Harvard instead chose to use the anniversary as an opportunity to reaffirm its commitment to multiculturalism and tolerance. Regardless of these values’ obvious merits, this was neither the time nor the place to emphasize them. Rather, the anniversary of 9/11 was an opportunity to honor the memory of the dead alone, and the political statements and interpretations—no matter how much we may agree with them—only detracted from the respect that should have been afforded such remembrance. The victims were innocent individuals who deserve to be remembered as people whose lives were stolen; their memory should never be minimized in favor of emphasizing America’s alleged mistakes. We regret that the University seemed to choose the latter over the former.
A deviation away from strict remembrance and, what’s more, a politicized interpretation of the “post-9/11 world” risks making a ceremony inappropriate. As one attendee pointed out in a piece published in The New Republic, an interpretive dance performance this past weekend whose “ ‘narrator’…prefaced the next segment by telling us it would be about post-9/11, George W. Bush, Afghanistan, Iraq, Guantanamo Bay, Abu Ghraib, and war crimes” set the tone for a day devoted to remembering America’s mistakes rather than America’s tragedy. By the same token, Harvard’s hours-long seminar on Islam in America and the fact that a passage from the Koran stood out as the only religious text read at the vigil suggests that organizers were above all determined to demonstrate their, and Harvard’s, own steadfast commitment to multiculturalism. Again, while this action has its place, it does not belong at the center of such a commemoration, much less does Harvard itself.
If anything, we suspect that Sunday’s vigil will have an inverse effect for many onlookers. The decision to focus so much attention on the role of Islam in the heart and minds of Harvard’s trendsetters and bureaucrats can in part only cement the association between Islam and September 11. While a separate debate has been ongoing, and should continue, about religious pluralism in America and the continuing threat of Islamic extremism, this anniversary was not an appropriate moment for Harvard to celebrate its position on this debate.  The tremendous national unity that is provoked by remembrance of 9/11 exists as one of the great positives of such a commemoration. Religion naturally has a role in any ceremony that revolves around national unity, but in a pluralistic sense that involves many faiths and does not focus on one.
Of course, commentary and interpretation of how September 11 changed America in profound ways has formed an integral part of our national dialogue over the past 10 years. Overall, our reaction to the event has been more significant than the actual terrorist event itself. From the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, our changing attitudes to security and civil liberties, and relations with the rest of the world—particularly the Islamic world—the aftermath of the United States’ worst terrorist atrocity has shaped our experience of the 21st Century, especially for young people. But the tenth anniversary of this scarring event, the worst we have faced since Pearl Harbor, deserves to stand alone as a moment of reflection on the trauma, carnage, and death of that day.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I first learnt about “misère,” which is betting in a card game that you’ll lose every hand in order to win, at the end of high school, when my good friend P. took to hosting large groups of friends for quiet evenings of bridge and conversation. He lived in the Bay, a posh little Sydney suburb full of nouveaux riches and the minimal boutiques where they send their pre-teens window shopping. I never liked the place, to be honest, and I hated the card games, but my mates were all there so I didn’t have much of a choice. And boy, did they love their bridge.
I remember one night sitting on the couch while the others played cards—I used to watch films, sometimes, silently protesting the unnecessary geekdom of my pals—and flicking onto the news, where they were running a story about asylum seekers. Our treatment of refugees is Australia’s little-known shame; except for the occasional challenge from a do-gooder sans frontières, foreigners rarely seem to be aware that it’s an issue at all. “Boat people,” they’re called, because they come on big rickety boats from Indonesia where they are gathered up by people smugglers and sent on their way. (Of course, most asylum seekers come by plane, but the image of the boat has Spanish-Armada style doomsday connotations that populist commentators just couldn’t resist).
This news report spoke of the processing time for asylum seekers—legal and illegal—once they reach the Australian authorities. Families and individuals have to stay in detention facilities, always off-shore or deep in the countryside, for anywhere up to a few years while their paperwork is scrutinized and their legitimacy determined. (Many asylum seekers are just seeking economic opportunity rather than sincerely fleeing danger). At the off-shore detention center on Christmas Island, 10 asylum seekers had decided to protest their miserable condition by sewing their lips together, an altogether gruesome move whose aim was to—well, to get some attention, I guess.
That image stuck with me, as it stuck with many Australians. I always thought it was peculiar how playing to lose like that—how applying your frustration to your own body, entirely without coercion—could win so much sympathy. Could make such a mark on a stranger.
But that’s exactly it, though, isn’t it? When people are connected by a sense of sameness—be it through pity, camaraderie, nationhood, or love—that sameness finds itself under threat when confronted with a person so destitute that they hardly count as a person. And in a matrix like that, when you’re playing to lose, you can start to win big.
P. would often join me on the couch, partially because he was a magnanimous host and partially because he started getting into French films. We never saw Australian movies because there aren’t many, and most of them are rubbish anyway. Only about five percent of domestic box office returns come from Aussie films, and most of these are the “whoppers”: big-budget feature films with an eager eye on the foreign audience. “Crocodile Dundee” was the first, and “Australia” the last; between these two great monuments to Australiana kitsch, there’s “The Castle” and “Strictly Ballroom” and, well, bugger all else.
We Australians have a hard time taking ourselves seriously. When it comes to war, our proudest moment was Gallipoli—an administrative debacle of almost criminal proportions from the English, which saw 28,000 young Aussies dead or wounded on the shores of Turkey. It was heroic, to be sure, but a crushing defeat.
Australian heroes come from the lost and the lonely: the bushman, the highwayman and the larrikin thief. For a convict nation that defined itself against the pale gardens of class-bound England, the priority has always been egalitarianism—and this has vertiginous effects for successful Australians who want to win but don’t want to look (or feel) superior. “Crocodile Dundee” casts a long shadow, and the frustrating thing is that Australians aren’t prepared to efface this worn-out trope of non-threatening affability.
If Australians are embarrassed to be winners—intellectually, at least—and that game’s real winners scorn our colonial backwater, then the choices are clear: play to lose, or quit your team. The cultural cringe, or the brain drain.
P. and I both had dogs, and he used to hit his when they needed to be disciplined. I thought it was cruel, at least compared to the little spray bottle I used when my dog was misbehaving. (Apparently dogs hate being squirted with water). When I asked him about it, he scolded me for righteousness and told me that the dog is suffering either way, and the bottle only doesn’t bother me because I don’t mind being sprayed. The limits of sympathy.
We had been talking about refugees, actually, because there had been new developments at a detention center in the Northern Territory: some Indonesian boatsmen being held there had set a fire in protest and damaged a bunch of buildings. Politicians went to town on the matter, talking of queue jumpers and their disrespect for Australian taxpayers, and the public seemed to agree. There was no ready sympathy for the destitute once the protest turned outwards. Patience is running thin with the boat people. But even still—we’re embarrassed.
The Olympics were a big moment for Sydney, a coming of age for a town trapped between its miserable, parochial roots and its new cosmopolitan ambitions. Over in the Bay, you get the feeling that people are starting to give up on the outback trope, starting to model themselves on the other (bah!) world cities like Milan and Tokyo. In commerce and in culture, Australians are starting to play to win—and with each victory we are less comfortable with egalitarian myths of national origin.
The strangest and most powerful of these: we all began as boat people.
Sections
A brilliant costume parade and pulsing Afro-Caribbean rhythms are the hallmarks of the Cambridge Carnival, which took place on Saturday, Sept. 10.
Since its beginnings as a small street fair, the event has become the largest—and the most exuberant—festival in Cambridge. Sprawling from Central to Kendell,  and drawing on the Carnival traditions of Trinidad, Tobago, and Brazil, thousands enjoyed the music, dance, food and art. FM took some snapshots of the revelry.
Sections
The Harvard Happiness Project created the HappyNest last spring in order to give students a place to relax, have fun, and de-stress. From 8:00-11:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday, students can come to this room in Hilles to enjoy mini golf, Wii, Xbox, Legos, remote control cars, Buddha boards, and more. While this list certainly sounds enticing, FM decided to conduct a comprehensive survey of Harvard students and compile a list of things that Harvard students would rather have in the HappyNest.
– Golf the drinking game/activity/however you would classify it. Much better than mini.
– Money. It can’t buy happiness, but it can buy everything in the HappyNest for your room.
– Real cars. Remote control ones bring happiness, but not as nearly as much as a Blanchard’s run.
– Wait, this place is in the Quad? They better have some Razor scooters. Mom can’t say no this time.
– Ouija boards. Buddha boards are ... . Wait, what in the world is a Buddha board?
– Hot breakfast. No, I’m still not over it.
– Cornhole and PBR. Frat stars need happiness too.
– Hours when everyone on campus isn’t doing homework. Recent studies show failing classes does
not bring happiness.
– Answers to this Chem 17 Pset.
– Transformers. No, not the toys. No, not the electrical things that fry squirrels. I’m talking straight-
up alien robots.
– A quiet, dark room where I can finally be alone and escape from this God-forsaken place. Hide
me from the voices ... or maybe just someone to hold me.
– PUpP1eS!!! Get me some golden retrievers, and forget everything else on this list.
Sections
1. The Winklevi are back and wearing suits similar to the ones that drew Summers’ ire.  This time, they’re appearing in a commercial for Wonderful Pistachios.
2. Hip Hop ... till you drop.  The prospects of REAL Prep Charter Academy—more commonly known as the “Hip Hop Charter School”— aren’t looking so good, despite the fact that it was scheduled to open last Monday. Last year, De La Soul's manager, Troy McNair, was paid $79,000 to design a record-producing curriculum.  Unfortunately, the budget didn’t adequately provide for other things—like desks, textbooks, or completing construction of the school building.
3. Bottoms up: a Harvard research study suggests that moderate alcohol consumption might improve women’s health as they age. Better start now.
4. Pumps or wedges?  Peep-toes or espadrilles?  A new documentary entitled “God Save My Shoes” explores the history of women and their shoes.
5. Forget about Fashion Week—according to our sources, owling is out and batmanning is in.
6. There’s a first time for everything. Next Saturday, learn about medical firsts at Mount Auburn Cemetery and explore the history of medicine as you visit the graves of medical masters.
7. After beating out the world’s best “Jeoporday!” players in February, the IBM Watson computer is moving on. To healthcare, that is. WellPoint Inc, one of America’s largest health insurers, will use the computer to evaluate potential treatments.
8. A University of Calgary professor requires students in his Shakespeare class to tweet questions about the readings. Can Harvard institute response papers of 140 characters or fewer?
9. First online dating, now online praying?  The New York Times reports that online religious communities are rising in popularity. In the past three months, “Jesus Daily” has been “liked” more than any other Facebook page.
10. As the media zeroes in on Republican debates and the faltering economy, Anderson Cooper’s new show “Anderson” promises not to focus on such dull matters.  “In how many places can one find coverage of Real Housewife of Atlanta NeNe Leakes?” he asks.
This story has been revised to reflect the following correction.
CORRECTION: SEPT. 21, 2011
The Sept. 15, 2011 article "Ten Things to Talk About This Weekend" said that the group De La Soul was paid $79,000 to design a  record-producing curriculum. In fact, according to The Oregonian, REAL  Prep Charter Academy paid Troy McNair, the group's brand manager,  $79,000 in relation to the curriculum.
Sections
A new school year brings fresh starts. And freshmen. To kick this semester off right, the ladies of FM decided to channel our inner cougars and scope out the fresh meat on campus. We prowled the Yard, not for chiseled chests and piercing eyes, but for impressive hardware of a different variety. With that in mind, we had some fun with the good old-fashioned game of Chuck, Fuck, and Marry.
Room 1 :
When we walk in, “Dick Pleaser” by Lil Wayne is playing—this guy is cutting right to the chase.
The fridge is stocked with bread, ham, cheese, roast beef, peanut butter, and jelly—doesn’t need anyone to make him a sandwich.
Lots of sweet kicks (size 15)—impressive shoes indicate a sense of style. Impressive size indicates lots of sweet kicks.
Bob Marley posters and Pineapple Express—great combination. We can think of something to do before we pop in that DVD.
Prom photo of him and a lady friend—uh oh, this one might be taken.
CS Lewis on his book shelf—we like a good fantasy, too.
Lift scheduled into his calendar—he’s an athlete. This guy’s got to have a bojangin’ bod.
While he might have a girl (for now), this guy seems chill, hot, and we can’t help but think he’s got sex on the mind.
FUCK.
Room 2:
Listerine—we like that minty fresh breath.
Free condoms from the Women’s Center—yes he’s prepared, but we’d like our man to splurge on some higher quality protection.
Top Bunk—there’s no way we’re climbing up there.
Stuff all over the bed—is there even room for us?
Nothing but baby carrots and Rubinoff in the fridge—we guess you need something to chase with ....
Half-eaten corn dog from Cape Crimson—ew.
Environmental Engineering Pamphlet—cares about the environment ... and he keeps his pamphlets.
Keurig—he can make us a decent cup of coffee in the morning.
He may be successful one day, but this man needs someone who will clean his room—and it’s not going to be us.
CHUCK.
Room 3:
Picture with mom—a family man.
Italian Vocab—he’s fluent in the language of romance.
Household Tool Set—good with his hands. And we’ll never have to call a handyman.
Presidents Poster—wouldn’t mind being your first lady.
Perfectly made bed, folded clothes and underwear—looks like we know who will be doing the laundry in this relationship.
Stuffed animals—we’re melting.
Men’s Book: Essential Guide to the Modern Man—this guy is cultured, and knows how to cut a steak.
Sports Illustrated—love a man who loves sports.
Sign on the door that reads “Welcome to our humble aBROde”—he’s punny.
Sex Signals “STOP” sign above his bed—he knows that “no” means “no.”
He’s a man’s man but is still in touch with his softer side—plus we want to keep him around to employ his organizational skills.
MARRY.
Sections
Remember that time when your friend saw you at the activity fair and was all, “Ohmigosh, you absolutely have to check out the Harvard Band. It’s, like, more amazing than if, like, Justin Bieber were to go on tour with *NSYNC!” And you were all like, “Ew, that club sounds gross,” because that girl/guy you think is cute was nearby and you didn’t want them to think you’re a total weirdo, but secretly you really love your trombone? I know, right? Well, here’s your chance to find out which activity on campus is the perfect fit for you. This time without worrying about social stigmas.
1) How would you describe yourself?
a.    Outgoing
b.    “Colorful”
c.    I can only identify myself by those around me.
d.    Misunderstood
e.    Level 70 Paladin
2) What is your spirit animal?
a.    Tiger
b.    Lion
c.    Liger
d.    Lolcat
e.    Octopus
3) When in Rome ...
a.    Rape and Pillage.
b.    Enjoy the art!
c.    Do as the Romans do.
d.    VESPAS! VESPAS EVERYWHERE!
e.    Study abroad.
4) On Saturday nights, you usually end up ...
a.    You can’t remember, but according to the Facebook photos it was epic.
b.    Otto’s. Noch’s and Felipe’s are so last year.
c.    Hanging out in a friend’s room
d.    Trying to get into many different parties. Emphasis on the trying.
e.    In Lamont until it closes. Then arguing with the security guard, because seriously, you just need five more minutes, please!
5) What is your favorite part about Harvard?
a.    All the amazing people! (NOTE: This does not mean everyone, just the amazing ones.)
b.    Its storied history
c.    Meeting more people like you
d.    Being able to say whatever the hell you want and have people think you’re smart
e.    Studying hard is its own reward.
6) When you pass someone you only sort of know on the street, you ...
a.    Run up to them, yelling the whole way, and hug them like you would your long lost brother.
b.    Say hi, but you’re not mad if they don’t say hi back. Besides you really didn’t want to have a whole conversation with them anyway.
c.    Take out your phone and pretend to be very busy reading some e-mail on your House list about someone needing to borrow a blender or some shit like that.
d.    Run the hell away! Social interaction can be frightening and dangerous, and you’re way too intelligent to fall for that!
e.    Reach into your bag, pull out the glove you’ve been carrying around for this very reason, slap them in the face with it, and challenge them to a duel.
7) Are you good looking?
a.    I’d have sex with me, yeah.
b.    That depends. How drunk are you?
c.    With a little plastic surgery, I’d be hottt.
d.    I’m beautiful on the inside.
e.    My mom started insisting I talk to her only on the phone when I hit puberty.
8) What’s your favorite kind of movie?
a.    Horror—it gives me an excuse to cuddle with my date / allow my date to hold on to me. Also, I like watching the weak characters suffer.
b.    Drama—it’s only worth watching if it has won an Oscar.
c.    Documentary—learning is fun! So is catching up on your sleep during the boring parts!
d.    Comedy—fart jokes are funny, ok?
e.    Disney—except for the part where Bambi’s mom dies. Or the part where Mufasa dies. Or the rampant racism.
9) If you were trapped on a desert island with just you and your best friend, what would you do?
a.    Eat your friend as soon as you started feeling hungry. Things change, buddy. Deal with it.
b.    Both of you eat one another’s left arm, then left leg, then right leg, then right arm, depending on how long it takes to get rescued.
c.    Offer yourself up to be eaten, and then be surprised by how quickly your “friend” agrees to feast on your still-warm flesh.
d.    Both starve, knowing you could never live with the knowledge of what your friend tastes like.
e.    Send a message to Michael Sandel asking what you’re morally obligated to do.
10) How many licks does it take for you to get to the Tootsie roll center of a Tootsie pop?
a.    1
b.    2
c.    3
d.    *crunch*
e.    347. Trust me I’ve tried.
11) What do you look for in your friends?
a.    People who will stand by me no matter what sort of stupid things come out of my mouth.
b.    My friends need to be funny and outrageous people who will entertain me. I said entertain me! Dance, maggots!
c.    I can really only relate to people similar to me, so we all need to share the same values.
d.    Are they good editors? Or at least helpful study buddies? My thesis will need help one day if it’s going to be published in a major journal, and I’m fully expecting my friends to be a central part of its success.
e.    ... friends?
13)  “I love you”—part of a song lyric from what song?
a.    Chris Brown—I Love You
b.    Barenaked Ladies—I Love You
c.    Tila Tequila—I Love U
d.    Avril Lavigne—I Love You
e.    Three Days Grace—I Hate Everything
Now calculate your score! Give yourself points based on the following values:
Answer choice—Points awarded
A—5
B—4
C—3
D—2
E—1
If you scored from 12-20:
You should really just stay home for now. I think it’s in your best interest to avoid interacting with people—for their sake as much as for your own.
If you scored from 21-30:
Try writing! Comp The Crimson, along with half your classmates. You get to meet some interesting people while really spending the majority of your time isolating yourself so you can “write.”
If you scored from 31-40:
Join one of the cultural societies! Ideally, you’ll join one that’s relevant to your roots, but feel free to branch out and join other ones as well if you’re feeling particularly confident.
If you scored from 41-50:
The world of theater awaits! Go be artsy with people who appreciate what people in high school called your “eccentricities.” But seriously, try to avoid those behaviors off the stage, for the rest of us.
Sections
To call conversation with Katharine Woodman-Maynard ’08 animated is strikingly appropriate, and it is hardly surprising that she discusses her career with such enthusiasm.
As the co-creator of the animated online show “Post-Nup,” she has more creative license over her work than do most recent grads. And unlike many animators who work on sections of films as part of an animation house, her work involves creating her own films from start to finish.
“It’s been so cool discovering how many parts of animation suit different parts of my personality,” she says. She becomes everything from actress to visual architect to create the final product.
Senior year was an auspicious start for Woodman-Maynard, when she won the prestigious Albert Alcalay Prize, given to the best student in a VES workshop studio. But after taking a job as a production assistant, Woodman-Maynard found herself at a crossroads.
“I first got a job as an assistant at a production company that made advertisements, and it really wasn’t what I wanted to do. I ended up quitting that,” she says.
She laughs, “I know it sounds silly, but I really tried to get a job that was as close to ideal as possible.”
That led to the creation of “Post-Nup,” which chronicles the married life of Omar and Gaby, an Indian web entrepreneur and a Jewish lawyer.
Occasionally playing on stereotypes, the show primarily takes place in the couple’s bedroom. Missing from their nightly routine? Sex. In its place: attitude.
Rather than bringing together obvious themes or jokes, Woodman-Maynard’s show creates something appealingly uncomfortable. It’s not something you’ve seen before, and that’s exciting.
“The show is about a married couple who love each other deeply, but struggle through the daily conflicts and issues that are in a marriage. But it’s definitely a comedy,” says Woodman-Maynard.
“Post-Nup” recently earned acceptance at the United Film Festival in Chicago.
“We would love to have distribution, or to have a network pick it up to develop further, or just to have growth in viewership,” she explains.
But or now, it’s back to the studio to finish episode 13 of the series.
Sections
When the International Astronomical Union demoted Pluto from planet to dwarf planet in 2006, more than a handful of Americans were upset, or even outraged. But Neil deGrasse Tyson ’80, astrophysicist and director of the Hayden Planetarium at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City, wasn’t surprised at all—in fact, he had been arguing for Pluto’s demotion for years.
Tyson is perhaps one of the most visible American scientists of the past 20 years. His charisma and natural eloquence make him a popular guest on television shows such as “The Colbert Report” and “Late Night with Conan O’ Brien,” as well as the PBS program “NOVA scienceNOW.”
As an undergraduate living in Currier House and concentrating in Physics in the late 1970s, Tyson’s love of astronomy was infectious, and he wasn’t shy about sharing his passion with friends. Salim Washington ’93, who later took time off from Harvard, was roommates with Tyson in Weld during their freshman year and remembers Tyson’s intensity and focus.
“A lot of people came to college figuring out what they wanted to do, but not Neil. He had found his passion already,” says Washington.
Tyson was on the wrestling team and lettered in his senior year. He also spent a lot of time in the Harvard Observatory and sometimes invited others along. “Once, he took an ex-girlfriend of mine up to the observatory for a date,” says Washington.
Washington remembers that Tyson had already cultivated a talent for explaining difficult astrophysical concepts using layman’s terms. “He didn’t use any technical jargon—he just spoke in English,” Washington comments.
In August 2011, it was announced that Tyson would host a sequel to Carl Sagan’s television series “Cosmos: A Personal Voyage.” Sagan, another popularizer of science and mentor of Tyson, was occasionally criticized for oversimplifying scientific concepts, and it remains to be seen whether Tyson will suffer the same sorts of troubles now that he has assumed such a public persona.
“In terms of anybody who gets that much attention in the limelight, that kind of exposure automatically accrues some jealousy,” says Owen J. Gingerich, Professor Emeritus of Astronomy and History of Science.
The sequel to “Cosmos” won’t air until 2013, but for now it appears that Tyson’s star will only continue to rise.
Sections
In 2007, siblings Alexa H. Hirschfeld ’06 and James D. Hirschfeld ’09 were in very different places—she was working as an assistant in network news, he was still an undergraduate at Harvard—but they shared one philosophy.
“[We were] really focused on not having lives that were really awful and conventional,” says Alexa, who had planned to leave her job opening mail to develop a profitable, internet-related business. Yet it was James who called his sister from school and presented the idea of Paperless Post: a web-based company that would allow users to send and track custom invitations with the intricate designs of paper stationary and the ease of email.
“The way he was describing it was really, really detailed,” says Alexa. “It was actually a vision. [I was like] this is gonna be easy, it’s gonna be chic, it’s gonna be big. Let’s just do it!”
Memorial Day, 2007, marked the beginning of Paperless Post. According to Alexa, the siblings—who are also best friends and now business partners—stayed inside throughout the entire weekend, as James focused on designing the end product and Alexa began to develop the website’s interfaces.
Over the next two years, Alexa and James continued to build the business without any outside funding.
“The gestation period was really painful,” says Alexa. “It felt like, is this ever going to be real? We sat in my parents’ living room and we didn’t celebrate any holidays for two years—we both lost a lot of weight.”
In the fall of 2008, the website became live. By early 2009, prominent figures such as Condoleeza Rice were using Paperless Post, and today the site has delivered 40 million invitations.
“None of us could have predicted how it happened,” says Alexa. “People use us for their weddings, their university convocations—you become a part of culture. That’s a big part of people’s lives and it’s actually a really big honor for us. All their memories around that process are stored in Paperless Post.”
Alexa and James continue to work at Paperless Post as Chief Product Officer and Chief Executive Officer, respectively, though they may never have predicted such a trajectory as undergrads.
“There is no such thing as the next Harvard, there’s no emerald city that everyone’s agreed upon is the big thing,” says Alexa. “Seeing what you want from life from the inside out, rather than from the outside in, is the most important thing.”
Sections
Jazz saxophonist Joshua Redman ’91 never planned to become a professional musician. Redman, who originally used his mother’s last name Shedroff, is the son of legendary saxophonist Dewey Redman, who performed with free jazz icons Ornette Coleman and Don Cherry. Raised by a single mother in Berkeley, Ca., Redman was hesitant to pursue a career in music.
“I didn’t grow up with my father around, but I know that he struggled to put food on the table for himself and for his family,” says Redman. “I knew that there were many challenges to becoming a creative musician with integrity.”
Although Redman was a talented musician in high school, he was also a talented student, graduating first in his high school class. When he was accepted to Harvard, he jumped at the opportunity to attend a top university. “Materially, I did not grow up privileged. My mother and I were on welfare at times when I was growing up. I wanted a sense of stability, and playing jazz wasn’t my first choice economically speaking,” he says.
At the time, Redman was also uncertain about whether he could cut it as a professional musician. “I didn’t think that I had the talent, drive, or focus,” he says. A Social Studies concentrator living in Adams House, Redman played in the Harvard Jazz Band for three years and also volunteered through PBHA while working part-time.
After graduating from college, he deferred his admission to Yale Law School for a year and moved to New York to take a break from school. Playing with other musicians around the city gradually convinced him to focus on music full-time.
“For much of my life, I’ve thought of myself as being somewhat like Jeckyll and Hyde,” he explains. “I thought school was the focused, methodical, and analytical side of me, while music was the opposite: the emotional, expressive side. Thinking back 20 years later, I’d say now that I see more overlaps between the two.” He hesitates to attribute too much of his success in music to his academic background. “It’s not like slogging through papers made me swing any harder,” he says.
Still, Redman doesn’t regret attending Harvard instead of music school. He explains, “In a vague, indefinable way, I think acquiring a classical liberal arts education helped improve my capacity to think critically, and I think that’s a valuable skill for any profession.”
Sections
To call him “well-travelled” would be an understatement. After completing his degree in psychology from Harvard, the half-Lebanese, half-Korean Steven Arrigg Koh ’04 pursued a master’s degree at the University of Cambridge in the U.K., participated in an exchange program at the Sorbonne while studying for his Cornell law degree, and served as a Visiting Scholar at Seoul National University in South Korea after clerking for a U.S. federal appellate court.
But Koh’s interest in international affairs began before his time in England. Reflecting upon his undergraduate experience, he says, “The uniquely intellectual atmosphere at Harvard College enriched me immensely and encouraged me to approach the world through a broad global perspective.”
Today we can find him in black judicial robes in the Hague, where he is a lawyer at the United Nations International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.  It is an institution established in 1993 “to prosecute persons responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law committed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991,” says Koh.
“I assist the judges in ensuring that the criminal trial is fair, expeditious, and conducted in compliance with the Tribunal’s Rules of Procedure and Evidence,” he explains.
At the moment, Koh is focusing on the Prosecutor v. Radovan Karadžić case in which Karadžić—former president of the Republika Srpska and Supreme Commander of its armed forces during the breakup of Yugoslavia—has been indicted for numerous war crimes including murder, genocide, persecutions, deportation, and the taking of hostages, among others.
While Koh’s position at the Tribunal might appear daunting and, at times, upsetting, his passion for international law and his knowledge that he is helping in efforts to bring peace to the world make the work far from depressing. The best part of his job? “Knowing that I am contributing to international justice every day,” he says.
Sections
Last Saturday, I was camped out on my trusty futon watching the Notre Dame-Michigan football game. Their rivalry is older than Drew Faust, and both teams sported throw-back uniforms in the hopes of recapturing past glory. The teams may be unimportant to you readers, but the takeaway is that my team (1) lost in heartbreaking fashion. To an impartial observer, it was a great game with little emotional consequence. To me, helpless on my futon, Michigan’s go-ahead score with three seconds on the clock felt as if somebody had taken a fist and tried to knock my stomach out of my body. I was briefly stunned, then filled with an unquenchable rage. My addled brain nixed the obviously dangerous displays of anger: punching walls (2) and/or my celebrating roommates, throwing my television out of the window, throwing myself out of the window. I punched a wall once and it didn’t end well. The problem was, my alternative tactic—yelling non-sensical strings of curse words (3)—did nothing to dissipate my rage. So I settled upon the only reasonable course of action available: spiking (4) the bottle of tonic water that had been sitting inoffensively on the coffee table in front of me. Surely throwing a carbonated beverage on the ground as hard as I could was the thing to do. As you physics majors (5) may have surmised, the bottle did not hold. Seltzer water exploded onto an entire side of my common room: the walls and couch, my buddy on crutches, our tastefully placed wall-hangings, (6) were all drenched. Well, that was dumb.
What led me to lose my mind and Hulk Smash the boring-but-necessary half of our future gin and tonics? And more generally, what is it about football teams that compels people to cover their faces (7) in unhealthy amounts of colored paint, yell obscenities at strangers (8), and pattern their entire weekends around a contest in which people throw, carry around, and kick an inflated piece of leather while garbed in excessive padding and spandex?
For me, it was because the months of lifting and practicing for hours on end had come to nought. Granted, I hadn’t actually been with the team for any of those things, but I felt as if I had been. This is my team. I have cheered for them ever since I was able to understand that the national anthem doesn’t end with “the land of the free, and the home of the Braves”. (9) Actually, I’m sure that my football fanaticism predates my understanding of national symbols (10). Those fat men with gold and blue on their faces that you see in the stands on national TV probably feel similarly.
Notre Dame is the team that I have cheered for through thick and thin, and the school that I ultimately spurned to come to Harvard. But the incredible fanhood that schools such as Notre Dame cultivate within their student bodies is what I feel that Harvard lacks most. There, they cheer for their team as a tangible, unequivocal show of support for their school. The name and color of their school sweatshirts is the same as that of the players’ jerseys. The students love their team, but more than anything, they love their school.
Football games are less of a big deal at Harvard. Students don’t live and die with the sports teams in the way our peers do at other schools. And this lack of passion represents more than apathy about football itself. This lack of passion cannot be explained away because we are “too busy to cross the river” or don’t know the difference between a fumble and a field goal. It can be explained by some combination of the hesitation we feel in admitting our Harvard affiliation and the tendency we have to focus on ourselves as individuals over the community. These reasons prevent us from publicly supporting our alma mater (11) in the way that people normally do, and the way that we should.
But it’s a new season and our chance to support our teams and the people representing our school. So go buy some face paint and a grill; we’ve got a home opener in a week, and we need to start getting rowdy. That’s our team that’s out there.
—Ryan D. Smith ’12 is a Psychology concentrator in Adams House. He is proud to have provided more sports commentary  in this single article than every previous issue of FM combined.
Endnotes:
(1) And God’s team, the Notre Dame Fighting Irish.
(2) Drywall is just a pain to replace. As are knuckle joints.
(3) To be fair, they probably sounded more like angry animal noises.
(4) Not the “Oh yay! I just scored a touchdown!” kind of spiking. The “I want to break things” kind of spiking.
(5) Nerds. Just kidding, anybody want to help me on this PS2 PSet??
(6)  Three year-old posters
(7) And/or beer bellies
(8) Especially if they are wearing black and white stripes. (These are the referees for you non-sports people, and they are always wrong. This would have been a footnote within a footnote except my computer would have blown a circuit. When you’re a senior, even your computer is old.)
(9) Another one of my teams, of course.
(10) Priorities, people.
(11) Alumni donations don’t count.
Sections
Students accepted to The University of Oxford’s graduate program are permitted to defer their enrollment only in cases of “unforeseen and unforeseeable circumstances” such as “ill health or bereavement.” Thus, in accordance with the University’s guidelines, Alexandra A. Petri ’10 wrote a letter to Oxford justifying her decision to accept a job offer from the Washington Post rather than matriculate.
“‘I view print media as a family member,’” she wrote, “and since it’s dying I will plan to sit by its bedside.’”
Oxford, where Petri had intended to study renaissance poetry after graduating from Harvard, expressed little empathy, replying that she would need to reapply. Nonetheless, Petri decided to stay at the Post, where she had been an intern during the summers of 2009 and 2010. Yet despite her expectation that becoming an established columnist “would take decades of toil,” Petri already has her own blog—ComPost—on the Post’s website, writes a weekly humor column for the paper, and pens plays on the side (a small theater in Maryland recently bought her script on local exorcisms).
Petri is not new to making audiences laugh. As an undergrad, she wrote a humor column for the Crimson’s Editorial Board, co-wrote two Hasty Pudding Theatricals shows, and was co-president of the Harvard College Stand-Up Comedy Society. Now, however Petri has the opportunity to interact with a more eclectic mix of readers on her blog, where the topics of her posts range from the Oxford English Dictionary to Rick Perry.
“I like when people read and send me angry comments,” she said. “[Writing a post] is like dropping a rose petal into the Grand Canyon and waiting for the echo. Sometimes you get an enormous echo and sometimes [you get] three people who thought the word pornography was in your headline and were disappointed that nothing showed up.”
Yet Petri still seems surprised by her success, which she attributes to “a series of startlingly lucky incidences.”
“[In college, I thought] I would really love to have a job as a columnist-type person and write plays on the side,” she said. “Oh wait, that’s a thing that’s happening now.”
Sections
What do Wallace and Gromit, the endearing British inventor/canine duo, have in common with Harvard? Both inspired Tim J. Reckart ’09 to delve into the wondrous world of stop-motion animation.
“In my freshman fall, I meant to shop the Intro to Animation course, but I accidentally showed up at the wrong meeting. It was the first meeting of a class specifically about stop-motion. I poked my head in, realized my mistake, apologized and left, and then a moment later I went back inside, decided that this might be more interesting anyway,” says Reckart.
“In stop-motion, you create a new frame just by moving an object, rather than redrawing the entire character. So the animation process is a lot quicker than drawn animation. What takes longer is that you have to build all your characters, sets, and props before any animation can start,” Reckart explains.
“I ‘caught the bug,’ and I’ve been keeping up with it ever since,” he says.
Reckart’s first film, “Leftovers,” may have been animated in a closet, but Harvard’s animation program is mighty. “We have really amazing teachers dedicated to a relatively small group of students. The professors are constantly cycling in and out, so over the four years that a student learns animation, he gets a lot of contact with different approaches to developing a film and the process of animation. This helped me find my own path in stop-motion, which has been mainly focused on character animation,” says Reckart.
Two years after graduating with a degree in history and literature, Reckart finds himself across the pond in the United Kingdom—where the “hand-pumped ales” are to die for. There, he works on the production team of stop-motion animation films at the National Film and TV School.
But while preparation is everything in his profession, Reckart’s believes that “the best opportunities in animation are usually surprises.”  Thus, his plans for the future are yet to be decided.
Sections
Jessica O. Matthews ’10 and Julia C. Silverman ’10, co-founders of Uncharted Play, Inc., are not engineers—they’re inventors.
The two, CEO and CSO, respectively, came up with the sOccket, a soccer ball with a mechanism inside that turns kinetic energy into electrical energy. They thought up the idea while taking Engineering Sciences 147 with Professor David A. Edwards in the fall of 2008.
Silverman elaborates on their social science background, citing their lack of engineering degrees as a strength. “Not being engineers has allowed us to dream bigger. Not knowing the confines of the box lets you automatically think outside the box,” she says.
Silverman stresses the roadblocks she and Matthews faced when they first pitched the sOccket to engineers. “When we said ‘O.K. this is our idea: it’s a ball that generates energy,’ they would immediately say, ‘It won’t be enough,’” But, she continues, “‘Enough’ just has to be more than zero.”
The first model was launched at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, to the delight of kids in attendance.
“A lot of these kids, they’re playing with a bundle of plastic bags or a shoe. Having an actual ball is a real improvement,” she says. “A lot of kids say, ‘Oh my god, it’s magic.’ Having that is so special and inspiring.”
In addition to being popular with children, this early version of the sOccket could light an LED lamp for a couple of hours, combining functionality and play, which is the real magic behind the idea. “I don’t believe doing good and doing good business need to be mutually exclusive,” says Matthews.
On September 22, Uncharted Play, Inc., will launch the mass-produced version of the sOccket, which is six to seven times more energy efficient than the prototype. This new model will have the potential to power a reading lamp, a water purifier, or an emergency cell phone charger.
State Farm has already sponsored thousands of balls throughout Central America, and for countries such as Nigera and Haiti.
The company has tripled in size since it was founded in 2011. Matthews says, “It’s been a crazy ride.”
Sections
Alex Ross ’90 has been a music critic at The New Yorker since 1996. While at Harvard, Ross DJed his own radio show with WHRB, an experience that later informed his first book: “The Rest is Noise: Listening to the Twentieth Century,” winner of the 2007 National Book Critics’ Circle Award. The following interview has been edited for concision.
How do you think your experience at Harvard had an impact on your trajectory in a way that another school might not have?
It’s hard to picture how my life might have turned out differently if I hadn’t gone to Harvard. It’s one of many great schools in the country, and I could have obtained an equally fine education elsewhere. But I don’t think I would have encountered a place quite like WHRB, which had a huge influence on my future career. Without it, I don’t think I would have become a music critic. The University has not always been strongly supportive of WHRB, which is a terrible mistake. It’s an extraordinary phenomenon on the American college landscape.
What’s your favorite part or the most interesting aspect of your job?
The really wonderful thing about my current job is that The New Yorker gives me time to work on pieces over an extended period. I can immerse myself both in the research process and in the act of writing. So much journalism these days is done in a rush; the gift of time is precious.
What’s your most recent project, or one thing you are looking forward to accomplishing?
I’m currently at work on a book called “Wagnerism,” recounting Wagner’s enormous impact on the art and literature of the late nineteenth century and beyond. It’s like going back to college, in a way: I’m reading or re-reading dozens of books that I skipped over or failed to grasp fully when I was an English major. It won’t be about Wagner per se, but I hope that the reader will emerge with a different view—or many different views—of this widely misunderstood composer.
Sections
Tony C. Hsieh ’95 has an eye for business—and a head for it. The CEO of Zappos.com, an online retail store that sells everything from apparel to appliances, is so passionate about his company that he tattooed its logo onto the top of his shaved head. The former Computer Science concentrator has an entrepreneurial streak that dates back to his time at Harvard.
Hsieh, a former Quincy House resident, groomed his entrepreneurial skills while running the Quincy Grille with his roommate. They expanded the Grille’s menu during their tenure, installing pizza ovens to meet students’ desire for late-night greasy eats.
After graduating, Hsieh co-founded LinkExchange, an advertising cooperative, which he sold in 1999 to Microsoft for a cool $265 million. He then joined Zappos.com as an advisor and investor, eventually becoming CEO. Prior to his arrival, the company struggled to make a profit. By 2009, the company was so successful that Amazon.com acquired it in a $1.2 billion deal. It continues to make over $1 billion annually.
In June of last year, Hsieh also published his first book, “Delivering Happiness,” which tells his business story. By this time, Hsieh was no stranger to success: the book held the #1 position on the New York Times Bestseller list for 27 consecutive weeks.
And Zappos.com continues to expand. The company plans to convert the former Las Vegas City Hall building into their headquarters in 2012, with hopes of revitalizing the surrounding downtown area.
Though he travels the world, Hsieh still looks back on the Square fondly, particularly the grub: when asked in an email about his favorite Harvard memory, Hsieh writes, “The steak and cheese with everything from Pinocchio’s .... I still stop by there every time I’m in the Boston area.”
Sections
When Joseph S. Calautti, owner of Rizzo Tailors, gazes out of his second-floor window overlooking Church Street, he sees not one but many Harvard Squares. Pointing at an angle toward Anthropologie and City Sports, he recalls, “There was a house there. They leased the land for a hundred years.” The house was demolished in 1953 when renowned architect Benjamin Thompson established Design Research, an innovative furniture store, housed until its bankruptcy in the building still standing today. “It was beautiful back then,” Calautti says, “because it was only one store, all the way up.” Today offices and retail stores compete for space, each window adorned with a different pattern or none at all. “For me,” says Calautti, “no good.”
Calautti’s comments signal a broader and paradoxical theme in the shifting visual landscape of Harvard Square—of fragmentation within constancy. “Harvard Square, it’s always going to be Harvard Square,” the tailor says, “no matter what.” Yet this implies a constant state of flux, giving rise to the vehemence of those decrying the growing gentrification of the Square and its perceived loss of uniqueness. Change, however, is not new here: it is tied up inextricably with the Square’s history, latched to its pulse.
TREADING THE LINE
Gavin W. Kleespies, Executive Director of the Cambridge Historical Society, points to geography as the original source of Harvard Square’s odd mix of stasis and change. “It’s very easy,” Kleespies concludes, “to think about the history of Harvard Square entirely through the history of transportation.” The Square thrived as a transfer point for streetcars, which ended each day at a massive industrial plot in what today is the Kennedy School and Kennedy Memorial Park.
The subway was introduced in 1910, and Harvard Square continued to serve as a hub for Boston-bound commuters. Sheldon Cohen, founder of Out of Town News, remembers serving customers in waves during the morning and evening rush hours.
When the Red Line expanded to Alewife in the early 1980s, locals feared that the look and feel of Harvard Square would change for good.
“There [was] a lot of consternation and a lot of fear,” says Kleespies, “that if the Red Line [were] extended to Alewife all the people in the suburbs who are coming in and stopping in Harvard Square and then going on to Boston were no longer going to do that”—which would spell ruin for Square businesses.
However, he continues, “That did not happen. In fact, the exact opposite happened.” Improved access to the Square proved a boon for retailers.
Cohen notes that the rhythm of the Square did change with the extension: “You didn’t have the rush hour with buses,” he says, “the hustle and bustle.”
“But you know,” he continues, “people would come out of the subway and they’d go upstairs, they’d buy the paper, they’d go back downstairs.” Flux settled into a new rhythm; change nestled into continuity.
THE HOLYOKE SPECTER
To many visitors and students, the Holyoke Center is an unfortunate blemish on the charm of the Square. “It didn’t really age well; it didn’t fit into the area around it very well,” says Kleespies.
But to him that incongruity belies its significance as a larger trend rather than as an ill-fated gaffe.
“It’s worth noting,” says Kleespies, “that Harvard Square is an epicenter of modernist architecture.” The Harvard Graduate School of Design, in fact, pioneered the American modernist movement in the 1940s and ’50s. The school attracted such prominent architects as Walter Gropius, Le Corbusier, and Josep Lluis Sert.
All worked to design University buildings such as the Carpenter Center and Harkness Commons. With the Holyoke Center, Sert envisioned a melding of urban and educational space that fit in with his broader urbanist architectural vision.
Which isn’t to say, of course, that most people liked it. “Personally, I think it’s tremendously ugly,” says Mo Lotman, Somerville resident and author of “Harvard Square: An Illustrated History since 1950.” And yet, he says, “The Holyoke Center was pretty big in
changing the look and the feel of the Square because you took away five blocks of five or fewer-story buildings.”
“They weren’t all beautiful buildings,” he says, “but they were all buildings of that style with retail that fronted right on the sidewalk, and you replaced it with a ten-story superstructure.”
A SQUARE DEFENSE
In other ways, Harvard Square has resisted change—in large part due to the battles of a certain staunch group of old-time Cantabrigians.
The Harvard Square Defense Fund, says one of its founders, Gladys “Pebble” P. Gifford, began in response to a 1972 proposal to construct the JFK Presidential Library and Museum on the Charles River, where the JFK Memorial Park is located today. “They were going to park the buses on the Lars Anderson Bridge,” she says. “They’d have these big Peter Pan tourist buses lined up along that stretch—in other words it was [going to be] chaos.”
Objections were shrill enough to halt the plans; nevertheless the occasion initiated civic organization in the Square. “This ragtag group of citizens decided it was pretty crazy because no one was looking after the town,” says Gifford. So the “ragtag group” hired a lawyer and was incorporated as the Harvard Square Defense Fund, meant to prevent further environmental and ecological deterioration of the Harvard Square area.
Although at times the Fund was unable to halt commercializing action, it celebrated a major victory with the Read Block at the corner of JFK St. and Mass Ave. “Cambridge Savings Bank owned that block,” says Lotman, “and they had plans to totally demolish it and replace it with a four-story mall.” Instead, political pressure from the Fund prompted the Cambridge Historical Commission to prevent any changes to the façade. The inside was entirely gutted, although, as Lotman says, “I don’t think many people realized that.”
EBB AND FLOW
Tension between change and tradition has long characterized Harvard Square. To tourists, the Square remains a destination in which to witness history—yet to those who serve them, history is embedded in the tourists’ ebb and flow. “Harvard Square is constantly changing,” says Kleespies, “and that’s the constant.” The problem for students and residents is, he says, “Everyone wants Harvard Square to remain what it was when they first saw it.”
Joe Calautti embodies this tension in his attitude toward the Square’s changes. “Too many coffee shops, too many pizza places,” he says. “I liked it better back then.” And yet, he concedes, “You never bring the time back—you go all the way forward, and not backward.”
This odd mixture of nostalgia, bitterness, and loyalty characterizes the attitudes of many in the Square, residents and students alike. Cohen acknowledges, too: “Nothing stays forever,” he says. “Except Harvard.”
Sections
Alex M. Meyer ’10, once a co-captain of the Harvard men’s swimming and diving team, won the 25 kilometer open water swim in the 2010 World Championships. When he placed fourth in the men’s 10k open water swim at the World Championships this July, he became the first U.S. athlete to qualify for the 2012 Olympics. His interview has been edited for concision.
FM: How did going to an academically oriented school like Harvard affect your career as a professional athlete?
When I was still looking at schools, it was important for me to go to a good academic institution. I was good enough to get recruited, but the way I saw it, my swim career was going to be over when I graduated from college. I was just going to have a degree in my hand and go into the working world and do what most people do. But my coach Tim Murphy and I have always had a great relationship, and he’s really helped me reach my potential. If I swam for any other program, I don’t know if things would have ended up this way.
FM: So when did you realize that your goals had changed?
The summer after my junior year, swimming was winding down; I’d planned to go to a Harvard Summer School program. But I somehow made the national team to go swim the World Championships in the 25k. It was the first 10k I’d ever done and I made the national team—I thought, what would happen if I really practiced this?
FM: What’s your favorite part of being an open water swimmer?
The longest event in the pool is a mile. It takes 15 minutes and you’re done, but I felt like I was just getting started after 15 minutes. But I also always secretly wished I played a contact sport, and it’s pretty physical. I love to race, and in open water it doesn’t matter how long it takes, it doesn’t matter exactly how far it is—the first one who gets to the finish line wins.
FM: What are your goals for the Olympics?
One of the cool things about open water is that it’s much more volatile in that it could go a lot of different ways. I definitely feel like I have a chance to win, but there’s a handful of people that have that chance. And obviously just representing the U.S. is an honor in itself.
Sections
When Alexa L.M. von Tobel ’06 graduated from the College, she realized that she and her friends knew a lot about problem sets and exams, but little about taxes and credit scores. Taking the matter into her own hands, Von Tobel founded and is now CEO of LearnVest, Inc., a website which aims to empower women by teaching them how to manage their finances for free.
“I was well-versed in the business world of economy, but when it came to my own personal economics it was just something that I felt hadn’t been taught when I was an undergrad, not even touched on in any way,” she says.
Upon graduating, von Tobel deferred her admission to Harvard Business School and accepted a position at Morgan Stanley. When she enrolled, she had already begun developing LearnVest, Inc. The economy crashed soon after, and a door opened; Von Tobel took a formal five-year leave of absence to focus on the company.
Founded in 2009, LearnVest, Inc. had 10,000 members by the end of its first month, and von Tobel expects it will have over 400,000 members by the end of the year. Users can securely link all of their accounts to the website, keeping track of all their finances in one place. There, they can also find tips and tutorials about creating a budget, cutting costs, and more. While the company communicates with most of its users online, users that pay a small subscription fee can speak with advisors on the phone. Looking forward, von Tobel plans to launch additional newsletters and phone support.
The CEO has never been one for limitations—entrepreneurial or geographical. Von Tobel wrote her thesis on the introduction of television and its effects on happiness in Bhutan, and founded a nonprofit that helps fight HIV/AIDS in Africa.
Sections
The word reeks of the French. It smells like chain smokers who lurk around underground art galleries and whose primary function is to look vaguely jaded in front of tourists. If “Misère” were a person, he would write screenplays where the main characters are afflicted with white people problems like incurable ennui or a liberal arts education. He would read Foucault. That is to say, “Misère” would be a total dick.
But enough of first impressions. Misère is a game that is played to lose—then to win a misère game, you have to be intentionally terrible. To win a misère game of checkers, you have to lose all your pieces, and to win a misère game of Russian Roulette, you have to lose some brain matter. There is something nihilistically awe-inspiring about playing a game to lose. That sort of cavalier, don’t-give-a-damn attitude is kind of hot. It sounds subversive and edgy. I’d like to try it out. So I pull up minesweeper on my desktop.
A few clicks in, and the smiley face has double X’s for eyes. I have intentionally clicked on a mine and expired. Well—that was incredibly unsatisfying. I stare blankly at the screen for a few seconds, the widening maw of my dissatisfaction slowly engulfing me. The only conclusion I can come to is that I am a winner. Whether I’m playing minesweeper, poker, doctor, or Angry Birds, I like to win. If I kept playing misère games, it would probably trigger all sorts of existential crises and deep-seated neuroses and God knows what else. Can I lose, if losing means I win? If I win a misère game, how can I keep identifying as a winner? Just contemplating it gives me ulcers.
It’s not only me. I’ll go out on a limb here and say that most of the freshmen at Harvard think of themselves as fairly intelligent people. After all, they are valedictorians, science fair winners, and people who know how to pronounce “misère.” Confident in their abilities, they sign up for Math 55 and Chem 20 and ... whatever is considered a hard class in the humanities. They show up to lecture, take diligent notes, and go to office hours, and then when they get back their first midterm—despair. Black vortex of despair. Stunned by the B+ they received, they resolve to work extra hard to make up for it next time, because they don’t know what it means to be a Good Student who doesn’t get good grades. Is such an entity even ontologically feasible? Cognitive dissonance ensues.
We all identify as winners to some extent, and winners know that it sucks to suck. It must take some special quality for an artist to intentionally paint a boring painting, for a scientist to deliberately blow up test tubes, for a writer to attempt to write a 610 word essay on a single word. Do you have to be staggeringly, improbably arrogant or do you have to suffer from a crippling, near-clinical lack of confidence? Do you have to have a rock solid grip on your identity or do you have to embrace existential erasure? I don’t know, and quite frankly, I don’t want to find out. Although on some level, I recognize that success doesn’t define a human being—that there is more to a person than the badges they earn, yadda yadda yadda—I’m terrified to find out what would be left behind if I weren’t good at school, at making friends, at having good taste, at winning things. I would be afraid to see what could possibly be left.
Sections
Megan L. Amram ’10 is an Internet phenom with over 80,000 followers on Twitter. With her characteristic hilarity, she emailed with FM about slacking off, writing, and her steer carcass cravings.
FM: Did you write a thesis?
No thesis—I wish I had been able to concentrate in Lit and Arts B. Do you children even have Lit And Arts B anymore?! I am so old. How old are you? Are you four? Are you like four?
FM: Now you’re a Twitter and tumblr celebrity. Did you write comedy at Harvard?
I wrote the Hasty Pudding Theatricals show two years in a row, wrote lyrics for the freshman musical, and wrote for the 24-Hour Play festival. I once submitted an essay called “Jailhouse Cock” for a class. I once watched On Harvard Time. I tried to get Drew Gilpin Faust to be in a music video with me. She turned me down. I bet she’s regretting that NOW. I miss us, Drew.
FM: What are you up to now?
I am currently writing for the Disney Channel show “A.N.T. Farm,” doing stand up, and contributing jokes for a variety of shows such as the Oscars. I started my Twitter a little over a year ago, and my tumblr in October of last year. I like to write jokes about really every topic, and I end up writing a lot of pop culture-y blog posts. I guess what I’m trying to say is, God.
FM: Who is your favorite person to follow on Twitter?
My Twitter “mentor” of sorts has been Rob Delaney, who’s a bit of Internet royalty. Peter Serafinowicz, a British actor and writer, is another Internet hero. I have too many favorites to name.
FM: Where do you see yourself in 15 years?
In 15 years, I hope to see myself still working in T.V. and film and comedy, performing and writing and working with amazing people. I would like to be some sort of beautiful avatar to get all that unobtanium. In lieu of an avatar, I would settle for the carcass of a steer that I could wear as a cloak and pretend to be an avatar at events.
FM: Describe yourself in three words.
Am I beingscoped?
Sections
For those who don’t know him, it might be surprising to hear that the preferred extracurricular activity of Uzodinma C. Iweala ’04, author and M.D., in college was “sleeping.”  But evidently, he would need his rest for his future literary and medical pursuits.  Since graduation, Iweala released “Beasts of No Nation,” his 2005 novel exploring the world of a child soldier in a fictional African country, and received a degree from Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.
“Ask most anyone who knows me—I fell asleep in most of them,” claims Iweala when asked about his favorite classes at his alma mater. Nonetheless, at Harvard, the English concentrator was not only the recipient of a Hoopes Prize and a Dorothy Lee Hicks Prize for Outstanding Undergraduate Thesis, but also completed his pre-med requirements.
Iweala was motivated by that insatiable appetite for knowledge demonstrated by many Harvard students. “There’s an intellectual curiosity that drives the people I met and became close to, and I think I fed off of that.”
He does admit, though, that multitasking is not as easy in the real world. “Med school and trying to work on a book is like getting punched in the face repeatedly and not blacking out.” However, the success of “Beasts of No Nation”—for which he won numerous awards—and the imminent release of his second book on HIV/AIDS in Nigeria suggest that medical school has hardly hindered his career as an author.
And 10 years from now? “The main thing I want for myself is to be enjoying what I’m doing and to be making a difference doing it. I’ll let the universe work out the rest,” he says.
In the mean time, perhaps he’ll use his nonexistent free time to fulfill his lifelong dream of wingsuit base jumping in Norway.
Sections
Forget Mark Zuckerberg and Yo-Yo Ma. Meet the next generation of movers and shakers: these young Harvard grads are on the verge of breaking through.
Alex M. Meyer '10
Megan L. Amram '10
Uzodinma C. Iweala '04
Katharine Woodman-Maynard '08
Alexa H. Hirschfeld ’06 and James D. Hirschfeld ’09 
 Tim J. Reckart ’09   
 Jessica O. Matthews ’10 and Julia C. Silverman ’10  
Alex Ross ’90
Tony C. Hsieh ’95
Steven Arrigg Koh ’04
Alexandra A. Petri '10
Joshua Redman '91
Alexa L.M. von Tobel ’06
Neil Degrasse Tyson '80
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School professor Elizabeth Warren launched her campaign for the U.S. Senate on Wednesday morning with some old fashioned retail politics at the Broadway MBTA station in South Boston.
The choice of location was significant for Warren, who likely faces in uphill battle in connecting with ordinary voters and combatting her image as an out of touch Harvard professor.
But as a popular figure within the liberal establishment who has the ability to raise large sums of money, Warren could pose a strong challenge to Republican incumbent Scott Brown.
But if Warren wins the Democratic primary, she will have to contend with the strong populist headwinds that Brown rode to victory in 2010.
In one of his last ads released before the special 2010 election, U.S. Senator Scott Brown—donning a rugged brown coat and black gloves—walked around South Boston shaking hands with a man driving a minivan, with customers in a barber shop, with a woman on the street. By casting himself as an “ordinary Joe” with the ability to connect with voters and understand their concerns, Brown was able to win the Senate seat occupied by the late Ted Kennedy ’54-’56 for nearly five decades.
Warren’s choice to hold her first event in South Boston—and Brown’s choice to film his last campaign ad in the same location two years ago—is hardly a coincidence.
South Boston is a stronghold of the conservative Democrats that experts say will decide the election. Both sides will fight for the voters across the state “who are Democrats but like Scott Brown”—the same demographic that voted for the Kennedy three years before voting for Brown, according to Massachusetts Democratic strategist Scott Ferson.
Since Warren began laying the groundwork for her campaign this past summer, her message has been targeted almost exclusively toward this demographic.
Warren officially announced her candidacy in a video on her website Wednesday, saying the federal government’s neglect of the middle class compelled her to run.
“For a generation now, the middle class has been squeezed, slipped back, hammered,” Warren said in the video. “Washington is well-wired for big corporations that can hire armies of lobbyists. But it’s not working very well for middle-class families, and that’s what I care about.”
Brown and other Republicans have already launched efforts to discredit Warren’s zeal for working-class Americans, attempting to paint Warren as a product of the Northeast liberal elite by pointing to her status as a faculty member at Harvard.
“It’s clear Democrats in Washington are trying to pull the levers here, but it’s unclear whether Massachusetts voters believe an Oklahoma native and Harvard professor best represents their views and values,” said National Republican Senatorial Committee communications director Brian Walsh in a statement last July.
—Staff writer Caroline M. McKay can be reached at carolinemckay@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Researchers from the School of Public Health and Harvard Health Publications released on Wednesday the Healthy Eating Plate, a new visual guide for creating nutritious meals. The nutrition guide was created as an alternative to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s My Plate, which replaced the food diagram pyramid earlier this year.
“The intent [with Healthy Eating Plate] is to make an eating guide based on the best available scientific evidence and to provide consumers with the information that they need to make choices that can profoundly affect their health and well-being,” Walter C. Willett, professor of epidemiology and nutrition at HSPH, said during a press conference.
According to Willett, the U.S. government’s My Plate is a conglomerate of both scientific evidence and powerful influences from agricultural stakeholders, leading to the creation of a “useless” eating guide that fails to provide adequate information for making healthy food choices.
Although the Healthy Eating Plate follows the same general image of My Plate—a representation of a plate sectioned into colorful food portions—it expands upon the USDA’s recommendations.
The Healthy Eating Plate specifies that consumers should stick to whole grains instead of refined grains, eat healthy proteins such as fish or poultry rather than red or processed meats, and distinguish between healthy vegetables and potatoes.
The Healthy Eating Plate also includes a glass of water and healthy oils in its ideal meal, advising consumers to avoid butter and trans fat.
“We want people to use this as a model for their own healthy plate or that of their children every time they sit down to a meal—either at home or at a restaurant,” HSPH Associate Professor of Epidemiology and Nutrition Eric B. Rimm said in a press release.
In addition to providing more details regarding food choices, the Healthy Eating Plate also attempts to balance text and imagery in an effort to make the icon universally understood, according to Willett.
“I think the information, the text, is pretty simple, pretty much everyone can understand that,” Willett said. “That’s the information that is really critical—whether something is going to be healthy or not.”
—Staff writer Melanie A. Guzman can be reached at melanieguzman@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As bells rang out across Harvard’s campus to mark the five o’clock hour, Sparks House—the former residence of the late Reverend Peter J. Gomes—opened its doors again on Wednesday to continue its tradition of hosting a weekly tea.
Though the custom was put on hold earlier this year after Gomes’ death, a hearty crowd of visitors from across the University showed up yesterday ready to mingle, snack, and relax.
“It’s a real joy that we are doing this. Tea has been such a good tradition of hospitality and fellowship at the church,” said Administrative Assistant at Memorial Church Christine E. Whiteside. “We wanted to continue that.”
Though Gomes passed away in February, many continued to reflect on his legacy, including the teas that he used to hold.
“To enter Sparks House for the first time [after Gomes’ death] is ... to feel both the poignance of his absence and the warmth of his welcoming, encompassing spirit, sustained in the hospitality of the Memorial Church,” said one longtime tea attendee and Harvard affiliate in an email to The Crimson.
Guests said they noticed subtle differences between the revived tea and the teas that Gomes once held.
No longer is a guest of honor selected to pour tea each week. In the past, Gomes would, in Anglophile fashion, choose a friend or acquaintance to pour tea for the other visitors—a position of great honor, according to Whiteside. Guests now pour tea for themselves.
And although the house is not completely empty, it lacks the previous air of a “veritable museum,” according to longtime caterer of Gomes’ events Gerald S. Pierce. Gone are the portrait-filled walls, the grand piano, and the ornate silver serving dishes, trademarks of Sparks House during Gomes’ lifetime.
One longtime tea attendee joked that the removal of Gomes’ numerous collections gave visitors an opportunity to finally see the architecture of the house.
The few pieces from Gomes’ time that have remained include portraits of the home’s first owners, former University President Jared Sparks, a member of the Class of 1815, and his wife.
According to Pierce, many of the other portraits that once adorned the walls were more difficult to identify.
“On the spot, [Gomes] would tell stories about the portraits that were just completely made up,” he said.
“There was one who looked like my Aunt Vera. So he just called her that,” the church’s Pastoral Coordinator Jan C. Randolph recalled with a laugh.
Though Gomes died months ago, he would likely not be surprised that his friends still have him on their minds.
“Well you know Jerry, he may well be a star,” said Pierce, imitating a line Gomes would repeat about a Harvard professor. “But I am an institution.”
Though hospitality was the word on the minds of the church’s staff, the event had to come to an end.
“We will kindly ask you to make your leave,” said Epps Fellow Nathaniel P. Katz with a smile.
—Staff writer Justin C. Worland can be reached at jworland@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On the heels of a University decision to ban tours from the Science Center, most Harvard tour groups say they are relatively unaffected by the change.
Jana L. Douglas ’12, a tour guide for the Harvard admissions office, said that over the summer, when she started working for the office, tours were allowed into the Science Center. The building’s new policy has forced their tour groups to adjust accordingly.
“We’re still kind of figuring out what we could do instead,” Douglas said. “For now, we’re just walking in front of the Science Center and seeing it.”
According to John D. Mathers, the senior facilities manager at the Science Center, the building decided to bar tour groups from entering the building because tourists were intruding on classrooms and student life.
“Tourists entered the back of an auditorium during a lecture, snapping photos and chatting,” Mathers wrote in an emailed statement to The Crimson. “The addition of another 40 or so non-Harvard persons standing around taking pictures simply creates an impediment that is not needed.”
Recently, tour groups have become a fixture of the Science Center lobby, especially during the winter months when many tours retreat into the relative warmth of the building’s entryway.
According to tour guides from the admissions office, even before the Science Center banned tours, tour groups were allowed into very few Harvard Buildings. With the new policy, Memorial Hall is the only building that the tours can enter.
Alexandra M. Rose ’12, a tour guide for “The Hahvahd Tour,” said that the group did not take tourists through the Science Center and that the company had not told her of the new policy.
Douglas said that she rarely saw people from the Harvard admissions office tour attempt to explore the Science Center on their own.
“The tour ends at the [Charles] river, so I doubt anyone’s going to walk back to Science Center at the end to see it,” she said.
Other tour groups said that the Science Center had never been a designated stop for their tours and that they were only minimally aware of the new policy.
—Staff writer Mercer R. Cook can be reached at mcook@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu.
CORRECTION: SEPT. 15, 2011
The Sept. 15 article "Tour Groups Banned from Science Center" incorrectly stated the class year of Alexandra M. Rose. She is a member of the Class of 2012, not 2011.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Pit in Harvard Square is filled with a variety of local artists—street singers, break dancers, painters—all contributing to the Square’s historically off-beat atmosphere, and local designer Kimberly V. Benson has given independent artists a new indoor space in the Square to show and sell their work by establishing the Independent Designer’s Market, located at 30 Brattle Street.
The market is held on the second Saturday of every month from noon to 6 p.m. and features a variety of vendors that sell clothing, jewelry, photography, and art.
Benson, a New Jersey native who now lives in Cambridge, runs her own graphic apparel company called Heretic City, whose products are featured in the market.
“Being on the vendor side of markets, I have developed such a greater appreciation for the people who coordinate them,” Benson said.
The market includes a diverse group of products and prices, ranging from $10 shirts to $1,600 handcrafted bamboo bicycles. Each show features 15 to 20 designers, mostly from Massachusetts.
Dedham resident Amy Rose, owner of Vintage Fuss, has participated in the Independent Designer’s Market since its beginning. Unlike a typical beading jeweler, Rose repurposes vintage jewelry. She uses vintage pieces, such as brooches and clip-on earrings, found in flea markets and online, to create new items that “better appeal to this generation,” she said.
Rose said she believes Harvard Square’s age demographic to be the perfect fit for her product.
“It appeals to the young hipsters who are really into vintage pieces and the older crowd who I often make custom pieces for,” Rose said.
Originally from the Midwest, Rose said she was disappointed by the lack of markets in the Boston area.
“I’m so thankful that Kimberly has brought independent designers together in the area. Every week I get to meet a new talented person,” Rose said.
To sell at the show, designers can make reservations online at idmboston.com. Benson also offers a discounted, student rate for space and encourages local students to participate and attend.
“Harvard Square is starting to become taken over by conglomerates. I’m trying to keep this space local, so we can support our own artists,” Benson said.
Benson decided to open the Independent Designer’s Market after also noticing the lack of full-year markets in Boston. She first ran the market in Boston’s South End last year but decided to switch venues in search of a place with greater foot traffic.
One of her vendors suggested looking at places in Harvard Square. The 3,500-square-foot space at 30 Brattle Street has been empty for nearly five years, according to Benson. Richard Getz, the property owner, agreed to contract the location to Benson on a week-to-week basis until a permanent buyer is found.
“We like to help people who are enthusiastic about their business and have a new, creative concept,” Getz said. “It’s refreshing to see someone like Kimberly, who is energized with an idea and has put her heart in it.”
Benson said she will continue to hold monthly shows—and weekly shows in December for the holiday season—until the space is taken.
The next show will be held on Oct. 8.
—Staff writer Kerry M. Flynn can be reached at kflynn@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A Harvard study has linked moderate alcohol consumption with healthier aging in middle-aged caucasian women.
The study analyzed data from more than 14,000 middle-aged women—the average age was 58—and then again after they reached 70. The study found that women who consumed, on average, approximately one standard drink per day had a greater chance of making it to 70 without chronic illness, or mental or physical impairments.
Lead scientist on the study Qi Sun, a research associate at Harvard Medical School and the School of Public Health, said that the study unequivocally pointed toward the benefits of moderate alcohol consumption.
“In comparison with non-drinkers, drinkers have very different lifestyles,” Sun said. “But we adjusted for all those factors, including socio-economic status. We believe there are some beneficial effects of moderate alcohol consumption.”
Sun said that the next step would be to conduct a similar study on men.
“It would be very interesting to look at the same association in men,” Sun said. “There is no study in men looking at moderate consumption.”
Sun also said he hopes to study the effect of different drinking behaviors in early life.
“Some studies suggest that early life exposure [to alcohol] is also very important in how people age,” he said.
But for some Harvard students, the idea of drinking one standard drink per day for the sake of one’s health does not make much sense.
“I mean, if they proved that it was healthier to drink one drink a day, I would definitely like think about it,” said Kate A. Abraham ’14. “But there’s healthier options that I would probably look into.”
Abraham said that she would probably aim to do things that had a more significant impact on her well-being than to drink daily.
“I don’t think alcohol would be something that I would think ‘oh, I need to do that every day,’” Abraham said.
But Kate Mordrin, a woman from Ontario, Canada and visiting Harvard Bookstore, who said she is “over fifty,” was very excited about the results of the study.
“It seems almost too good to be true,” she said.  “I have to tell all my friends.”
She said that while the news is counterintuitive she is more than happy to drink for her health.
“I guess I’ll be having a glass of wine tonight.”
The study was published on September 6 in PLoS Medicine.
—Staff writer Mercer R. Cook can be reached at mcook@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Students who bought the textbook for Government 1510: “American Constitutional Law” from the Coop will soon be $54.20 less poor.
According to an email sent to students enrolled in the course, the book’s publisher overcharged the Coop for “Constitutional Law: Cases and Comments and Questions,” causing the store to originally price the book at $270.85.
The actual price should have been $216.65.
The course’s professor, Law School Professor Richard H. Fallon, said he was told by the Coop that 42 students bought the book at the higher price. There are 193 students currently enrolled in Fallon’s course.
The Coop will refund students the full difference, the email to the class said.
Medha B. Gargeya ’14, who is enrolled in the course, said that although she looked at the Coop’s prices, more competitive pricing elsewhere motivated her to buy the textbook online.
Students interviewed for this article said that among those students they knew in the course, most had bought the textbook from an online vendor.
“I bought my book on Amazon,” Gargeya said. “I think most people ended up doing that.”
On Amazon, the newest edition of the book sells for $195 new and from $179.99 used.
Caroline G. Cox ’14 said that she originally purchased the book new from the Coop for “convenience’s sake.” She called the refund “reasonable” given the pricing error.
“Constitutional Law: Cases and Comments and Questions” is updated every five years with recent Supreme Court decisions. The most recent edition came out only three months ago, making it difficult to find a used copy of the book online. Fallon is one of three authors of the book.
Fallon said that although he “felt badly” about the cost of “Constitutional Law,” the book is an essential part of course.
“The discussion that I mean to have in the classroom is based very substantially on cases decided in the Supreme Court that are collected in the case book,” Fallon said.
Students can receive their refund by bringing their book and a copy of their receipt to the textbook department of the Coop.
—Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Taking its three-game winning streak to Nickerson Field Wednesday night, the Harvard women’s soccer team (3-2) missed an opportunity to earn its first away victory of the season. At the hands of a dominant performance by Boston University (6-2-1), the Crimson fell 3-0, taking only four shots on goal to the Terrier’s eight.
Boston University remains unbeaten at home (4-0) while Harvard has been rendered winless on the road. Prior to the game, 17th-season BU head coach Nancy Feldman received recognition for her 300th career victory that she earned after defeating Loyola on Aug. 27.
Her most recent win, number 303, came at a timely point in the season—the Terriers halted a two-game skid and took down the Crimson by controlling possession for much of the game.
With 22:41 to go in the first half, Terrier’s sophomore midfielder Kylie Strom lined a ball past the diving Harvard goalkeeper, junior A.J. Millet, to put the Terriers up 1-0. Eight minutes later, Strom scored her second goal of the night on a free kick to the left of Millet.
It was Strom’s first career multiple-scoring night.
Making her first appearance since sustaining a broken nose last Friday, Millet sported a full facial mask, covering a large black eye that was visible during pre-game introductions.
“I was a little nervous coming in, but after taking some shots I got adjusted to it,” said Millet about her extra facial protection. “It actually helped on one ball.”
Millet started in goal for a Crimson team that has been searching for stability at the keeper position following a rash of injuries. In the second half, freshman goalie Cheta Emba replaced Millet, giving up one goal and making two saves.
“Cheta is doing awesome,” Millet said.
With 32 minutes remaining in the match, B.U. freshman Kai Miller buried a shot into the right corner of the net, over the extended hands of a leaping Emba, to put the Terriers up 3-0.
In the minutes following the B.U.’s third goal, Harvard coach Ray Leone pulled his remaining starters and proceeded to substitute twelve different players throughout the rest of the second half.
“It was a great opportunity against a great team to give to players that have been working hard for three weeks and not played,” Leone said. “It was great that everybody got to play because we have a lot of games in a row here, and we have to do it again on Friday and Sunday.”
In total, all 24 Crimson players saw minutes during the game. The three other members of the roster, freshman keeper Bethany Kanten, sophomore goalie Jessica Wright, and sophomore forward Elizabeth Weisman were out with injuries.
“That was awesome,” said freshman midfielder Kate Makaroff who played 61 minutes. “That was a big thing [Leone] talked about. It was huge for them to come in and everyone contributed, everyone got to play tonight. It’s what Crimson pride is all about.”
Riding a three-game win streak into Wednesday night’s game, the Harvard team was energized as exhibited during a pre-game dance-off minutes before the 7 p.m. start, while the Terriers continued to warm up on the field.
The halftime mood was more subdued, however, as the squad sat on the field near the bench listening to Leone. Better play in the second half and opportunities for the whole team to substitute in lifted the spirits of the Crimson players, who saw positives even in the shutout loss.
“I think we put some good things together, but we did have a couple of breakdowns,” Makaroff said. “We’re going to take this and build on it and move forward.
There were some great moments for us in this game and we’re definitely making progress and getting where we want to be.”
Harvard returns to Soldiers Field for a Friday afternoon match against Hofstra, then travels to face Rhode Island on Sunday in its last non-conference games before opening Ivy League play against Penn on Sept. 23.
Until then, the Crimson will be practicing and reviewing footage from the busy slate of games they have had in the past weeks—a schedule that has kept Harvard off of the practice field.
“There are some areas we have to look at the film and learn from,” Leone said. “We need to practice. We’ve been playing games, so not until we get through Sunday will we have that chance.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Rookie of the Year in 2008, All-Ivy League in 2010, with career-highs of 16 digs in a single game and 19 kills. Boasting such an impressive resume, Anne Carroll Ingersoll—or “A.C.”—was poised to be a threat in her senior year of Ivy League play.
But as is the paradox of sports from which derives both enjoyment and tragedy: nothing ever goes as planned.
With a season-ending injury, the former co-captain opted for a semester off for surgery and recovery, leaving a hole on the court that her team had to fill.
But rather than pull out of the race, the Crimson has reorganized, as evidenced by its early 5-2 record. Despite the heavy loss and a young team—with nine underclassmen and only two seniors—Harvard has begun its season on a roll.
After facing an early slate of tough opponents, Harvard players, both rookie and returning, have demonstrated perseverance—with two wins determined in the decisive fifth set—and talent in their initial outings.
The team’s record of 4-1 in the first five matches represents the best start since 2001 for Harvard women’s volleyball.
“We have had to evolve into a more balanced team” Harvard coach Jennifer Weiss said. “Last year we had one go-to player … This year we have [become] a team of go-to players”.
Weiss attributes the team’s success to a combination of young drive and experienced leadership, despite of the loss of Ingersoll.
“We have competitive underclassmen … and great leaders in the upperclassmen,” she added. “It’s a winning combination”.
As Weiss alludes, the underclassmen have delivered in a spectacular way for the Crimson.
“Everyone is playing so well,” co-captain Christine Wu added. “Everyone is contributing.”
In particular, the freshmen and sophomores, many of whom are seeing major court action for the first time in their careers, have cemented their presence in the game.
Sophomore middle blocker Theresa Skelly has been a consistent star in the middle for the Harvard.
“She has had a terrific early season and has put up some really big numbers for us,” Wu said.
“Theresa has had some high numbers,” Weiss echoed. “She’s a powerful force at the net.”
Skelly currently leads the Ivy-League in kills with 60, recording 13 against Georgia State and 11 against Holy Cross.
Close behind is freshman Kristin Casey, who has 58 kills on the season and six service aces.
“[Kristen] has started in all the games for us and has performed very well,” Weiss said. “She is a wonderful addition [to the team].”
More offensive threats for the Crimson are Tara Maclean—who made her debut for Harvard in the match against University of New Hampshire, logging a team-high 19 kills—and Erin Cooney, who, since the 2010 frame, has come off the bench for the Crimson and posted 54 kills and 18 blocks.
Big hitters are not all Harvard has to offer this season, with much of its young winning power coming from the defense.
Sophomore Natalie Doyle, who had a career-high 20 digs in the match against the Wildcats, has helped Wu protect the ball with a record of 87 digs so far.
Another sophomore, Kelsey Beck, has also helped bolster the Crimson line as a defensive specialist.
“[Beck] been really effective for us,” Weiss said, “and [Doyle] has been playing well for us on defense.”
The freshmen and sophomores have certainly shown that what they may lack in collegiate experience, they make up in passion.
“We have [added] five really competitive freshmen to the team who work extremely hard in practice and in games,” Wu praised.
Only time will tell if the Crimson’s early success will sustain the test of the 2011 season, but a good indication will come in this weekend’s Harvard Invitational, where the squad faces off against Holy Cross—which it defeated 3-0 on Sept. 9—Navy, and Northeastern in its first home tournament of the year.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Buffalo and Harvard fans became one last Sunday when Ryan Fitzpatrick ’05 threw for 208 yards and four touchdowns against the Kansas City Chiefs in the Bills’ 41-7 victory.
For fans of each, the storylines seemed to be similar. Buffalo isn’t used to winning, and fans of the Crimson aren’t used to bragging about the prowess of our football alumni.
But we should be.
Because one of the NFL’s most consistently productive offensive linemen is Harvard grad Matt Birk ’98, currently with the Baltimore Ravens and a former standout for the Minnesota Vikings.
He’s been named All Pro twice and has been selected to the Pro Bowl six times.
While Fitzpatrick and the Bills were dismantling Kansas City, Birk and the Ravens took down the defending AFC Champion Pittsburgh Steelers, 35-7. Birk won’t appear on the stat sheet for that victory.
But when you read that quarterback Joe Flacco threw for three touchdowns and 224 yards and running back Ray Rice ran for 107 yards and a touchdown, you know that Baltimore’s offensive line had to be pretty decent.
The Ravens won the battle on the line of scrimmage again and again on Sunday, no small feat given that many consider the Steelers to have the best defense in the league. (Baltimore’s victory made me grateful that my fantasy league with my cousins never materialized because I picked Pittsburgh as my defense).
And on a more personal note, it’s pretty awesome to see the best defense in the league being picked apart by a guy from the town next to yours (Ray Rice) because of a hole created by a guy who went to your college.
Given Buffalo’s run of bad luck, Bills fans could certainly argue that their team’s victory was more significant, as it might mean that the tide is changing for Buffalo.
But in terms of league standings, the Ravens’ win was definitely bigger and was likely why Baltimore was ranked fourth in Sports Illustrated’s most recent power rankings, behind the Green Bay Packers, New England Patriots, and New York Jets.
Believe me when I say I was as psyched as anyone to see Fitzpatrick succeed, probably more excited than a lot of people.
I write not to suggest that we discard Fitzpatrick’s accomplishments, but rather that we don’t ignore an alum of ours who is one of the best at his profession.
As a Patriots fan, I became all too familiar with Birk’s blocking ability, especially after the Pats-Rams 2010 AFC Wildcard match-up, when Ray Rice burst through the New England defense for an 83 yard touchdown run on Baltimore’s first offensive play. I felt personally humiliated when Rice burst through a gaping hole in the middle of the line of scrimmage.
As a loyal Patriots fan, I’ve seen many of their worst games, but I don’t think I’ve seen another play quite as humiliating as that, which is certainly a tribute to the Ravens’ offensive line and Birk’s abilities as a center.
This past winter, I was depressed that the Jets had beaten the Colts (we Patriots fans wish both teams could lose) and was looking for some football in which I was less emotionally invested, so I decided to watch the Baltimore-Kansas City game.
I flipped on the T.V. and was greeted with another excellent play by Birk, again resulting in a Rice touchdown.
This time, it was on a passing play: the Ravens’ line created a hole in the middle of the line of scrimmage for Rice to exploit, and Flacco found him for a short pass that Rice then turned into a touchdown.
Birk’s been so good over the years (he’s now in his 14th season) that perhaps his ascent doesn’t seem nearly as exciting as some of the younger Harvard athletes we follow, both in football and in other sports. That’s not to say that Birk isn’t interesting.
Just the opposite: he’s been involved in his community through his HIKE foundation, has said that he plans to donate his brain to concussion research, has been his team’s “Man of the Year” seven times, has been runner up for the NFL Player’s Association Man of the Year award, and has been a finalist for the NFL Walter Payton Man of the Year award.
It’s exciting to watch as young Harvard alumni work to make inroads as professional athletes.
But let’s not forget about the guy that has been getting the job done for a long time..
—Staff writer Christina C. McClintock can be reached at ccmcclin@fas.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the fourth quarter of last weekend’s Harvard men’s water polo game against George Washington, after the Colonials' set struck co-captain Luka Babic in the eye, the scene in the pool was a bloody mess.
“A bunch of guys jumped in the pool to lift me out and stayed with me until the doctor came,” said Babic, recapping the ordeal. “I was pretty out of it … They were really worried.”
Despite two large cuts above and below Babic’s left eye, the Crimson senior refused to leave his team for the hospital until the conclusion of the double-overtime game.
Babic got his way. He watched Harvard score its final goal to sink George Washington, 14-13, and then headed to the hospital where he was given 15 stitches for his eye laceration.
“It was overtime, so I just wanted to be with the team to finish it,” said Babic, who was second on the team for assists and steals last season.
Although the hit may have initially looked brutal, Babic brushed it off.
“It’s not a big deal—it just looked really bad,” he said.
Babic got his stitches removed yesterday and hopes to return to the pool for practice this afternoon. However, the Serbian attacker will not return to intercollegiate competition until next weekend, and will thus miss three games at this weekend’s North-South Tournament in Annapolis, Md.
“We are just going to do the same thing we did last week,” said Babic of the team’s strategy for coping without a captain. “Coach [Ted Minnis] basically just switched around the lineups. These are preseason games, so this would usually happen anyway.”
And as far as the facial scarring goes, Babic doesn’t seem to be too worried.
“It doesn’t look pretty right now at all,” Babic said. “But it’s going to be better soon, I promise.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Tristan Reed, GSAS
FM: Who do you think is going to win this season?
TR: Pro? I have no idea. For college, I hear Stanford is pretty good, but I think they’ve been untested.
FM:  Your favorite team and why you’re supporting them:
TR: UCLA, where I went to college, but they’re not very good at all.
FM:  Which team is your sleeper pick?
TR: What’s a sleeper pick?
FM:  What do you think about the Harvard football team?
TR: I don’t know if they’re good or not. I hope that they beat Yale.
FM:  Have you had any football players in your class?
TR: I heard there are a lot in the economics department, but I haven’t had the pleasure to teach them.
FM:  What did you think about the lockout this summer?
TR: Wasn’t it the NBA? Of course basketball players should have higher salaries. No, I’m just kidding.
Shehryar R. Sheikh ’15
FM:  What’s your general perception about football?
SRS: I hate that it’s a rip-off of rugby, and it doesn’t actually use the foot enough to warrant the use of the word ‘foot’ in its name.
FM:  Who do you think is going to win this season?
SRS: If Harvard’s playing, Harvard will win. I don’t actually know what the other teams are, but go Harvard!
FM:  Do you watch the NFL at all?
SRS: The what? That was a no.
FM: What will American football look like in 15 years?
SRS: Pretty much the same.
FM: Do you ever see yourself becoming a football fan?
SRS: Honestly, no ... .
Anneli L. Tostar ’15 and Lilli Beard ’15
FM: What’s your general perception about football?
LB: I know a lot of the players here, but I haven’t seen any football happening.
ALT: I tend to pay more attention to the players themselves than to the game.
FM: Your favorite team and why you’re supporting them:
ALT: The one closest to me is the Seahawks, but they’re not very good. I know the 49ers though.
FM:  MVP pick?
LB: Brian. That’s my friend’s roommate.
FM: What will American football look like in 15 years?
LB: Maybe with more technology. More problems with supplements.
ALT: People will get injured more easily.
Ralph ‘Tre’ Hunt III ’15
FM: What’s your general perception about football?
TH: Football is a great sport. It’s good for bringing all of Harvard together to support the team. I don’t play myself but I’ve played a little bit in the past, and it’s a really fun game.
FM: Who do you think is going to win this season?
TH: Just based off of my intuition, I think Harvard’s going to have a great season.
FM: Your favorite team and why you’re supporting them:
TH: The Cowboys. When I was younger, my uncle bought me a Cowboys jersey. He was playing for the team at the time so I decided that I’d support the team.
FM: MVP pick?
TH: I’d have to say Ryan in Grays East. He looks like he’s really good and I’ve seen him do a little bit of stuff.
FM:  What do you think about Roger Goodell?
TH: I think he’s a pretty good commissioner of the NFL.
FM: What will American football look like in 15 years?
TH: I think the players will be making a lot more money. It’ll still be a very high-paced game, maybe even more high-paced than it is now. People will watch it more, and it’ll stay really popular.
Sections
It's happened to almost everyone. You plan an event. Dozens of people RSVP. But when the date rolls around, only a few actually show up. Well, Leverett House Master Howard M. Georgi '68 has had enough.
 
As he wrote in an email to Flyby, he's noticed that students are often "not looking carefully at their schedules when they sign up, or not anticipating how busy they are going to be. ... I think that many of us are discouraged from organizing events by the difficulty of getting an audience we can count on."
 
So he sent an email to the House, proposing a system in which students buy tickets even to free events and then receive refunds if they do indeed attend. Specifically, he wrote to Flyby that he plans to try an "experiment" in this vein for upcoming concerts by pianist Charlie Albright, the House's artist in residence.
 
Current Lev students expressed trepidation about such a plan—they understand the concern but bristle at limitations on their spontaneity. "I'm sure that this would generate higher yield to events, but if I'd be a lot more hesitant to sign up for different events," said Joshua C. Zhang '14.
 
Sofia M. Tancredi '14 agreed: "It makes sense in the context of this event, because it's small and the musician is performing for us on his own time. But it would only discourage students in the long run."
 
Could this idea be expanded to fit within Harvard's existing payment systems? A survey of those institutions made it seem doubtful. Jeffrey Cuppett, who manages Crimson Cash as assistant director for business applications, said, "You're looking for web debit, where refunds are just as easy as payments. The current Crimson Cash interface has no way of handling that."
 
Ellen McCullough, manager of student financial services, agreed, "We just don't have a system for refunds in place right now. We'd have to hire a new administrative position to monitor the payments and credit the students who do attend." She voiced psychological concerns about the utility of the scheme as well. "It might not actually be that effective—adding the charges to the term bill would make the charges seem less immediate, so it still might not force students to take action."
Sections
Yesterday, The New York Times announced that the American Repertory Theater's new version of "Porgy and Bess" will have a run on Broadway. The show will officially open on January 12, though preview performance will begin in mid-December, and will retain both of the actors portraying the title characters.
For more information on director Diane Paulus and the controversy surrounding the production, check out this week's Arts cover story.
Sections
They've been called assholes. They've been un-friended by the courts. With all the Facebook drama Cameron S. H. Winklevoss '04 and Tyler O. H. Winklevoss '04 (aka the Winklevi) have faced over the years, it’s about time they went nuts.
 
And by nuts, we mean the Winklevi are humorously capitalizing on their Facebook struggles to sell pistachios, appearing in a commercial (dressed in matching suits, of course) for Wonderful Pistachios. 
 
The commercial features one twin cracking a pistachio while the other comments on how it is "a good idea" that could be "huge." One twin then asks if someone would steal the idea and in unison they ask, "Who would do that?"
 
The Winklevoss twins are just two of many other celebrities, including Snooki and Keyboard Cat, who have appeared in commercials for Wonderful Pistachios. According to the MSNBC, Wonderful Pistachios has not stated how much the Winklevii were paid, although the company's newest ad campaign cost $30 million.
 
While we can't be certain, we doubt Mark Zuckerberg has any plans to steal the Winklevoss twins' nuts.
Sections
To celebrate its birthday, Berryline on Arrow Street in Harvard Square is giving out free frozen yogurt today.
Head  on over between 7:30 p.m. and 10 p.m. for a complimentary small,  one-topping frozen yogurt to celebrate the fourth anniversary of the  Arrow Street store.
Sections
Friday night usually always comes as a welcome reprieve from the hectic school week and starting the evening of September 16, Friday nights are about to become even better. Cinema 1636, a new weekly outdoor movie event, will be hosting a free screening of "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1" on the Science Center Lawn. 
Preceded by a Quidditch scrimmage at 7 p.m. by the Harvard Horntails, the 8 p.m. screening, co-sponsored by the Office of Student Life, the College Events Board, and the Office of Campus Services, will also be home to food trucks and free popcorn. 
 This is just the beginning, however, as more free screenings of popular movies, such as "Bridesmaids" and "Horrible Bosses," are scheduled for the coming weeks.  For more information, visit The Office of Student Life's The Weekends @ Harvard College Calendar detailing the coming films and several other weekend options. 
There's always much to do at Harvard, and as Spenser R. Goodman '14, who helped spearhead this event, says, evenings like these help, "provide alternative programming for students who are looking for alternative activities on the weekend." And what better way to start off the weekend than with some magic, friends, and free popcorn?
Sections
Last year's hit movie The Social Network brought attention to a lot of aspects of Harvard: Kirkland House.  Maxwell Dworkin. The, um, bustling party scene. Dropouts who found  mega-successful companies. And twins.
After watching the real-life antics of Cameron S. H. Winklevoss '04 and Tyler O. H. Winklevoss '04 this  summer, we were curious about life for less notable twins at Harvard.
Twins  told us that from the very beginning, they look at the college  experience slightly differently. Several spouted theories on college  admissions that pertain uniquely to twins. They said they think that the  College chooses to admit either both or neither when a set of twins  applies, since one admitted without his or her sibling would likely  choose not to come to Harvard and thus pull down yield rates.
Director  of Admissions Marlyn E. McGrath '70-73 said that was a myth. "Twin  identity is not an advantage or a disadvantage. We treat everyone  completely and fully as individuals, not as a unit." 
For  the lucky accepted pairs, housing comes next. Dean of Crimson Yard  Catherine R. Shapiro said that twins are unlikely to be assigned to the  same dorm. "We try not to put people from the same high school  together," she said, twins included. Most of the twins interviewed for  this blog post chose to join separate blocking groups for their  upperclassman years as well.
Twins  said that they help each other broaden their campus horizons. Eve H.  Rosenbaum '12 said, "I've gotten to know a side of Harvard that I  probably would never know if Elliott didn't go here as well. I go see  his shows, know his friends, and hear about his professors and classes." 
For  international students, a twin serves as a travelling buddy. As Elise  M. Kang '12 observed, "It's great to have family around all the time." 
Alexandra  L. Bradbury '13 is part of a set of triplets, but is the sole member of  the trio at Harvard. Having siblings so close, she theorized, could  have its downsides. "It may stunt your growth in becoming an  individual."
And  Robert T. Bowden '13, who does attend Harvard with his twin, confirmed  the sentiment in part. "To anyone who meets him first, I'm just his  brother, and vice versa."
