News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After taking a week off, the Harvard men’s and women’s cross country teams were back in action on Friday at the Paul Short Invitational in Bethlehem, Pa. In a 45-team field loaded with the Northeast’s top teams, the Crimson men turned in an impressive ninth-place finish. The women’s squad, hoping to bounce back after a disappointing HYP meet, finished 14th in a deep field that included four of the nation’s 10 top-ranked teams.
After winning the Harvard-Yale dual meet two weekends ago, sophomore James Leakos entered Friday’s race with the intention of once again leading his squad to victory. In a field of over 400 runners, Leakos finished in fifth place with a blazingly fast time of 24:14.
On the women’s side, senior Kailyn Kuzmuk was once again the squad’s top finisher. Kuzmuk placed 73rd with a time of 21:51. Classmate Jeanne Mack was not too far behind, finishing in 83rd place with a time of 22:01.
The rainy weather in Bethlehem on Friday made for less-than-ideal racing conditions. In fact, about 400 meters after the start of the men’s race, a pack of runners slipped in a mud pit, creating an jam as other competitors tried to maneuver around them. A couple of Crimson harriers found themselves behind the fallen pack, and spent a portion of the race making up for lost time.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Unique vacation spot #1: Jurassic Park. Unlike the movie, there are no dinosaurs in this Dominican Republic place, however, there is a chemical-free spring water pool and natural waterfalls next to this Harvard Alum owned private bungalow.
Jurassic Park is publicized on AirBnB, a company co-founded by Nathan Blecharczyk '05 that connects hosts in 186 different countries to travelers worldwide. While AirBnB features homes from a wide spectrum of people, Jurassic Park is special in that it belongs to the Harvard AirBnB group. The group allows Harvard Alums to host, specifically but not limited to, fellow alums and current Harvard students.
The Harvard group has 2617 members, and 536 rooms in 202 cities spread around 48 countries. The rooms range from entire homes to private rooms to shared rooms and more. Jurassic Park is $25 per night. The cheapest rooms in the Harvard group, at $10 per night, are rooms at Petirrojos, Lima, Agua Caliente, Tijuana, and Trivandrum, Kerala. The most expensive, at $750 per night, is a Waterfront House in Miami Beach, Florida.
People who use this method of travel can post reviews on AirBnb’s website so that people considering traveling can get better opinions. Peter A. Boyce II '13 found out about Airbnb through his girlfriend and has been a fan since. He considers it one of his "favorite startups."
Although he has not stayed with a Harvard alum yet, he has traveled through AirBnB several times. The first  time was during a vacation to Paris with his girlfriend where he rented from an NYU-Paris professor.
"AirBnB is a great way to travel affordably, stay at a cool and unique place, and meet and greet new people. The magic of AirBnB definitely lies in the trust and reputation their users embody," Boyce said. "They’ve created a platform that has unlocked and shared the underutilized value of homes and apartments across the globe, and I think that’s something powerful."
Sections
Just when Harvard students were feeling frustrated with social media because yet another format change to Facebook left them too confused to navigate their own newsfeeds, Color Labs Inc. launched a new Facebook application—meant to be used on smartphones—called Blue.
Unlike Facebook or Twitter, the updates and pictures you view on Blue change as your location changes. As you walk around, your pictures and updates become public to other Blue users within 100 feet, creating an alternate public space on line. Taking creepy to the next level, the application can also guess who your friends are based on who you interact with (or stalk) the most.
To see what the hype is all about, Flyby decided to download and test out the latest in stalker technology. Walking around the square and on campus, Flyby quickly discovered why Color's marketing plan involved reaching out to student groups to utilize the application. Without other Blue users, there is nothing to see.
After over an hour of wandering the yard, the square, and the quad, with no activity occurring on Flyby's Blue newsfeed, we finally asked a student passing by if they would be willing to download Blue and test it out with us. Unfortunately, he was just confused.
"Blue, what's that? I have never heard of it, said Kevin P. Johnson '13.
Although, in theory, Blue may have the potential to be a fun, interactive tool which can bring students' stalking to a new level, it seems that it currently does not have enough users to make the download and its learning curve worth the time.
Sections
Lowell House may be giving Adams a run for its reputation as Harvard's most artsy House with the newly conceived Lowell Art Project. The project, founded this fall by tutors and students in Lowell, has attracted over a hundred participants who have volunteered to contribute pieces of art, ranging from photographs to collages to crayon drawings, to decorate the tunnels of the building. Twenty pieces are already hanging, with many more to come.
"Our goals are to make it inspiring and fun," said Sandy B. Alexander, a resident scholar in Lowell House and one of the organizers of the project. He also gave a nod to Adams House's famous tunnel murals. "We borrowed the inspiration of the Adams murals, and are going beyond by letting people post a greater number of forms."
Alexander hopes that the project will soon gain approval to expand to the stairwells of entryways as well. "If it was your own home, you wouldn't have bare stairwells. This is part of that same idea."
Abiola D. Laniyonu '13 is just one of many planning on contributing. Laniyonu is working on a charcoal drawing of a Russian monk during the bell exchange that gave Lowell Belltower its bells. "I started working on it last spring, and decided to use the Art Project to motivate me to finish it."
Laniyonu lived in Alexander's entryway last year, and said that Alexander hung some of his daughters' artwork in the halls.
"It made Lowell feel so homey; it's nice to see more student work [in the House,]" said Laniyonu. "The walls are an ugly color and exposed, and everything we can do to make the place look better I appreciate."
