Sections
Free chili will be available to sample today from 1 to 3 p.m. at the "Some Like It Hot Chili Cook-Off," held on Brattle Street in front of Crema Café.
Ten chefs will compete in the third annual cook-off, sponsored by the Harvard Square Business Association, and taste-testers (that means you!) will vote for their favorite entries.
Tory Row took the chili prize in 2010, and Grafton Street won in 2009. This year, participants include Crema Café, Fire + Ice, Grendel's Den, Harvest, Henrietta's Table, Redline, Russell House Tavern, Tommy Doyle's, Tory Row, and UpStairs on the Square.
Photo courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Sections
Want to learn a new language that doesn't require difficult pronunciation or 9 a.m. sections? The Committee on Deaf Awareness offers weekly American Sign Language classes to undergraduates and community members in the Science  Center. Register today to join a class, which will meet each Sunday from Feb. 6 to April 24. Extended registration is offered through Feb. 13 for those that are interested in studying ASL but cannot make tomorrow's class.
Classes are offered on three levels. For beginners, an introductory class will focus on sign production and vocabulary—such as letters, numbers, colors, foods, and family member—and will run from 2 to 3 p.m.
For more experienced signers, the Level 2 class, from 3 to 4 p.m., allows students to practice and expand their signed vocabulary. An advanced class for complex signing and storytelling will be held from 4 to 5 p.m.
Photo by Wilson Yu/The Harvard Crimson
Sections
With Valentine's Day just around the corner, one may be tempted to throw his or her hands up hopelessly in the sea of singles. However, if you are ready to play Cupid for a change, a new matchmaking site for Harvard and MIT affiliates aims to make you the doctor of love.
 So what is this new cyber love potion? Run by Harvard grads Ameya A. Velingker '10, Jason H. Gao '10, and Timothy H. Hsieh '10 (who all met in Physics 16), the matchmaking site is called nChooseTwo. 
Simply take "n" friends, pick two you're sure would make an adorable couple, submit their names (they do need to be registered for the site), and voila! Once a pairing is proposed, both "matchees" have the opportunity to accept the match and continue down the pathway of love or to decline the match and keep the rejection unknown to all other parties.
 "We realized how important friends are in introducing you to new people," said Hsieh. This is the key distinction between nChooseTwo and other Harvard dating sites such as CrimsonSpark. However, nChooseTwo has a "crush" feature similar to CrimsonSpark and will soon have a feature that allows users to query the anonymous matchmaker about why he or she chose the match.
"It is exciting and important for the local community to have leverage over their matchmaking, rather than browsing random people," said Gao, "especially when you can utilize those who know you best."
Image courtesy of nChooseTwo.com
