Sections
For the second year in a row, Yardfest will feature three artists. A College Events Board (CEB) survey earlier in the school year revealed that the majority of students wanted to hear performances from the genres of Top 40 and Hip-Hop/Rap so the CEB delivered with a line-up of Far East Movement, Sam Adams, and the White Panda.
Far East Movement made headlines this past year as one of the most successful Asian-American groups to break into the popular music industry. They were featured on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 and gained platinum status with singles such as "Like a G6" and "Rocketeer." The quartet performs songs combining an infusion of dance, hip-hop, and rap. You'll be sure to recognize the familiar catchphrase "feelin' so fly like a G6" when they perform on Sunday. Can't get enough of Far East? You can probably also expect "Millionaire" feat. Jin and "Girls on the Dance Floor" at Yardfest.
Sam Adams is another example of a YouTube star-turned-professional. A Massachusetts native, Adams is only 21 years old. A political science student and soccer player at Trinity College, he and his best friend from high school, Alex Stern, made demos and promoted them online and at various college campuses. Someone pirated and uploaded the remix "I Hate College"—inspired by the Asher Roth song, "I Love College"—to YouTube and it spread like wildfire, gaining several million views in just three months. Since then, Adams has gained popularity among college audiences with his catchy hip-hop and electronica beats meshed with rap. Look out for possible performances of "Coast 2 Coast" and "Tab Open."
The White Panda is a mash-up duo of childhood friends Procast and DJ Griffi. Both took piano lessons together in California before going their separate ways in college. Eventually they reunited when both realized that the other created mash-ups and joined forces under the name "The White Panda." They are known for their rather unconventional way of preparing concerts: they compile the breakdowns of hundreds of instrumentals, vocals, and drum beats into a spreadsheet that allows them to mix and match a variety of sounds, styles, rhythms, and beats, and move back and forth between whatever tracks they choose. They are known for their upbeat mash-ups of popular songs overlaid with funky effects and synthesizer sounds. Look out for "Stereo Hands" and "Why a G6," their reworking of Far East Movement’s most popular hit.
Sections
The Day of Silence, a national event where LGBT students and their supporters take a vow of silence to protest the suppression of youth voices, took place on Friday. The event began in 1996 at the University of Virginia. Since then, the project has spread to middle schools, high schools, and universities all over the nation.
Participants in the Day of Silence at Harvard stood outside the Science Center at noon with duct tape over their mouths, holding signs that read "All you need is love" and "Harvard is proud to be diverse."
Harvard College Queer Students and Allies Political Committee Chair Samuel J. Bakkila '11-'12, who participated in the protest, said that the event was important because "people assume prematurely that the battle is over."
"The Day of Silence really has two messages: It's about solidarity, support, community, and also to call attention to the homophobia that still exists. Harvard is a bubble that protects against a lot of things, like homophobia, but there are people with very different experiences," Bakkila said.
Levi Roth, a protester at the event, said that it was his first time using silence as a tool to convey a message.
"I was nervous about it at first. It feels more conspicuous than talking. Everyone who has anything to say shouts it with bullhorns and vuvuzuelas and loud music. The silence just feels different. We were getting a lot of attention," Roth said.
