News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For two seasons in a row, Penn had thwarted Harvard’s shot at an Ivy League title.
Not in 2011.
Going into the year, the Quakers were picked to take the Ancient Eight title for the third straight season. But with Harvard racking up victory after victory, and with Penn losing against Brown two weeks ago, the dynamic of the Ivy League looked like it was changing. Saturday’s game completed the transfer of power, as a matchup that was meant to be close turned out to be anything but.
Harvard fell behind in the first quarter, 7-0, but Penn failed to score again until the final minutes of the game. The Crimson scored 17 in the second quarter to take a 10-point lead and didn’t look back en route to a 37-20 win.
Several costly miscues gave the Crimson scoring chances throughout the game, and Harvard capitalized, scoring twice on drives set up by Penn fumbles and again on a series made possible by a sloppy turnover on downs from the Quakers.
And with Dartmouth’s 21-16 upset over Brown, Harvard clinched the Ivy League championship outright. The title is the Crimson’s 14th in program history and the first since 2008.
“I think the conviction and intensity our kids played with was impressive,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “I’m just tremendously proud of everybody in the Harvard football family.”
Down by seven at the start of the second quarter, senior defensive tackle Josue Ortiz forced and recovered a fumble on the Quaker 24. On the next play, senior quarterback Collier Winters fired a pass over the middle to sophomore tight end Cameron Brate, who bobbled the catch but held on for Harvard’s first score of the day.
Highlighted by the fumble recovery—a turning point in the Saturday game—Ortiz’s performance was one of his best of the season. The red-shirt senior registered two sacks in the first quarter and led the team with 10 tackles, 3.5 of which were tackles for losses.
“What I’ve been blessed with, I feel like the coaches have been able to squeeze out every bit of potential I have,” Ortiz said. “That goes out to the coaches.”
The defense effectively shut down the Penn run game all afternoon. The Quakers managed only 24 net rushing yards, including a net loss of eight rushing yards in the first two quarters.
Penn’s troubles continued at the end of the half. With just seconds left, Quaker punter Scott Loprano could not grab a low snap, and a turnover on downs gave Harvard a chance to add three more on a field goal going into intermission. Sophomore kicker David Mothander did just that, hitting the 35-yarder to give the Crimson a 17-7 lead with two seconds left in the frame.
“For us to come here, we knew we had to play a very, very solid game with a minimal amount of mistakes, turnovers, penalties, kick game errors, and obviously we didn’t do that today,” Penn coach Al Bagnoli said.
After a quick three-and-out from Penn to start the second half, Winters led an efficient drive in his first chance of the third quarter, scoring on a four-yard run on a series that lasted under four minutes. The Crimson held that 24-7 lead for the rest of the quarter.
In the final play of the third quarter, junior running back Treavor Scales broke free from the Penn defense, and was just barely caught, falling at the five yard line.
Two plays later in the fourth quarter, Scales busted up the middle for a two-yard run to give Harvard a 30-7 lead.
All season, the Quakers had a flair for the dramatic, putting together fourth-quarter comebacks to keep the team in the title hunt for most of the year. But Penn could not do it against Harvard.
Just two plays and 20 seconds later, Quaker quarterback Billy Ragone threw an interception from his own 27-yard line, and junior linebacker Alex Norman ran it into the corner of the end zone to give Harvard a 37-7 lead.
The Crimson scored 13 points in 54 seconds, and the anticipation built in the crowd and on the sidelines as fans waited for the Dartmouth-Brown game to go final.
Midway through the final frame, the PA announced that the Big Green had defeated the Bears, a shocking loss for a team that was coming off wins against Penn and Yale. The crowd of 11,283 broke into its loudest cheer of the day, and players on the Harvard sideline shared hugs in the final home game for the class of 2012.
“I think any championship team is unique, [but] they all have one common denominator: tremendous character,” Murphy said. “Not just in terms of representing Harvard well. It’s mental toughness, the ability to deal with adversity ability to grind it out ... You need kids that have a lot of resiliency and toughness, and a lot of that is mental.”
Though there were almost 10 minutes left in the game, the team showed little reservation breaking into a preemptive celebration as it became clear that Harvard would hoist its 14th Ivy League championship banner.
“To be able to be rewarded for all that work, and to come into Week 9 and be Ivy League champions—it’s a great feeling,” Winters said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As the final deadline for declaration of concentration looms, sophomores may (or may not) want to think about how their concentration decisions will impact their opportunities in the job market.
A recent feature published by the Wall Street Journal showed that over half of the top ten most popular college majors, including psychology and computer science, experience an unemployment rate of over 5.0%. On the other hand, less popular majors such as Actuarial Science and Pharmacology showed unemployment rates of 0.0%, according to the article.
 
How do concentrations at Harvard stack up?
 
Engineering, mathematics, and computer science majors experienced some of the highest median incomes in 2010. These majors also experienced the highest income level at the 75th percentile of earnings.
 
Economics majors experienced one of the next highest levels of income at the 75th percentile, though the major experienced an unemployment rate of 6.3%. Astronomy and astrophysics majors experienced a 0.0% unemployment rate and opportunity for high income levels, but ranked near the very bottom of the list in terms of popularity.
 
A popular major, political science and government, led to an average medium income of $57,000; the major was outranked, however, by the less popular soil science major, which led to an average medium income of $7,000 more annually.
 
Though the chart mentions majors such as criminology, school student counseling, botany, and court reporting, data were not available for concentrations such as Folklore and Mythology and History and Science.
 
The major that leads to the highest average medium income? Petroleum engineering. Go figure.
Sections
Take a trip to Eliot House and you'll find things a bit astir. The reason? Eliot's annual Date Auction, though not scheduled to take place until February, has already sparked significant debate within the House community. The discussion was triggered by a seemingly innocuous source: the House newsletter, The Elephant in the Room, which currently features a Date Auction "pro and con" on each side of the bulletin.
The Elephant makes some bold statements, including a comparison of the Date Auction to human trafficking, which many students said caught them off guard. "I think the comparison to human trafficking was a bit much," Elena M. Pepe '13 said.
The newsletter also claims that the large amount of money involved in the auction "reinforces a strong class division within our House," an objection that has been taken more seriously among those in the Eliot community than complaints over human trafficking. "The most compelling argument I've encountered is that it might exclude those participants who are not capable of putting up large bids," David R. Gridier '14 said.
Jordan E. Sessler '13, charity chair of the Eliot House Committee and the organizer of last year's event, said that he is confused regarding the sudden uproar. "There's never been a debate about the Date Auction before," he said, adding that last year "everyone said it was incredible, people came up and said it was the best event we'd had in Eliot."
Many Eliot residents—particularly sophomores—are unclear as to what the auction will actually accomplish. "A lot of people who are criticising it weren't at the event [last year]," Sessler said. Meanwhile, those who were tend to support the auction's return. "I went last year and didn't bid on anything and didn't feel uncomfortable," Pepe said. "The main spirit is getting people together and raising money for a cause."
Sections
The original "Handsome Dan" Yale bulldog has been dead since 1897, but he returned this past week looking better than ever. A statue of the dog was erected last Wednesday outside the Yale Bowl in preparation for The Game on Saturday.
The statue was created by scanning the remains of the dead dog so that the proportions of the bronze cast would stay true to the original, the Associated Press reported. However, since Dan was eight years old when he died (or around 45 years old in human years), the first design of the statue was anything but intimidating. Fortunately for Yale, specialists were able to re-imagine what Dan looked like in his more muscled youth. The dog ended up being enlarged by 150 percent to make for a more menacing statue.
Of course, Yale is very concerned about protecting its prized metal pup, so they have taken extra precautions to ensure no roaming Harvard students will try to steal it. The dog will be securely bolted into a granite and concrete base. Despite precautions, prospective pranksters need not fret. We students of John Harvard know how to deal with statues.
Sections
 
As Occupy Harvard came to the Yard, the number of demonstrations skyrocketed and the number of loud parties and noise complaints plummeted. As part of our Securitas Series, we've combed through recent HUPD log entries and published some of the more colorful entries below.
 
 
BY THE NUMBERS
Loud parties: 8
Reports of "suspicious activity": 45
Reports of "unwanted guest[s]": 18
Noise complaints: 10
Total value of stolen bicycles: $2,295
Stolen credit/debit cards: 11 
Demonstrations: 8
Marijuana-related reports: 4
Total value of stolen copper siding: $2,350Oct. 21, 2011
Suspicious Activity (7:31 p.m.)
Widener Library, 31 Harvard Yard, Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of a suspicious individual staring at another individual in the area. Officer reports the individual was gone on arrival.
Oct. 24, 2011
Suspicious Activity (7:21 a.m.)
Thayer Gate, 51 Harvard Yard, Cambridge
Officer observed two individuals writing in chalk on the ground. The individuals were instructed not to chalk on the ground.
Oct. 27, 2011
Suspicious Activity (1:05 p.m.)
College Admissions Office, 86 Brattle St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to take a report that an individual received a suspicious letter.
Oct. 29, 2011
Loud Party (12:02 a.m.)
20 Dewolfe St., Cambridge
Officers were dispatched to a report of a loud party. Officers were unable to locate the party.
Assist Cambridge Police (6:46 p.m.)
Officers dispatched to assist CPD with taking a report of an attempted robbery. Upon arrival the officers were informed that an individual exited a taxi in front of the Bank Of [sic] America and while looking for their ATM card, an unknown individual punched them in the face. The reporting individual stated the unknown individual attempted to grab their wallet but they fell, so the reporting individual was able to keep control of their wallet. The unknown individual fled the area. The reporting individual refused any medical assistance. Offers search the area for the individual with negative results.
Nov. 3, 2011
Trespass Warning (1:03 a.m.)
Baker Library, 25 Harvard Way, Allston
Officers dispatched to a report that an individual asked another individual where they could purchase marijuana. Officers located the individual with another individual and conducted a field interview. Both individuals were issued a trespass warning for all Harvard University property and sent on their way.
Nov. 5, 2011
Suspicious Activity (2:58 a.m.)
Matthews Hall North, 9 Harvard Yard, Cambridge
Officer dispatched a report of several individuals running through the area naked. Officer spoke with the individuals and instructed them not to run through the area naked again.
Vandalism (7:21 p.m.)
Quincy House A, 58 Plympton St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched a report than unknown individual(s) had discharged a fire extinguisher inside the first floor hallway of A entry, stairwell 1 on the 4th floor floor (sic), stairwell 3 and the 3rd and 6th floor laundry rooms. Officer reports FMO was notified to clean the building.
Nov. 6, 2011
Assault Report (12:59 a.m. – 1:02 a.m.)
Lehman Hall, 6 Harvard Yard, Cambridge
Officer was notified than an individual slapped another individual in the face breaking their glasses. The individual refused any medical assistance. The individual was advised on how to file a complaint against the individual.
Nov. 7, 2011
Remove Group (11:27 a.m.)
Leverett House A, 8 Mill St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to remove a news crew from the area. Officer reports the news crew was not on Harvard University property.
Nov. 8, 2011
Suspicious Activity (7:20 a.m.)
Science Center, 1 Oxford St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of three unattended bags in the area. Officer reports the bags were filled with sand and were not suspicious.
Assist Cambridge Police (6:19 p.m.)
Lampoon, 44 Bow St., Cambridge
Officer dispatched to a report of smoke or steam coming from the building. Officer reports Cambridge Fire determined it was steam and all was in order.
Nov. 10, 2011
Theft Report (3:38 p.m.)
Tosteson Mec, 260 Longwood Ave., Boston
Officer dispatched to take a report that an individual stole three cans of Coke, two cans of Diet Coke and two bags of Lay's chips and left the area.
Sections
Former University President Lawrence H. Summers is never afraid to voice his opinions, especially when it comes to matters of higher education. In a recent Washington Post interview, Summers addressed Harvard's issues of grade inflation, research-focused professors, and the lack of a mandatory faculty retirement age, particularly as they relate to his experiences at Harvard.

Summers said that grade inflation was a problem, claiming that no one can get below a C in a seminar class. He trivialized graduating with honors at Harvard, where, according to Summers, it was more unique to graduate without them than with them when he started at the University. With respect to teaching time, Summers said he sports figurative battle scars from fighting professors to return to the classroom instead of focusing on research. 
In the interview Summers also acknowledged that a change in culture was brought about during his tenure at Harvard, but conceded that some professors' work beyond the classroom is of greater importance, like the research of Danish physicist Neils Bohr or the writing of philosopher Robert Nozick. 
Summers said the lack of mandatory retirement stunts the arrival of fresh talent among faculty and increases an unsettling age gap between instructors and students, describing the lack of a mandatory faculty retirement age as "deeply toxic." Though critical of these particular issues, Summers still referred to higher education as "one of America's huge strengths."
Sections
 
In this series, we'll be visiting the other parts of Cambridge, the "City of Squares." Join us as we explore the ins-and-outs of things to do in Inman, Central, Davis, Kendall, and Porter Squares.
 
Students looking for a break from the familiar streets of Harvard Square should head north on Massachusetts Avenue to check out Porter Square. With an eclectic mix of independently owned shops and a dose of Japanese infusion, Porter Square offers plenty of opportunities to spice things up.
 
Shops
 
Named after the popular Prince song, Raspberry Beret is a second-hand store that carries a unique collection of mint-condition vintage and consignment clothing, handbags, and accessories. Browse through a variety of styles, and don't leave before perusing their $2 bin. 
 
Formerly Vintage, Etc., Cambridge Clogs claims to have sold more than 40,000 shoes since 1987. In addition to providing expert shoe fittings for your feet, the store also carries tights, socks, and hosiery of many varieties. Those looking to mix up their sock drawer can now decorate their feet with ninjas, poodles, and Albert Einstein.
 
Stereo Jack's carries a wide collection of records and CDs and adds new inventory every day. Although the owner recently considered retiring, the store is still open and remains the place to find inexpensive albums—rarely will you find anything more than $10. (Note that purchases under $10 must be paid for in cash). 
 
Whether you're artistically inclined or just looking to make a homemade gift, Made-by-Me offers an entire wall of white pottery—from plates to teacups to piggy banks—just waiting to be painted. Pay for your ceramic and for every half-hour spent painting.
 
With its eggs and bacon earring set, "Keep Calm and Carry On" first-aid kits, and solar-powered waving Queen Elizabeth figurines, Joie de Vivre is a store is full of quirk, charm, and all the trinkets you never knew you needed.
 
Opened this August, Miso Market is Porter Square's only Japanese grocery store and has filled the void left by the 2009 closure of Kotobukiya. With colorful racks of rice, noodles, candies, and cookies, Miso Market is home to all the essentials of Japanese cuisine.
 
Eats
 
Those in the mood for a helping of American cuisine should stop by Christopher's. In addition to burritos and sandwiches, the restaurant also hosts a hearty selection of "Burgahs," including the "Mighty Mushroom Burger" and "Smokin' Southwest Burger" as well as turkey and veggie burger options.
 
The hip and intimate West Side Lounge offers a gourmet take on comfort foods, with dishes such as Parmesan Truffle Fries, Asparagus Ravioli, and Steak Frites. Boasting an extensive drink menu, the bistro is known for its signature cocktails, from "Blood Orange Margaritas" to "Cilantro Tequila Stingers."
 
An integral part of the Porter Square Japanese community, the Porter Exchange, located at 1815 Mass. Ave., is home to a number of Japanese eateries, including Bluefin, Tampopo, Ittyo, Sapporo Ramen, and Café Mami.
 
Dont Miss
 
The "Gift of the Wind" statue. Designed by Susumu Shingu, the iconic monument, whose three red "wings" rotate with the breeze, has overlooked Porter Square since 1985.
Sections
Roberto F. Velez '03, a teaching fellow in the Visual and Environmental Studies Department, shot this video of last Wednesday's Occupy Harvard protest depicting the night as it unfolded.
Velez, who was an undergraduate during Harvard's Living Wage Campaign, previously co-directed a documentary about the 2001 campaign titled "Occupation."
"Having a camera [during the Living Wage Campaign] with the protesters was so useful," Velez said. "In one way it's protection for the protesters."
When asked about the most anxious moment of last week's protest, Velez spoke about the stand-down between police officers and marchers trying to enter Harvard Yard through the gate closest to the science center.
"I don't know why they chose to close the gate, but I think it was fairly aggressive on the part of the police," Velez said. "In 2001 there was a tent city with about twice as many tents, and they had all sorts of people from the community living in the Yard without issues."
