News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After halting construction on its Allston science center more than two years ago, Harvard announced on Wednesday that it will resume development in 2014.
The facility, which will be called the Health and Life Science Center, will house academic projects for stem cell science and engineering and physical sciences.
Douglas A. Melton, a co-director of the Harvard Stem Cell Institute and co-chair of the Harvard stem cell and regenerative biology department, added that this development "should lead to the kinds of collaborations and exciting advances, and interesting experiments in undergraduate teaching, that otherwise might not take place."
Previous plans for the science center included stem cell science, but the second component—engineering and physical sciences with application to biological and life sciences—is new.
“By allowing stem cell scientists and bioengineers with common goals to work literally side-by-side, in close proximity to the I-Lab and Business School, Harvard will be hastening the day discoveries in our labs can be moved into the clinic, where they will benefit patients,” Melton said in a statement.
Associate Vice President for Public Affairs and Communications Kevin Casey, who presented the plan at a Harvard-Allston Task Force meeting, told attendees that that the complex would likely be 500,000 to 600,000 square feet in size, providing office space for 500 scientists and an additional support staff.
Harvard halted construction in Allston in 2009 following a credit crunch caused by the 2008 recession. Allston planning restarted in December 2011.
According to Harvard Executive Vice President Katherine N. Lapp, Harvard hopes to begin readying its Western Avenue site for construction towards the end of 2013.
"The Health and Life Science Center will represent the single largest investment in a science facility ever made by Harvard, and the biggest investment in science space envisioned for at least the next decade," Lapp wrote in a public update.
Harvard officials also updated Task Force members on the progress of its other efforts in Allston. University officials said that they will work with Boston-based Samuels & Associates to develop residential and retail spaces in Barry’s Corner, few blocks away from the future site of the Health and Life Science Center.
But at the meeting, residents still expressed concern over whether the complex will benefit Allston residents.
"It sounds to me as though the community is going to be squeezed out to a large extent," said Task Force member Brent C. Whelan ’73.
Whelan said that he fears that previously discussed plans for publicly available spaces in the science center will be removed without the consultation of Allston residents.
"Although the time frame appears to be lengthy, at least it appears to be starting up again,” Harvard-Allston Task Force Member John A. Bruno said. "There’s a ton of construction-related jobs that are going to create a domino effect into local businesses," he said.
Casey told residents that resumed construction on the science center is just the first step in the University’s plans to relaunch its development in Allston. "Our main goal was to get these projects going again and that means starting with the science and going from there," he said.
—Staff writer Alyza J. Sebenius can be reached at asebenius@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It's an argument almost as old as the burrito itself, and students for generations have devoted untold hours to debating the best burrito joint in Harvard Square. Over the next few days, members of The Crimson's summer staff will make a case the Big 4 of Square burritos: Boloco, Chipotle, Felipe's, and Qdoba.
Of all the arguments made against Boloco when trying to determine Harvard Square’s best burrito, perhaps the most common is that it’s the least “authentic.”
I’m from Los Angeles. To call any of the burritos around here authentic would be like saying that Vegas’ Eiffel Tower is Parisian. There’s a reason all those schools that call themselves “The Harvard of Somewhere” don’t just call themselves Harvard.
And once you move past that sticking point, the Boloco experience is the best the Square has to offer.
The first point: location. As a student who spends his waking hours at The Crimson and sleeping hours in Lowell House, it’s tough to top Boloco. Yes, Panera is closer to the The Crimson than Boloco is, but until they start serving breakfast sandwiches after 10:30 a.m., they won’t have my consistent patronage.
We must also recognize the non-burrito offerings that Boloco gives us. Its television gives me that critical ESPN-viewership option that only Qdoba can match, and even there you’re forced to awkwardly contort your body while standing in line if you want to see the screen.
And the smoothies? Those speak for themselves. Certainly one of the better non-Jamba Juice choices in Boston.
In the interest of full objectivity, you could make the argument that the Chipotle steak option is better than what Boloco offers. I don’t necessarily agree (nor do I necessarily disagree), but it’s certainly a valid point. But the other essential burrito ingredients—beans, rice, salsa—are all top-notch.
I’ll end my piece in this debate on an often-overlooked factor in a quality burrito: the wrap. Eating at Boloco rarely results in those embarrassing grease stains on your pants that you have to walk around with for the rest of the day.
The last time I ate at Felipe’s, two rounds of hand washing and a dozen napkins couldn’t quite do the trick.
