Sections
SAN MIGUEL DE ALLENDE, Mexico—The legendary matador Manuel Benítez Pérez, better known as El Cordobés, trained by sneaking on to the land of local breeders and challenging the bulls under cover of night. For Benítez, who grew up an orphan in Franco-era Spain, bullfighting was a chance to catapult himself out of crushing poverty and into a life of wealth, fame, and glory.
The young toreros at the Plaza de Toros Oriente in San Miguel de Allende, Mexico on Friday seemed a world apart from the moonlit pastures where El Cordobés practiced.
A mariachi band perched at the top of the arena, providing a soundtrack of popular tunes to the night’s entertainment. Vendors hawked beer and popcorn, pausing in their cries of “Cerveza! Cerveza!” only when a torero raised his sword to deliver the fatal blow.
One novillero, or novice bullfighter, Hector de Avila, had his whole family in attendance. They sat in the front row, smoking cigarettes and snapping photos of him on their iPhones.
Avila was light on his feet, making swift passes with his scarlet muleta. He took one false step, though, and was down in a flash, white suit against the sand. The bull thrust downwards; the crowd went silent with fear. Then the other toreros were distracting the bull with the flapping of yellow capes, and Avila scrambled to his feet. Minutes later, Avila thrust his sword between the bull’s shoulders and ended the dance of death.
According to legend, El Cordobés once told his sister before a crucial fight, “Tonight, either I’ll buy you a house or I’ll dress you in mourning.” Half a century later and clear across the Atlantic, the stakes are the same.
Sections
EN ROUTE TO ALASKA—“Is this your first time going to Alaska?” asked the girl sitting next to me, beaming while she fastened her seatbelt. Not expecting small talk so early in the seven-hour flight, it took a moment to grasp that she had asked me a question.
“Uh, no,” I heard myself say. “I mean, no, I grew up there. In Anchorage.”
If I was distracted, it was because I’m a nervous flyer and the plane was about to take off. I gave her a short smile as I tried to untangle the knot in my stomach. She returned the smile and peered past me out the window. The air in the airplane cabin was stale.
“Gosh, this is my first time, and I’m so excited. This trip has been on my bucket list,” she told me. She spoke like someone who was cautious of talking too quickly, in complete, measured syllables with calculated pauses between sentences.
I was the first person she had met from Alaska, she divulged, so I knew the questions she was going to ask before she asked them. Is it true there’s always daylight in the summer? Have you ever seen a bear? Do you ski a lot? I’ve had the same conversation a thousand times, but I went along with it anyway, even though my responses were probably more boring than she expected. Chris McCandless came up. So did Sarah Palin. We talked about rivers. (I don’t know anything about rivers.) In any case, she seemed earnest, and I liked that.
The conversation shifted to her. Lauren told me all about growing up in Illinois, in a suburb of Chicago, where she had just graduated high school. Biding her time before college, she was spending the summer volunteering for AmeriCorps in a number of towns around the country. She was now on her way to Alaska to volunteer in one of the small villages out on the Aleutians. In the fall she'd be starting college in her hometown to save money before moving away for her second year.
She asked me what it was like growing up in Anchorage. I told her about how sleepy Anchorage was in the winter and feeling like sometimes the town was suffocating me. I told her that being gay in Anchorage could be hard at times. And I told her that the local politics drove me crazy. I also noted—jokingly, and with great self-deprecation—the melodramatic malaise of my adolescence.
But it’s home, I said. I love seeing my family. And my group of friends from high school and I are all still incredibly close. Anchorage, I mentioned, has become something of a safe haven for me, not least because it’s a truly beautiful place.
I think she related. I imagine many college students from small towns feel the same way.
“It’s funny, I actually almost always run into someone from my high school on flights back home,” I mused. “But I don’t recognize anyone on this plane.”
Later that week at one of my favorite coffee shops a barista looked at me and said, “You’re not from here, are you?”
I paused.
“Yes, I am. I grew up here.”
Sections
BORDEAUX, France—When you're studying at a language school like the one I’m at in Bordeaux, you get used to people coming in and out of your life with the coming and going of each week. A Swiss guy who started here the same week as me once compared the rapid replacement of friends and acquaintances to life in general, only much faster.
The similarity is undeniable, but here, when people you've seen every day and shared many an entertaining evening with leave your life possibly forever, there's time to prepare and celebrate.
Last week was something of a mass exodus. On Friday, to celebrate the last night of nearly half the people I'd known in my two weeks here, we had a picnic on the quay next to the Garonne river, which runs through Bordeaux.
After eating, drinking, and conversing in a hesitant mélange of French, English, German, and Spanish, we gave in to the urge to dance.
Each weekend night, the city of Bordeaux hosts dancing next to the river. The style is different every night, and so is the crowd. I went once two weeks ago when it was Samba (though not real Samba, according to one of the Brazilian girls). This particular evening it was swing dancing.
Each evening begins with a tutorial of the basic steps, although some people seem to be nearly professionally-skilled already. We'd missed the swing lesson, though, so we had no idea what we were doing. We tried to mimic the steps of those around us.
Behind me there was an old man, a septuagenarian, at least, accompanied by two slightly younger women. He stood in place, waving his hands in front of him and swaying to the beat, while the women swung about with each other. Further away was a younger couple in perfect swing dance attire. The woman’s satiny dress of black and white polka dots swung perfectly in sync with her twirls. There were lots of other couples—some young ones who looked like they could be on terribly awkward first dates and some older who looked as if they probably came out to every one of these dances.
We tried to twirl and shimmy as they did. It probably didn't look quite right. While we paused momentarily to take some photos and take off sweaters, a large security guard came up to us and scolded us in French. If we weren’t going to dance, we would have to move off to the side. Hurriedly we continued to dance. We must have been pretty terrible because he came back a couple more times to tell us to move when we really were dancing. It didn't matter, though; I'd made peace with coming off like as stupid foreigner on occasion. I think we all had.
Sections
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina—It was what I’d imagined a classroom of sixty- and seventy-year-olds to be like. There was the mean kid, Guillermo, sitting in a corner. He didn’t really want to sing; you could tell he was just there for the company. There were the two ladies sitting in front of me chatting in between verses, arguing with the director. They were like little school girls who just couldn’t hold all their secrets in. And then, of course, there was the classroom jokester, the one who never sang his lines on key, and the women who sat at the front arguing with the teacher professing that they just knew they were on pitch.
Together, they were raucous and loud and very off-key. But they were more than that. They called themselves the “sobrevivientes,” sons and daughters of Holocaust survivors or Jews who had escaped before the Second World War to Argentina. And together they comprised a chorus that sung in English, Spanish, and Hebrew, proving that in music, language is no barrier and that—as one of the sobrevivientes told me—sometimes just hearing someone else’s voice and knowing they’re ok is in itself a melody for our heart to beat to.
Sections
DELHI, India—They use a cloth to cover their hands and wiggle their fingers to negotiate prices and execute secret trades. It’s like calling plays in high-stakes college football, but with the ultimate end of affordable fresh produce rather than national championships. These agricultural middlemen mean serious business.
For the men who trade at Azadpur Mandi, Asia’s largest fruit and vegetable hub market just north of Delhi, fresh produce is the big leagues and a path to huge profits. Aggregators collect food from farmers throughout North India and bring the crops to the mandi to sell them off to agents, who will later distribute the food to retail outlets throughout the country. The good agents get rich doing it, too. One agent drives a Mercedes, while others own property valued at over $1 million.
Azadpur Mandi spans for over 80 acres, with merchants weighing fruits and vegetables on shoestring scales in every direction. Carnival-colored trucks circle the area and back up to loading docks so that boys can unload the bulky and disheveled fruits. I think about how much manual labor goes into my salad as men struggle with ripped bags slung over their shoulders, balance pyramids of cabbage on their heads, and push rickety handcarts stacked high with ginger and sugar cane stalks. Every item has a transportation secret: cucumbers are packed into giant whirlpool configurations to avoid damage, and tomatoes get their own hard-shelled crates to prevent squishing.
On one platform round and green citrus fruits spill out of unlatched truck beds. Boys rest wide-legged atop the resulting citrus mountain, eager and alive as if they’ve just conquered Everest. Other men sit cross-legged on the floor and sift through the green mousambi fruit. They taste each sphere with their fingertips to determine if it will be sour, sweet, bitter, rotten and then sort it into appropriate bins.
As the monsoon rains roll into the mandi, eggplants, pumpkins, and potatoes topple off of the handcarts into toxic puddles forming on the ground. The fruit is now spoiled and destroyed. The same rains pool at the ankles of the sandal-footed transport boys, poisoning their skin along with the goods they carry. Even my borrowed rain boots are flooding over. Yet somehow the chaos and creeping threat of acidic rainwater can’t hold the mandi back. India needs to eat, and the mandi will churn and hustle to feed her.
Sections
NEW YORK, New York—It’s just shy of seven o’clock, and the concert doesn’t start until eight, so Brandon and I take our time along the 72nd Street transverse in Central Park. We follow the same route we took all last summer to our shared office in the basement of the Frick Collection. Sometimes we walked, and sometimes we rode borrowed Razor scooters, our laminated museum badges flapping over our shoulders, sweating into our business casual.
Now, we reach the crest of a hill, and a dark stripe comes into view on the horizon, tracing the contour of the asphalt path and then disappearing into a cluster of trees. “That can’t be the line,” I ask. “Can it?”
It is the line, though, and we can’t even see the end, so we give up on entering the bandshell and instead find a place to sit outside. To cushion my thighs against the pricking of the wood chips lining the ground, I perch on a paperback book pulled from the depths of my purse. A crowd soon forms around us. Some have brought picnic baskets, blankets, bottles of wine. Teenagers reclining on clustered yoga mats fill out SAT practice books.
An hour passes, and the music starts. The lilting soprano sounds distant, like it could be floating over from Lincoln Center and not just a couple of yards away. Brandon and I exchange glances. “Is this Lucia di Lammermoor?” he asks, then shakes his head. “I can’t even tell.” We give it another half hour and then abandon our spot.
We wind up on a bench along the Central Park Mall. A bunch of young guys are skateboarding around, practicing ollies and grinds, their lithe bodies dark blurs in the lamp-lit night. A man sitting across from us begins to sing. After a few notes, Brandon and I recognize the tune and laugh. It’s “I Want It That Way” by the Backstreet Boys, somehow rendered soulful. Suddenly, the singing from inside the bandshell grows louder, and for a few brief minutes, the two voices join into a strange duet between the trained tenor on stage and this anonymous man on a bench. Then the man stops his song to greet a passing longboarder, and the aria quiets to a whisper.
Sections
Quincy House residents, rejoice! If you were worried about that feeling of isolation a few hundred feet down Plympton Street, at least you'll have Harvard's signature desks with you in swing housing.
Earlier this morning, moving crews were spotted bringing the desks into Hampden Hall at 8 Plympton. And much like Harvard move-in day, the area was clustered, crowded, and chaotic. One of the dollies rolled off the sidewalk and onto the street, very nearly hitting a car.
Basically, a preview for move-in day in a few weeks.
