News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the first weekend of the NCAA men’s tennis tournament, the Harvard men’s tennis team both rose and fell, winning its first match before losing the next afternoon. At the Ring Tennis Complex in Gainesville, Fla. the Crimson was able to take down Virginia Tech on Saturday morning in a match decided largely by conditioning, 4-2. On Sunday afternoon, Harvard was out-muscled by Florida, 4-0.
FLORIDA 4, HARVARD 0
Perhaps for the first time since its Feb. 4 loss to Indiana, Harvard faced a competitor who was simply too strong to overcome. As a result, the Crimson lost, 4-0, to the 12-seeded Gators, ending Harvard’s NCAA tournament run and its season.
“It was great to be a part of that match,” co-captain Alistair Felton said. “We played such a good team at their place in front of their crowd. It was so much fun…. We came out so fast to start with. We were so energetic and loud, they were really, really, taken aback. We put up a great fight in the doubles match and in singles they were just a bit too strong for us in those conditions.”
Felton and sophomore Casey MacMaster, the doubles players on Court No. 1, were the only Crimson-clad players to squeak out a win on Sunday. The duo won, 8-5, despite trailing 2-1 early in the match.
“Personally, I was really happy that that is the match that I’ll go out on,” Felton said. “It was a great, great effort against a really good pair. It was really satisfying because everything we’d worked on in training over the course of this year played a force and a part in that win.”
Senior Jonathan Pearlman and sophomore Christo Schultz faced the reverse situation. After starting off against their No. 64 ranked doubles opponents in the lead before losing it and then pulling ahead, 7-6, the pair could not hold on any longer and fell, minutes later, 9-7. Junior Andy Nguyen and freshman Denis Nguyen also could not overcome Florida, losing 8-2. By losing two out of the three matches, Harvard lost the doubles point and faced an opening deficit of 1-0.
Singles play proved to be no better for the Crimson. Four out of six of the Gators’ singles players came into the tournament with national rankings—and played accordingly. After freshman Alex Steinroeder lost, 6-1, 6-4, Schultz was defeated, 6-2, 6-3, by Nassim Slilam, a senior ranked 53rd in the country. With those two losses, Harvard was down 3-0, one point away from being eliminated. And, with No. 66 Spencer Newman’s win over freshman Shaun Chaudhuri, 6-2, 6-3, Florida’s victory was complete, advancing them to the Sweet Sixteen and sending the Crimson home. The remaining two singles matches were considered negligible to the overall score, and were not finished.
“Their lineup was incredibly deep, but we certainly didn’t get outclassed,” Felton said. “I think, having seen this level, the guys on our team certainly think they can be at the level of Florida in the future.”
HARVARD 4, VIRGINIA TECH 2
The first match of the weekend proved to be the more positive for Harvard. It defeated the Virginia Tech, 4-2, and earned a spot in the NCAA tournament’s final 32.
“We kind of knew what to expect from them since we had played them earlier this year,” Felton said. “We knew it was going to be a really close match. It was our conditioning that really paid off in the end as Dennis’s opponent was cramping and unable to continue while Denis was still going strong. We were really pleased that our hard work in that respect was rewarded.”
Despite an initial win in doubles play from Felton and MacMaster, 8-5, the Crimson lost two straight contests to fall into an early 1-0 hole in the overall match. Pearlman and Schultz fell to their Virginia Tech counterparts, 8-6, while Nguyen and Nguyen were defeated, 8-5.
With singles play came the Crimson’s first drama of the tournament. The first individual match to be finished was Schultz’s, in which he fell, 6-0, 6-2. Next up was freshman Henry Steer who took down his competition, 6-4, 6-2, followed by classmates Steinroeder, who earned the 6-2, 6-2 victory, and Chaudhuri, who won in three sets, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3.
But the rest of the matches would not be fully played out. After freshman Nguyen won his opening set, 6-3, and lost the second, 6-7 (2), his opponent, Lucas Oliveira, began showing signs of injury. Five games later and down 4-1, Oliveira withdrew from the match due to full-body cramps. As a result, Harvard was given the point and a 4-2 lead, clinching the win and rendering Pearlman’s matchup against No. 47 ranked singles player Luka Somen meaningless. Before the whistle was blown, that contest was tied at one set apiece, with Somen leading the third.
Felton emphasized his belief that, after having had a small sample of the play at the national level, the team wants to come back stronger than ever.
“The team loved being in the NCAA [tournament],” Felton said. “Having tasted it, it definitely motivated [us] to come back for more next year.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following its first-place victory at the Ivy League Championships, the Harvard women’s golf team faced the toughest set of competitors that it has seen this season at the NCAA Central Regional. Posting a final team score of 943 (+ 79), the Crimson placed 18th out of 24 teams at the Scarlet Course at The Ohio State University.
Harvard was ranked 22nd out of the 24 teams. Even though the team exceeded expectations, only the top eight teams can advance to the NCAA Finals, and the Crimson’s season came to a close this past weekend.
“I feel like everyone thought that they left a couple shots out there today,” coach Kevin Rhoads said. “We let two teams pass us from where we stood, but we still exceeded our rankings by four positions.”
Southern California won the tournament with a score of 874 (+10).
“We were really excited to play at Regionals because it’s such a big tournament with a strong field of competitors,” freshman Tiffany Lim said. “We’ve never really been in a position like that before, so we were just going into the tournament hoping to play our best.”
It had been four years since Harvard had played on this same course. The Crimson had finished in 19th place in 2008.
“It’s a championship course because of its nature, which means all stages of the game are tested on a course like this.” Rhoads said.
Windy conditions and fast greens made the first two days of the tournament tough. Harvard found its problems to be in its putting and short game. The Crimson notched a Thursday score of 315 and Friday score of 317.
But Harvard was able to capitalize on the weather change and a new familiarity with the course on the last day. The Crimson shot Saturday score of 311, which was its best of the weekend.
“We were able to get used to the course more after playing it a couple times,” captain Christine Cho said. “Even though Ivies wasn’t a long time ago, I think in between that tournament and this tournament, some of us weren’t able to practice as much as we wanted to.”
Coming off her ninth place finish at the Ivy League Championships, Lim tied for 23rd place this weekend, notching Harvard’s lowest individual score of 227. Lim who had been named Ivy League Rookie of the Year this season, had her best day of the tournament on Thursday with a score of 73 (+1). Lim came back from a 79 (+7) on Friday to shoot a 75 (+3) in the third round. Lim was only five shots shy of individually qualifying for NCAA Finals.
“As a freshman to play the way that she did is fantastic,” Rhoads said. “She was seventh out of the individuals that weren’t on the top eight teams. She had an outstanding year, and she’s an outstanding player.”
Sophomore Bonnie Hu came in next individually for the Crimson, tying for 75th. With an overall score of 238, Hu, who is also a Crimson business editor, shot three birdies on the weekend. Hu had her best day on Saturday, shooting a 76.
Freshman Brenna Nelsen notched a score of 240, giving her the tie for 88th place. Coming in third for Harvard, Nelsen shot an 81 in the third round.
Senior Jane Lee tied for 96th place, tallying an overall score of 242. Helped out by two birdies in the third round, Lee pulled a score of 79, her lowest of the tournament.
Captain Christine Cho was ten places behind Lee with a score of 248. Cho mirrored her teammates with a low score of 79 (+7) in the second round of play.
“The people that set up the pins put them in really tricky places, so if you [shot] for the pin it could end up either really good or really bad,” Lim said. “As we played the course more and more, we realized that if we played it smart we get better scores.”
Crimson players said they found its lack of practice time to have been a problem leading up to Regionals. With the tournament falling during finals period, the team struggled to prepare as much as it could.
“They earned their way here, which is representative of their really good season overall,” Rhoads said. “It takes a lot of preparation, but we did not have as much as we needed to advance.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
You've sent out an imploring message over every house and interest group email list, to no avail. You still need a roommate. Good thing Craigslist has more to offer than serial killers and casual encounters. We know finding someone to physically live with through the virtual world can be daunting, but luckily Flyby is here to help you with a few trustworthy tips.
Adjust Your Expectations:
You're (probably) not going to find a best friend. Aim for someone who won't eat your last can of chicken noodle soup when you have a cold.
Market Rate:
Look at enough postings until you get a sense of the market rate. The only way to get much lower than that price level is to share a room or sleep in the living room/kitchen/pantry. None of which are bad options compared to a moldy den in a house of vegan girls run by a male landlord who won't get off his La-Z-boy.
Make a Form Letter and Email, Email, Email: 
We recommend: "Hi, my name is _______. I'm in my _____ year at Harvard/college in Boston. I am clean and quiet and not a pervert or a jerk. I also love to  ________ (insert clean, quiet hobby)! I am very interested in your listed housing and would like to see your place and meet the roommates."
Once you have a form letter ready to go, send it out to every post that interests you, but make sure not to confuse the places you're emailing. The process is already awkward enough without your making it clear that you're playing the roommate field.
Meet People:
Remember the best way to describe yourself: "I am clean and quiet. I am clean and quiet. I am clean and quiet." Today you may be scrubbing the mold out of your MicroFridge and apologizing for the screaming at 4 a.m., but tomorrow you are "clean and quiet."
Safety:
If you can, bring a friend when looking at a place; not for safety as much as for a second opinion, so that you don't wind up in a mildew-infested garage. At least tell someone where you are—and that you'll need drinks after a long day of house or room hunting.
Don't Ignore Your Instincts:
How do you feel? Can you imagine coming home to this person or people night after night? If you recoil at the thought, maybe move on.
Logical Thinking:
If things were bad, how long would you be stuck there? If you did want to leave is there somewhere you could go? If you're not on the lease, you forgo many legal rights (and it may be illegal) but you could probably get out more quickly. A year-long contract warrants more thought than a three month, under the table sublet.
Ultimately, finding a good living situation involves taking a leap of faith. But, if you follow these tips, you have a better chance of making an informed decision and finding hapiness among perfect strangers.
