Sections
Hundreds of protesters gathered on the evening of Nov. 9, 2011. They made their way through Harvard Yard, to the Law School, and later down to Mass. Ave. to convey disapproval of expanding income inequality in the United States. Confusion ensued as security guards closed gates to prevent non-Harvard affiliates from entering the Yard.
Facing resistance, demonstrators at Harvard pushed their way through the gates in small numbers. Later that night, about 120 protesters convened and began constructing a tent city in front of University Hall.
Harvard Yard was occupied.
Over a year later, members of Occupy Harvard continue to engage in activism inspired by the movement, and reflect on its legacy on campus.
“For me it’s not ended in any way,” says Umang Kumar, who graduated from Harvard Divinity School last year. He continues, “The group has dispersed, so I think we are still learning things, we are still coming to grips with what this movement is and how it has functioned and what it can be.”
For many members, Occupy Harvard was a way of drawing the student body’s attention to the growing inequality in the United States. They believed that Harvard could help reshape the economic structures and therefore diminished the gap between increasingly stratified classes.
Gabriel H. Bayard ’15 helped organize the event and lived in the tents for 13 days. He says camping was a powerful way to show solidarity with Harvard’s custodial workers, many of whom, he says, were not receiving fair payment.
Administrators and Occupy Harvard protesters negotiated a new contract in November of last year, giving Harvard employees who were hired indirectly the same access to benefits as directly hired employees. The contract also gave janitors more full-time work and eliminated split shifts, and gave them a wage raise of up to three percent a year, according to a press release by the Service Employees International Union Local 615.
With the contracts renegotiated and Thanksgiving around the corner, Bayard said he was ready to sleep on a bed. In December, impending cold winter nights led occupiers to take down their tents, dismantle their tarp-covered dome (which housed a library and provided shelter for occupiers), and go home for the holidays.
Even though Occupy Harvard no longer has a physical space in the Yard, Bayard and other activists continue to be involved in the movement.
Umang still goes to biweekly general assembly meetings to discuss various issues important to attendees, including what incarnation is most suitable for Occupy today.
“There’s a heartbeat that’s going on,” Umang says, describing the movement. “Maybe it doesn’t have definite shape but it can come back.”
Aside from their lingering ties to Occupy, many of the original protesters are involved in other movements on campus that are addressing similar issues in different ways.
“Keeping the name ‘Occupy’ wasn’t necessary for a lot of the groups involved after the physical occupation ended,” says S. Krishna Dasaratha ’13, who was also involved in the movement. “A lot of the concerns that are brought up are still being addressed,” he says.
Justin A. Jungé ’03, a post-doctoral student who has been working in the psychology lab in William James Hall for the past four years, originally joined the Occupy movement because he, too, felt something had to be done about the country’s growing inequality. He says his colleagues were supportive of his involvement in the movement.
Jungé, along with Bayard and Dasaratha, is part of a group on campus called the Responsible Investment at Harvard Coalition, which advocates for, among other things, a more transparent money management policy and a social choice fund. They met protesting in Occupy Harvard, and all three said that the group was a product of the movement. According to them, Responsible Investment at Harvard is a more effective way of reaching out to the student body because it conveys a clear message, something Jungé says Occupy did not do very well.
The protesters said that even though they received backlash from the undergraduate community, Occupy helped inspire a conversation on campus that has had a lasting impact. All activists pointed to the passing of three Undergraduate Council referenda proposals on Nov. 17 as evidence of the campus’s changed spirit, one that is more open to social justice. The referenda—which supported divestment of University funds from the fossil fuel industry, the creation of a social choice endowment fund, and a reconsideration of the College’s sexual assault policies—received overwhelming support from the student body, winning 72 percent, 80.5 percent, and 85 percent of the vote, respectively.
The activists say the support for the referenda gave them hope.
“Every time I have a conversation with someone and they respond positively to a social justice issue it feels good,” Bayard says. “You think to yourself, that person can be running some big corporation tomorrow.”
Dasaratha agrees. “I think Harvard students, after they graduate, assume some of the most influential positions in our society,” Dasaratha says. “If they are committed to social change, change will happen.”
Sections
“The whole idea is to create a generation of socially responsible citizens who always care and who are always thinking, ‘What can I do for my country?’” says Dalumuzi H. Mhlanga as he describes Lead Us Today, the non-profit he started in Zimbabwe the summer after freshman year. The organization’s mission is to inspire high school students from his home country through leadership and entrepreneurship training. Mhlanga emphasizes the support he and his initiatives have received at Harvard.
In the summer of 2010, Mhlanga recruited a small team of young people to develop a curriculum and worked around the clock to get Lead Us Today off the ground. Starting with just 64 students, the organization had enrolled 200 by the end of the summer.
Now, Lead Us Today is active in eight high schools in Zimbabwe and has trained over 500 students who have started over 20 community development projects. These include a community recycling program which is now partnering with the city council and may be replicated in other Zimbabwean communities.
Mhlanga won the 2011 College Social Innovator Contest (a collaboration between the Harvard College Social Innovation Collaborative and the “Common Good” column at Forbes.com) for his efforts to empower students to create change regardless of socioeconomic factors.
He describes the loneliness and insecurity he felt growing up in a middle class community with less resources than his peers at school. Mhlanga ultimately decided that he would define himself not by the materials with which he was born, but by what he could contribute instead.
That forward-looking mindset also characterizes his life at Harvard. Mhlanga is a social studies concentrator, which, he says, “is abstract stuff some of the time, but I’m always thinking, okay, cool, let me relate this to Lead Us Today and to Zimbabwe.
”Mhlanga strongly believes that the positive feedback he has gotten—from awards such as being named one of the ‘Ten Outstanding Young Persons of Zimbabwe’ to Facebook messages of encouragement from friends—contributes to the success of his project.
“It’s so encouraging and so inspiring, and it keeps me going in a lot of ways. It’s been amazing to have that support and know that people all over the world can believe in an idea and motivate and inspire you.”
Sections
Adam B. Kern stands in front of a classroom of inmates at the Suffolk County House of Correction, presenting five aspects of David Hume’s argument on the existence of free will. With four points on the board and time running out, Kern reads the final lines of the Scottish philosopher’s claims out loud.
Class is near its end and the students haven’t yet understood the argument—one that Kern points out is difficult for even the most erudite philosophy concentrators. But they can see the answer coming and, before long, reach the conclusion. The class erupts in excitement—oh shit!—that’s akin to the end of a football game.
“It’s like a Hail Mary pass,” says Kern. “That’s one of the most refreshing things about teaching them. They treat philosophical arguments vitally, as though they do have a place in the real world.”
Kern, a resident of Adams House, is goalkeeper for the Harvard Club Soccer team, takes “an inordinate amount” of music classes, and edits the Harvard Review of Philosophy. In the fall, with a pinky in air and tongue-in-cheek, he competed in FM’s Chickwich Challenge.
But Kern’s Thing, if he can be said to have one, is a commitment to making ideas more accessible. One of Kern’s recent projects is a digital education program that visualizes logic, which he developed with the help of an architecture and art history student at MIT.
One of these programs, “Logos,” conceptualizes Kant’s intricate claims about space as a simple architectural structure. When a certain “pillar” of Kant’s argument is absent, the entire structure collapses.
Before he found philosophy, though, Kern’s first love was science, which led him to consider visual representations as teaching tools. Dazzled by stunning images depicting the universe and the inner workings of cells, he felt that the same methods could be applied to philosophical arguments.
“Philosophy isn’t quite there yet,” says Kern. “And I think it can be. These texts can be baffling, but I see them as exciting. I think that they’re wonderful and beautiful. Visualizing them allows people to get to that before they turn away.”
Ketan Ramakrishnan ’13, one of Kern’s close friends, describes how Kern communicates these complex ideas.
“He genuinely believes that the stuff he’s doing is important and valuable,” Ramakrishnan says, “sharing things like philosophy, which can be dense and esoteric, with people who wouldn’t necessarily be exposed to it, but later come to appreciate it because of his teaching.”
When asked to comment on her blockmate, Eleanor T. Regan ’13, an inactive Arts writer, declares, “He is a gentleman and a scholar.”
Regan adds that Kern has the “fabulous combination of being incredibly smart and being engaged with whatever the conversation is.”
Kern’s unique way of translating abstract philosophical musings into everyday concerns has earned him some friendly teasing. Regan mentions how they share a joke regarding Kern’s senior thesis, which deals with the philosophical construct of truth.
“We have this blockmate joke about his thesis—a schematic representation to find truth,” she mentions. “I’ll ask him, ‘Have you checked your sock drawer yet? Is the truth there?’”
Even though Kern has enjoyed tangible success in the academic world—one of his papers was recently published in a philosophy journal, The Analysis—it’s still difficult for him to gauge the impact he has on his readership.
“There always is the doubt about how much people want to think about philosophy, music, art, science, even,” says Kern. “We’ll always be doubtful of that. But I’ve had some wonderful experiences in my life of just being dazzled by ideas, and I’ve already had some wonderful experiences connecting with people through ideas, and I don’t think that faith will ever be shaken.”
Sections
Like many children, Carolina I. Ragolta ’13 wanted to be an astronaut. Unlike most, she’s well on her way to fulfilling that dream. Sporting an orange skirt and a green purse, she meets me on a cold Saturday afternoon at Starbucks.
“I actually have a scholarship from NASA,” she explains to me as we sit down. “It’s a pretty sweet deal. I’ve worked two summers at Kennedy Space Center, and then this past summer, I was at Ames Research Center in Mountain View, California,” she says. While in California, Ragolta was able to explore new facets of biotechnology.
“Basically, I was trying to develop an artificial leaf—an artificial membrane that would be capable of photosynthesis,” she explains, smiling as she describes her progress on the project. “I made it. So that was good. We haven’t quite been able to finish up all the testing yet, but the research has been ongoing.” Ragolta presented her findings at the Materials Research Society’s fall meeting in November.
In addition to her accomplishments at NASA, Ragolta has also made a name for herself at Harvard. She was the president of the Delta Gamma sorority and a member of the Sablière Society and the Cuban Students Organization. “This is a really stressful place to be. After pulling more all-nighters than I care to count, it’s really great to have these awesome people who are a really great support network for me at all times,” Ragolta says.
With help from them, Ragolta is living out her dream. “When I was a kid I always wanted to be an astronaut. My mom got me this hot pink astronaut jumpsuit when I was seven, and the rest is history.” Although she had some lingering doubts throughout childhood, she says her experiences as a teenager confirmed her desire.
“When I was in high school, my engineering class went on a field trip to Kennedy Space Center, and we met an astronaut. And she was just so cool, and that got me really excited about working for NASA. It really made me find my dream again.”
Yet Ragolta may not be returning to NASA in the summer of 2013. “I could, if I wanted to. Hopefully I would have a job somewhere instead of a summer internship,” says Ragolta. She is hoping to move into the private sector before eventually returning to NASA. The dream is definitive: “I want to be an astronaut.”
Sections
“The word that comes to mind when I think of Abby Sun is 'fierce,'” says Sarah A. Rankin, Director of the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response. “She’s a passionate proponent of sexual health and when Abby gets fired up about something, she makes stuff happen.” No wonder, then, that the event Sun co-founded, Harvard’s Sex Week, has been such a resounding success.
The list of Sun’s accomplishments, however, just begins there. When she isn’t busy working with Peer Contraceptive Counselors, the Radcliffe Union of Students and Sexual Health Education & Advocacy Throughout Harvard College, Abby dedicates much of her time to her art. A VES concentrator, Abby is a prolific photographer and aspiring documentary filmmaker.
Sun developed the idea of putting on a Harvard Sex Week over a lunch break with her friend Samantha A. Meier ’12. The week dedicated to “promot[ing] a holistic understanding of sex and sexuality” is no small affair. In fact, Sun would later land on the front page of The New York Times. With two wildly successful years, Sex Week has built on the popularity of events like the Female Orgasm Seminar to promote discussions of sexuality on a wide variety of topics, ranging from “Sexnicity” to panels on sexual assault policy and healthy relationships.
Clearly, Abby is not one to shy away from a challenge. “I always like to dream big,” she admits, “but I don’t think we knew how big it would become.” Abby’s activist and feminist concerns often focus on societal borders and fringes. In January 2010, she took this concern on the road, through an Artist Development Fellowship exploring the visual, cultural and emotional boundaries of the American/Canadian border.
“We live in a part of the country where we really draw the line between us and them,” she explains. “I think these lines—although perhaps more permanent on the ground, along the border—are lines that we draw every day. How do you know who you are, and how do you know what you believe in? These are all questions of identity that I think really started with the projects that I worked on here at Harvard.”
In the case of Abby Sun, the line between activist, feminist, and artist is blurry. But such porous boundaries are precisely what unite her various projects on gender, borderlands, and sexual health. In her eyes, exploring these distinctions teaches us more about ourselves.
Abby generates effusive praise from those who have spent time with her during her time at Harvard. “She is perhaps the [single] person who affected my own thinking and activism most during my four years at Harvard,” asserts her Sex Week co-founder Meier. “I have faith that she will do amazing things on her own terms in her own way in years to come, and I can’t wait to see what those things are.”
Sections
Dear Readers,
It’s not easy to admit it when you’re wrong. It’s not easy to do one armed pull ups. It’s not easy to transport a bottlenose dolphin across five states using only a spatula, some duct tape, 30 gallons of Poland Spring, a kiddie pool, a skateboard, and your best friend’s motorized tricycle, while some guy named Dom holds your family in his basement and threatens to send toes and fingers to you for Christmas unless he gets his damn dolphin in time for his daughters Bat Mitzvah. But rather than list all the different things that aren’t easy to do, I’m going to tell you what is easy: writing about past weather. Seriously, I don’t even have to go outside to do it. I just cry alone in whatever Eliot House walkthrough happens to be unlocked nearby (saving the tears for lubricant) and when I feel inspired I just bang one of these bad boys out in a couple of seconds. Boom.
’Til February,
Weatherman
This week in two weeks ago’s weather, we talk about the weather from two weeks ago:
Unable to stir up a gust, the wind contented itself with just blowing at stuff. Sails rose, temperatures dropped, a front arrived from the north, and suddenly we were all reminded of Canada’s incorrigible presence. “I’m not looking forward to the cold weather when we land,” says a generic overweight man, adjusting his grey galoshes so as to better fit them under the plane seat in front of him. I don’t give a lick about the cold, I think to myself; “But will you please close the window shade?” The oriental man doesn’t, and I have to watch the next two hours of “Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers,” made for people with no friends extended edition, on my laptop with a woefully obtrusive screen-glare scourging the more affable flanks of Helms Deep. Seat 19E. Fuck. I pressed the flight attendant button and slowly sank downwards, feeling even more depressed when I was told they were out of tomato juice. It’s not like a hobby or anything like that; I’ve just been really into tomato juice recently.
And were there even clouds this past weekend? The pretense of warmth tricked me into thinking otherwise, but nay: there were indeed still clouds, salient a topic as ever. I saw them from above in the plane, lording my height vantage above their oblivious white collectives. We talked about them around the Thanksgiving table, and mother agreed they were quite beautiful this time of year. Later, mother told father she loved him, then she said “just kidding.” All I wanted to do was to guzzle the full bowl of gravy right there and then. Maybe the tryptophan would knock me out and I’d be able to sleep through this horribly contrived family gathering. And perhaps the grease and fat in the delicious brown slurry would allow me to spend the rest of the break on the toilet, away from cousins and uncles asking about such things as “what are your friends like?” and “what girls are you interested in?” Maybe I’d sleep through final exams, too. Those are coming up, right? I suppose it’s a good thing I finally bought my semester textbooks this week. I got them on sale, a Black Friday deal. Sorry, that’s not right. I meant to say “African American Friday.” My bad.
Aggregate Score: 4.5/5
P.S. I love both of you, dear readers. Thanks for tuning in this semester. Also, my condolences to those harmed, injured, maimed, or trampled in the opening of Walmart stores on Black Friday. Your sacrifice was necessary for my sister’s holiday present (got it 50 percent off!!). God Bless America and our capitalist fervor.
Sections
This week, FM searched Harvard’s halls for a story from the lives of the men and women who make the university run smoothly from day to day. Fabiano, a security guard, has been employed by Securitas for 10 years. FM simply asked him to tell a story.
As told by Joseph A. Fabiano:
I have a son that’s 37 years old. He has Down syndrome.
I have four children. I always said that he [my son with Down Syndrome] is the most successful. He lives at home and works at CVS about 20 hours a week. He’s very independent. He gets up, goes to work, goes to football practice; he’s on his own.
In the town of Winthrop, my son is more well-known than anybody else because of who he is. Because he spent six years in high school, and all those kids that went through high school all know him, and their families all know him. And he’s been involved in everything: He’s been inducted into the sports hall of fame three times; he was the “Manager of the Year.” I don’t know of anybody else that’s been inducted in three times.
One year we went on vacation—we went on a Disney cruise for three days. This is when he was younger, maybe 10 or 12 years old. We went to the airport, and he always likes to get the luggage when it comes off. My wife and I went off and sat down, and he got the three suitcases, and brought them over.
A woman comes up to us—she was probably in her mid-30s—and said, “Is that your son? He gets all the luggage and everything himself?”
I said, “Yeah, he’s very capable: He checks the names and gets the luggage.”
She said, “We just had a baby and the baby has Down Syndrome. My husband’s very upset. He’s finding it difficult to deal with and that’s why I came over. Are you going on the Disney Cruise by any chance?” And we told her we were.
My son spent the next three days with her husband. He couldn’t get enough of my son. Everything we did, he was off with this guy. We went to an island—Disney owns an island, you know. You go swimming and boating and play basketball and everything. He was with this guy the whole three days. The whole three days. The guy didn’t know what to expect with his son, but he saw my son and was like, “Wow, there is a good side to this whole thing.”
If I meet some young kid in Winthrop, you know, I’ll say to him, “I’m Frankie Fab’s father.” My last name is Fabiano, and all my kids are called “Fabs.” So he’s Frankie Fab, the most well known kid in the town of Winthrop. That’s the biggest story I can give you.
Sections
It’s that time of year again. The Christmas lights are up, the red and green sweaters are out, and stores everywhere are throwing year-end sales. Haven’t you bought your gifts yet? No need to fret. FM’s got you covered.
Your Parents
Good: Season 3 of “Modern Family”—$23, Best Buy. Watching Phil, Gloria, and the rest of the gang will undoubtedly bring the whole family together.
Bad: Whooping cough—free, the freshmen dorms. You don’t want to bring this illness back home with you, but if you spend too many nights in Weld, you just might.
Weird: “Magic Mike” on DVD (2-disc edition)—$15, Target. That awkward moment when you watch a movie with your parents and a sex scene comes on? Imagine that for a full two hours...with male strippers.
Your Chemistry Professor
Good: Periodic table coffee mug—$15, www.amazon.com. Any chemist will remember a quirky gift that incorporates the periodic table of elements and caffeine.
Bad: Periodic table underwear—$29, www.amazon.com. The line for acceptable periodic table gifts is drawn somewhere between mugs and underwear.
Weird: Season 5 of “Breaking Bad”—$22, iTunes. Unless you intend to use this drama about a chemistry teacher-turned-meth-dealer to send a message, this might not be the right gift.
Your Roommates
Good: Dinner at the Russell House Tavern—$50-$300. Treat the roommates to some quality bonding with delicious food if you’re willing to drop the cash.
Bad: Dinner at your residential dining hall—free. This isn’t a gift.
Weird: “50 Shades of Grey”—$10, Barnes & Noble. Hopefully your roommate bonding doesn’t include bondage.
Your Significant Other
Good: Pinkberry gift card—$50-100. Everyone loves Pinkberry, and a gift card is a quick and easy gift.
Bad: Pregnancy test—$8, CVS. Depending on the results, this could put a damper on the celebrations.
Weird: “All In: The Education of General David Petraeus” by Paula Broadwell—$12, Barnes & Noble. Exactly what kind of message are you trying to send?
Sections
“There are so many phenomenal people here,” says Jonathan K. Yip ’13, shaking his head in disbelief, “there’s no community like it, really.”
Yip insists that almost all his accomplishments are “no big deal,” but his friends will tell you that it’s exactly people like him who define the Harvard community.
“The difficult part about summing him up is that he does really interesting things, and he’s always doing a ton of interesting things,”  explains Ioana C. Calcev ’12, who has been close with Yip since the two met in their freshman entryway. It’s true, a list of what Yip has accomplished would practically run off the page: He’s an economics concentrator with a secondary in computer science, was Under-Secretary-General for the Economic and Social Council and Regional Bodies of Harvard Model United Nations 2011, taught as a CS50 TF, worked on New York City Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s campaign, interned for the National Economic Council at the White House, is editor-in-chief of the Harvard Political Review, and can speak of a personal relationship with Larry Summers. But that’s not the point: “Besides all the interesting things, he’s just a great person to be around—he has fun with everything,” Calcev says.
Perhaps a theme that unites all that Yip does is an interest in affecting others: “Since I was 10,” he says, remembering the Bush-Gore debate in 2000, “I realized that politics mattered because they change people’s lives.” His direction during his time at Harvard, then, wasn’t too surprising.
But other things were unpredictable. When Yip was in China during the summer after his freshman year (“moving around a lot, walking the Great Wall”), he experienced continual pain in his knee. What was originally diagnosed as tendonitis turned out to be a life-threatening tumor.
“My first reaction was, ‘Oh, can I go back to school?’” Yip says. “I quickly realized I wasn’t going back.” But the cancer was curable, and he’s lucky, he explains: “Conveniently, my treatment fell exactly within an academic year.”
Yip remained active during his year off from school: After surgery and only a week after his chemotherapy ended, he started his internship at the White House. “I showed up bald and with a cane,” he says, “so that was quite something.”
Calcev remembers being impressed by Yip’s determination to stay involved. She explains that he even continued his position as HMUN Under-Secretary-General during treatment, helping to organize the conference, and worked with an organization called Kids vs. Cancer to promote legislation on cancer research. “The energy and the activity level is really representational of Jonathan,” she says. “Even while sick, there’s no way he would have quit anything.”
“Well, I had not thought it would take me five years to graduate,” Yip jokes, but he’s moving forward with full speed. Next year, he’ll start work as a business analyst for McKinsey, with plans to stay connected with the policy world.
But Yip’s various interests make any definitive path unclear. “He’s always looking for new books to read, new things to try,” Calcev says.
Yip acknowledges that he’s open to pursuing a number of options with his life. “I have no idea where I’ll be when I’m 28,” he laughs.
Sections
“I’ve become this comic book character that I’ve been drawing. That’s what those photos are right behind you. That’s me in character,” says Kayla A. Escobedo ’13.
I swivel around in my seat to examine the stark white wall of Escobedo’s studio on Linden Street. Claymation-style photos of an overweight, big-nosed girl with frumpy brown hair stare back at me. The character is bashful-looking in her dorky jean shorts, her extra weight shows through a plain yellow t-shirt. I turn back and stare at Escobedo, noticing the powdered texture of her face and the sharpness and alertness in her eyes. I don’t see much resemblance.
Escobedo’s senior thesis in Visual and Environmental Studies focuses on her newest comic book character: herself. It combines traditional comics, 3D comics printed on the various faces of large cubes, animated .gifs sequenced as comic strips, masks, dolls, and videos to achieve a holistic character study of the self. “[The thesis] is kind of just me battling my own identity,” Escobedo explains, as she talks about the difficulties of channeling her whole self into the comic book character she has created. “I’m coming from sequence and comics as my core, and the only character that I’m using is this representation of myself. So aesthetically it will look like it’s all part of the same project.”
Escobedo began creating her own characters during her freshman year at Harvard when she started comic strips of two personalities: Whale Girl and Monty. She has adored comics since she was small (“I still have a crush on Jughead,” Escobedo confesses under her breath). Beyond drawing her own comics, Escobedo has a passion for art in many different contexts. She serves as the director of the Art Board for the Harvard Lampoon, a semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine, the Librarian for the Harvard Advocate, and a co-founder and curator of Harvard’s Monday Gallery which opened last spring. Escobedo has had solo exhibitions of her work at the Student Organization Center at Hilles and at Gallery 263 in Cambridge, and her work has been featured at over ten group exhibitions during her college career.
After sophomore year, Escobedo took a year off to self-publish a series of comics and teach workshops on the history of comics at her high school in Dallas. “I love Texas. I loooveeee Texas. I’m obsessed with Texas. Texas is magic. I love giant freeways, big shopping malls. I love the big friendly people. I love the heat,” Escobedo explains, her excitement palpable from across the table as she rocks back and forth in her seat.
As she continues to create new pieces, Escobedo says she wants her work to be accessible to individuals of many different backgrounds and circumstances. She explains that the comic books and .gifs she produces are low-cost, available to anybody who has eight dollars to spare or an internet connection. After graduation, Escobedo will set up her studio in Texas and spend two years producing work and saving up money before applying to MFA programs in painting. After finishing graduate school she plans to launch a career as a fine artist. This path is somewhat unconventional for aspiring artists like Escobedo, many of whom dream of settling in New York or Boston. “I’m not your typical avant garde artist.”
Sections
With both the holidays and finals approaching, FM is combining our traditional Jukebox and Drinky Drink features into a tasty Juice Box. Pour yourself a drink to help you get through your projects, papers, and predicaments while still getting into the holiday spirit—no straw required.
1. Mele Kalikimaka Martini — “Mele Kalikimaka” by Bing Crosby
1.5 oz. SKYY Infusions Pineapple Vodka
3 oz. Eggnog
Splash of coconut cream
Nutmeg
Cinnamon
Combine all ingredients in a cocktail shaker with ice. Shake and strain into a martini glass for a tropical beverage that satisfies your dreams of leaving the Cambridge cold behind.
2. The Grinch — “You’re a Mean One, Mr. Grinch” by Cee Lo Green
2 oz. Midori liqueur
1/2 oz. Fresh lemon juice
1 tsp. Simple syrup
Pour ingredients into a cocktail shaker with ice, and shake and strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with a cherry if you want to reenact the scene where the Grinch dresses up as Santa and steals everyone’s presents.
3. Red Hot Santa — “I Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus” by The Jackson 5
2 oz. chili-infused vodka
2 oz. Godiva chocolate liqueur
Cocoa powder
Cayenne pepper
Sweetened whipping cream
One small Thai chili pepper
Mix cocoa powder with a pinch of cayenne pepper to rim a chilled martini glass. Shake the vodka with the chocolate liqueur and pour into the glass. Add the whipped cream and garnish with the chili pepper. This spicy drink will make Santa so hot, even your mummy won’t be able to stay away.
4. The Dreidel — “Dreidel Song (I Have a Little Dreidel)” by Samuel S. Grossman, Mikhl Gelbart, Samuel Goldfarb
2 oz. Slivovitz plum brandy
2 oz. Apple juice
1/2 oz. Lemon juice
1/2 oz. Heering cherry liqueur
1/2 oz. Egg white
1 dash Angostura bitters
Fill a cocktail shaker two-thirds full of ice and add all of the ingredients. Shake vigorously for 30 seconds and strain into a small wineglass.

5. Rum Drum Conundrum — “The Little Drummer Boy” by Sufjan Stevens
2 oz. Cane & Abe freshwater rum
1 oz. Lime juice
1/2 oz. Falernum syrup
Barritt's Ginger Beer
Combine rum, lime juice, and falernum in a wide-mouth jar with ice and stir until chilled. Top with ginger beer and serve.
Sections
AN AARON SORKIN CHARACTER
(WALKING BRISKLY THE WHOLE TIME)
[Wrong name of female character]—Oh, your name’s [actual name that sounds like the first one]? Right, right—we need to talk. Listen, college girl, the formal is on Saturday. The world is 50 percent men, 50 percent women. I’ll probably only meet a small portion of that number, but since you and I have a class together, we’re going to date because that’s how this world works.
This event isn’t the greatest event on campus anymore—there’s IncestFest and I can’t get us in—but we can at least be glad there’s no juggernaut, monstrosity of a formal like Five-House Formal this year, where the corrupt politicians of HoCo deemed that house sovereignty was no longer a value they held dear.
But back to the facts—80 percent of my friends will be attending this social construct, 50 percent of those friends will be bringing dates. Nine freshmen will be asked and did you know, if you yelled for over eight and a half years, you would have produced enough sound energy to heat one cup of coffee?
So tell me, [wrong name again], with a clear conscience, can you look me in the eyes, sit near me in Ec10 the rest of the year, and say no? What’s your logic? Give me some proof it wouldn’t be a goddamn great night in your life, maybe second only to a night spent watching “The West Wing,” “The Newsroom,” and “The Social Network.” Do you know what you want? Think about it.
[FEMALE CHARACTER GAPES, COMPLETELY INSPIRED]
PRESIDENT OBAMA
My fellow American,
Now I know it’s reading period and you’re busy writing a final paper for your tutorial, but let’s be clear, you need a break. The obstacles we confront in the next two weeks are monumental, I don’t deny that. However, we can work together to get through it.
Just last week I was visiting a community down south, by Dunster house, and I met a young woman struggling to get by on her own means. This young woman was burdened by work, and could barely make time for her three blockmates, each of whom depended on her for basic care and love. When I asked her what she needed, she told me “Mr. President, you’re amazing. Marry me.” I told her I was happily married to my beautiful wife, Michelle, and suggested she go to a formal instead. You see folks, that’s what we need now. Not parties as usual, but real change, the type of change that can only come from dressing up in your roommate’s white shirt and your blockmate’s tie and getting drunk in your own dining hall.
Things—namely, you—haven’t been looking so good lately, so put on a nice dress (something red, white and blue would be fantastic, but nothing that will make my wife look bad by comparison. Just kidding, that’s impossible). and get one of your bags and let’s go. I can’t do this alone. But together, we can rise up against the trials set before us and make a real difference on campus. My opponent would like you to believe it’s not possible to get drunk before a 4:00 p.m. dinner. Together, I believe we can.
KE$HA
Sooogootoooformallwiffme?
Sections
Even in a crowded cafe on a Friday afternoon, Mark R. Parker ’12-’13 stands out with his pea coat, perfectly coiffed red hair, and composed demeanor. This—being different—is Parker’s trademark.
“He’s like a walking pratfall from an early 2000s sitcom,” says James P. Fitzpatrick ’12, Parker’s roommate of three years and former president of the Hasty Pudding Theatricals (an organization to which Mark also belongs). Parker describes himself as the “degenerate” kid with a weird accent who used to have a mohawk.
Growing up with his mother in North Yorkshire, a small town in northern England with “lots of sheep,” Parker never imagined that he would come to the United States for college. Harvard was the only American school to which he applied, and he did so because of his familiarity with “Legally Blonde,” he says. Media attention about his admission to Harvard and rejection from Oxford University despite perfect predicted grades for the A-level sparked a discussion over the underrepresentation of public school students in elite British universities.
Parker arrived at Harvard wanting to study mathematics, having obtained a reputation as a math genius in Britain. By his sophomore spring, though, his interests had changed. “All I think about is music,” he says. Even though Parker had not taken a music class since the eighth grade, he became one of just 20 music concentrators at Harvard. Since then, he has studied jazz drumming at Berklee School of Music, undertaken roles as research assistants under prominent professors in the music department, played in several rock bands on and off campus, and served as the music director for four musical theater productions.
Parker likes to do things differently, and it has usually paid off. His rock band was the first student rock ensemble to play at Cultural Rhythms, alongside Shakira. As music director of “Chicago,” he helped bring student theater to Club Oberon, a professional venue for theater and nightlife in Harvard Square, after the production was rejected by the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club. Now, his main project is a nihilistic hardcore punk band called “Hedge Fund,” whose lyrics float between “Star Trek” and Greek mythology and which has played all over Boston, D.C., and New Jersey.
“Regrets are stupid,” Parker says, sipping on his second double espresso in under an hour. “Either do something, or stand by your decisions.”
For Parker, these decisions include subscribing to nudism in his room, a decision that he made after reading an obscure Japanese philosopher. They also include living in a 20 dollar Wal-Mart tent in his common room last fall in order to cultivate some privacy, and taking a semester off to work in a small village pub and serve warm ale to people and their horses.
Fitzpatrick has no doubt that Parker is the person to know before the Apocalypse (or at least another Harvard-wide blackout), partly because of his ability to hail down a Cambridge police car for a free ride to the Quad.
Sections
It is impossible to confine Nina M. Yancy to a single label. Perhaps this is because she came from a small community outside Dallas, Texas, and a high school class of only 21. Or, more likely, it is because Yancy does it all.
Friends and distant admirers know her as “Nina the Dancer,” and “Nina the Rhodes Scholar,” and, due to a foot surgery the summer before her freshman year, “Nina the Girl with the Boot.”
She is one of 32 Rhodes Scholars, a dancer for Expressions and for The Harvard Ballet Company, First Senior Class Marshal, a volunteer for CityStep, a Peer Advising Fellow, a member of the Signet and the Crimson Key Society, and a former intern for both the CNN news anchor Candy Crowley and British Parliament. The only thing Yancy doesn’t do is get a decent night’s sleep.
But her sacrifice of REM time is not enough to explain her success. Yancy’s remarkable work ethic and grateful attitude are grounded in her upbringing and reinforced through her public service on campus.
Yancy comes from a family that she describes as hardworking and humble. Her great-grandparents were sharecroppers in Louisiana, her mother grew up in a large family with eight siblings, and a single mother raised her father. She appreciates everything that her father achieved through his hard work and determination, a fact that inspires her to act likewise but remain modest and grounded in all that she does.
Her participation in CityStep, a program that teaches dance to students in Cambridge schools, also helps her maintain an appreciation for all the opportunities that Harvard has given her. She joined the group her freshmen year and by her junior year was in charge of overseeing not only a class of 26 sixth graders, many of whom learned English as their second language, but also a team of college-aged teachers. This challenge, Yancy says, taught her how to lead, and perhaps more importantly, how to seek outside support.
Yancy expresses a strong interest in communication. She is interested in the challenges that arise from a lack of communication, from silence, and from the difficulties of authenticity. She hopes to continue exploring this interest after college. At Oxford, she plans to study Comparative Social Policy with a focus on public health, and hopes to work to help communicate effective health care policy between the government and hospitals.
Yancy’s plans are by no means set in stone, but while there is reason to doubt that she will be getting eight hours of sleep a night, it is guaranteed that Yancy will be building upon her reputation at Oxford.
Sections
“I was walking around with a few friends from my high school,” recalls Nostalgics member Alex Cherenfant Jr. ’13 of meeting his future bandmate, Benjamin Naddaff-Hafrey ’13, during prefrosh weekend four years ago. “We ran into Ben at a CityStep info session. He kind of just stuck around with us and we tried to ditch him,” he remembers.
Cherenfant could never shake him off, but as the day wore on, the vocalist discovered that he and Naddaff-Hafrey, a guitarist, shared a love of soul music. When they arrived on campus their freshman year, they met jazz keyboardist and fellow soul devotee Charles G. Gertler ’13, and the three decided to form the band that would eventually become The Nostalgics.
 
Cherenfant, Gertler, and Naddaff-Hafrey set out to find fellow freshmen with an ear for soul. “We postered up and down the stairs of Lamont,” Naddaff-Hafrey, a Crimson Arts writer and former Arts executive, admits of their recruiting methods. “It’s kind of illegal…but it’s very effective.”
After auditions, they ended up collecting five other freshmen to round out the group: vocalist Leah Reis-Dennis ’13, alto saxophonist Patrick H. Lauppe ’13, a Crimson Arts writer, baritone saxophonist Jackson F. Cashion ’13, an inactive Crimson Editorial writer, bassist Noah S. Guiney ’13, a Crimson Arts executive, and drummer Burt K. Mayer ’13.
It was a new frontier for the eight musicians—none besides Naddaff-Hafrey had played soul music before. “I was always a jazz player,” says Cashion, although he had inherited his father’s interest in soul.
“I had listened to soul music, but I never actually played in a soul group,” Guiney says.
The novice Nostalgics spent the rest of the year practicing, and their first-ever performance was at a party in the Dudley Co-op during their sophomore fall, followed shortly by a gig at the Fox Club. “There were so many people in that room that the walls were sweating,” Gertler remembers.
The Nostalgics’ lively performances quickly made them a popular choice for House formals, and a Battle of the Bands win last year brought them to the stage at Yardfest. The Nostalgics have found a niche on campus as Harvard’s best—and only—live band, and when they take the stage, a crowd always turns out to dance and sing along to their takes on classic Motown hits. “People have heard a lot of the songs even if they don’t know the artist,” Mayer says.
Reis-Dennis intends to record a demo album and audition for the television show “The Voice” after she graduates, while the rest of the members have plans to head into other careers. Still, they all see music as a lifelong pursuit. “All of us will have another job and play music,” Reis-Dennis says.
“What’s been so great about this is that I know now that whatever street I end up living on, I’ll be able to find a place to play,” Lauppe agrees.
Even so, the Nostalgics are making the most of their last months together. This January, they will do a small tour playing ski lodges in Vermont, and in the spring they’ll be back on campus playing their stand-by covers and some of their own original songs.
“Hopefully we can just keep playing shows and keep writing,” Gertler says of the months ahead.
“We’ll probably spend a lot of time thinking about how great the last three years have been,” Naddaff-Hafrey laughs.
Lauppe nods his head in agreement. “Yeah,” he says. “We’re pretty nostalgic."
Sections
On a cold Wednesday afternoon, FM sat down in Harvard’s Center for the Environment with internationally renowned documentary filmmaker Ken L. Burns, who was visiting Harvard to promote his new film, “The Dust Bowl,” a historical account of the ecological disasters of the 1930s. As he entered, Burns stepped into his natural role and readjusted the placement of FM’s camera.
1. Fifteen Minutes: How did you become interested in making documentaries?
Ken L. Burns: My mother had cancer and died when I was 11 years old. There wasn’t a moment when she wasn’t ill. After she died, my father had a strict curfew but permitted me to stay up late at night to watch old movies, and I remember seeing my dad cry for the first time. The first time. Not through all the other tragedies. I watched him cry and I realized of course he’s crying for something much more important. I realized the power of film instantly and wanted at age 12 to be a filmmaker. But I wanted to be a feature filmmaker. I wanted to be Alfred Hitchcock. Then I went to Hampshire College in the fall of 1971, and all of my teachers were social documentary still photographers who reminded me, quite correctly, that there was much more drama in what is and what was than anything the human imagination can dream of. Now William Shakespeare would have an argument with that, but I accepted it and found myself wanting to make documentary films. And I’ve been making historical documentaries about the United States ever since.
2. FM: Has all of your work been focused on the United States?
KLB: I’m not trained in history. The last time I took a course in American History was when I was in eleventh grade, when they kind of make you take it. But I’ve always loved history, and I’ve always loved what was going on with it. And so it was one of those harmonic convergences where here I was, wanting to be a documentary filmmaker. But I also wanted to tell American stories.
3. FM: What was your first film? 
 KLB: So I starved and took some day jobs, but the first thing I did for public television was a history of the building of the Brooklyn Bridge called “Brooklyn Bridge.” And it was nominated for an Academy Award as Best Feature Documentary, so I thought, ‘Well, I guess this is the thing I’m doing.’ And I moved from New York City into rural New Hampshire, where I still live to this day, thinking, “I’ve chosen to become a documentary filmmaker in American History for PBS—I’ve just taken a vow of anonymity and poverty. I need to move someplace I can live for nothing.” So I moved up to rural New Hampshire, into the house I’m still living in, and that was the second best decision I ever made. The best decision I ever made was to stay there.
4. FM: Do you commute a lot from New Hampshire to get to—? 
 KLB: [Interrupting] To get to the world? I come to Boston and I use that as the way out to fly places. I also do public speaking—I speak about American History. I speak about what I know. I speak about the Civil War. I speak about baseball. I speak about jazz. I speak about the Second World War. I speak about the National Parks. I speak about Frank Lloyd Wright, all subjects of films that I’ve made, and I speak more generally about the power of history or what I think could be the power of history, and sort of rail against a national amnesia that most people have. In part, we have this national amnesia because it’s in our character to always be looking forward and burning our past behind us like rocket fuel. That’s a bad thing. We have it because our teachers were taught how to be teachers, not about any specific subject. Everybody’s kind of abdicated, and what we end up with is generations of kids that don’t know a basic canon of knowledge. What you want is to end the teaching of teachers and the style of teaching in favor of people who know something and love something and care about something deeply.
5. FM: When I was in eighth grade, we had a joke that Ken Burns was our history teacher. [He laughs.] We spent a lot of time watching your documentaries. How do you feel about that?
KLB: I feel great about that. I meet teachers all the time that say, “If I hadn’t had your films, I don’t know what I would’ve done.” This stuff lasts. And today is a school day in America, so “The Civil War” is probably shown 2,000 times today. It makes you feel good because it’s a film that’s 22 years old, and if you know that there are 2,000 classes that are showing it, that means there may be one kid in one of those classes—or maybe just one kid today—who’s transformed and she decides she wants to be a History major or she decides she wants to go into that. That’s terrific.
6. FM: What interests you most while you are making a documentary?
 KLB: I want to tell a good story, and I want to get better as a filmmaker. I just want to learn good things and tell those things. I never want to make films about things I already know about so I could tell you about what you should know. The last time I checked, that’s called homework. I want to share with you a process of discovery.
7. FM: Do you think that the art of storytelling is a gift, something you can improve upon, or both?
 KLB: I don’t know the gift part. My father’s a cultural anthropologist; my mother was an incredibly strong and heroic person. Are they in me? Yes. Has that been part of what my DNA is? Yes. Have I made it on my own? Yes. Have I sort of forged my own path and found a way distinct from anybody else I know? Yes. So I don’t know what is already nature, what’s nurture, what just is luck, what’s been the extraordinary association with many talented people who work with me. So it’s hard to really tell.
8. FM: Do you see yourself improving from film to film?
KLB: At some places I can kind of see that, but the improvement is also self-improvement. You know, like a painter, you’re just working things out. Each film is a set of problems and I don’t mean that in a pejorative sense. It may be millions of problems. But you’re setting off, and there’s friction created by those problems. There’s resistance. You’re just figuring out how to get it done. So you’re not paying too much attention to getting better. What you’re doing is trying to make the film better and if you do that, then you’ll inevitably get better. And I’ve just finished a film called “The Central Park Five” that’s going to be released theatrically. I produced it, directed it, and wrote it with my daughter and my son-in-law, David McMahon the filmmaker. And it’s very interesting to look at that film as a collaboration with your own daughter and your son-in-law, and to see it as a different kind of film that’s been energized by some stylistic techniques that we’ve just tried out. And I feel that it’s better in a different way, but that doesn’t mean that the other stuff’s bad. It has no narration, which doesn’t mean I’m getting rid of narration. It just means that this is a way to explore, and that’s it. If you tread water, you’re done. Life’s a fast-moving current, and we’re swimming upstream.
9. FM: What kind of criticisms do you get? 
KLB: When a film like “The Civil War” comes out, the criticism you get is exactly the criticism you want. It’s from the far, far extremes. You know, the people who think slavery was a good thing. They hate my film. I’m really happy. There are sometimes accusations about sentimentality, and I really reject that because sentimentality and nostalgia are bad things. But too often human beings retreat to the safety of a rational world where one and one always equals two. But if we examine our own lives and our own hearts, we’re always interested in more than that. We want that equation of one and one equaling three, that impossible calculus. We want it in our sex. We want it in our relationships. We want it in our family, in our art, in our literature, in our faith, in our reason, in our science. And we look for that. And those higher emotions that our founders talked about exist outside the realm of both the rational world and outside the realm of the simple and cheap and easy sentimentality and nostalgia. And I’m afraid people have looked at the fact that the films that I make are an emotional archaeology and aren’t about the mere collection of dry dates, facts, and events, but a different kind of emotional archaeology.
10. FM: So do you go about looking for topics where you can find that one plus one equals three?
KLB: It’s hard to say. You never actually go out saying “Okay today one plus one equal three, that’s what I’m looking for.” That’s something just to leave out of your mind. You know, if you think about sex, it won’t happen. But you know that if sparks are given off in a complicated narrative—if you do this particular job well—something is given off that gives the possibility that one and one equals three. What if you said that you wanted the whole to be greater than the sum of the parts? That is the question of the ages. It’s what compels science. It’s what compels art. It’s what compels our lives. It’s what drives us to faith, or drives us away from faith. What is the difference between the whole and the sum of the parts? Stories are in fact the way we gain immortality, the way in which we distract ourselves from this stultifying fact that no one will be able to change, which is that none of us are getting out of this alive. If you tell good stories and they last, then you really have achieved a certain kind of immortality in that. But it is the act of storytelling that is the process.
Sections
For those who fear immortalized images, Snapchat is the perfect app.
Take, for example, “selfies.” How does the person you’re communicating with via cell phone know that you raised an eyebrow at their last text or gaped at something they said? Selfies may be sent via picture message, but these can be saved and uploaded, and then you run the risk of your Facebook friends knowing that you were indeed having a “who can make the most chins” contest.
Snapchat makes it easy to send your less-than-flattering selfies for an allotted number of seconds before the picture deletes itself forever. Users can express themselves in the most unflattering of photos with no permanent evidence of their ability to creepily cross their eyes or make contorted faces that rival a gurning contest.
As someone who frequently participates in both double-chin and eye-crossing contests, Snapchat is a godsend. Although most of my pictures’ recipients have been faithful to the cardinal rule that thou shalt not upload thy friend’s ugly selfies, a few have crossed the line and shared my grotesque expressions with the world. With Snapchat, if your photo’s recipient takes a screenshot, the app lets you know.
Snapchat is also highly useful when you want to sneakily take a picture of your friend’s latest hookup in the enclave across from you in Lamont but don’t want to feel like a complete stalker by immortalizing the encounter in a permanent photo. And, yes, Snapchat initially gained reputation as the latest and safest way to sext. If the kids are going to do it anyway, then at least Snapchat provides a more repercussion-proof way to do it.
So snap away. No one will ever know.
Sections
When I first heard about Snapchat, one thought came to mind: dick pics.
Clearly the only reason anyone would want to send a picture to someone and have it immediately disappear would be so that they could sext without any permanent evidence that could lead to divorce, federal investigation, or humiliation.
So, of course, I immediately downloaded Snapchat.
It’s been a disappointment.
I have received over 30 pictures of my friends’ faces (all with the same shocked, “Home Alone” face) and not a single shot of a reproductive organ. At the very least, I was expecting a MySpace mirror pic of bare abs from the waist up.
Don’t get me wrong, I love seeing pictures of my friends’ faces, especially when they draw circles around them, but if I wanted to see their Macaulay Culkin impressions I would just see them in person.
But that isn’t logistically feasible either, as I am much too busy snapchatting pictures of my surprised face to put down my phone and actually go anywhere.
Is this really what our generation has been reduced to? Sitting alone and snapchatting our feelings of isolation and loneliness away?
On a related note—is “snapchat” a verb yet?
My answer to all of these questions is a somber and dissolving “yes, ” in the form of a snapchat with my disappointed face on it.
Sections
With another hot flick about clouds hitting the big screen this fall, FM took the opportunity to cast a critical eye on clouds featured in the new motion picture “Cloud Atlas.” This cloud study was conducted according to the standard scientific definition of a cloud: a hydrometeor consisting of minute particles of liquid, water, or ice—or a mixture of those—suspended in air and usually not touching the ground. Cloud quality was considered and evaluated in relation to the species and form of the specimen in question.
1) 00:01:36 — Puffy fair weather cumulus clouds floating around mid-level are shown as reflections in the puddles between the boulders on the Chatham Islands of the Adam Ewing story. They’re classic and numerous with pristine color: our top pick.
2) 01:36:41 — Mid-level and expansive cumulonimbus clouds loom around the rocky mountaintops of the big island of Hawaii near the Mauna Kea volcano where Sloosha begins his crossing. The immense and towering nature of these clouds makes them the film’s second-best cloud achievement.
3) 01:59:27 — Horizontal layers of baby blue billow clouds surround the mast of Ewing’s ship in this sunset scene.  The sea exaggerates the tubular nature of these low-slung clouds, making them appear more dynamic than most billow specimens.
4) 00:24:01 — High-level cirrostratus clouds, tinged orange with the evening sun, stand out against Seoul’s dark skyline during the introduction of Sonmi-451. The originality of this shade of orange combined with the stark Halloween-like contrast of Korean skyscrapers helped these clouds make our top-five list.
5) 01:05:26 — Distinctly low-level altostratus clouds, grayish white in color and expansive, appear through the windshield as Luisa Rey heads across the Swannekke Island bridge.  Though gray and dull, the wide-screen focus on these clouds glorifies their otherwise ordinary beauty.
Sections
Harvard has been getting angry about food lately.
According to American Thinker, last month a graduate student posted an angry rant about an Israeli food station in the Business School cafeteria that served non-Israeli cuisine. The article claims that Sara el-Yafi, a Harvard graduate, argued in a vicious and rapid Facebook rant that couscous, among other things, is not actually Israeli and this mislabeling is a slap in the face to Arab culture.
You can add the expletives where you see fit.
Harvard Hillel has also experienced some asterisk-invoking drama, with HUDS temporarily restricting the dining hall to Jewish students. The reason, as given by HUDS, was that the Hillel kitchen was too small to serve the vast number of students who eat there and that the Kosher meals they serve are much more expensive than regular dining hall fare.
The response, especially as demonstrated by comments on The Crimson website, was full of angry references to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, circumcision, and the occasional “LOL.”
Perhaps in response to this public outrage, HUDS revoked restrictions.
Are these recent “Food Fights” an anomaly, or should we expect more of them in the future of Harvard dining services? We may never know. What is clear, however, is that people just are not doing them right.
To see how to do a proper food fight, FM turned to an expert. Alma, a five-year-old who lives in Dunster, agreed to share a few suggestions on how to correctly engage in one.
Here are a few of her tips:
What to throw:
Soft balls, pickles, and tomatoes. “Pickles are juicy,” and tomatoes might “make a big splash, like tomatoes sauce.”
What not to throw:
Banana peels and needles because “bad stuff happens.”
Baby food “would be silly.”
How to throw:
Overhand.
Messes?
Are bad. “If it is real food it will be scary — because they will think it is blood or something.”
Sections
“I wasn’t expecting to be photographed,” says Alina I. Lazar, when she spots the camera. “Hold on.” She undoes her bun and her dark brown hair falls around her face. When she is thinking of what to say she tends to play with it, tuck it back behind her ear.
Lazar is 34, though she looks younger. She leans in towards me as she talks and she speaks in a lilting, lightly accented English, subtle enough that I can’t begin to guess where she’s from. Lazar was born in Romania, it turns out, though her family moved to London when she was 12. Now she is a first-year doctoral student in the Romance Languages and Literatures Department (the Spanish track). She is spending her Saturday in Lamont, working, and so we meet in Lamont Café. “I love being able to study full-time,” she says.
There is an arc to getting a doctorate that one might classify as normal: high achievement as an undergraduate, then a year or two off or working—abroad perhaps, or on a fellowship—and then back to the academy, for five or six years, at least. In this sense, Lazar is certainly not normal. Her story is in some ways circular—it begins and ends with books—but spliced in between are 12 years of a path that privileged on-the-ground action over words on a page.
Lazar graduated from King’s College London in 2000, with a degree in French language and literature. “Literature was always my love,” she says, smiling, tilting her head to one side. But in the spring of 2000, she needed a job. “We have this newspaper called The Guardian,” she says. Buried in the classifieds Lazar found an ad (an “advert”) about a newsletter publishing company looking for reporters and journalists, dealing with energy and environmental issues. She interviewed and got the job.
“They were interested in language graduates,” Lazar says, and she spoke Romanian and French. She began as a junior reporter, covering issues she knew very little about, learning the technical language and the tricks of the trade as she went along. A year in, she did a master’s in development studies (she says this quickly, waving her hand, as if it is unworthy to be dwelled upon). Lazar had never been much interested in journalism, nor in politics, but environmental activism needed reporters—and ultimately, needed actors with agency. So her next step was a job working for local government, in City Hall, on programs attempting to make housing in London more efficient.
This time the tables were turned, she says. “I had reporters calling me.” She smiles ruefully: “You have to be very careful with what you say.” Although she had originally stumbled upon it, Lazar began to develop a passion for this career path. She moved on to an NGO dealing with climate change and its effects on the Mediterranean. As part of this she traveled to Greece, organizing a regional conference for various actors to discuss these issues.
Private consulting was next: Here she returned to her initial post-grad work, studying impacts on the environment within urban settings.
Throughout this time, though, Lazar was still reading. Throughout this time, too, she had been traveling to Argentina, several times a year since 2001 or 2002. “Personal reasons,” she says. “I married—well, I won’t go into that.” Lazar pauses, laughs, tucks her hair behind her ear. She began to read and love Argentine writers: Manuel Puig and César Aira and Néstor Perlongher. “Do you know them?” she asks eagerly. We talk about Borges’s short stories.
Lazar began to ask herself why she couldn’t do both: work on issues of the environment and still cultivate her literary leanings. She applied to a masters program in Spanish, in London, where she spent her nights taking part-time classes while consulting during the day. Her first term was difficult: “I was about to give it up,” she says. “I thought too much time had passed.” She pauses. “I had had this whole other profession.”
But “slowly,” Lazar says, “slowly”—she repeats—“I was effectively inspired.” She found herself eager to write the essays, impatient to get to class. Her double life was rewarding, but ultimately evening studies were not enough. Lazar is delighted now to be spending her Saturdays in Lamont. She is delighted at all this time she has just to read and write. Maybe she’ll become a professor in five or six years, after she writes her dissertation; maybe not—she’s not sure, she’s just beginning, she says.
I ask if she sees any contradiction between her former activism and her current work in the humanities, and she furrows her brow and shakes her head. “[Climate change] is something that I cared about and that I thought would ‘make a difference,’” she says, with air quotes. She begins to say something and then stops to think. “But I don’t feel that I’ve given that up.” Her former life may make a possible reappearance in the research for her dissertation and, in any case, Lazar is confident that her life’s disparate threads thus far are not necessarily unable to be intertwined. She’s confident, at least, that the bridge between social activism and literary studies is traversable. For Lazar, as she says, “It’s not a binary.”
Sections
My freshman year, when winter came, I did my best to fight it. The cold came out of nowhere, unannounced and uninvited, and it sent the kids all scrambling for their mittens, hats, and scarves. But I would not back down so easy—I hated nothing more than being forced inside by weather, and I had always been a mind-over-matter man deep down. So I didn’t let it in, the cold.
It’s an Australian thing, I told whoever proudly. It’s a habit that you learn from chilly beach days when you feel the wind grow chiller, and you can see the days grow shorter, and when you know, you just know, this means that Summer’s ending so you’ll all be back at school soon, and all those Summer Dreams you dreamed all year are never coming true, or not this time around at least. The revelation spreads like goosebumps across your body, and the salt from the sea starts caking dry—but you can feel the sun warming you up and as long as you’re still on the beach, it’s still summertime.
What you do is you think before you feel. The sense you don’t want, you pick it out and then you just refuse to let it in. You turn your mind to something else. This is a familiar feeling. It’s like holding your breath, except with the whole of your body.
So I fought against the winter and, inevitably, I lost. The first round was a stalemate. It was early in October, and I giggled at the smoke that I made with my breath. We went down to the river, that night, and we sang me happy birthday. It was my first American birthday. I sang, as well, even though it hurt to open my mouth, and I never knew the etiquette on happy birthday to me. We were friends, new friends, freshman friends. My PAF said it’s nice to have warm bodies around you, even though they won’t all end up being your soulmates, maybe just a few of them if any. We ate cake and our teeth chattered. Then we packed everything up and dragged our tired, frosted bodies to the dorms.
I had never felt as cold as this before. But I called it a draw. I was at college, it was a whole new world. That night, I decided that I would be somebody who didn’t mind the cold, really.My first big loss took place through November that year. I had this freshman seminar that met over at Littauer, a big squat gray building that backs out towards a courtyard at the Law School. One week I got to class early and went to do my reading on the park bench there. It was a perfect spot. None of the other freshmen came to read here, I thought. Maybe this place would be my place.
My seminar was in the Ec department, but I wasn’t an Ec major: I was undeclared and proud of it. I didn’t declare much freshman year, despite pages and pages of pros and cons. In my courtyard, I thought about how people choose a life, anyway, and what comprises one.
The next week, I read on my park bench again, and I thought the same thoughts while I did. I turned pages with gloves on, pinkfaced but brave in the wind. And I felt the need all at once to write down everything that was me now, me in college—me in America. The inventory went something like this: golf pencils/café algiers/pan african dance & music ensemble?/science center yogurt parfait/french stuff—baudelaire??/this bench in the law school!!!
The next week I went to the courtyard again. It was freezing, freezing cold. I told my friend: I can’t imagine it ever being colder than this. He laughed and said: It’s only November, it’s not nearly the worst of it yet. I did not appreciate his honesty. That week, the last week, I lasted all of fifteen minutes and I ran back inside, teeth still chattering.
It was an absolute, total thrashing at the hands of the weather. From that day on, there was no doubt that winter had won. I never tried to read in the courtyard again, and besides, the battle had taken on a different dimension. Before I knew it, I was running between stores, shivering, skipping meals and missing class because it’d be so damn cold out there—and when I’d get home, I’d rub my arms in the shower with a sigh like a martyr thinking where is the cold, how do I get it out. And I’d laugh with my friends, with my roommates, who thought it was the stupidest thing ever, my outrageous self-pity in the face of the cold. By the time we had our first family Christmas together, I had absolutely no interest in studying outside, by the Law School or anywhere.
By the time it got warm again, I was done with economics and distracted by other commitments, so I never went back to that courtyard. When I think of the bench, I feel a surge of embarrassment, though I don’t know what exactly for.
Then one night, junior fall, we were all going out to the Co-op—it was the same we as before, plus a few and minus a few—and we went to take a shortcut through the Law School. It made us feel like locals, the shortcut, like it meant we belonged here more. Plus we were all on the list, that night, all of us, and we shot off laughing through the night tipsydrunk on red wine and togetherness in the cold. I turned from the group, downed the last of my beer, and chucked the can over my shoulder, relishing the buzz of not giving a crap when you usually would give a crap. Turning, I saw my old park bench in the dim light. I threw it a salute, and blushed, and smiled—and then I spun back off through the evening, slipping my arm into the arm that was waiting and joining in the procession of friends, singing out just for ourselves while a part of me thought how funny it is that time moves so slowly when you pay attention, but then it gets right away from you when you take your eyes off it, even if it’s just for a moment.
Sections
 Aron Zingman and Jackie E. Stenson, co-tutors in Cabot House, have been dating for the last two and a half years. Last summer, they took a two and a half-week motorcycle road trip together, traversing Scandinavia’s harsh terrain. The two sat down with FM to talk about their travels, their relationship, and their upcoming adventures.
 Jackie
In all honesty, I threw the motorcycle trip proposal out there to a lot of people I had met, never expecting them to actually follow through. But he did follow through. Then I stopped throwing the proposal out there.
I had had my motorcycle license for a month. I had learned to ride a motorcycle from a guy in Ethiopia who spoke about as much English as I spoke Amharic. And at that point I decided, ‘Well I like motorcycles; they’re fun. Wouldn’t it be great to do the West Coast of Africa, but with my own set of wheels?’
This trip through Scandinavia was a prelude to what will be happening next summer. Scandinavia was one of the most gorgeous places I’ve ever been, despite the fact that it was rainy and cold and miserable. I remember this one time we were driving on a glacier in Norway. And we’re watching all the people drive by us on RVs, and they stop and they take a photo and they appreciate it because it’s beautiful. But they don’t appreciate it fully because they don’t feel the elements like we did when we were on the motorcycle. And even though we were cold and miserable and wet and freezing it was still probably one of the most beautiful places that I’ve ever been. And at the end of the glacier, we hit a tunnel that did literally a 720 corkscrew down a mountain and dumped us in a fjord.
We were riding these old Japanese motorcycles. Aron, being an engineer, built a solar charging system for our motorcycles. We could run electronics off of either the solar panels or off of the motorcycle battery. It was working great until we crossed into Norway and got rain. One of the parts malfunctioned and completely drained his motorcycle battery. On an old motorcycle you can push start it, which means you can physically run behind the bike pushing it. And we had to push start Aron’s bike for the second half of the trip.
We had a helmet communication system so we could speak to each other, either for talking or just sitting in silence or being able to quickly tell someone if something was happening. One time, a car was pulling out into the wrong side of the road. Aron swerved and honked and the car came a few feet of him, but the car came about a foot from hitting me. And that was pretty frightening. That’s why we kept the helmet communication systems—we could speak to each other more easily.
I always have a list of crazy trips I’d like to do. When we do something, we tend to go all out.
Aron
I used to think that I traveled a lot. There are a few people I’ve met, Jackie being one of them, that make me think I haven’t been anywhere. Before the conference in Colorado, she had been doing a post-graduate traveling fellowship from Harvard. She spent the last two years on less than $10,000 traveling across 11 countries or whatever it was in Africa—started in Ethiopia and worked her way south until she got to South Africa.
We met at a conference in Colorado. She, out of the blue, asked me if I wanted to do a motorcycle road trip across western Africa. Which I was like, “Sure...that’s cool.” After the conference, Jackie went to Cambridge, England to do her master’s. While she was there, she bought a motorcycle for herself, which was a model I recommended. A couple months later I gave her money and she bought a second motorcycle for me.
She rode the train for hours to go buy something off the equivalent of Craigslist in England. It’s meaningful in that we wanted to have an experience together, and she took the steps to make it actually happen.
On motorcycles, you have a different experience than people in a car in that you feel like part of the scenery, but you’re often cut off from other people, so I felt like we got the best of both of it because we had these intercoms and we were talking to each other. It was really nice not thinking about work. Jackie has two jobs, maybe more depending on how you want to count stuff—and one of them is a start-up so she’s super busy. I think it was really nice for both of us to disconnect from that in the middle of nowhere on a mountain on motorcycles.
Of all the people I know, she’s probably the most likely to make an idea happen or test it. If it doesn’t work it’s not because she let the idea sit. Jackie will do it, fail quickly, and move onto something else, or get it done. She’s working on a start-up in India and we just bought tickets for the end of December to January to go to India because the start up she’s working on is making progress. She’s made things that I might have left as ideas actually happen. I kind of joke that I help keep her grounded and she helps keep me from becoming boring.
Sections
The first time we meet, Joshua S. Goodman ’00, assistant professor of public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School, is drinking Earl Grey tea with a bit of milk. Earl Grey is his favorite because it makes him feel slightly British, something he has always dreamt of being. The tea is good, though not great, he says as we walk down Brattle Street. If I wanted something more exotic, he recommends that I venture to Tealuxe to try a Chinese black tea called Lapsang Souchong, which smells like an open fire. He pauses, looks up at Tealuxe’s storefront. “I actually proposed to my wife there.”
The following is the story, as told to me, of how Joshua fell in love with, and ultimately proposed to, his wife Anna E. Lumelsky ’00 over a series of dates at the café.
It was a Wednesday evening sometime in November of 2003, and the weather was slightly too chilly for wandering. Joshua was 25. He settled down into one of Tealuxe’s worn black wooden chairs, hid a ring behind the sugar packets on the tabletop, and waited for Anna. She arrived a little after five, frazzled after preparing for the bar exam; they chatted for a few moments about their days and her studying. Joshua was probably drinking Earl Grey then, too, but she definitely was not because she thinks the stuff tastes like cockroaches.
As they talked, Joshua took out a poem he wrote for her titled “3 Verses, 31 Lines, and 98 of the Letter A” and began reading. It was a silly thing, sing-songy in tone, full of references to her Russian heritage and love for Cary Grant films. At the poem’s close, Joshua gave a little speech but didn’t get down on one knee because Anna was not a fan of big displays, didn’t like spectacles. She paused after he asked her the question, paused for a very long time before saying “um…okay.” Joshua was underwhelmed by her lack of enthusiasm and asked for a do-over. She said yes that time.
Anna claims to have met Joshua at Eliot Fête freshman year, a meeting which Joshua forgets. He figures she’s right though—the pieces of her story fit together well enough. His memory places their first encounter nearly a year later, when Anna interviewed him to co-chair Harvard Hillel’s forum committee with her. As they chatted that day about the forum, Joshua noted how easy it was to talk to her. Even then, he thought it likely that he would wind up marrying the girl.
They spent the spring of 1998 planning events together for the forum and began dating late in the semester—March 31, actually (hence, the title of his proposal poem, 3/31/98). At the time, Starbucks and Tealuxe were the two cafes of choice in Harvard Square, and neither of them liked Starbucks. There was no Peet’s and no Crema, so they found themselves at Tealuxe quite often.
The specifics of most of their conversations at Tealuxe have faded, replaced by general recollections and feelings. But a few stand out. Joshua remembers how he and Anna once got into one of their recurring philosophical arguments about people’s perceptions of themselves. Anna, a highly scientific, nonreligious mind, was adamant that people believe themselves to be more important than they actually are. Joshua disagreed, claiming that individuals don’t think nearly highly enough of themselves, and that they would act very differently if they really thought themselves to be important. They never reached an agreement.
After graduation, Joshua and Anna traveled to England and back, worked for the state department in Moscow, talked about moving in together, returned to Cambridge, moved in together, started teaching high school, enrolled in Law School, watched friends move away, developed favorite television shows like “The West Wing” and “Law and Order,” made new friends—and they got married.
Joshua still revisits Tealuxe from time to time, though not too often. Life is busy with his teaching, her law practice, their two-year-old son. He did mention to the barista once that his wife agreed to marry him over there, at one of the cramped two-person copper-topped tables. She smiled and gave him a free scone.
Sections
I had my first taste of gambling when I was probably eight or nine years old, when I went to Santa Anita Race Track with my father and brother. Horse racing, if you’ve never seen it, is a little bit like drinking during a business lunch; both are still fun, and both have become significantly less popular since the 1960s. Despite the antiquity of the sport, throughout high school I visited the track for birthday parties, free afternoons, and lunch breaks during Quiz Bowl tournaments.
In addition to Santa Anita—whose attendees are a mix of Hollywood elites, degenerate gamblers, and casual fans looking for an afternoon activity—I’ve probably visited a dozen or so different gambling establishments, and I’m consistently amazed by the smorgasbord of people I find there. Suffolk Downs, the Boston race track, is much the same, except there are no B-listers and the degenerate gamblers have Southie accents. The Belmont Stakes, one of the nation’s last notable horse races, introduced me to men who were reliving their frat star days—which would be fine except for the fact that they probably graduated from college 20 years ago, and sneaking swigs from the flask in your blazer is less acceptable when you’re with your nine-year-old son.
There is a certain old-timey personality that is drawn to horse racing. That same unity doesn’t really exist elsewhere in the gambling world. In high school, I frequented the Morongo Casino, near Palm Springs, Calif., despite the 80-minute drive it took to get there. As a function of its accessibility, the 18-plus casino is populated by both kinds of seniors: the curmudgeonly kind and the high school kind. The only thing they shared, of course, was the table where they were sitting. I spent half of my time at those casino tables listening to a bunch of old dudes.
During a summer in Seattle after my sophomore year, I tried out the Club Hollywood Casino, where the tattoo-person ratio was approximately 1.5:1. The one-room, 18-plus casino, which, despite its name, specialized in Chinese food, was a popular stop for locals who had just reached legal adulthood. As I sat down at the blackjack table with two friends, a woman started unabashedly hitting on the guy to my left and then the dealer, back and forth. Both parties would have been much more excited about this had the woman not reached her peak sometime shortly before the moon landing. Unsuccessful, she quickly got up and moved to the next open table.
Vegas is Vegas. I watched a guy playing blackjack with $60,000 (and dwindling) on the table playing for $5,000 a hand. In a nightclub that my female friend had earnestly told me was “free!,” I picked up $32 in one-dollar bills to help recoup the $40 I had lost on the cover. I saw someone pass out drunk at 10:00 a.m. in the sports book. But I digress.
Gambling is one of two truly folksy activities—that is, pseudo-religious, community-building, All-American activities—in which I’ve taken part. Baseball is the other. But no one gambles away their rent watching baseball, and that’s why the folksiness of gambling is so dangerous, so interesting and, sometimes, so sad.
This doesn’t apply to everyone, of course. There are a lot of gamblers who set limits, only do it occasionally, and understand and accept their terrible odds.
But they are not the most interesting gamblers. The most interesting gamblers are the five people who have five different theories and strategies on how to win—most are serious, and all are wrong.
Some of them make sense. There is a betting strategy in blackjack that, if followed perfectly, reduces the house edge to (really small) margins.
Other strategies involve trinkets, prayers, and pseudo-logic that, in any other context, would sound unreasonable to anyone who has finished fourth-grade math. During one casino visit, a middle-aged man unrepentantly insisted on sitting to the left of the blackjack dealer because he declared he did better there.
In Vegas, I went with a friend to the roulette table (just to watch—roulette and slot machines are the two most foolhardy games on any casino floor). We struck up a conversation with a man who, by his own admission, had spent a few hours there already. He introduced us to “roulette strategy,” which is the phrase I would give you if you asked for a two-word definition of “oxymoron.”
This isn’t to say, of course, that I believe in prohibitions on gambling. That’s not at all the case. I’m very pro-gambling.
In high school, I drove with two friends to Morongo, and we each lost about $150 in 45 minutes—a quarter of the duration of our roundtrip drive. I’ve spent far more afternoons at Santa Anita Race Track with family and friends than I’d like to admit. In visits home from college, it’s one of the first places I think to spend time with people I haven’t seen. There are about 32 minutes between each race—win or lose, that’s a lot of time to talk to someone.
At the Belmont Stakes this past summer, almost 80,000 fans showed up because they had planned to watch I’ll Have Another, who was the early favorite for the Triple Crown. But the horse expected to contend for the first Triple Crown since the Carter Administration scratched, and all 80,000 people that showed up to Belmont Park shared the same disappointment.
Community is built on shared experience, and gambling provides that. But I don’t like gambling because it builds community or because it offers the best people-watching around.
I like gambling because, hey, who doesn’t like winning $20?
—E. Benjamin Samuels, the President of The Crimson, is a Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations concentrator in Lowell House. He thinks he might be the Kong’s only regularly sober customer.
Sections
3,066. That’s the number of students—85 percent of those who voted in the latest UC election—who agreed with the UC referendum asserting that Harvard should reexamine its sexual assault practices and policies.
It’s a number that has caught the administration’s attention: In response to student concern, the Office of Student Life, under Dean Evelynn M. Hammonds, has recently convened a Sexual Assault Resources working group. The working group will “assess accessibility, transparency, and gaps in services,” writes Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response director Sarah A. Rankin. It is a response to at least a semester’s worth of actively voiced student concern.
 Policies and Practices
The referendum that sparked this working group stems from a movement known as Our Harvard Can Do Better. The movement’s organizers seeks to galvanize students across the Harvard population behind a shared concern regarding sexual assault practices and policies. Our Harvard Can Do Better’s platform points to specific ways that Harvard can improve its framework for addressing sexual assault. “
A main point of us doing this is to make clear to everyone—both participants in the sexual act—what exactly is defined as consent,” says Pearl Bhatnagar ’14, who, along with Kate Sim ’14, is a lead organizer in the movement.
Currently, the Handbook for Students expresses a negative consent policy, defining rape as occurring when one party expresses unwillingness for sex. Our Harvard Can Do Better organizers, in contrast, are campaigning for the adoption of an affirmative consent policy, meaning that both parties need to actively indicate willingness for sexual activity.
According to those involved in the movement, the official policy of negative consent is inconsistent with educational practices.  “Practices focus on affirmative consent, while policy remains one of negative consent, which creates a problem,” says Sahil A. Khatod ’14, a UC representative involved in Our Harvard Can Do Better.
In addition, campaign organizers want the College to reexamine the wording of its policy regarding “mental incapacitation,” important in alcohol- and drug-related incidents. “There isn’t very specific language on mental incapacitation,” says Khatod.
Additionally, Administrative Board policy for peer disputes, including sexual assault, currently requires that the Ad Board be “sufficiently persuaded” that an assault took place for disciplinary action to be taken against the accused student, in contrast with the “preponderance of evidence” required by some of Harvard’s peer institutions. “Talking to administrators, we’re unclear as to where this difference lies between ‘preponderance of evidence’ and ‘sufficiently persuaded,’” says Bhatnagar. Our Harvard Can Do Better seeks to better understand the policy’s language to ensure that the burden of proof does not disproportionately fall on the victim.
Other points include increased administrative transparency in how sexual assault cases are handled and increased funding and staffing for OSAPR.
Underpinning it all, campaign leaders stress a renewed commitment to prevention education. These educational efforts are vital, say Our Harvard Can Do Better organizers, as sexual assault is a more pervasive issue than many might think.
“I truly think that people don’t understand the extent to which rape culture and sexual assault pervade our campus,” says Leah Reis-Denis ’13, who is involved with the campaign.
Indeed, a commonly cited U.S. Department of Justice report estimates that a fifth to a quarter of college-aged women are likely to be victims of sexual assault in the course of their college careers, and that a vast majority of these assaults go unreported to the police.
In light of the frequency of sexual assault, Sim emphasizes the importance of awareness. “This isn’t just a WGS issue; it’s an everybody issue,” she says.
Building on the Past
This isn’t the first time a concerned group of students has gained momentum in urging Harvard to consider the way it addresses sexual assault.
In the spring of 2002, over 200 students participated in a rally, advocating a major reevaluation of Harvard’s stance toward education, prevention, and response to sexual assault. The demonstration was part of an outpouring of faculty and student concern about sexual assault that ultimately led to the establishment of some of Harvard’s most significant resources.
“There was a pretty strong group of women, and some men, that was concerned about the relative space that seemed to be allowed for very disrespectful speech on gender issues,” says Jennifer Leaning, the Harvard School of Public Health professor who chaired the “Leaning Committee,” a group formed in response to this outcry.
Students and faculty were also concerned, Leaning says, about “the lack of very strong policy commitments and statements on the part of the University to uphold issues like dignity and respect and affirmative consent.”
The committee issued a report with extensive recommendations for how the College could improve its practices regarding sexual assault—including outlining the establishment of OSAPR.
Some of the Committee’s other recommendations, such as formal sexual assault education for sophomores as part of their transition to House life, were never made permanent. Others, such as an educational emphasis on affirmative consent, were never implemented into policy. That’s something Our Harvard Can Do Better leaders want to change.
 Changing the Culture 
Change, however, doesn’t come from policy alone: Our Harvard Can Do Better leaders stress the need for a cultural shift as well. “I don’t think you can do policy without doing culture shift, and I don’t think you can do culture shift without doing policy. They have to be intertwined, in tandem,” Sim says.
Khatod agrees. “Policy sets the tone for the cultural conversation.”
The conversation starts freshman year with Sex Signals, a mandatory presentation about sexual assault that some find lacking. Building off of the work of the Leaning Committee, movement organizers argue for increased sexual assault education that extends beyond the first year. They also stress the need for programs that are more inclusive of students of all sexual orientations and gender identities.
“There should be comprehensive and inclusive sex education appropriate for our campus every year for every student” says Sim.
For Reis-Denis, this is a conversation that needs to continue beyond Freshman Orientation. “I want this to become a topic of conversation in the dining halls and among students,” she says.
The Undergraduate Council has put its full support behind the Our Harvard Can Do Better campaign, adopting the campaign’s advocacy of an affirmative consent policy as its own. “This past year there’s definitely been a push for more student engagement,” says Danny P. Bicknell ’13, the current UC president. Besides running the sexual assault policies and practices referendum, Bicknell says, the UC has adopted the referendum as the official Council stance.
Although any cultural change requires a sustained effort, Reis-Denis remains confident in the movement’s mission. “A culture-shift is something that takes years to happen. But to spark that, and to get some sort of institutional framework going to support it—that would be a really big accomplishment,” she says.
Sections
When John L. Ezekowitz ’13 received a call from an area code he’d never seen during the middle of his econometrics class sophomore year, he felt it might be important, so he stepped out to take the call.
The decision was worth the missed class time: The voice on the phone identified himself as Lance Blanks, General Manager of the Phoenix Suns. He was looking for someone to help the professional basketball team out with its analytics. Was Ezekowitz interested in interviewing for the job?
Now over two years into his position as a consultant for the Suns, Ezekowitz, an economics concentrator in Cabot House and originally from Princeton, N.J., has started his professional career well before graduation. Next year, while continuing to consult for the Suns, he’ll also start a new job at Bain Capital.
In a slim brown jacket and framed glasses, the mild-mannered Ezekowitz doesn’t look or act like the kind of guy you’d expect to have attracted widespread media coverage and a job offer from the NBA. He’ll tell you he didn’t expect it, either.
One thing that hasn’t changed, though, is Ezekowitz’s love of sports. When he was young, his parents didn’t let him or his brother watch any TV other than sports games—probably a big influence on Ezekowitz’s later interest in athletics, he says. When Ezekowitz arrived at Harvard, he explains, “the Harvard College Sports Analysis Collective sounded right up my alley.” And, despite a “love-hate” relationship with math in high school, taking Stat 104 during his freshman year convinced Ezekowitz that he wanted to pursue quantitative options.
Ezekowitz spent the following summer working on a basketball analytics project that analyzed whether teams leading by three points at the end of the game were likely to intentionally foul, a project he published on the Sports Analytics Collective’s blog. The post attracted attention: His report was picked up by Sports Illustrated and The Wall Street Journal, and, at 19, Ezekowitz landed a job with the Suns—something he describes simply as a “very lucky set of circumstances.”
Ezekowitz now works on “everything that relates to player analytics,” he says, maximizing efficiency, determining which players are under- or overvalued, and predicting future performance. He has also spent the past two years as co-president of the Sports Analytics Collective.
Ezekowitz plays down the time his work demands (“It’s not like it’s 50 or 60 hours a week, so it’s manageable,” he insists), but there are times—like before the NBA lockout last winter—when he has been on conference calls with the Suns every day.
Still, Ezekowitz (or just “Zeke,” to his friends) points to the everyday experiences he’s had here at Harvard as a student: He’s ended up playing lots of Super Smash Bros. with his eight blockmates, he says. “[My job] has given me an appreciation for the time I get to spend with friends, just hanging out—the down time. I’ve had less of it, maybe,” he says like it’s nothing, with a smile and a shrug.
Sections
According to Jenny Ye ’13, her interest in politics can be traced back to her New York City roots. “It’s a city that has so many different kinds of people,” she says.
Growing up in Manhattan’s Chinatown as a daughter of immigrant parents, Ye immersed herself in the community in multiple ways. In high school, she learned about a tenant-organizing group in Chinatown and participated in a youth training program.
“It changed my life,” she says. “I was organizing my neighbors and learning how my neighborhood was changing really quickly—and what people could do about it.”
When she arrived at Harvard, Ye was still hooked on local politics. But it wasn’t until she served as an Institute of Politics student liaison for Kim Gandy, the president of the National Organization for Women, that broader issues like women’s rights began to intrigue her. Ye also realized that national politics were more accessible than she’d thought. Now, as IOP President, she’s spreading that message to others. “That’s one of the missions of the IOP,” Ye says, “to feel that the big picture stuff is accessible to students.”
Increasing access to opportunities is something that has defined Ye’s time at Harvard. In addition to her involvement at the IOP, Ye, a CS concentrator, has worked to transfer her computer science expertise to those in need. Last spring, she learned about a program called CodeEd, which employs volunteer engineers to teach computer science to at-risk youth. Back home in New York between school years, Ye led a CodeEd summer mentoring program for young women to continue her term-time activities, and now teaches coding to girls at the Community Charter School of Cambridge.
“I think this is part of a bigger push to get CS teachers into classrooms,” Ye says. She also spends Saturday mornings teaching computer skills to Harvard employees through the IOP/PBHA CIVICS program. She’s passionate about expanding computer science education into middle and high schools as well.
When Ye’s not running the IOP or organizing CS education, she’s also involved in campus politics. Since sophomore year, she’s supported anti-punch campaigns, as well as initiatives to increase social space for undergraduates. In her free time, she hosts a weekly Facial Friday in her suite, where anybody can stop by for facials, snacks, and drinks—her own contribution to improving social space at Harvard.
Ye’s not yet sure where next year will take her, though she knows she wants to be in New York. “I want to combine technology and public service in some way—whether it’s through increasing access of women to computer science, or encouraging people of color and from low-income communities to participate in the political process,” Ye says. “Building inclusivity is something that motivates my work.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Jan. 12, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Jenny Ye ’13 established a youth training program in Chinatown and a summer mentoring program through the computer science education nonprofit CodeEd. In fact, she participated in the Chinatown program and led an existing CodeEd summer program.
Sections
Phillip Z. Yao ’13 has built a library that may reach over two million students. A physics concentrator with a philosophy secondary, Yao channeled his longstanding interest in education into the creation of a virtual library last summer for the Indian educational non-profit Pratham, which operates in 19 Indian states.
“It’s something that hasn’t been done before in India,” Yao says of the virtual library, which, he says, is comprised of “free educational materials on the Internet all under Creative Commons licenses.”
The library is an extension of Yao’s interest in the intersection of technology and education, which began when he was a rising sixth grader enrolled in Prep for Prep, a program that helps New York City public school students gain admission into private schools. “They academically prepare us, but they also instill in us a lot of social awareness and a passion for improving education,” he says. “That made me really want to work on education.”
Yao has translated this interest into further work with Prep for Prep over the years as a tutor and summer instructor. He has also interned at City Hall in New York City, where he created a computer science curriculum for public schools.
Besides his work in education, Yao also has a love for a classic combination: art and food. As a summer intern at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Yao worked extensively with the museum’s musical instrument collection. As a sophomore, he established Hole in the Wall, a Wintersession program in which students explore lesser-known features of Cambridge, including underappreciated and secluded eateries.
A Rhodes scholar, Yao will continue his studies next year at Oxford, where he intends to further his understanding of the intersection between technology and education. And while the Rhodes committee may not know it, Yao crosses the Atlantic with a very special skill. “I should probably mention that I’m religiously obsessed with Assassins,” he says. “I’ve won Winthrop Assassins since my freshman year.”
Sections
Even for those who weren’t lucid enough to fully process the 2012 installment of The Game, the name Treavor Scales should ring a bell. The senior running back starred against Yale, rushing for a career-high 177 yards in front of 31,123 fans. His final play in a Harvard uniform—a 63-yard touchdown run at the end of the fourth quarter to seal the Crimson’s sixth straight victory over the Bulldogs, 34-24—was a fittingly dominant close to a stellar four years on the gridiron.
“At the end of the day, when you remember that last play, you want to be able to say that you enjoyed the last down that you played,” Scales says. “That final moment for me was…an amazing ending. I couldn’t have written it up better for myself.”
Over the course of the 2012-13 season, Scales rushed for a league-best 1002 yards and 13 touchdowns, earning him a spot on the All-Ivy first team—his fourth all-conference nod in as many years.
An economics concentrator with a citation in German—a language he began studying in kindergarten—Scales found himself in the spotlight off the field as a student in Dr. Lisa Parkes’ class entitled “German Drama and Theater,” a course that culminated in a play at the end of last spring in the Adams Pool Theater.
For Scales, the class was a memorable end to many years studying the language.
“It’s so easy to get excited about something when you can tell the professor herself is really involved and really invested in it,” Scales says. “Having [Parkes] as a coach of some sort was awesome.”
The Stone Mountain, Ga. native credits his involvement in football, DAPA, and the Athletic Advisory Committee with shaping his Harvard experience.
As the curtain falls on his time in Cambridge, the running back has nothing but praise for his teammates and coaches.
“It’s been awesome playing with the guys that I’ve played with,” Scales says. “The coaching staff has been unreal. Winning is always fun, and we’ve done plenty of that. It’s been an awesome experience overall.”
The senior says he appreciated the chance to branch out from his football roots through his other extracurriculars, although there aren’t enough hours in the day for him to accomplish everything he would have liked.
“The decisions I’ve made, whether or not they were right or wrong in the moment, I can look back upon each one of them and chalk them up to being a learning experience,” Scales says. “I guess the only thing I would take away as a regret in my time here is [not being] more involved on campus and getting to meet more and more people. I love to meet people; I love developing relationships; and that’s one thing that I would love to have done more.”
In  March, Scales will compete for a spot on a professional roster at the NFL Pro Day at Boston College in March. If all goes well, he will continue his football career after graduation, taking it to the next level as a professional running back.
Sections
Watching Sonia S. Dara ’12-13 walk into Eliot dining hall is like watching a model walk down the runway—maybe because Dara has been modeling for seven years. But the economics concentrator, who has walked the runways at both Paris and New York Fashion Weeks, didn’t start off with high fashion dreams.
In fact, Dara’s start was hardly indicative of her future as cover model. “She was absolutely a tomboy. She used to walk around covered in dirt,” says her older sister Jyothsna “Jo” S. Dara. After attempting sports like basketball and volleyball, where she thought her 5’11” height would give her an edge, she realized that her athletic abilities were limited, and started looking for other options.
“I’m obviously tall, so I was kind of hoping that something would come along, and someone suggested that I should try modeling,” Dara says.
Not only did Dara “try” modeling—she excelled at it, and at age 15, the Atlanta native went from tomboy to fashionista, signing with Elite Atlanta and, later, Elite New York.
The young model quickly scored photos in magazines like CosmoGirl and Seventeen. “My close high school friends were really excited. They were picking up CosmoGirl and saying, “Look, Sonia. That’s you.’”
Dara was the first member of her family to be born in the United States, and her Indian heritage has had a strong impact on her modeling career. Her family placed a priority on academics, and Sonia’s success in school made them initially reticent about her desire to choose a career in fashion. But when they realized that she could manage both, they gave her their full support.
After being waitlisted at Harvard, Dara made plans to pursue modeling for a year before starting college.
“But then I got the call from Harvard,” says Dara. “I said, ‘Yeah, forget that, I’m going to Harvard.’"
During her freshman spring, Dara received a call from Sports Illustrated asking her to be their cover model and—to vocal support, especially from the Indian media—the first South Asian model ever featured in Sports Illustrated’s swimsuit issue.
It was a career-changing moment for Dara. “I tried to pose as elegantly as possible because when you have a billion people from the motherland looking at you, you kind of have to be a little bit careful,” says Dara, who took a year off for the launch of the issue and to pursue other modelling opportunities.
Dara’s modeling resume includes a covershoot for Elle India, a photoshoot for Vogue India, the Laura Mercier makeup campaign, a guest judge role on “America’s Next Top Model,” an appearance in K’NAAN’s music video for “Bang Bang,” and runway shows for names like Oscar de la Renta, YSL, and Max Mara.
Her full resume is even more extensive. In addition to concentrating in economics, Dara, formerly pre-med, will graduate with a secondary in human evolutionary biology and a language citation in Spanish. She is currently considering a job offer from Microsoft in Seattle.
It’s Dara’s aim to someday enter the business and marketing side of fashion. “More and more, now that I’ve been introduced into the fashion industry and the modeling world, and a little to the media side, I started focusing more towards that and towards marketing,” says Dara. “It’s taken me 22 years to come to that.”
By many standards, Dara has had a full career in her 22 years. In the future, whether she walks the runway or runs the show, there’s no doubt she’ll be turning heads and catching eyes.
Sections
The first thing Xanthia A. Tucker ’13 says after greeting me is that I shouldn’t be intimidated by her appearance. Mindful of the times, she describes herself as being “apocalyptically dressed,” wearing a cream lace dress with black tights, maroon cloth shoes (“10 dollars from Berk’s,” she mentions helpfully when I ask), and whorled, metallic flower-petal earrings that complement her black eyeshadow and dark lipstick.
From the beginning, she anticipates the awkward politeness of the interview with the kind of friendliness that might come across either as youthful sincerity or self-conscious self-consciousness, depending on how cynical you are; but you can tell that when you’re talking, her attention is completely on you.
Hailing from Palo Alto, Calif., Tucker is the daughter of a seismologist and a former seismologist (her mother now works in technology consulting). She is a literature concentrator who lived in Currier House for two years and currently lives in the Dudley Co-Op; she emphatically assures me that the walk to the River “isn’t a big deal at all.”
The first thing people probably notice about Tucker is her first name, which is derived from the ancient Greek town of Xantos, a place renowned for its pure white marble. The same year that Tucker was born, Citroën unveiled its new Xantia model automobile—also named after Xantos, which, as far as Tucker knows, is just a coincidence.
“I was conceived in a Citroën!” she jokes. “No, don’t print that—actually, my parents probably wouldn’t care.”
Tucker swings her head slightly from side to side and her blue eyes widen when something interests her, such as when I ask her what her favorite food is: “roasted beets with olive oil and balsamic vinegar and a bit of salt,” since she is a vegetarian “with few exceptions,” she says.
Tucker mentions the “self-imposed expectation” that Harvard students become deeply engaged in both academic work and extracurricular commitments, and she’s no exception: Tucker is an actress who has played leading and supporting roles in Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club productions, a Freshman Outdoor Program leader and member of the Steering Committee, and a former Writing Center tutor. But, she says, her dream is to become a professional musician.
“Last J-term, my parents asked me what I was planning to do during the summer. I was trying to imagine internships of any kind, but I was depressed at the prospect of an office job,” she says. “But then, I suddenly burst out to my parents, ‘There’s nothing I care about more than music!’ I realized it was true only after I said it, and I feel very lucky to have their support.”
A guitarist, pianist, and singer-songwriter, Tucker hopes to move to France. “I guess I could do with Paris,” she jokes, faux-blasé, and mentions that she’ll try to make a living any way she can, even possibly by teaching outdoor survival skills and English.
“So nice to meet you, Kevin!” she says as we part ways. “It’s Kevin, right? It’d be really uncomfortable if we finished and I said something like, ‘Great to meet you, Nick!’”
Sections
They say you always remember your first time.
For me, it was a clown handing out balloon animals at the public library. I was four years old. I was drawn toward the colorful creatures shaped out of a little bit of squeaky rubber—and it was love at first sight.
I took my balloon home, sat down on the kitchen floor, and painstakingly figured out how to take it apart. When I had finished, I pinched and squeezed, trying to put it together again.What else could I make out of it? How many times could I twist it before it—oh.
I’ve felt that sharp sting of latex snapping in my palms hundreds of times since then. And every single time, all I’ve wanted was the chance to get my hands on one more balloon.
In the 17 years since that day at the library, I’ve sold balloons in three countries, turned in a 60-balloon dragon instead of a response paper on Beowulf, and been hired to clown at carnivals, birthdays, a bat mitzvah, and the Harvard-Yale tailgate.
I spent two summers working as a balloon artist at Friendly’s, an East Coast restaurant chain known for its ice cream and service so slow you need balloons to forget how long you’ve been waiting in your red vinyl booth. Those summers, I went through more than 3,000 balloons each year. I learned new animals—a chicken, a turtle—based on my customers’ requests. I became acquainted with the people of Friendly’s, too.
One man had come there for the $9.99 dinner-drink-and-sundae meal every single night since his wife died in a car accident; he was usually alone or occasionally with his utterly silent son. One waitress frequently cornered me near the kitchen to ask me for sexual balloons. A diner tried to convert me to Christianity, using the red cellophane decoder toy that came along with the children’s menus to represent the blood of Jesus.
One woman took in my situation—standing in a gaudy chain restaurant just off the expressway in an insignificant town in Pennsylvania, making balloon animals in a rainbow-striped shirt and a name tag that said “Zippy”—and asked me witheringly, “Can you do anything else?” Hyperactive Little League baseball teams asked for 19 balloon animals, and their coaches didn’t even tip me for all those snails. Children handed their erstwhile balloon dogs back to me to be twisted up again, shapes unrecognizable and surfaces sticky with ice cream and worse.
But at another table, a group of little girls made up a “Zippy the Clown” song. I held up a balloon bicycle above the tasteful glass barriers criss-crossing the restaurant one night and the entire clientele responded with applause.
And even when I had twisted a horse or a flower a thousand times, for some reason I never tired of my desire to play with malleable latex. When it’s your job to smile, at some point it stops being an act.
In high school, when anyone asked me where I was going to college, I told them I would be attending the Ohio College of Clowning Arts. After three months, I would run away and join the circus.
I guess my plans changed after that. A year later, after a freshman year that was magical in its own right but included no rabbits in hats on syllabi, the waitresses at Friendly’s were telling their customers, “You know the clown, Zippy? She goes to Harvard.”
A hilariously high number of people responded, “Harvard? Do they have a clown major there?”
Back then, I would always laugh it off. “No,” I said shamelessly. “I’m doing this to help make money for college, so I can do something else with my life!” That usually got a dollar or two out of them.
Yet despite what I told my Friendly’s customers, I’m not so sure I don’t want ballooning to be a major part of what I do with my life. I’ve looked into it. To be a Certified Balloon Artist, one must complete several written exams covering balloon décor, bouquets, and delivery, as well as a four-hour-long hands-on test. There are more than 2,500 CBAs working today. They meet biannually at the World Balloon Convention, where artists from around the world compete for prizes in balloon table arrangements, sculptures, hats, and fashion.
I’m not certified yet, but I’ve been making bigger and bigger balloon sculptures. I made a four-foot-tall Big Ben to celebrate the London Olympics over the summer, then spent hours designing and sculpting my huge red dragon in the fall. Come Halloween, I made an all-balloon witch costume—fully wearable dress, pointed hat, broom, poison apple.
But in between running Harvard’s charitable clown club and dropping balloons in front of the doors of students in my House on their birthdays, I’ve mostly spent my time at Harvard trying to become a journalist. Lately, I applied for a post-graduation internship at a newspaper I would truly love to work for. The application asked, “What careers besides newspaper journalism are you considering?” I debated putting down some field like publishing or social work or law.
But at this moment, all of those are pale second choices to journalism. The only occupation that would genuinely make me as happy as reporting, I know, is balloon twisting. Though I feared that the editors evaluating my internship application might think I was being flippant, I answered “balloon artist,” and I meant it.
At Friendly’s and anywhere else I clown, I’ve become accustomed to the people, usually men in their teens and twenties, who seem to find it amusing to try to stump the clown. “I want a T-rex,” they say. “I want a guitar.” Thanks to the movie “Wedding Crashers,” they demand, “Make me a bicycle, clown.”
“Sure. What color?” I ask evenly.
I revel in the chance to impress those guys who thought they were too old, to watch the carefully constructed bravado on their faces fade to childlike joy as I twist a whimsical creature—or a realistic bicycle from five balloons—out of the air in front of them.
That pursuit, the quest to see yet another person’s eyes light up when he first recognizes the shape his balloon is going to take—whether he’s three years old or he’s 103—is not all that different from my love of writing. When I write fiction, or when I report a news story, just like when I make a balloon, I am striving to craft a little something that seems original, that rings true to life, that is beautiful.
Like an excellent news article, an excellent balloon makes life look a little bit different. You didn’t know when you heard you were getting a penguin or a monkey in a tree what that might look like in balloons. All of a sudden, you can see it. And you didn’t know that a children’s toy could make you so happy, but as it materializes, without fail you’re grinning no matter how old you are.
By making a balloon or creating a story, an artist uses her hands and her spirit to surprise her audience, to shatter some of the cynicism and narrow-mindedness that cake our boring grown-up hearts.
Sometimes to burst illusions, you need something poppable.
 —Julie M. Zauzmer ‘13, the Managing Editor of The Harvard Crimson, is an English concentrator in Pforzheimer House. You may know her as that girl in the pink wig and big shoes in your dining hall.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard men’s basketball coach Tommy Amaker has picked up another commitment.
Point guard Matt Fraschilla, son of ESPN analyst Fran Fraschilla, committed to the Crimson on Tuesday, joining Zena Edosomwan and Hunter Myers in Harvard’s Class of 2017.
Fraschilla, a 5’10” point guard from Dallas, Texas, averaged 7.9 assists per game as a junior at Highland Park High School in the 2011-12 season.
“It’s a really great feeling,” said Fraschilla, who plans to study economics or government. “It’s an unbelievable opportunity to be able to go there and play for four years and potentially win four Ivy League titles and graduate with a degree.”
If Fraschilla had not ended up with the Crimson the point guard said he was planning on walking on at the University of Texas.
“They were great to me,” said Fraschilla of the Longhorns. “I went there and visited…. I’m really glad that this [Harvard] opportunity presented itself.”
Fraschilla, who considers himself a true point guard, does not expect to receive significant minutes as a rookie.
“We’re going to have a really good team,” Fraschilla said. “My role will probably be limited in terms of playing. I think in practice every day, pushing Siyani [Chambers]—my job will be to get them better every day, and you never know what can happen. You’re always one play away from being a backup or being a starter potentially.”
—Staff writer Martin A. Kessler can be reached at martin.kessler@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sometimes, the scoreboard doesn’t tell the whole story.
At the end of the Harvard squash teams’ matchup against Williams College on Wednesday night, the Crimson men’s and women’s teams had both shut out the Ephs, 9-0.
But for a night that came out perfect on paper, the meeting was marked by many a close call, especially for the men’s team.
“For our guys in a number of matches, the guys got into a deficit—too many to mention, about five matches like that,” Crimson coach Mike Way said. “They were in the trenches; they had nervous energy because they lost the first and they were down in the second; and they pulled it out.”
That pattern repeated itself in one nail-biter after another. Four of the top nine men’s players and one of the top women lost their first games before coming back to take their matches.
Many of the games were closer than the Harvard women (3-0)—the defending national champions—and the No. 3 men’s team (6-0) had anticipated going into their duel with Williams, whose women's team (2-6) is ranked 10th in the country and whose men's squad (3-5) is ranked 12th.
“We’re definitely going to have to raise our game,” said women’s co-captain Natasha Kingshott, noting that though the Ephs did not take a single match off the Crimson, Harvard’s upcoming challengers Princeton and Penn have already shown they can shut out the Williams women too. “This was a good wake-up call, matches like this where we have a couple results that were tight.”
Playing at the No. 4 spot, Kingshott took her own games by some of the widest margins of the meeting, beating Williams junior Alyssa Northrop, 11-3, 11-7, 11-2.
Senior Laura Gemmell—who also posted three easy wins in her match against Williams’ No. 1 Laura Henry with scores of 11-4, 11-3, 11-3—said the women, six of whom swept their opponents, were pleased overall with their performance.
“Everyone thought they were playing well was the overall vibe,” Gemmell said. But she said she wanted to focus on lessening her nerves so she can play “smart squash” instead of “scrappy squash.”
“I think on paper we’re a way stronger team. But we lost games we shouldn’t have lost,” she added.
The coach agreed, saying, “On paper we were supposed to win and we have—but how we did, the individual games, wasn’t perfect.... There are some things to work on: coming in maybe with a higher level of preparation, not being too relaxed even when you’re the higher-ranked team.”
Way praised the Williams squads. “Both teams looked very well prepared. The men’s team is very fit and just biting at the bit to play. You could just see it.”
Crimson freshman Matthew Roberts—who, competing at the No. 8 position, was one of two players whose matches went to five games—said, “I certainly didn’t underestimate my opponent. I just had an off day.”
After trading games with Ephs senior Jack Ervasti, 12-10, 6-11, 11-3, 5-11, Roberts eked out an 11-9 victory in the final game.
“We’ll take it,” Way commented grimly as the match ended.
At the adjacent court, Harvard’s No. 4 player Nigel Koh was up 10-8 in his fourth game against Williams senior Julian Drobetsky. Though Drobetsky worked hard to return shots to every corner of the court, diving to his knees a few times during a long and taxing volley, the Crimson junior finally won the point to take the match.
Many a volley went longer than usual, Gemmell said, because the teams’ coach had turned the heat up on the players—literally. She said that Way had adjusted the thermostat in the Murr Center so that the Crimson players could acclimate to conditions like those they will eventually face in major tournaments, where throngs of spectators make for stuffier temperatures. The heat, Gemmell said, makes the balls bounce higher, so the players need to build the endurance for longer games.
The Crimson played on Wednesday without the help of its star player on each team—sophomore Amanda Sobhy, the reigning national women’s champion, was out with an injury, and junior Ali Farag, last year’s national men’s champion, was “snowed under with academics,” Way said, in the thick of reading period.
Wednesday’s matchup was the teams’ last contest for five weeks. Several players said they looked forward to the chance to recharge during the long break.
Crimson freshman Sam Goldberg summed up the meeting with Williams, “I wouldn’t say we expected the games to be this close, but a win’s a win... I think a 9-0 result is pretty good.”
The night was especially good for Gemmell. In addition to cleanly handling her games, the senior told teammates as the contest was ending that she had just been accepted to a master’s degree program at Oxford.
—Staff writer Julie M. Zauzmer can be reached at jzauzmer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
This year, a President won re-election, a Korean popstar invaded YouTube, and Kate Middleton, well, owned life. Here are some things you might have missed. Just a note of caution: not everything is fit for Christmas dinner conversation.
1) For those who were able to read beyond what was on your syllabi, 2012 was an interesting year in literature. While J.K. Rowling came back with a new book (did anyone read it?), the best-selling book of 2012 is "Fifty Shades of Grey" by E.L. James. The question remains if this actually counts as literature, but at least it put a spark in your mother's book club.
2) For some reason, people seemed to enjoy the weird, convoluted mouth twist of U.S. gymnast McKayla Maroney. It's up to you to decide whether or not McKayla impressed you, but even President Obama has been rocking the look. Just so you know, McKayla probably won't be impressed by you.
3) We have binders for classes, research, and even for photographs. But 2012 took binders to the next level by putting women in the three-rings. In the second presidential debate, Mitt Romney, in describing his search for female appointees, used the phrase "binders full of women," thereby creating a comedic frenzy and provoking the hashtag #bindersfullofwomen and the Tumblr "Binders Full of Women."
4) Jump off of the Weeks Footbridge, and you get wet. Jump out of a hot air balloon 24 miles above ground, and you must be Felix Baumgartner. Hitting the speed of 834 miles per hour and breaking the sound barrier, this Austrian daredevil set the record for highest free fall.
5) Cory Matthews and Topanga Lawrence Matthews announced that they'll be starring in the Disney Channel's "Girl Meets World," a sequel to the 90s sitcom that will likely teach a new generation of preteens valuable lessons and life-skills. College students can watch the show for nostalgia's sake, but it won't be the same unless Mr. Feeney returns.
6) Americans found true southern hospitality watching Honey Boo Boo, star of TLC's "Toddlers and Tiaras" and "Here Comes Honey Boo Boo." While she may not be the classiest beauty pageant contestant, Ms. Boo Boo inspired us to "holla at dollas" and become coupon queens. Remember that time TLC stood for "The Learning Channel"?
7) Harvard takes on red meat. Researchers at the Harvard School of Public Health published a study linking red meat consumption with increased risk in mortality, drawing criticism from the American Meat Institute and other scientists. In other health-related news, researchers at Tel Aviv University found that eating cake with breakfast can help with weight loss.
8) What happens in Vegas doesn't always stay in Vegas. Prince Harry engaged in a casual game of strip pool in a VIP suite, and incriminating photos of everyone's favorite member of the Royal Family quickly circulated around the Internet. Talk about Royal Jewels.
9) What a comeback! After a year of crashed cars and unidentifiable white powders, Lindsay Lohan debuted as the enigmatic Elizabeth Taylor in the Lifetime Movie "Liz and Dick." It looks like LiLo is getting back on tra— oh wait, she was arrested last week for punching a fellow clubber in the face.
10) Carly Rae Jepsen asked us to call her, maybe. For the amusement of viewers around the world, the Harvard baseball team punched those digits. In a cover of one of this year's hottest songs, the team lip synced and danced their way to viral video glory. While this may have happened a while ago, here's why you should talk about it: 17 million other people are, too.
Sections
FM presents you with 15 seniors to meet before the 2013 graduation.
