News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 6, 2012, at 7:45 p.m.
Yale junior Brendan D. Ross, the driver of the U-Haul truck that killed a woman and injured two others at the Harvard-Yale football game this fall, was arrested on Friday and charged with negligent homicide with a motor vehicle and reckless driving, according to news reports.
At the tailgate preceding the Harvard-Yale Game, Ross’ rental truck hit three women, fatally injuring 30-year-old Nancy Barry of Salem, Mass. Another woman hit by the vehicle, Yale School of Management student Sarah Short, has filed a lawsuit against Ross and against U-Haul, alleging that her “severe painful and obvious injuries” may have been caused by Ross’ wrongdoing, for driving too quickly or failing to honk his horn, or may have been related to a mechanical problem with the truck.
Harvard employee Elizabeth Dernbach was also treated at a hospital for minor injuries following the collision.
Ross turned himself in to New Haven Police after finishing his last exam of the semester, according to the Associated Press. He was released on a promise to appear again in court of his own will.
According to the Yale Daily News, he is set to appear in court again on Monday.
Ross was reportedly driving kegs to his fraternity’s tailgate party when the accident occurred. He passed a sobriety test at the scene of the crash.
In November, Ross’s attorney William Dow said that the crash was a “tragic accident that appears to be the result of vehicle malfunction” in an interview with The Crimson. Dow could not be reached for comment regarding Ross’s arrest over the weekend.
Under Connecticut state law, the charge against Ross of negligent homicide with a motor vehicle is a misdemeanor. If convicted, Ross could face a a $2,500 fine and a maximum of six months in prison.
New Haven authorities could not be reached for comment.
In the aftermath of the crash, Yale has altered its tailgating policies. According to a statement from Yale in January, kegs will no longer be permitted at athletic events and functions, and oversized vehicles will be barred from the university lots unless driven by an authorized vendor. In addition, Yale will create a vehicle-free area for student tailgates. and tailgates will end at kickoff, after which point all students and guests must enter the stadium or leave the area.
Yale spokesperson Karen N. Peart declined to comment on Ross’ arrest further than to report that Ross “is enrolled” at Yale.
—Staff writer Julia K. Dean can be reached at juliadean@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
He has been ridiculed by some who see him as a geeky introvert, lauded  by others who deem him an ingenious visionary. In less than a year, his  interest in baseball statistics led him to become a renowned symbol of  an industry-changing revolution in a best-selling book and to be  pejoratively nicknamed “Google Boy” in the sports pages of the Los  Angeles Times.
Indeed, there are not many Harvard alumni whose work has been as  polarizing as Paul DePodesta ’95’s.  Now nearly 40 years old and with  his fifth major league franchise, it has been a roller coaster of a  career for the taciturn yet gifted executive who spent much of his  professional life at the forefront of a movement that has now become  mainstream.
DePodesta presently serves as Vice President of Player Development and  Amateur Scouting for the New York Mets, for whom he does the same thing  he has done every day for each of the past 15 years—watch hitters hit,  watch pitchers pitch, and then determine their futures in the game he  loves.
For despite all the presumptions and preconceptions that have come to  define him, and despite all the ebbs and flows that have taken him to  jobs spanning the country, nothing has been able to take DePodesta’s  passion for baseball away.
THE HARVARD YEARS
DePodesta arrived in Cambridge in the fall of 1990  fresh out of Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Virginia. He had been  recruited to Harvard as a baseball player, someone who “played a little shortstop, played a little centerfield, and  pitched a little bit...none of them particularly well.”
DePodesta had spent his youth playing a different sport every season,  never choosing one year-round. So it was no surprise that after focusing  on baseball early in his Harvard career, he developed an itch to return  to football, a game he had played since fifth grade.
In 1992, the Cabot House resident thus tried out as a wide receiver and  made the squad, and he spent his sophomore year trying to get by with the rigid schedule of a  dual-sport athlete.
“It was fun,” DePodesta recalls. “There was actually a group of us at the time who played on both teams.”
But after an injured shoulder suffered at the end of the following  spring left him effectively unable to throw, DePodesta soon realized his  baseball career was over. He decided to solely focus on football—where  he only needed to catch—and played his senior year in 1994 under current  Crimson coach Tim Murphy, who had just arrived from the University of  Cincinnati.
“Depo was not the most talented kid on the team, but he was a smart, tough, high-character guy,” Murphy recalls.
Often, it was DePodesta’s brain that stood out most quickly to his teammates.
“He  was a great guy, very friendly and very helpful in teaching the young  guys,” Colby Skelton ’98, a fellow receiver on the squad, wrote in an  email. “Not to mention extremely bright.”
DePodesta did his best to ensure people were aware of that intelligence,  often wearing a button-down shirt, khaki pants, and glasses (rather  than his preferred contact lenses) around campus so people did not view  him as “a dumb jock.” In the classroom, he made use of his smarts as an economics concentrator who also took a lot of psychology courses because he was particularly interested learning about the people around him and studying why others made certain decisions.
“On the one hand, I’ve always had some sort of facility with numbers,” he says. “But on the other hand, I was always interested in what some people would refer to as the softer  side of it too, and really trying to understand on a real world basis  why people do what they do.”
That education has led DePodesta to remember Harvard with a great fondness.
“I loved it,” he says. “It’s a great place and it was an incredibly  rewarding experience for me.... It’s not really until you’re out in the  rest of the world that you realize just how special all those people  are, how talented and bright they all are, and how lucky you are to be  surrounded by people like that on a daily basis, because it’s not like  that all the time. In a very general sense, that’s what stuck out for  me.”
As he neared graduation, like most of his peers, DePodesta went through  the recruiting process, hoping to find a job in baseball, the sport he had been forced to give up three years prior. But at that point, the MLB was on  strike, leading DePodesta to turn his focus to the NFL.
He sent his resume to a bunch of teams, but failed to get a positive  response. So he decided to take the one job in football he could get—an  unpaid internship with the now-defunct Baltimore Stallions of the  Canadian Football League.
“I viewed it as my equivalent of going backpacking for a summer, or something like that,” DePodesta says. “I sort of assured my parents that shortly thereafter I would get a real job.”
After a few months working for the Stallions, DePodesta made good on that promise, as the “real” job offer finally came.
MEMBER OF THE TRIBE
When the strike ended, DePodesta resumed applying to  jobs in baseball. In early 1996, he came across an internship in the player  development office of the Cleveland Indians, and he jumped at the chance  to break into the industry. But after following his passion to Ohio,  DePodesta quickly learned that he would have to work his way up from the  very bottom.
“When I started out in Cleveland, I was the minor league van driver in Spring Training,” DePodesta says. “It wasn’t the most glamorous thing in the world. I was literally shuttling players back and forth from the airport [and] taking the Latin players to their English classes.”
But DePodesta’s knowledge of the game quickly began to impress his  superiors, such as Mark Shapiro, a Princeton grad who is currently the  team’s president.
“It was very clear right from the start that Paul  was both extremely intelligent and very passionate about baseball, and  had an ability in just a short period of time to make an impact on our  organization,” Shapiro says.
Indeed, DePodesta made that impact more quickly than even Shapiro would  have expected. Following the ’96 season, though just 24 years old,  DePodesta was named Cleveland’s advance scout. At such a young age, he  felt unprepared for the job, which involved writing detailed reports on  the Indians’ opponents before each of the team’s games.
“Your typical advanced scout at the time was somebody who had literally  30 years experience in Major League Baseball,” DePodesta says. “They’d  probably been a player, a coach, a manger, etcetera. So to be honest, I really had absolutely nothing to contribute to the conversation at that point.”
So DePodesta decided to find something to contribute.
He began  looking for a unique way of evaluating talent, a manner of studying  players that was based on his own particular strengths. For even though  DePodesta did not have the baseball experience of his peers, he had  always had a brilliant mind, and like in college, he began thinking about  ways he could use that to his advantage.
“I felt that to be able to do that job with any sort of effectiveness whatsoever, I had to figure out a way to evaluate some of these players and evaluate  these situations [uniquely],” he says. “It was really more out of  necessity, because I didn’t have the experience that all these other scouts had.”
DePodesta thus began to look at the game in a manner many of the older  scouts had not. He developed an interest in sabermetrics, a method of  analyzing players through statistics and objective evidence, rather than  the subjective evaluation most scouts were doing at the time. The  approach was largely founded by Bill James in the 1970s, though  DePodesta admits he had not read a lot of James’ work at the time.
“Paul asked the question, ‘Why—is there a better way to do things?’”  explains Josh Byrnes, then a 26-year old Haverford graduate who worked  in the Indians organization with DePodesta. “He was always investigating  every aspect of the game and the business to see if there was an  advantage to be found.”
Byrnes, two years DePodesta’s senior, shared DePodesta’s interest in  analytics and so served as a mentor to the Harvard alum, often leaving  DePodesta his responsibilities as he moved up the organizational  ladder.
“He would give me the instructional guide on how to do the  job,” DePodesta says. “Each time he would challenge me to find a way to  do it better.”
And like Shapiro, Byrnes was immediately impressed by DePodesta’s ability to do so.
“Paul  was fantastic,” Byrnes says. “His passion for the game [and] his  intelligence [were immediately clear]. Any project or responsibility we  gave him, he generally made it better than it had been before.... From  day one he made a really big impact on the Indians.”
In Cleveland, the young duo spent three seasons learning from each other  while continuing to develop their fascination with sabermetrics.
“I think it was helpful that both of us were there at the same time,”  DePodesta says. “We worked together basically every single day for three  years, lived together in Spring Training and those kinds of things. We  never stopped talking about the game and trying to educate ourselves on  it.”
That education would begin to pay off very quickly for the young executive.
BRING YOUR "A" GAME
In  November 1998, DePodesta—who just a month prior had earned a promotion  to special assistant to the general manager, John Hart—was called into  Hart’s office and told the Oakland A’s had called and asked permission  to interview him for their assistant general manager position.
Billy Beane, the A’s GM, was faced with one of the smallest payrolls in  baseball and so was always looking to find diamonds in the rough. He  believed sabermetrics could help him pinpoint good players who lacked  eye-popping raw talent and thus had been overlooked by traditional  methods of scouting. Beane’s vision was to bring about an analytics  revolution in Oakland, and he viewed DePodesta as the perfect person to  help him do so.
The Harvard alum jumped at the opportunity, beating his mentor,  Byrnes—who was named the Colorado Rockies’ number two in October 1999—to  an assistant GM job by almost a full year.
“I was still just 25 years old; I couldn’t believe I was qualified for that type of position,” DePodesta says. “But Billy was very compelling. I felt like we had a chance to do something a little bit different in  Oakland. The Cleveland teams were so successful; they had such a dynamic  front office, and I had learned so much that I was anxious to go somewhere and really try it out myself.”
Indeed, Oakland and Cleveland were like two different planets in the  baseball universe, as the Indians had just made the World Series in 1997  and thus enjoyed a high payroll and nightly sellouts.
“We had plenty  of resources coming in [to Cleveland], so when it came time to make  decisions on the field, we were talking about whether or not to trade  for Randy Johnson or whether or not to sign Robbie Alomar—we were  talking about elite players,” DePodesta says.
“On the other hand, when I got to Oakland, the  first significant move we made that Billy was very excited about was  signing Olmedo Saenz to a minor league contract.... So it was a  different end of the spectrum, to say the least.”
The small budget meant that DePodesta’s numbers-based approach would be  even more indispensable to the A’s, who had to find good players that  other teams were overlooking in order to succeed.
“It forced us to be  that much more creative because we had one of the bottom three or four  payrolls in the game,” DePodesta says. “We didn’t have a lot of  established players, the way the Indians did.”
But DePodesta says that the perceived tension between the newer,  stats-based analytic approach he advocated and the more subjective one  of the older scouts was not as strong as it was famously depicted in  Michael Lewis’ book (and later film) “Moneyball: The Art of Winning an  Unfair Game.”
“I think it’s been overblown,” DePodesta says.  “Often times what’s portrayed in the book or even in the movie may be  what the sentiment was externally more so than really what it was  internally. Surely there were spirited debates at different times  internally, but they were always very respectful, with everybody largely  on the same page.”
In fact, unlike his early days in Cleveland, the Harvard graduate felt quite comfortable in in the A’s front office.
“I came up with a lot of my working theories because of an inadequacy of my own, which was a lack of experience,” he says. “I still had that with me even when I was in Oakland, so to the guys that did have a lot of experience, I tried to be very respectful and tried to learn as much from them as I possibly could. Even some of the ’metrics we came up with were things  that were born out of conversations we had with longtime scouts. So it  really was an organization which I think was bound together much more than has been portrayed.”
Indeed, the veteran scouts were often eager to hear what DePodesta had  to say. One of the things the young executive brought to the A’s front  office was a new way of analyzing a pitcher’s performance that focused  on how often he had finished at-bats within the first three pitches and  how often he was both ahead and behind in the count. The new technique  quickly helped the A’s develop starters such as the future “Big Three”  of All-Stars Tim Hudson, Mark Mulder, and Barry Zito.
And to help him effectuate such an approach, DePodesta hired Dave Forst  ’98—who had also played baseball at Harvard—as an assistant.
“It was a  small front office, so it was essentially just me, [Paul], and Billy on  the baseball operations side,” Forst says. “It was clear when I got here that Paul was incredibly smart and very forward-thinking in how he saw the game. I learned a ton from him right away.... And from the day I walked in the office, Paul was really good about including me and making sure I was part of everything.”
Thanks to their new method of finding talent, the A’s made the playoffs  in 2000 and 2001 despite their miniscule payroll. That drew the interest  of Lewis, the New York Magazine author who would write the book that  would land DePodesta in the national spotlight and make him the symbol  of a movement.
Initially planning to merely write a magazine article, Lewis sat in on  the A’s 2002 draft room, when the team had seven picks in the top 40  selections.
“I have to admit, it was probably the most emotionally-charged draft room I had ever been a part of,” DePodesta says. “In many respects Michael might have just gotten  very lucky with his timing. But at the end of that first day, I was in the back of the room with Michael getting some food and I said, ‘What’d you think?’ And he just shook his head and said, ‘This is way too rich. This isn’t an article. This is a book.’”
Though DePodesta says he felt uneasy about the writer potentially  revealing the A’s unique strategy to the team’s competition, that was  what Lewis did. By 2003 the rest of the baseball world had learned about  the A’s innovative approach to talent evaluation—and DePodesta’s  game-changing method of analysis.
“[Paul] was a major part of what Oakland was  doing,” says current Mets GM Sandy Alderson, who served as Beane’s  predecessor with the A’s and helped mentor Beane on baseball analytics.  “He was part of a group that broadened the scope  of sabermetrics and the development of more sophisticated approaches  [to talent evaluation].”
One person who took notice of DePodesta’s influence was Los Angeles  Dodgers owner Frank McCourt. As Beane’s right-hand man, DePodesta had  helped orchestrate A’s squads that made the playoffs again in 2002 and  2003, and McCourt wanted DePodesta to help his team achieve that same  type of success.
So the owner decided to offer DePodesta the Dodgers’ general manager job, and DePodesta accepted.
Forst  was promoted to fill his role as assistant GM—a position he still holds  today—while DePodesta had again beaten his former mentor to the top of  the ladder.
“I wasn’t surprised,” says Byrnes, who was named  GM of the Arizona Diamondbacks in 2005 and now serves in that role for  the San Diego Padres. “Paul’s success in Oakland was so dramatic. At  that time there were probably fewer small-market teams in the race, much  less going to the playoffs. They did it over several years—it was very  significant.”
Indeed, after having started out driving vans, Paul DePodesta had at long last made it to the top of the baseball hierarchy.
DODGING BULLETS
DePodesta was introduced as the new general manager  of the Dodgers on February 16, 2004. Just 31, he was the third-youngest  GM in MLB history at the time of his hiring.
“It was a tremendous opportunity,” DePodesta says. “They’re a storied  franchise, one that was on the West Coast, which was great for my  family.”
In Los Angeles, DePodesta was immediately at the helm of a  team in one of the biggest markets in the league, and compared to his  time with the A’s, it felt like he had nearly unlimited resources at his  disposal.
“I think one of the challenges in Oakland was  the constant turnover of players, and that was going to continue  indefinitely,” DePodesta says. “To go somewhere you had the chance to  build something, and then actually sustain it, was very appealing.”
DePodesta immediately put his newfound resources to good use. Following a  2004 season in which Los Angeles won the National League West—the first  time the Dodgers had made the playoffs in eight years—the GM went out  and signed J.D. Drew, Jeff Kent, and Derek Lowe to contracts worth a  combined 12 years and $112 million. It was a far cry from his days with  the A’s, when he had been forced to watch stars like Jason Giambi and  Johnny Damon depart for huge contracts with other organizations.
“He did a lot of good there,” Byrnes says. “Improved them in a lot of areas.”
But  as DePodesta had learned working under Beane, large contracts do not  guarantee success. The Dodgers stumbled to a 71-91 record in 2005, and  the L.A. media began to blame the general manager for the team’s  failures.
Specifically, there was the Los Angeles Times’ Bill Plaschke and T.J.  Simers, who derided DePodesta time and time again in their columns. The  pair had been vehemently opposed to DePodesta’s hiring from the start,  lambasting him as a “computer nerd,” someone who “relies on equations”  and “speaks in megabytes.” Simers added the nickname “Google Boy” in a  column entitled “Dodgers Come Up Short on New General Manager.” The pair  continued to deride DePodesta over the following year—saying he was  someone who could only “study the sport at a keyboard and play it in a  basement”—while continuously ripping the “Moneyball” approach itself,  claiming that “when with Oakland, [DePodesta] had been the most  invisible No. 2 executive in the game.”
“At the time, I didn’t feel he was suited for  his job,” Plaschke explains today. “He was very, very shy and wasn’t  into being the public speaker that the Dodger GM had to be. He had to be  out there—this was a job Branch Rickey once did.... [But] he wasn’t a  great communicator.”
To Plaschke, it was thus DePodesta’s personality, not his qualifications, that were the problem.
“Everyone thought I was against him because he was a saber guy, but that wasn’t true—I think numbers are great,” Plaschke explains. “But there’s also a human  element involved.... He’s a great number two guy, great guy behind the  scenes, but with his role with the Dodgers, he was out front every day.  He was clearly not comfortable with that role, and the team sort of took  their lead from that, and I think it affected the whole organization.”
Whether or not they were justified, the comments were said to play a  role in McCourt’s decision to fire DePodesta on October 29, 2005. The  columnists’ crusade to get the GM dismissed had worked, and just like  that the Harvard alum’s reign was over after just two seasons at the  helm.
In an ironic twist, DePodesta had lost his job in part because he had come to be seen as the geeky caricature that he had so desperately tried to portray in college.
“It  was unfortunate,” Forst says. “It seemed really unfair the way he got  treated by the media and how his tenure down there ended.”
But DePodesta says he does not resent Plaschke and Simers for their comments.
“I think when you get into these jobs, you know that’s the drill,” he  explains. “No matter what you do, it’s never going to meet 100 percent  approval.... So I never took any of that personally or too seriously; I always just tried to act in the best interests of the organization. It’s pretty easy to sleep at night when you do that.”
Indeed, DePodesta says he doesn’t feel any remorse about his time with the Dodgers.
“I learned a lot,” he says. “Are there things I would have done differently today than I did then because of what I know now? Absolutely. But I wouldn’t say I necessarily regretted doing the things I did.... The only thing is I wish we had the opportunity to finish the job there.”
BACK IN BUSINESS
After getting fired, DePodesta was not out of work  for long. On June 30, 2006, he was hired as the Special Assistant for  Baseball Operations for the San Diego Padres, and he was promoted to  Executive Vice President on November 10, 2008. Two years later,  DePodesta moved to New York to work for the Mets under Alderson, a  Dartmouth College and Harvard Law School graduate.
“Right now, my role is really to oversee player development, amateur  scouting, and also our international department,” he says. “But I think more generally the job is really to filter a foundation for the  organization, not just from a personnel standpoint, but also from a  philosophical standpoint.”
Due to that work, the Mets GM sees his fellow Harvard alum as an essential part of his front office.
“His  role goes far beyond statistical analysis and really goes to the heart  of our scouting and player development, which he oversees,” Alderson  says. “That operation is as much about scouting and leadership as it is  about analysis, so he brings a very broad range of talents to the job.”
Now with his fifth team, DePodesta says one of the perks of his career  is that the constant travel it entails allow him to keep in touch with  many of the Harvard classmates he left behind almost two decades ago.  But among people who have not seen him in so long, the popular interest  that accompanied “Moneyball” has led many to stereotype DePodesta as the  “Google Boy” he is portrayed as, rather than the innovator those who  know him best believe he has been.
“I think the biggest change [since the book was published] has just been people’s preconception or preconceived notion of who I am and what I’m about as a person,” he says. “Being able to make a first impression on them, that’s largely no longer possible for me, and I think that’s probably been the biggest challenge.”
DePodesta faced a decision on whether he wanted those presumptions to be  aggrandized on the big screen when “Moneyball” the movie was released  in September. His character was played by Jonah Hill, but the Harvard  alum chose to have his likeness not depicted in the movie—leaving Hill  to play a Yale graduate named Peter Brand.
Like Plaschke, Hill told The Crimson in September that he saw reticence, rather than intelligence, as the dominant part of his multifaceted character’s personality.
“You would never pick him out in a room of people,” Hill says. “He would just blend in with the wallpaper. I’ve played a lot of larger-than-life characters, and I think to play someone so small emotionally, and so quiet and reserved, was really exciting to me.”
Indeed, the man who had so greatly enjoyed studying others’  personalities in college psychology classes was being subject to the  same treatment himself—only this time, the whole country would be the  judges. And believing there to be misrepresentations in the script that  once again made him appear a nerdy caricature, DePodesta wanted no part of the film.
“I knew that with any movie, it’s not a documentary, so it’s not going to be 100 percent truthful,” DePodesta says. “I’m a bit of a stickler when it comes to the truth, and if this was the way for the historic record either that I was going to remembered [or] my work was going to be remembered...I just wasn’t going to be comfortable with it if it wasn’t going to be completely truthful.”
GAMECHANGER
Despite DePodesta’s quiet disposition, there is no doubt  his voice has been among the loudest in his field, and his work has had a  major influence on his peers.
“He was very much a mentor to me, and I learned a lot from him about the decision-making process and how to  think analytically and really just how to conduct yourself in a major  league front office,” says Forst, who many now see as Beane’s heir  apparent. “I’m grateful for the opportunities he gave me and everything I learned from working underneath him.”
According to Alderson, the analytics DePodesta has been so passionate  about throughout his career plays a major role in every baseball front  office today.
“The interest in sabermetrics has changed  dramatically,” Alderson says. “Sabermetrics now has a tremendous  influence on virtually all baseball decisions—not an exclusive  influence, but a significant one. Part of that is a result of broader awareness of the relationship between that kind of analysis and performance evaluation; part of it was the exponential growth in the availability of data which  drives much of the analysis today and makes it far more sophisticated  than 30 years ago.”
“Paul was one of the many bright people who were at the forefront of  pushing statistics,” Shapiro adds. “The amount of time and quality of  the inputs that go into decision-making have dramatically changed.”
DePodesta, too, has seen a major transformation during his 15-year career in the Big Leagues.
“There’s no doubt that since [Moneyball] came out there’s been a big shift in the industry, and now I think virtually everybody employs somebody, if not a team of people who  are devoted to analytics,” he says. “There’s just been an absolute  tidal-wave of available information over the course of that time, and I think within the industry it’s become a phenomena, in terms of data  becoming more available and therefore more relevant in the  decision-making.”
Even Plaschke is starting to come around, realizing he may have been too  hard on the former Dodgers GM who now appears to have been ahead of his  time as analytics becomes increasingly mainstream.
“I didn’t give him much of a chance,” Plaschke says. “Now looking back on it, I think if we had understood his philosophy better, I think we would’ve given him a break on his lack of personal skills...at the time it was all very new.”
Plaschke even thinks DePodesta deserves another shot at a GM job, though he says he’d be better off in a smaller market.
“I told him that ‘you’ve got to go back into it in a place where you’re  comfortable, because your baseball evaluation skills are sound,’”  Plaschke says. “I think he would be great to help lead a small-market team back to respectability, absolutely.”
“He’s one of the smarter guys out there, so if he wants to [be a GM] again, I think he deserves another shot at it,” Forst adds.
But right now, DePodesta is content right where he is.
“As long as I have a lot of autonomy in what I’m doing and feel like I’m making an impact, I’m not too concerned about what the title on my business card says,” he explains.
Indeed, Paul DePodesta is happy to work under the radar. But in many  ways, it’s already too late.  For though at Harvard a shoulder injury  ended his playing career, one thing that went undamaged was his mind—and  using that, DePodesta rose to the forefront of one of baseball’s most  storied franchises and helped spark a revolution that changed the game  he loves forever.
—Staff writer Scott A. Sherman can be reached at ssherman13@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the second straight season, the injury-riddled New York Knicks find themselves in a 3-0 hole going into what might possibly be their final game of the season.
Starting point guard and energizer Jeremy Lin ’10, who has been out since March 24 with a slight meniscus tear in his knee continues to make progress in his recovery.
But it appears as though the eager Madison Square Garden crowd will have to wait at least a little while longer for his return. While the Harvard alum initially eyed Sunday’s Game 4 to make his anticipated return, his knee injury proved too much to overcome.
"I haven't been able to load it or jump or explode or drive by somebody the way I want to, so it's going to be longer than that," Lin said.
New York is also currently missing starting power forward Amare Stoudemire who is out indefinitely due to lacerations in his left hand.
Reports about his return have been mixed. Interim coach Mike Woodson told ESPN reporter Stephen A. Smith, "I think he's going to play [game four].”
Stoudemire is less certain. "It's still doubtful,” he told Smith. “We'll see how I feel tomorrow, and even after tomorrow.”
If the Knicks, which have lost 13 straight playoff games, can somehow reverse their fortunes and find a way to pull out a win in game four without two of their prime performers, there is a chance Lin will return against the Heat.
"I don't really want to say I am or am not, I just want to take it day by day," he said. "Game 4 doesn't look great. I mean, Game 5, I have no idea," he said
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Every week, The Crimson publishes a selection of articles that were printed in our pages in years past. 
May 3, 1927: New Manter Hall to Rise Soon
The final plans for the Manter Hall School's new building which will  be located at the corner of Mount Auburn and Holyoke Streets have been  approved and work will start immediately.  The building which has been  designed by the firm of Adden and Parker will be four stories high of  red brick and will be architecturally in harmony with the colonial style  now so prevalent throughout the University.  Originally to be only  three stories high, it was found that more room was necessary and the  fourth floor which has been added to the plans will be given over  entirely to dormitory rooms for students in the school.
The  basement will be a grill room and the ground floor space will be rented  to stores.  The second and third floors will be used for classrooms with  the main entrance leading to them opening onto Mt. Auburn Street.
May 2, 1941: University Professors Broadcast to European Countries Through WRUL
Messages of cheer and hope for eventual democracy and freedom are  daily being broadcast over radio station WRUL to all the European  nations by many prominent news commentators and a large group of Harvard  professors and instructors.
Conceived in 1920 by Walter S.  Lemmon in an attempt to start a world university of the air to spread  knowledge and goodwill among all nations, it was not until 1935, at the  time when Harlow Shapley, Payne Professor of Practical Astronomy and  director of the Harvard Observatory, became a trustee of the then  newly-formed World Wide Broadcasting Foundation, that transmission  really began.
May 2, 1968: Mrs. King to Give Class Day Speech
Mrs. Martin Luther King will take the place of her late husband as a speaker at Class Day on June 12.
The  1968 Class Committee had originally invited King as its own guest  speaker to discuss the issues of civil rights and the Vietnam war.
But  after King was assassinated on April 4 in Memphis, Tenn.—only a week  after he accepted the Harvard engagement—the Committee extended the  invitation to Mrs. King, and she has acceped.
May 4, 1970: Mass Meeting Set Tonight to Approve Antiwar Strike
A broad coalition of antiwar groups has called a University strike meeting for tonight.
The strike was conceived as part of the spreading national university strike in protest against the War in Indochina.
A  meeting of representatives from the groups who joined in the strike  call selected Carol R. Sternhell '71, managing editor of the CRIMSON.  and Charles G. Gross '57, lecturer in Psychology, to serve as  co-chairmen of the mass meeting.
May 4, 1981: Harvard Band Members Defend Their Halftime Humor Shows
The Council of Ivy Group Presidents' recent advice that the schools'  bands curtail sexual innuendo and political jokes of "questionable  taste" during football games prompted Harvard Band members to defend  their half-time shows yesterday.
Parent and alumni complaints  about several recent, well-publicized instances of musical indiscretion  led to the council's action.  During a game several years ago,  television coverage was interrupted when Yale's band dropped its pants  in front of the cameras.
—Compiled by Nikita Kansra and Julie M. Zauzmer.
Sections
Next Saturday students will turn in the last batch of final exams and the 2011-2012 school year will be officially complete. The class of 2012, which only has a few tests, senior week, and Commencement ahead of them, can attest to the fact that your Harvard experience really will finish before you can say "Primal Scream." While there is no way to slow the passing of time, Flyby suggests that you take advantage of your remaining weeks, semesters, or years here and partake in those Harvard traditions that you will regret forgoing after graduation.
Jump off the Charles Bridge!
The toxicity of the Charles is ubiquitous, but the river has been cleaned up, really! You won't spend a great deal of time in the water anyway, and therefore you'll be completely safe as long as you watch out for boat traffic, bacteria, blue-green algae, and the occasional alligator.
Ring the Bells
Tired of hearing those boisterous Lowell Bells, but secretly wishing that you could ring them yourself? Make the trek to Lowell bell tower on a Sunday at 1 p.m. It's open to anyone who wishes to give noise making a try, all you have to do is make your way up to the top of F entry way. Lowellians, we apologize in advance.
Visit ALL the Libraries
Harvard has a pretty impressive offering of libraries, and yes, they extend beyond Lamont, Widener, and Cabot. Visit all of them and get a taste for our extensive and diverse collections. We leave to your discretion the activities you choose to engage in upon arrival.
Kong
Maybe you've been watching your caloric intake or maybe you haven't been in the right to state to enjoy fine dining at the Kong. Whatever your reason for avoiding the establishment, we must insist that you partake in a Scorpion bowl and late night Chinese food before you call yourself a Harvard graduate.
The Three Tasks
Accomplishing the Three Tasks before graduating is like section readings: technically mandatory, generally ignored by most, but totally worth it—or so they say—for those that get around to doing them.
Read in the Secret Garden
Located behind the all-too-familiar facade of our beloved Lamont, is a secret garden hidden from Mass Ave by a high wall. Step through the wrought-iron gate between Wigglesworth and Lamont to enjoy Dudley Garden, an intimate space that's perfect for enjoying a good book. Hey, we came here to read and learn didn't we?
Anything else worth doing? Let us know by leaving a comment.
Sections
Tired of Lamont? Stop by b.good from 9:30 to 11 p.m. for a free shake, courtesy of UC Restaurants and DAPA Deals. After all, you deserve it!
