News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This Monday was supposed to see the start of the trial of Al Baghdadi al Mahmoudi, the former Prime Minister of Libya under Moammar Gaddafi. He is facing charges of corruption and the ordering of mass rape during last year’s uprising. The trial was scheduled to start only four days after Libya’s parliament swore in their Prime Minister Ali Zeidan’s cabinet, the first democratically elected government Libya has seen in four decades. Although al Mahmoudi’s trial has been postponed for a month, Oct. 20, 2012 marked the one-year anniversary of former Libyan ruler Muammar Gaddafi’s death and al Mahmoudi’s trial is an important reminder that, although Libya is moving in the right direction, Gaddafi’s legacy continues to present challenges for Libya’s transition to democracy.
In his 40 years of power, Gaddafi suppressed Libyan civil society, violently repressing any perceived threat to his rule. Gaddafi was ruthless and unforgiving. University students, a source of potential for change, knew this all too well. In April 1977, following university student protests in 1976, Omar Dabbob and Mohammaad ben Saud were hanged in public on the campus of Tripoli’s Al-Fateh University. Leaving nothing to chance, the hangings were broadcast on state television, in case anyone was still unaware of the consequences of dissent. The students had held anti-Gaddafi protests in light of his declaration banning all independent student unions. Between 1977 and 1984, April 7 was a day of annual public student executions and a tragic symbol of the demise of Libyan civil society.
Although civil society is showing promising signs of revival, it is still incredibly weak after decades of violence and oppression. Since Ghaddafi’s death, private media has been allowed to operate again, seeing a proliferation of services such as an English-only radio channel. Such services would have been unheard of under Ghaddafi’s rule and have helped move Libya’s press to be given the status “partly free” in the 2012 Freedom House Index. These tentative signs of progress, while positive, are exactly that: tentative. Only last year, the Freedom House Global Press Freedom Index placed Libya fourth to last, narrowly beating Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and North Korea.
Libya’s weak civil society is also threatened by a traditionally divided Libya. Libya has always been a country more divided, both regionally and tribally, than unified. One of Gaddafi’s political talents was to manipulate the rival sentiments between regions, cities and tribes in a classic divide-and-conquer or, more accurately, a divide-and-control maneuver. Today, these exacerbated natural divisions in society are compounded by the current ubiquitous presence of firearms. October 24 saw government aligned militias, finally, proclaiming victory over Gaddafi loyalist militias in Bani Walid, a Gaddafi loyalist hold out. It had taken them an entire year.
That Bani Walid was won by government-aligned militia, not by the government military force, is an important distinction, reflecting the weakness of the central government. Only two hours west of Bani Walid is the city of Misurata, transformed in the past year into a de facto city-state by all the violence. Visitors are greeted by a formidable wall of checkpoints and a ready view of armed militias guarding the city borders.
One year after Gaddafi, Libya has defied critics’ fears of a civil war. But with a weak civil society marred by tribal and regional factionalism, Zeidan and his government must focus strengthening the foundations of civil society and reconciliation. Calls a year ago to form various Truth and Reconciliation Committees, inspired by the South African focus on accuracy and healing, should not be forgotten. The process of reconciliation is just as important of an antidote to decreasing violence as law enforcement, both in the long and short term.
Recently the International Criminal Court has asked that Libya not grant amnesty to Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, former heir-apparent. While Zeidan and his government might be tempted to grant amnesty to past perpetrators, the process of reconciliation requires thinly balancing the need for a country to forget and move on, and the need for a country to remember.
Reconciliation on a more national, or collective, level is essential for a country to come to terms with its past. The role of “TRCs” lies in their ability to introduce to society a respect for the rule of law. By creating peace and stability through the rule of law, reconciliation will be a key component to a successful transition to democracy for Libya.  Hence, it is important that Zeidan does not extend amnesty to Saif al-Islam Gaddafi and that he allows the ICC to continue their inquiries.
The recent Libyan focus on individual trials as a way of reckoning with the past should be supplemented by a strategy to include all stakeholders of the conflict. Since Libya faces the danger of factionalism, TRCs should focus on “group sessions” where tribes come together in a safe space to have meaningful dialogue.
Four decades of repression and violence will not die overnight; it will be a long process, surely dented by a few setbacks here and there. But it is important to start the process now.
Anja C. Nilsson ’15, a Crimson editorial writer, is a sophomore in Currier House. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Crimson staff has on more than one occasion lamented the rise of misguided alcohol policy at Harvard College. Unfortunately, it appears that the College's recently revised regulations represent yet another instance of alcohol policy gone awry.
The newly introduced policy promises to promote student safety by placing restrictions on drinking games, limiting the kinds of alcohol that can be served at House parties, and sanctioning a number of other regulations on alcohol use. Limitations on high-risk drinking may seem well advised, but one must consider the inconvenient reality that University restrictions on alcohol use are unlikely to have any significant impact on student behavior. Instead, the new alcohol policy has introduced and reinforced a set of vague, myopic rules that will do little to promote campus safety.
Bizarrely, both the new policy’s equivocal language and the prevarication of administrators are entirely at odds with what should be one of the main goals of a policy on alcohol use: to make regulations transparent to students. Perhaps administrators have left the rules vague with the intention of restricting a wide range of alcohol-related activities. The policy’s vague language is unlikely to accomplish this goal, but its frustrating ambiguity virtually guarantees that it will neither be observed nor always taken seriously by students. For example, undergraduates are still uncertain of whether they are allowed to play games like beer pong, a ubiquitous activity at dorm parties, and the administration continues to remain silent on this question. Administrators ought instead to make expectations clear rather than enforcing nebulous policies at their own discretion.
More problematic than the policy’s ambiguity, however, is the administration’s paternalistic insistence on enforcing rules that extend well beyond Massachusetts drinking law. Such unconstructive rules demonstrate a woeful failure to understand the realities of undergraduate life. Restrictions on drinking games, the amount of alcohol that may be present at parties, and other alcohol-related activity will not diminish the centrality of alcohol in undergraduate culture. Students will carry on playing drinking games, many of which are conducted safely and responsibly, irrespective of administrative disapproval.
If the goal of the new alcohol policy is to advance student safety, it is ironic that the behavioral change that is perhaps most likely to result from the policy is detrimental to student welfare. Rather than motivating students to curb irresponsible drinking, the policy will further incentivize students to relocate drinking to off-campus venues, most notably final clubs, where they do not have immediate access to tutors and other critical resources. Moreover, final club property is predominantly male-owned and operated and can engender environments that are unsafe for women.
Classics professor Richard F. Thomas, one of the faculty members who voted to implement the new policy, has stated that “the making of rules is not necessarily going to create adherence to them.” We question, then, what might have motivated administrators to authorize an undue expansion of the College's alcohol policy. It is possible that the new policy successfully covers a liability for the University. While liability should be a matter of significant concern, all parties involved surely agree that it should not take precedence over a weighted consideration of student safety.
We urge the University to avoid introducing regulations on alcohol that go beyond what is mandated by Massachusetts law. If Harvard is to prioritize student welfare, it cannot justify authorizing social policies that misdiagnose the source of campus safety risks and undermine student autonomy.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I’m a registered Republican opposed to the death penalty, and I’m disappointed that’s a surprising statement. I’m also disappointed that California voters rejected Proposition 34 last Tuesday, which would have repealed the state’s death penalty law.
But I didn’t always feel this way.
I grew up under the guidance of conservative parents, and while they certainly influenced my early political views (as all of our parents inevitably do), I’ve always been independently attracted to the values of personal responsibility and individual liberty—values I believe the Republican Party represents. I respected, as I still do, our nation’s commitment to spreading American values of freedom and democracy all over the world. I admired, as I still do, the American allegiance to due process and justice. And I supported capital punishment, for I believed that those who take the lives of innocent victims deserve to die. By disrespecting their fellow citizens’ right to liberty in the most irresponsible, gruesome, and loathsome way, those citizens, I believed, lost the right to their own liberty—and their very lives.
Then, a dear friend encouraged me to watch a lecture entitled “We Need to Talk About an Injustice,” by Bryan A. Stevenson, the founder and executive director of the Equal Justice Initiative, a non-profit firm that provides legal representation to indigent defendants and prisoners who have been denied fair and just treatment in the legal system.
Part of his death penalty discussion started the thought process that would lead me to change my mind. Stevenson said, “In many ways, we’ve been taught to think that the real question is, ‘Do people deserve to die for the crimes they’ve committed?’ And that’s a very sensible question. But there’s another way of thinking about where we are in our identity. The other way of thinking about it is not ‘Do people deserve to die for the crimes they commit?’ but ‘Do we deserve to kill?’”
Stevenson was telling me that it was okay to ask whether murderers deserve to die; perhaps it was even okay for me to believe that they do. But according to Mr. Stevenson, I was forgetting to ask a more important question—one that renders the other irrelevant. My belief that murderers deserve to die didn’t mean I had to support the death penalty. In fact, if I was committed to the American principles of liberty, responsibility, due process, and justice, I should vehemently oppose it.
There are a myriad of reasons to oppose capital punishment. Stevenson speaks at length about the discrimination against minorities and the poor that pervades the criminal justice system—and the alarming frequency of error in capital cases. Others cite the enormous financial burden associated with the death penalty; indeed, nearly all cost studies agree that capital punishment is far more expensive than a system with a maximum penalty of life without parole. Still others claim that the death penalty has ceased to be an effective deterrent to crime and is therefore an unnecessary evil.
But the bottom line is this: governments do not have the right to kill those whom they have imprisoned. We are not obligated to feel sympathy for those who have committed violent crimes; indeed, “an eye for an eye” often seems a deserved punishment, especially for murderers. But that’s irrelevant, because although murderers might deserve to die, we—as a society, as individuals—do not deserve to kill.
In “Take this Sabbath Day,” an episode from Season 1 of the popular television drama The West Wing, President Bartlet asks his young assistant Charlie, “The guy who shot your mother… would you want to see him executed?” Charlie responds, “I wouldn’t want to see him executed, Mr. President—I’d wanna do it myself.” I cannot imagine the magnitude of grief experienced by the family and friends of a murdered loved one. Those who have committed such crimes must be brought to justice. But man is responsible for justice, not vengeance. The two are quite different.
Society has a right to protect itself and even to punish. But it has no right to avenge and certainly no right to kill. In that same episode of The West Wing, Father Cavanaugh offers the President an even stronger reason to oppose the death penalty, in my opinion: “‘Vengeance is mine, sayeth the Lord.’ You know what that means? God is the only one who gets to kill people.” God alone has the power to avenge—to repay. We must leave it to Him.
While it’s unfortunate that Prop 34 didn’t pass, the decline in California voters’ support of capital punishment—from over 70 percent in 1978 when the death penalty was established to only 53 percent today—is a hopeful sign that the state is moving toward abolition, and that other states will follow suit. Republicans must help in this movement. This is not a partisan issue, for the American identity itself stands in opposition to capital punishment. I seek first to convince my own party of that truth. We all need to talk about an injustice. And we all need to help correct it. It might make us “tired, tired, tired,” as Mr. Stevenson quotes at the end of his lecture, “which is why we gotta be brave, brave, brave.”
Molly A. Wehlage ’13 is a government concentrator in Dunster House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I stare blankly at my computer screen. Several cups of coffee just aren’t doing it for me today. I’m reading the computer science code over and over again, but none of it is sinking in. At this point, I’m just flipping through the pages of past exams. If these papers are any indication of the level of difficulty of tomorrow’s midterm, then it’s going to be a rough night.
I can’t take it anymore. I shut down my computer, pour myself a glass of whiskey, and go to bed. It’s 11:04 p.m.
As I lay in bed, my mind drifts. When was the last time I went to bed before midnight? I feel oddly comfortable. This is the first time in my life I have given up on studying for a midterm. This is the first time I have shot myself in the foot when it came to grades. Before now, no matter how hard the material I have encountered, I would have rather allowed my roommate to literally shoot me in the foot than to let myself throw away a grade so easily.
It’s that time of the year, and I have had enough. And I know I am not the only one. It is two days until the Game, and Thanksgiving is right around the corner. No matter where I go, I hear students speak longingly about Thanksgiving dinners with their parents. I see their looks of despair as they queue up to have their bags checked by Lamont security for the umpteenth time this week. Everyone is tired. And all of you deserve a break.
College is not just about maximizing your GPA and handing in everything on time. Sometimes, it is better if we sit back, relax, and just enjoy the fantastic show that is our time at Harvard. Overworking yourself not only stresses you out to the point that you cannot enjoy other aspects of your Harvard experience, but it will also negatively impact your grades in the long term.
We always talk about “midterm season” and “hell weeks,” but let’s be honest. There is no “midterm season.” There are no “hell weeks.” Harvard, like any other university, is a constant onslaught of papers, projects, presentations, and midterms. The work never stops. We students are prone to a dangerous line of thought: If I can just get this one paper in or finish this one midterm or submit this one project, then everything is going to be okay. This attitude will only lead to continual disappointment, as you slowly realize that the workload is not getting lighter and you are simply running out of steam as the semester continues to drag on.
The problem here is not about the amount of work we have. Harvard, like any top tier school, is meant to challenge us to perform in high-pressure situations. Rather, we need to change our attitudes towards the way we tackle work. The attitude of “it’ll be over after the next one” will only stress you out when you tackle your next assignment, which will affect your performance in the long term. We need to escape this mentality, which will only hinder our potential to perform on other assignments throughout the semester.
I have found that the best way to inject energy into myself is to break my dull class-study-worry-eat-worry-study-sleep routine. When was the last time you tried a new restaurant in the Square? When was the last time that you and your blockmates took a trip to Boston? When was the last time you saw a film in theaters? If you are a Lamonster, ban yourself from studying there over the weekend. Riverlings should try studying in the Quad and keep the lonely Quadlings company.
This is not to say that some people have not gotten it right. Last week, I visited my friend and found her two roommates watching “Mean Girls” while giggling in bed. It turns out that they spent their entire Saturday having a movie marathon. I was shocked. Did they not have any work to do? Why weren’t they at a meeting for one of the seven extracurricular activities they must be a part of? It was strange to think that it is possible to have a good time at Harvard without constantly worrying about the next step. College is meant to be the best time of our lives—so we should stop fussing, relax a little bit, and make it the best time of our lives.
So I am not going to do a single problem set, do any readings, or study for any tests this weekend. I will muster as much school pride as I can and be ridiculous with my blockmates at the tailgate. I may even chant, “It’s all right, it’s okay, you’re going to work for us someday” at some poor Yalies. I will then fly off to Puerto Rico with my best friends and continue to do no work whatsoever. Because I know when I get back, I will be able to head into a new round of work revitalized, optimistic, and focused. Join me, and be equally lazy as I am at the moment because, to use the oft-quoted phrase, you only live once.
Heather L. Pickerell ’15, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Mather House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
With the academic energy on campus at its second-round-of-midterms high, a stroll around the Square can be comforting—if you can avoid bumping into tour guides donning eighteenth century garb and don’t mind waiting 20 minutes to drop $6 on Starbucks drip coffee. For those moments when you need a quiet reprieve from campus life, and don’t want to run the risk of bumping into your chatty lab partner at Algier’s, FM offers a map of cafes within walking distance from Harvard Square.
The Biscuit
You’ll find The Biscuit on a quiet residential corner, a 10-minute walk down Kirkland Street past William James Hall. With pale blue walls hosting still lifes of fruits and vegetables, The Biscuit offers rows of loaves of delicious-smelling breads as well as coffee, tea, and creative pastries. I had the fruit bread, a bread with peach slices at its center and walnuts and ricotta cheese surrounding, all topped with a sweet glaze—possibly, if not definitely, the most delicious thing I have ever eaten. There is a good amount of seating, as well as a patio outside. This may be the best place for people watching—everyone in the café was sporting a black pea coat and either tapping on a MacBook or having an animated conversation. One woman sitting near me kept snorting loudly at the man across from her, calling him a “shitshow.”
Simon's Too
Down Mass. Ave. toward Boston, Simon’s Too sits on a corner across from Cambridge College. An outpost of the popular Simon’s Coffee in Porter Square, it offers paninis and salads in addition to its parent shop’s coffee and tea. The décor reminded me of a Chipotle, stark and impersonal. Exposed brick and small red tile surrounds the seating area, which is scattered with low hardwood tables and metal chairs. It’s not that Simon’s Too endeavors to be a fast-food burrito place, it just hasn’t grown into itself yet.Having opened this Fall, it’s not even on Google Earth. I tried the chai tea latte ($3.69), which surpassed my expectations. Only a short walk from campus and without WiFi, it provided a quiet ambience to get some work done—a pset kind of place.
Andala Coffee House
With an awning strung with twinkling white Christmas lights, a patio surrounded from three sides by windows, and outdoor seating, Andala is that cute café you wish you had down the block when you were growing up. Oriental carpets line the walls as well as the floors; colorful hookahs dangle from mantles; nooks, strewn with pillows, curve along the walls. Besides offering coffee, pastries, and one extremely delicious blueberry muffin, Andala serves Israeli food such as tabouli and lamb’s leg (entrees are an average of $12). The restaurant continues down the stairs to a lower level, where the sounds of chatting cooks emanate from the open kitchen. Andala seems like the perfect place to grab a lazy brunch on a Sunday and languish for a few hours in a cozy nook.
Sherman Cafe
Farther down Washington Street in Union Square is Sherman Cafe. Upon walking in, I was immediately entranced by the David Bowie soundtrack (“Hunky Dory”) and the vegan cupcakes (pumpkin: absolutely delicious). A big chalkboard on the wall touts the local places from which they acquire their meat and cheese, giving Sherman’s an organic, “locavore” feel. The menu boasts cheese plates, vegetables, and sandwiches all for around $6. For the uber-connected, there is free WiFi. Although it was farther down the same street, the crowd was much different than The Biscuit. Middle-aged women sat and chatted, as did some students hunched over their laptops. Low wooden tables bear the scars of watery cup bottoms. The window sill has several potted plants and is strewn with books with titles like “Urban Homesteading” and “Earl Mindell’s Anti-Aging Bible.” It’s a bit of a walk from campus, but so worth it if you need a quiet reprieve from a book enclave or have a hankering for local cheese.
Voltage Coffee and Art
Voltage Café is, without a doubt, the coolest coffee shop in which I have ever set foot. Located in sleek Kendall Square by MIT, it is surrounded by glass and metal buildings and steak restaurants where million-dollar venture capital deals are made. At the counter,  jars of chocolate pretzels, nuts, chocolate-covered coffee beans, and banana chips are sold by the scoop. Voltage’s small menu offers nothing over $5, and is populated with teas, coffee, and small sandwiches (the agave & salt toast is a must). Once I walked past the counter I was a bit confused—was the coffee shop attached to a gallery? Walls sectioning off the shop are decorated with sinister photographs and paintings: random houses in the dark and blurry black-and-white street scenes. There is an excellent WiFi signal, and at a nearby table two young men in oversized black glasses and hoodies were discussing a new iPhone app and marketing schemes. Go there if you want a cheap snack in a gallery, to satisfy your cultural craving, or to overhear chatter of the next Twitter.
Sections
The air was dry. Not a sticky heat, the type that made droplets of sweat spring up across your arms; this was different, worse, stagnant, exhausting. It was the sort of weather that stuck in your throat, left you grabbing and spitting at the team’s green Gatorade water bottles by half time. This was Saint Helena. Wine country.
Once or twice a season, the girls’ soccer team would pile onto one of those yellow school buses with the characteristic vinyl seats. Hard, lumpy, narrow, and just plain uncomfortable—these could only have been designed by an engineer in a sadistic frame of mind, someone who really wanted to give a generation of kids a pain in the ass.
Unleashed from the classroom at 10:00 a.m., just two hours into the school day, the team would change into oversized, purple warm-ups and swarm the bus looking like a bunch of giant grapes headed off to be crushed. As the bus driver stood in front giving the mandatory safety-and-seatbelts lecture, ear buds, books, homework, blankets, and pillows would emerge from backpacks and sports duffels. The team would settle in for the cramped, bumpy ride.
The trip from our small, coastal Northern California town to Saint Helena in Napa County took three hours. Cliffs, redwood forests, mountain passes, and vineyards—it was a beautiful drive, but you can only marvel at the scenery for so long before the tediousness begins to sink in. After a while, there are just too many trees to care, and a new orchard of picturesque grapevines is just a mark of how much further you still have to go.
The team was dismissed from school early in the hope that, even with a three-hour bus ride and a 30-minute lunch break, we would arrive at the field in time for an hour-long warm-up session before the game. But we never did. One of the girls would forget to show up at the bus or get stuck in the line at the pit stop. In the end, we would make it to the parking lot, struggle out of our seats still tying the laces of our cleats, stretching out our cramped limbs with only 15 or 20 minutes left to kick the ball around before the captains were called to choose sides.
Saint Helena’s field was gorgeous. Surrounded by a thin fringe of delicate trees, and just in sight of the mountains, the track was rubberized, terracotta-colored, encompassing the only astro-turf field in the league. Built through large gifts from local alumni, Saint Helena’s manicured beauty and expensive playing surface stood out in a league full of dusty dirt tracks and pot-holed fields.
Championships were held there. Coaches talked about it. The newspaper even ran stories. This place was a big deal, and everyone knew it.
As we trekked from the bus to the field laden with sports bags, ball bags, and medical bags, St. Helena rolled a carpet of astroturf across the track.
It wasn’t quite a welcome mat, it was more a “please-don’t-ruin-our-nice-new-track-by-stepping-on-it-with-your-cleats” mat, but it still made the place feel grander, more intimidating.It wasn’t just their field, their soccer team was good, too—maybe not the best in the league, but never far behind. They played tough but not dirty. Their moves were simple but still fluid enough that you had yourself convinced that it was just an accident that the ball somehow ended up in the scoring zone.
Playing on turf was a different game. The ball moved faster. Passes went farther. The pace was quicker, and the ball went out of bounds more often. We were never quite ready for it.
The turf itself was nasty stuff. Thin green plastic strands held down by little black rubber pebbles that heated up in the Napa sunshine, leaving the field surrounded by the slight, fuzzy haze of warm, unbreathable air. True, the pebbles were fun to play with as you sat in a circle stretching, but they would inevitably stick to your back and legs as you stood up. Weeks later, you would be going through your soccer bag only to find little bits of black rubber clinging to a warm-up jacket. The fake grass that looked so smooth, flowing across the field left wicked red welts on your arms and legs when you slide tackled or tripped up—every Saint Helena game left my knees and elbows rubbed raw for weeks.
My last trip with the team was a late October night game at Saint Helena my senior year. By half time, the weather had cooled and the stadium lights were on. It was always a little magical playing under the lights. Surreal. Disembodying.
That year, they had a pair of identical twins on the team—number 12 and number 21. Optical illusion generally isn’t part of soccer, but it certainly was an effective offense. Turn one way and you had the girl covered, turn the other and you realized the real problem was her sister already halfway down the field. It was a close game—one to two. We lost.
We were done, and I made my peace with it. It was time to be over. We left then, turning our backs to the pretty stadium, returning to our bus for a ride home that, while it might have been uncomfortable, was also undeniably enjoyable. Laughing with girls I had played with for years, there was no need now to resent the better team with their fancy equipment and turf field. And who were we kidding—we would have lost even if their field was plain old grass.
Weeks later. as I emptied my soccer bag, I laughed when I found scattered black rubber balls clinging to the bottom of the duffle. Saint Helena never did seem to give up.
Sections
Just once I knew what life was for. In Boston, quite suddenly, I understood;walked there along the Charles River,watched the lights copying themselves,all neoned and strobe-hearted, openingtheir mouths as wide as opera singers;counted the stars, my little campaigners,my scar daisies, and knew that I walked my loveon the night green side of it and criedmy heart to the eastbound cars and criedmy heart to the westbound cars and tookmy truth across a small humped bridgeand hurried my truth, the charm of it, homeand hoarded these constants into morning only to find them gone.
—Anne Sexton, “Love Poems,” 1969
One time I knew what life was for, in Cambridge along the Charles. We walked alone against snow that stuck to my hair and melted on my cheekbones, wet flakes scattering creepy shadows on the walks. Crossing a bridge over the Charles, river gray with ice, we asked, How do we make good art? How do we change the world? Later we paused at the gate to Quincy, kicked snow around, went into warm rooms buzzed with talk and jammed off our boots, water pooling on the wood. But first we stood on a hunched bridge over the Charles and told our truth to the frozen cars.
Here are the facts of Anne Sexton’s life: She was born Anne Gray Harvey in 1928 in Newton, Mass.; she married, cheated on, and divorced a man named Alfred Sexton; she had two children, who would later recount both her affection and her abusiveness; she killed herself in 1974; and she wrote poems, good poems, poems unapologetic about their authorship by a body with guts and breasts. Throughout all, she was depressed, dramatic, prone to fits of forgetfulness, drug- and alcohol-dependent, utterly magnetic, and a winner of the Pulitzer Prize.
Some laud Sexton as a feminist writer, especially in her “Love Poems,” which chronicle the “post-pill paradise” of the frustrated yet sexually liberated suburban woman—a sexy Betty Friedan. Indeed, there is something deep and urgent and vital to these poems, something that gets at the root of being made of bones and nerves and skin. Sexton’s honors were astounding. In Cambridge alone, she was appointed to the Radcliffe Institute and was the first female member of the Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Harvard.
Made of dramatized bits of her life, Sexton’s poems are strident, brazen, intensely self-aware, and often so throbbing with joy and suffering they knock me unsteady. I don’t trust that this good can totally nullify the damage she may have wrought as a person, or that the important work the poems often do can transform troubled author into feminist icon. I don’t trust that we can keep score. But the words themselves are true and luminous: “Just once, I knew what life was for.”  They are something that abide.
I first started reading Sexton the summer after sophomore year in high school: “The Love Poems.” That summer I babysat and perched long days sweating behind the community pool desk. I was in love. I cried about it. I wrote angsty, painstaking stories and grew tan. When my family went to Cape Cod at the end of the summer, my sisters and I ran along the beach at night, skinny-dipping, our skin smoothed with sand.
In those years, during the busy schooldays, I’d leave lunch to crouch between the meager shelves of the high school library, unwrapping the cellophane of granola bars quietly so I would not be called out, consuming the one shelf of American poetry my school owned. I wanted the strange beauty that was poetic language, and I invented obscure systems to teach myself. When I met Sexton at 16, I was suspended somewhere between daisies and scars.
When I walk along the Charles four years later, the words come into my head. Just once, I knew what life was for. I feel it in the way the light puddles on the water. The way it goes blurry on my nerves, neoned and strobe-hearted. At night, the light from the parking garage by the business school is so strong it casts shadows on the bench by the Weeks footbridge, the bench where I have argued and murmured and talked, huddled in my red jacket crying my truth to the west-bound cars. I sit on that bench in the winter watching my friends smoke cigarettes, cupping their red hands around their red-tipped lighters in the raw wind.
When the speaker in Sexton’s poem walked along the Charles, it must have been some time in the sixties, since the “Love Poems” were published in 1969. Cambridge was (and still is) crawling with poets, a puzzle for the contemporary scholastic: How many writers can fit on the head of Cambridge’s pin? At that time, Lowell was teaching at Harvard; O’Hara and Rich and Ashbery had graduated; Bishop was about to come. Sexton and Plath (another confessional from Boston) had taken a BU workshop together taught by Lowell some years earlier. Anne Sexton did not live in Cambridge. But I like to think that when she walked the Charles, that was where she was.
One time I knew what life was for in Cambridge along the Charles. A friend and I got down on our bellies along the damp bank and listened to daffodils. Someone had told us to go listen to plants growing, said that we could hear them if we were very, very still. We were, and we heard them. We lay watching lights swim over the river, spilling in wet dabs, our bellies on goose poop, our backs on stars. Hoarding our constants for the morning. Afterwards, we snuck into the boathouse and stripped off our clothing and stood under the hard scald of the locker room shower for no reason at all.
 
 
Sections
It’s 9:00 a.m. on a Saturday morning, and Mary I. Setterholm sits at a table in the Rock Café at the Divinity School, one arm in a brace—a bike accident, she explains—and the other deftly scooping Stonyfield yogurt. At the age of 57, Setterholm carries herself with the poise and confidence of a professor, but she is a student, currently pursuing her Master of Divinity degree at HDS.
Setterholm took a non-traditional and difficult path to Cambridge, marked by an unstable family, an abusive marriage, and periods of prostitution. A former U.S. Surfing champion, Setterholm seeks to understand women’s issues, poverty, and prostitution with the same intensity that drove her to success in the water.
Born in Angelino, Calif., Setterholm never expected to end up at the Divinity School. She was raised with a deep love for the ocean, winning the United States Surfing Championship in 1972, at the age of 17. “The only thing on my mind was, when’s the next swell, chasing waves—that was it. There was no need for this!” she exclaims, waving her uninjured arm.
But, drawing on her theological studies, she notes that, on an abstract level, there is a deep connection between surfing and theology. “Existentially, surfing is the happening of theology: You are both engaged and surrendered to the sea. To survive you can’t posture—it won’t cut it,” she says.
Setterholm’s wild success in the water has not always paralleled her life on land. Inspired by her former struggles with sexual abuse and prostitution, she has founded a movement called Serenity Sisters, leading weekly meetings and helping women reclaim their lives from poverty and exploitation. “One of the reasons I reach out to some of the really destitute, and especially to teenagers, is because it’s all about prostitution. I never wanted to call it that when I was a kid, but that’s just what I got into,” Setterholm says, firmly maintaining eye contact. “Let’s just say [prostitution] was just the upside of sexual harassment. It was instant restitution.”
Setterholm points to the integral link between poverty and prostitution. “It’s such a hot-button issue, it’s such a cause—trafficking!” she exclaims, lightly mocking the weight of the word. “I just go, ‘Wait a second, this is homelessness, this is poverty, why do we have to rebrand it?’ It’s nothing new under the sun that ‘at-risk youth’ are selling themselves. If anything trafficked me, it was poverty. Poverty was pushing me towards these bad characters; they didn’t lure me.”
The issue of dignity is a priority for Setterholm, who notes that the Serenity Sisters frequently speak of their experience as one of necessity. “You know what they’ll say? ‘I had to do what I had to do.’ Tell me if there’s no dignity in that. That’s the Protestant work ethic in a nutshell,” she says, lightly slapping the table for emphasis.
At HDS, Setterholm commands and receives respect. “My faith is not ashamed of me. The God I understand is not ashamed of me. Or the people that I work with. I don’t think that there are more gut-real stronger people than the ones you meet on the street. They sure know how to survive the un-survivable.”
Setterholm tried for years to obtain a Bachelor of Arts degree, but an abusive marriage hindered her studies, and she temporarily gave up on the idea of college. “I didn’t think I would ever get a B.A., and so I made peace with it and started a surf school. I thought, I’m a dyed-in-the-wool surfer, and I’ll go back,” she says. The school Setterholm established in Southern California now employs over 100 people.
Setterholm grew close to a nun at the Los Angeles Archdiocese, who later persuaded her to return to school and mentored her throughout her undergraduate program. She obtained a B.A. in 2009 and then landed herself first at Union Theological Seminary, affiliated with Columbia University, before transferring to HDS.
Now, she is an academic powerhouse: This year Setterholm was one of six HDS students to win the Hopkins Shareholder Award in recognition for her ministerial promise.
Setterholm’s ambitions lie beyond simply absorbing knowledge from her professors and textbooks. She says that her personal experience has made her more suspicious and inquisitive of the texts before her and less likely to accept them as truth. “I’m a footnote junkie!” she proclaims. “Half the time it [the item footnoted] is completely taken out of context, and then I want to throw the book against the wall, and I’m pissed. What the hell?” she exclaims, tossing her hand up in the air in frustration. A student walks into the café and waves at Setterholm, who immediately waves her raised hand and smiles back.
“A lot of things don’t pass the smell test,” she continues. “I’m very suspicious of broad stroke statements. I do background checks on anyone I have to read,” she says. “I use the hermeneutic of suspicion. Do not sit there and go, ‘Well, they footnoted it.’ It’s not enough; it’s not even close. Check the footnote, shake the tree.”
Setterholm pauses for a moment and looks down as she considers why she decided to attend the Divinity School. “There’s a jump-off point where science only takes you so far, and people have a need for something a little deeper than that,” she muses.
Through her studies, Setterholm aims to better understand women’s issues, especially as they relate to ethics and histories in society. “And obviously the curious cousin of prostitution,” she adds.
“The goal of coming here was to go up the river and see what sort of imperial logic is allowing this strata to just be. In other words, basically, how are they not getting it? … I know how the problem from the valley looks—I want to see what it looks like looking down on it.”
Setterholm seeks to create a women’s center after she graduates, but for now, she feels fulfilled in the classroom. “School is my home,” she says. “I’m grateful beyond—” she begins and trails off as she searches for the next word. Seconds tick by.
“That word doesn’t hold it, how I feel,” she says finally. “I just hope that I can live up to the gifts that I’m receiving here from everybody. Really.” Setterholm momentarily breaks eye contact. “And I hope to God that it translates to effective and humble service when I leave.”
Sections
No Shave November
Face is covered in stubble
Lots of pressure to shave
Criticism comes from friends
Competing for manliest beard
Cock block
Itchy stubble
For the lazy
National Novel Writing Month
Desk is covered in pencil stubs
Lots of pressure to write
Criticism comes from editors
No competing, just challenging yourself
Writer’s block
Itching to write
For the determined
Both
Sometimes done with a group
Product comes from within
Most of the work is done in a dark dorm room
Do it for the pride
Quantity over quality
Some people give up midway
Everyone starts from a clean slate
Sections
Mark Zuckerberg
The Game? Wait, you’re not talking about FarmVille? Oh, right. That game, Harvard-Yale. To be honest, I don’t remember a lot of what happened that day. I mean, we had our hack-a-thon that Friday night—me and my Yale buddies from Exeter. I think we had a shot every time we finished 50 lines of code, but my memory is fuzzy there. Even computers can’t help with that. I do remember that my buddy, he was so drunk that he decided it would be a good idea to create a website for the Porcellian club. It’s full of lolcatz and memes.
ee cummings
the game of foot ball as played
the great point is not so rough as
not nearly so bad as
 the rolling maul
shoulder him and shove him over
but mustnot touch him
with your hands (i recall)
the boys i mean are not refined
run)ning
in redsandblues from the whistle-man
whist
 Inter
 ception
 ling
she says she doesnot understand
allbundledincheeringstands&
says Do you have what we call
tackling?
i do not know
 why
(she mustnot know why)
i simply cannot recall
“block
 ing”
Cambridge ladies
who live in furnished souls
of dropkicks have little care
 (they fly the sport
 for different game
of fox and bee and bear)
but i will stand
in stand(s)  ing
stands
 &find more pleasures
there
Tyra Banks
You know, as a Harvard alumna (or a supermodel/actress/author/philanthropist/singer/media mogul extraordinaire, but who’s keeping track, right?), I thought I would return to my alma mater and be respected. As I’m sure you’ve heard, I was the first African-American woman on the cover of the coveted Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue, so I know a thing or two about The Game. Now that I think about it, modeling is not that different from football. Us models wear makeup to feel confident, fierce, and in control. That’s what that face paint is for, isn’t it? Even my trademark booty tooch is in line with football players’ padding. I always tell my girls, “Do your thang.” You wanna be on top? Be yourself, but be your best self. Do more, never less. Go to Harvard.
Sections
How can you tell if someone identifies as BGLTQ? I was a closeted varsity athlete here for two years. While I am no longer on my team, much of my Harvard experience has revolved around the athletic community and its members. Since coming out my sophomore year, life has been pretty awesome. But becoming comfortable with who I am hasn't been easy. I do, indeed, owe quite a lot to Harvard's accepting culture, but like the rest of the world, it is by no means perfect. My friend once said that coming out is often more about other people than yourself and I have found that to be true. I didn't want who I am to embarrass or disappoint people, and I definitely didn't want to make anyone feel uncomfortable.
"Can You Tell?" was inspired by Jeff T. Sheng '02, who has been photographing out BGLTQ high school and college varsity athletes all around the country for the past 10 years through his project "Fearless." I realized I can use my story to help others who are going through what I had already experienced. My story is that of many, and "Can You Tell?" is proof of that. It was created not only to help those who may be struggling with their identities, but also to raise awareness. Change comes slowly in the world of athletics. The court, the field, the locker room—there are many assumptions made in these places, which makes it difficult to discuss sexuality. Raising awareness is a step in creating a more inclusive environment.
BGLTQ athletes exist. We may even be on your team. Be mindful of the language you use in the locker room or in the stands—that gay joke might not seem like a big deal to you, but all it takes is one word to push someone even further into the closet. How can you tell if someone identifies as BGLTQ? You can't.
[Click on the flashgraphic above to read more.]
Sections
In response to FM’s article decrying the sport of Spikeball as a “bad trend,” The Crimson recently received a package in the mail. Attached to the box was a note that simply read “Thank You.” While the writers at FM abide by a strict no-bribes policy, thank you gifts are always appreciated (hint hint). And so, our consciences unburdened, we tore open the packaging and set up the contents—our very own spikeball kit.
The first few games are uneventful; rules are learned and mistakes made. But soon things start to change. I leave to take a phone call and return to find the net illuminated by an heavenly glow. The teams play on, the players and audience unaffected by my shouts of “What the hell?!”
I quickly notice the change in the players. The lunges and odd angles have disappeared. Instead, they crouch with outstretched palms and twirl their arms with the grace of martial artists. Their feet seem hardly to touch the ground, floating on ethereal winds. Whirling and leaping, they spin around the hoop; the ball ricocheting back and forth in one impossibly long volley. All the while a chant arises from the onlookers, growing in intensity with each second: “SPIKE-BALL! SPIKE-BALL! SPIKE-BALL!”
With a mighty smash, the volley is over and the game is won. High fives and celebrations are cut short by a blinding flash from the Spikeball set. When my vision clears I discover the victors have been transformed: one stands agape in a puddle of fat that has miraculously melted off his frame, marveling at his new, god-like bod. The other has begun to literally ooze sex appeal (the substance is iridescent and smells like wood shavings, in case you were wondering). The crowd rubs the blindness from their eyes, not knowing what to make of the awesome scene before them. A voice in the back of the crowd whispers in the silence: “Best. Game. Ever.”
Sections
Last week, Harvard PhD candidate Viridiana Rios and the Kennedy school’s Michele Coscia, a post-doc fellow at the Center for International Development, unveiled a new program that sorts through Google news results to track the movement of drug cartels in Mexico. Just months ago, the pair were what Rios calls “Google terrorists” because their program was clogging Google’s server. Now Google wants to team up with Rios and Cosica to fight crime. FM sat down to discuss.
FM: How can Google track drug cartels, and how did you decide to find out?
Viridiana Rios: My dissertation is about organized crime in Mexico. I needed a way to get data on this, and I knew that Michele had this program that finds information in newspapers which is precisely what I wanted to do. When you look at intelligence reports in Mexico, 69 percent of all of the information within those reports has at some point been featured in a local newspaper or in a blog. That means, if I had a tool that could read every single blog and every single newspaper article that has ever been published, I’d get all my data. So I emailed Michele. And I think it has been a very powerful partnership because this tool is being used in a very creative way and in a way that may actually help Mexico.
Michele Coscia: We can track organizations which do not operate in public in a way that’s cheap and doesn’t require a lot of effort, but I thought it was a little bit trivial—we just Google them! I didn’t expect to be amazed, and like “Oh my god, this is magic!”
VR: The cool thing is that, with the data that we got we were able to understand many things that were new about crime. We realized that organized crime doesn’t work everywhere in Mexico.... When we look at our data set, we only find that drug cartels operate in about 30 percent of the municipalities in Mexico, so that’s way lower than we would have expected. We also realized that some organizations are more competitive than others and basically every organization has different strategies to approach their markets and to move in their markets. Not all criminals are the same.... That’s very telling for Mexican authorities to understand that they cannot use the same policies to target different criminal groups.
Sections
Oops, she’s doing it again: Britney Spears is rumored to be negotiating a book deal with HarperCollins. The novel will draw on experiences from Spears’s own life. With that in mind, using only her song lyrics, here’s our take on the first paragraph of the novel. As a mother of two, we wouldn’t be surprised if Britney began with where it all begins for her character. (Ohh crazy. But it feels alright.)
Chapter 1
Birth Me Baby One More Time: Emerging From The Womb
Oh baby, baby. Lately I’ve been stuck imagining. Spinning ’round and ’round. My loneliness is killin’ me. I feel so small. I know I may be young, but I’ve got feelings, too. Feels like I’m caught in the middle. The Earth is movin’, but I can’t feel the ground.
When you walk (when you walk) and when you talk (when you talk) I get the tingle, I wanna mingle, that’s what I want. All I need is time, a moment that is mine, while I’m in between. I’m not that innocent. Shame on me to need release. I’m overprotected. Intoxicate me, I’m a lush. I wanna go. I-I-I wanna go. Come on get me, get me on the floor. Watch me move.
Born to make you happy. Better be ready, hope that ya feel the same. You wanna take me home, wanna make me your own. I’m stronger than I ever thought that I could be: baby. Here I go, on my own. Here I go, alright, here I go. See the sunlight.
Appendix
Guess the Source: A Piece of Me
All in good company: Britney will now join the ranks of serious writers--the most prominent of whom is Drew Gilpin Faust. Now that you have the first chapter, guess whether the quotes below are from Britney Spears’ seminal 2001 album “Britney” or Drew Faust’s historical text “This Republic of Suffering: Death and The American Civil War.”
1. I’ve seen so much more than you know now so don’t tell me to shut my eyes.
2. I’m a slave for you.
3. I can’t realize that I am never to see that \ dear boy again... It is too hard to realize.
4. Perhaps he extravaganza of mourning that greeted the public commemorations of Jackson and Lincoln served in some way as a surrogate for all the funerals that citizens could not attend.
5. Nothing we call trouble seems worth talking about.
6. Shimmy shimmy oh. Shimmy oh. Shimmy hey.
1. Britney | 2. Britney | 3. Drew | 4. Drew | 5. Drew | 6. Britney
Sections
Dear Applicant,
I sincerely regret to inform you that we cannot, at this time, offer you admittance to Stoughton Hall 211’s futon for the night preceding the Harvard-Yale football game.
We of Stoughton Hall 211 understand that this letter may bring extreme disappointment. Please note that we received a record number of applications from students of diverse backgrounds originating from all of Yale’s residential colleges and even an exotic few who choose to live off campus. This year’s applicants demonstrated immense talents in both casual drinking settings and competitive drinking environments. We even received an early decision application from an international beer pong champion who unfortunately performed poorly on the social interaction test.
Please do not take this letter as a reflection of your abilities both as a guest and as a fan of athletic competitions between two schools that do not care about athletics. We of Stoughton Hall 211 greatly enjoyed your essay entitled “I Sleep Like a Rock...And I Don’t Snore Either” as well as your optional artistic supplement—a tape of you cheering in an enthusiastic, yet respectful manner.
Ultimately, we simply do not have space on our futon for everyone, even an individual like you, who is able to open a beer bottle with his belt buckle. Also, your listed knowledge of Chinese, Italian, and Java—while impressive—did not seem relevant to us when putting together our class Harvard-Yale Weekend 2012. We did, however, enjoy the cupcakes you sent, although we thought the mix of crimson and blue icing was a bit much.
While your legacy status was a consideration, having a cousin who once stayed with us simply is not enough to push you through, especially given your cousin who has failed to donate to our party fund in recent memory.
Remember, there are plenty of great places to stay at Harvard besides our room, and we’re sure that you’ll have a great time at The Game regardless of whether or not you have access to our giant beer pong table and flat screen TV. Perhaps you can sleep in the dining hall of your “sister” House. We believe yours to be Cabot.
Much Luck,
Stoughton Room 211
Sections
Dear Readers, 
I no longer know what to believe in. One day, glorious winter is upon us, sheathing us in a cold white burrito wrap and masking the falseness that lies beneath in the austere perfection of thinglessness. Rarely has my heart been as thrilled as when I saw the world reduced to this.

The next day, cold rains fell on the clean slate, exposing the rot and filth that lie underneath us all. And yet still the next, false summer returned to shine the light of day on our faults, making them shine bright and bare before one another, revealing our deepest shames for the skies above to bear witness. I have been reborn, destroyed, and put on display this week, and frankly, weather, I’m sick and tired of you playing games with me. Pick a season and stick to it, you fickle frenemy. I love you. I hate you. Leave me alone. Hold me forever.
WTF,
Weatherman
This week in last week’s weather, we use voice-to-text technology to transcribe the “Dear Readers” section, and for some reason (read: lazy editors) it passes as a weather report.
Dear readers I no longer know what to believe in one day glorious winter is upon us using Ahsan club lights parade alright nasty little falseness that lies beneath in the else to your perfection of nothingness rarely have my heart them as thrilled as when I saw the world register That
The Melisse notes though
Friends fell on the clean slate exposing the rock and filled that lie underneath us all and yet by next fall summer return = the light of day on our fault making them shine bright and beer before one another reviewing our Jeep is James for the skies above to bear witness I have been reborn Diese droid and Portuguese play this week and frankly whether I am sick and tired of you playing games with me take a season unstick to Ed Ruth Sykkel friend Amy I love you I hate you leave me alone hold me forever to all you
Aggregate Score: 5 in the house how does 10.
This “Weather Report” was sponsored by Dragon Dictation. Dragon Dictation: For Your Boat.
Sections
I was nine years old when I realized that I wasn’t funny.
It was July 2001. The winter of my discontent made a glorious, air-conditioned summer by Nintendo 64, and the complete absence of parentally enforced obligations: A stretch of time with no summer camp and absolutely no homework whose beginning created such an utterly complete vacuum of responsibility you could practically hear the rapidly evacuated shhhhhhhh-pppp of busyness when school let out that year. Freedom was mine, I thought—until the day my parents told me that I was going to clown camp.
“Why did you sign me up for clown camp?” I asked my parents.
“You seem so serious all the time. We think it will be good for you,” my father said, belying the disarming earnestness that was and still is the defining trademark of my parents’ parenting style. (Years later, my father was more frank: “We thought it would be good for your social skills.”)
It was true that I was rather serious for my age.  I  found the silliness  of my peers to be an undesirable quality—certain acronyms, “O.J.” (orange juice), for instance, struck me as a bit too casual, too loose—although I did enjoy a good laugh every now and then. Unlike my peers, however, I was not one to play pranks on others or to deploy my wit in appropriate scenarios; instead, I preferred to recount memorized jokes. I had several books on my shelf that served as source material when the time was right—this, I recall, was less satisfying in the long run than spontaneous funniness, but altogether more reliable. I might have been appropriately described as “risk-averse.”
Clown camp took place over the course of a week: five six-hour sessions from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. in the boxy, gray confines of the Y.M.C.A. located in nearby Somerville, N.J. There were about 10 of us, ranging from as young as 7 to as old as 12 or 13. Our teacher was Andy the Clown—a towering figure to us in his classic oversized shoes and incomprehensibly expansive red clown hair—whose true identity was impossible to discern behind variegated layers of red, white, and blue makeup.
He was assisted by The Lovely Princess Rainbow, a slightly overweight, tired woman who helped apply face-paint and make-up, and who tended to grimace in a kindly way rather than actually smile at us. She and Andy seemed to be involved in some way, although this did not occur to me at the time; she also always smelled of heavy musk and vaguely burnt, which I realized later was the smell of cigarettes. This explains the periodic breaks she and Andy would take to “get some fresh air,” and why our clown master seemed to cough so much all the time.
At camp, I learned the fundamentals of clowning, like the uproarious and, frankly, exhausting laugh that came from deep in the belly, with a 30 degrees backwards tilt of the head for emphasis. I learned how to juggle—sort of—and how to do exaggerated facial expressions like opening my eyes as widely as possible while simultaneously doing the same with the opening of my mouth (surprise, astonishment, etc.), or opening my eyes as widely as possible while doing the same with the opening of my mouth with my mouth’s corners upturned (amusement, pleasure, etc.). And, to tell the truth, I was actually pretty good at most of it.
It felt good to do these weird things. Andy was making all of us try as a group, like laughing so obnoxiously that passersby in the Y.M.C.A. would solicitously stick their heads into the gym where we were practicing. I wasn’t a prodigy or anything, though: The second or third day, Andy demonstrated the classic “spitting-water-in-surprise” move, taking a generous sip of water from a cup, turning so that his profile was in clear view, and emitting a voluminous cloud of vapor that sounded like a five-second recording of ambient Niagara-Falls-inspired noise.
I volunteered to be the first to try after Andy explained the technique: sip generously, purse lips, and fffffppp.
“You can try it on me!” Andy said with a big, doughy smile.
I took the generous sip and pursed the lips, but when it came time for the fffffppp, I did more of a fffuhhh, which resulted in my 2-oz. intake of water erupting in generously portioned globules of liquid all over Andy, my clown sensei, on his big, white face.
He took the watery assault pretty well—I guess you could say he was professional about the whole thing—and laughed off the liquid and the makeup dribbling down his face.
“It’s more of a mist,” Andy offered. He encouraged the other students to practice with generous amounts of space between each other, and left us momentarily to find Princess Rainbow.
I went home that night feeling like a sack of potatoes. In the shower, I tried again and again, but for some reason, I just couldn’t do the fffffppp thing. But I didn’t get out of the shower: I was either going to figure out how to fffffppp or turn into a child-sized shower-prune.
The epiphany finally came when I realized that you weren’t actually supposed to open your mouth—like, at all. You just keep your lips closed and if you try hard enough, you’ll be misting before you know it.
At camp the next day, when it came time to practice misting, I volunteered to go first. I noticed a momentary look of anxiety flash across Andy’s face, which is as disturbing as seeing an old, perennially befrowned librarian smile, but I was undeterred. I took the water, closed my eyes, and fffffpppd like a pro.
What Andy didn’t tell me, though, was that after clown camp, there wouldn’t be many opportunities to use my clowning skills from day-to-day, or even month-to-month; there just wasn’t much of an occasion. I ended up getting through middle school and high school just fine without it, but I still wonder, though, what would have happened if I kept honing my fffffppp.
The other day, I was walking back home with coffee in hand and, mid-sip, for no reason, accidentally spewed a mouthful of lukewarm coffee into a cloud of light brown mist (I like cream with my coffee). My first instinct was to pretend it never happened after noticing the other people on the street were looking at me, the guy who just randomly spat some coffee, but then I remembered clown camp and just started laughing, loudly. I think they started walking faster, but I thought it was best not to take myself too seriously.
 
—Kevin Sun ’14 is an English concentrator in Winthrop House. He should have been put in Pfffffppphorzheimer House.
 
Sections
November is the cruelest month, breeding
Yalies out of the far-flung dung, mixing
Bulldogs and good Pilgrims, stirring
False hope with the smell of ambition.
What are the amateurs that clutch, what egos grow
Out of this rubbish four man pile-up? Son of Yale,
You cannot say, or guess or speak, for you slur only
A heap of half-remembered parties and one-night stands
Oh, do not ask me “Who is she?”
I’ll never see her again.
sip sip sip
jug jug jug
Mistakes so unforced!
cuckoo cuckoo
We’ll show you our shadow
rising before you as you eat our dust
(Come under the shadow of this crimson rock)
We’ll show you cowardice in a fistful of guts.
Monsieur John Harvard, famous truth-teller,
Had a bad cold from being pissed on, nevertheless
Is known to be the wisest man in Ivydom
with a winning scorecard. Here, said he,
to his progeny, I see another epic victory.
Here is the fallen enemy with three broken shins,
Here is the black-eyed jack, and this card,
Which is blank, augurs total upset.
Unrivaled City,
Under the murky blue Haven coming from the West
A crowd flowed over the Charles River, so many,
I had not thought defeat had undone so may.
That casualty you sustained last year by our hand,
Has it begun to heal? Will it happen again?
Or does the sudden frost make you quake in your cleats?
Oh keep that Bull-Dog far hence, that’s foe to man,
You! hypocrite étudiant—mon semblable,—mon frère!”
HURRY UP PLEASE ITS GAME TIME
Let’s get on and be done with it.
Sweet Charles, run swiftly, till we end this bloodbath,
Sweet Charles, run swiftly, for we bear them much wrath.
But on the horizon I hear
The rattle of bones, and grin from ear to ear.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a captivating lecture filled with optical illusions, renowned artwork, and a few experiments for good measure, Professor of Neurobiology Margaret S. Livingstone presented the Mind/Brain/Behavior Distinguished Harvard Lecture for 2012.
Livingstone’s talk, entitled “What Art Can Tell Us About the Brain,” explored the way in which artists have intuited how our brains extract relevant information about faces and objects.
Livingstone emphasized throughout that artists have actually been doing experiments on vision much longer than neurobiologists.
“Artists are always trying to get you to look at things differently because, for instance, many art works are not being processed by the part of the brain that you regularly use,” said Livingstone.
She also alluded to the dynamic nature of perceiving the world around us as a skill that the world’s best artists have mastered. She argued that an artist’s talent lies to a large degree in his or her ability to understand innately how our brains process information rather than precision in replicating a given object.
“Vision is information processing, not image transmission,” Livingstone said.
She explained how great artists played with an individual’s ability to extrapolate from partial images.
“Your ability to see color is coarse, so you don’t have to color inside the lines,” said Livingstone. “That is why pastel painters draw a line and then fill the color only partly in order for your brain to fill it in.”
Livingstone demonstrated our mind’s extraordinary ability to not only identify but also recognize faces flashed on the screen for just a fraction of a second. She then introduced perhaps the most famous face of all time.
“This is the Mona Lisa,” said Livingstone. “Art historians point out why everyone loves this painting. It has to do with how lively the Mona Lisa seems.” Livingstone went on to explain the reasons for the painting’s fame, emphasizing the physiology of sight.
“As you move your eyes around, which you do several times a second, her expression changes,” said Livingstone. “This gives the painting a dynamic quality, and 500 years ago a dynamic quality in a painting was something special.”
As she concluded her talk, Livingstone pointed out that some of the most talented painters were those who perceived the world differently than the average person due to alterations in brain function or eye alignment. She emphasized how these characteristics contributed to their amazing works.
Among the attendees was Han Yan ’13, who is currently studying mind, brain, and behavior. “The content itself was fascinating for me because we go through life with minimal knowledge about our eyes,” Yan said. “It is really interesting to see how the visual process can be broken down into little bits.”
Another student, Christine L. Shrock ’13, commented on the universality of Livingstone’s words. “I think it is really cool that when you talk about optical illusions and how we see the world, it is relevant to anyone who has eyes,” said Shrock. “She brings it to life in a very special way.”
—Staff writer Fatima N. Mirza can be reached at fmirza@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The next time you return a life-changing book to Widener or Lamont Library, consider dropping it in the “Awesome Box,” an alternative return box for library materials too good not to share. Books left in the brightly colored boxes will be scanned into a database, allowing other students to check for books recently proclaimed “awesome” on a special website and Twitter account.
“Anyone in your community can see what people are ‘awesome-ing,’” said Awesome Box co-creator Matthew Phillips, explaining that the aim is to create a dialogue among members of the Harvard Library community.
Awesome Box was created by Annie J. Cain and Phillips, web developers at the Harvard Law Library, as a project funded by the Harvard Library Lab.
The Library Lab showcased Awesome Box and 27 other library projects created by Harvard students, faculty, and staff Wednesday night at the Radcliffe Gymnasium.
The Lab, finishing its second year, funds new ideas and applications for the library and beyond, ranging from a tool for organizing emails and other digital documents, to an app that tracks where and when students use library materials.
“There was a perceived need to provide funding for innovative library projects,” said Stuart M. Shieber ‘81, the Welch professor of computer science.
Shieber directs the Harvard Library’s Office for Scholarly Communication, which manages the Library Lab. The Lab supports projects in a variety of ways, he said, providing equipment and money, which in part allows developers to take time off to focus on their projects.
Shieber said the Library Lab also encourages open source applications, consistent with the Harvard Open Access Policy that has been adopted by seven of the University’s schools.
The Library Lab is funded by Arcadia, a United Kingdom-based grant-making fund. The Office for Scholarly Communication’s program manager, Suzanne Kriegsman, said that after the four-year grant runs out, the Lab hopes to continue with University funding.
The program was inspired in part by Harvard Law School’s Library Innovation Lab, which develops software to improve the functioning of the library.
One of the showcased projects was Zeega, an online platform that allows users to link text, images, sounds, and video to create an interactive, integrated sequence of digital media. Jesse M. Shapins, an instructor at the Graduate School of Design and the chief strategy architect at Zeega, explained that Zeega seeks to “turn[] the website itself into a new medium.”
Meanwhile, Thomas Dodson, program coordinator at the Office for Scholarly Communication, and Reinhard Engels, OSC digital library software engineer, have developed a project called Yana, a template that allows open access scholarly journals to create their own mobile device platforms free of charge.
According to Dodson, these free journals often lack the resources necessary to create mobile applications that could increase their accessibility.
“We want to support more journals doing this, rather than [those] limiting knowledge,” Dodson said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Carl Williams, a self-described specialist in counterculture, reviewed one of the largest collections of items related to sex, drugs, and rock and roll ever assembled in a talk Wednesday evening at Houghton Library.
Williams is the head of the Counterculture Department of the antiquarian bookselling firm Maggs Bros. Ltd., in London.
Speaking rapidly and in a British accent, Williams opened the discussion by describing how “stoked” he was to be lecturing at Harvard.
Alongside Williams, Leslie Morris, curator for modern books and manuscripts at Houghton Library, explained initially that Williams was invited to interpret the vast collection of counterculture items Harvard received in 2009 from Julio Mario Santo Domingo, a Colombian billionaire and businessman who also served as his country’s ambassador to China.
Domingo’s trove included over 50,000 items related to drugs, including psychedelics and botanicals, and erotica. Most members of William’s audience appeared to have been teenagers in the 1960s and 1970s.
Santo Domingo’s family retains ownership of the collection, but has lent it to Harvard so scholars can study and catalogue it.
The collection’s music-related items are at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum.
The remaining paraphernalia that is at Harvard includes posters, books, films, photographs, buttons, and comic books.
Williams, who helped Santo Domingo assemble the collection, displayed images of the items such as a Black Panther Party poster, a first edition of Jack Kerouac’s 1957 book classic “On the Road,” and film reels labeled “Nuggets and Nudists.”
The collection also includes material from before the counterculture movements of the 1960s and 1970s, as Williams showed many photos of 16th century botanical publications and handwritten letters from French poet Charles Baudelaire.
Williams also showed and narrated slides of other items such as writer William S. Burroughs’s Scientology handbooks, the first editions of Aleister Crowley’s occult books “Oracles” and “The Equinox,” drag queen portraits, Latin American and Spanish Civil War revolutionary flags, and a gig poster for the British punk band Sex Pistols.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The resounding shrieks of the fire alarm interrupted Mara Willard as the lecturer on religion and society welcomed a guest speaker to the Harvard Divinity School Wednesday night. As a student ran to check whether the alarm was a test or an actual threat, the speaker, Sister Simone Campbell, seized the opportunity and the microphone.
“Can I tell a joke?” Campbell said, as audience members looked around with bemusement. “My friend gave me this Joan of Arc figurine a while ago,” she continued over the blare. “Written on it was a little message: if invited to a fireside chat, keep moving.”
There was no fire, just a bit of chaos, and Campbell, the executive director of the progressive Catholic organization NETWORK, carried on with the third and final lecture of the Divinity School’s Religion and American Public Life series.
In addition to emphasizing the importance of unity in the face of economic, political, and social instability, Campbell discussed her “Faithful Budget,” a spiritually based alternative to the budget proposed by Congressman Paul Ryan, Mitt Romney’s running mate. This summer, Campbell led a nine-state “Nuns on the Bus” tour, joining with sisters from around the nation to caution the Catholic community against what she said was an “immoral” budget plan that would hurt the poor.
Campbell took advantage of the fire drill to make her presentation interactive. When the audience was temporarily displaced to the Divinity School courtyard, she created a makeshift aisle—to maintain the lecture’s religious feel, she said.
She then recruited seven volunteers to form a “human bar graph,” to demonstrate the disparities in income created by the nation’s “trickle down” economics.
“The theory of trickle down economics is obviously a failure, or else it takes an exceedingly long glacial age to trickle down,” Campbell said.
With the alarm finally silenced, the lecture resumed indoors.
“My friends, this is the challenge we’re facing as a nation,” Campbell said.
“We’re no longer connected enough as people to know what’s happening to each other,” she added. “The distances have become too huge for us to know each other’s struggles.”
Turning to her “Faithful Budget,” Campbell said it can be reduced to five words: “reasonable revenue for responsible programs.”
Her plan calls for higher income taxes on the top earners and greater funding for social services.
The lecture attracted both Divinity and Kennedy School of Government students.
“Sister Simone puts the unspoken truth into public discourse,” said Casper R. ter Kuile, a Kennedy School student.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Let me tell you what it was like.”
With these words, an aging man opens Ken Burns’ new documentary “The Dust Bowl” and ushers viewers into his memory of the environmental collapse that destroyed farming in the Midwest during the Great Depression of the 1930s. The film shows how drought, overfarming and poor practices triggered the worst man-made ecological disaster in United States history. Burns described his film as a cautionary tale for today, given the effects of climate change.
Burns has been an award-winning filmmaker for more than three decades. He presented the introduction and several clips from “The Dust Bowl” to an overflow crowd at Boylston Hall on Wednesday afternoon. The two-part documentary will premiere November 18 on PBS.
Burns said he wanted his film to go beyond the common image of the Dust Bowl that stems from such popular portrayals as John Steinbeck’s “The Grapes of Wrath” and Dorothea Lange’s famous photo of a migrant mother.
“I have always been compelled mostly by the idea of telling stories,” Burns said.
“The backbone of our film is the testimony of more than two dozen of the survivors,” he added.
His film incorporates the personal narratives of 26 such Dust Bowl survivors, whom Burns said he located through an “incredibly determined and detailed search.”
About half of the interviewees have since passed away.
Though the speakers are in their 80s and 90s, Burns asked the audience to imagine them as the children and teenagers they were when faced with the horrific conditions that destroyed land and lives, and sparked one of the largest migrations in American history.  Many of those fleeing the Dust Bowl in Kansas and Oklahoma settled in California.
After the screening, Burns fielded questions from the audience on “The Dust Bowl,” his past films, and his creative method.  In prior films, Burns’s topics ranged from the Civil War to jazz to baseball.
Burns said he did not often struggle from having too much or too little material to include. “It’s more the mastery of narrative which is so complicated,” he said.
Burns also said that he believes in the future of long-form documentaries, even in a society of instant gratification, due in part to the immortality of stories told on film.
“Memory – the DNA of history – is not something that is old and dusty,” he said.
Honor R. Wilkinson ’14, who has an interest in documentary film, said, “It was amazing to listen to him speak about the thought process behind his work.”
Burns said he is working on several films and has definitive plans to release documentaries through at least 2019.
“If I were given a thousand years to live,” he said, “I wouldn’t run out of topics in American history.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sporting his trademark vest and tie combo, marker in hand, Professor Farish A. Jenkins, Jr., utterly mesmerized the 50 students at his lecture on postural evolution last fall by drawing bone structures on his own thighs. For those students in “Vertebrate Evolution and Development,” that moment perfectly captured Jenkins’ dedication to science, discovery, and teaching. Jenkins died Sunday in Boston at age 72.
“He was like a late Victorian Indiana Jones with none of the baggage but all of the style,” Lecturer on Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Andrew Berry said. “Farish absolutely stood out as a beacon. He was a superstar in terms of his commitment to undergraduate education and advising.”
Jenkins spent more than three decades at Harvard as a biology professor, a curator of vertebrate paleontology, and a professor of anatomy at the Medical School. During that time, he touched the lives of generations of students.
“I feel sort of like Harry Potter and Dumbledore has passed away,” said Maxbetter S. Vizelberg ’14, one of Jenkins’ advisees and a student in that class last fall. “I could tell that he cared so much about me. He was one of my dearest friends, my greatest champion at Harvard.”
His famous chalkboard sketches made every lecture one to remember.
“His illustrations were so detailed that they were better than what you would get in a textbook,” Vizelberg said.
James Hanken, the Agassiz professor of zoology and director of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, said that Jenkins would spend hours before class drawing anatomical structures on the board. “He was extraordinarily committed to undergraduate teaching in particular,” Hanken said. “He committed so much of himself to their learning, it was infectious.”
Jenkins’ teaching consistently earned perfect 5.0 scores on the Q Guide and was “unparalleled,” Berry said.
His mentoring did not stop at the Cambridge city limits.
“A teacher is a teacher outside the classroom, and you could really see that in the field, in his exploratory mode,” said Ted Daeschler, vice president and associate curator at the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia. “There was so much to learn from Farish, particularly about the integrity, the quality, the sort of detail, and how carefully science should be done. It was a wonderful boost to my own scientific ability to be able to work with him.”
In his research, Jenkins focused on the transitions between major groups of organisms, the “big questions and fundamental problems,” Hanken said.
One of his more notable contributions to the field was his instrumental role in the discovery of Tiktaalik roseae, a critical transition species between aquatic and land vertebrates that Berry called “a brilliant piece of science.” Along with Daeschler and Neil H. Shubin, a professor at the University of Chicago, Jenkins traveled to Ellesmere Island in the Canadian Arctic.
For several years, the scientists made little progress. “But that moment in 2004 when we uncovered those creatures was incredible,” Shubin said. “I’ll never forget it as long as I live. It wouldn’t have happened without Farish.”
“He always had the right attitude when we did teamwork, and his kind of enthusiasm is always something that you need out there,” Daeschler said. “Family aside, I don’t think there’s any place Farish would rather be than out there exploring.”
He is survived by his wife Eleanor, a son Henry Edgar III of Denver, a daughter Katherine Temperance Leeds of Watertown, a brother Henry Edgar II of Sausalito, Calif., and two grandchildren.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In addition to seven current research centers scattered around the world, Harvard Business School is on track to open a new research center in Istanbul in early 2013, Dean Nitin Nohria said in an interview with The Crimson last week.
These centers are not campuses, Nohria said, but rather leanly staffed offices designed to assist Business School faculty in writing cases about the global economy. The program began in 1997 with the opening of the California Research Center in Silicon Valley, and has since expanded to Hong Kong, Buenos Aires, Tokyo, Paris, Mumbai, and Shanghai.
“The reason that we’re now thinking about Istanbul is that we look at the map of the world and we say, where are we missing?” Nohria said.
“Istanbul was always the gateway between the East and the West if you think about history,” Nohria said. “I think it’s one of the best vantage points from which we might also get connected to the Islamic world.”
The Business School convened a meeting in Istanbul in July 2012 to assess interest and support for the center. Since then, administrators have narrowed down a search for an executive director to two or three candidates, Nohria said.
HBS’ current research centers offer a variety of services for faculty writing cases about a particular region. With a small team of researchers and interpreters, the centers recommend research directions, help faculty members set up interviews, and assist in translation.
“Most business schools think of the global economy as an opportunity for additional revenues,” said Felix Oberholzer-Gee, senior associate dean for international development at HBS. “We think of the research centers much more as a window to the world as opposed to an opportunity to deliver programs.”
Michael S. T. Chen, who directs the Asia-Pacific Research Center, wrote in an email that there are currently six staff members with him in Hong Kong. Victoria W. Winston, executive director of HBS’ Global Initiative, added that each research center’s staffing varies based on the demands of the region.
“The [Asia-Pacific Research Center] has been up and running for almost fifteen years,” Winston wrote in an email. “It would not be our expectation that a new enterprise in Turkey would reach that level of activity for some time.”
In addition to the eight research centers that Harvard Business School will maintain after Istanbul opens, the School also has two international classrooms in Mumbai  and Shanghai that offer executive education programs for business managers. Nohria said that he also sees opportunities for the school to set up research centers in Africa and Southeast Asia in as soon as two or three years.
“I think once we have that [centers in Africa and Southeast Asia], I’d feel confident that we had enough of a real coverage in most of the world,” Nohria said.­
—Staff writer Brian Zhang can be reached at brianzhang@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ninety-six percent of students who applied to stay at Harvard during winter break had their applications approved, according to College spokesperson Jeff Neal.
The percentage of approved applications represents a steady increase in accepted students over the past few years, with 94 percent of students who submitted applications approved last year and 91 percent in 2010.
This year, a total of 1,320 students applied by the October 26 deadline to receive housing in either Winter Break I or Winter Break II. Eighty-nine students applied after the deadline.
Winter Break I runs from December 22 to January 1, and only a “very limited number of students” are permitted to remain on campus in the Houses during this time, according to the College’s website.
Winter Break II runs from January 2 to January 16 and is four days longer than last year’s second session. Students who fall under pre-approved categories, such as senior thesis writers and Phillips Brooks House Association volunteers, automatically are eligible for housing.
The College added two new pre-approved categories for Winter Break II housing this year: campus employment of 20 or more hours a week and “purposeful non-credit educational opportunities,” according to Neal. These activities include an emergency medical technician class and a reading course for non-native English speakers sponsored by the Bureau of Study Counsel.
Last year, the College initiated the approval of housing applications for students studying for graduate school examinations and those with Boston-based internships.  Charles A. Hobbs ’13 was approved for winter break housing for the third year as a sports broadcaster for the Harvard radio station WHRB. As a co-administrative director for the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter, he will also be working at the shelter over the break.
“It’s such a long break that for me I like to have things to do over the break, so to go and come back is great,” Hobbs said.
Rebecca C. Rosen ’15, a member of the pre-approved Dunster House Opera, will also be staying at Harvard over Winter Break II. Like Hobbs, Rosen said she appreciated the opportunity to return to Harvard during the long break.
“It gives people a chance to do other things while they are here rather than sitting at home when all your friends have gone back to school,” Rosen said.
However, not all students had their applications approved.
Armin Pourshafeie ’13, a California native, said that his application was denied, but that he also didn’t have a “good reason” to be back.
“I just wanted to be around,” Pourshafeie said.
The College will be open to all students on January 18 for Wintersession, a week of College-led and student-initiated programming formerly known as Optional Winter Activities Week.
—Staff writer Melanie A. Guzman can be reached at melanieguzman@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Phi Beta Kappa Fall 48 is announced for Class of 2013, alphabetical by House:
Adams
Andrew R. Hellman, Psychology
Adam B. Kern, Philosopy
David D. Yang , Chemical and Physical Biology
Hana Bajramovic, English
Miranda L. Beltzer, Psychology
Gregory B. Johnston, Social Studies
Qian Huang, Mathematics
Brianna E. Rennix, History
Cabot
Lauren Dai, Economics
Patrick T. Snodgrass, Economics
Anji Tang, Neurobiology
Carolyn S. M. Stein, Applied Math
Currier
Joshua G. Wilson, English
Johanna M. Lee, Neurobiology
Raj A. Bhuptani, Statistics
Dunster
Katherine E. Warren, Anthropology
Samuel E. Milner, History
Adam B. G. Sealfon, Mathematics
Nilesh Tripuraneni, Physics
Eliot
Julia Hu, Social Studies
Allen F. Shih, Chemical and Physical Biology
Nadine R. Rubinstein, Social Studies
Arjun R. Modi, Applied Math
Kirkland
Madeline M. Magnuson, Government
Christian C. Anderson, Mathematics
Sumit Malik, Applied Math
Leverett
Kyaw Kyaw Oo, Government
Lowell
Stephanie B. Garlock, History
Alicia C. Smart, Molecular and Cellular Biology
Tara Suri, Social Studies
Mather
Kartikeya Mital, Applied Math
Beth E. Braiterman, History and Literature
Pforzheimer
Arun A. Viswanath, Linguistics
Bradley L. Craig, Women Gender and Sexuality
Kathleen A. Choi, Economics
Joseph D. Tassarotti. Computer Science
Quincy
Jason S. Wien, Physics
Mary C. Davies, Social Studies
Katherine S. Xue, Chemical and Physical Biology
Julie R. Barzilay, History of Science
Cole M. Chokran, Psychology
Ethyl L. Hylton, Sociology
Winthrop
Ariel S. Mitnick, Neurobiology
Bethina Liu, History of Art and Architecture
Patrick W. Lauppe, Literature
Michele S. Zemplenyi, Statistics
Eli M. Stein, Statistics
Daniel S. Garber, Visual and Environmental Studies
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While the Harvard football team is looking for redemption against Yale this weekend, two Crimson alums will also have to redeem themselves after a week of last-second collapses.
Jeremy Lin ’10 and the Rockets held their own against the world champion Heat on Sunday in a close 113-110 loss, but the Heat had the last laugh when Lin air-balled the potential game winning shot with ten seconds on the clock.
The Rockets went down 17 points at the beginning of the first quarter but gradually made up ground throughout the night. Lin finished with a mediocre nine points and six assists, but more impressive was the Rockets’ ability to contain LeBron and the Heat for most of the night.
Lin seems to have found a home on the young team, and the Lin-Harden backcourt continues to show promise.
It wasn’t too long ago that Lin called Lavietes home, where he led the team to a record 21 wins in his senior season, including two dominant victories over the Bulldogs.
With rumors circulating that Ryan Fitzpatrick ’05 may be out of a job next year, the Buffalo Bills quarterback is not doing a lot to help his cause. With 28 seconds left to play on Sunday, Fitzpatrick threw into an interception in the end zone, cementing a 37-31 loss to the Patriots.
The loss was reminiscent of another Sunday just three weeks ago, when Fitzpatrick threw an interception with two minutes left to play, allowing the Titans to score the decisive touchdown in a 35-34 nail-biter. With the loss, the Bills move to 3-6 and are in danger of missing the playoffs for the 13th straight season.
The Amish Rifle’s recent performance makes us long for the days when he donned a Crimson jersey and led Harvard to its best season since 1901—a perfect 10-0—crushing Yale 35-3 along the way.
It’s okay Ryan. We’ll always have 2004.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After capturing the No. 3 spot at the CSA Team Championships with a 5-4 win over Ivy competitor Cornell in the spring, the Crimson men’s squash team has even higher hopes for the 2012-13 campaign. Led by what is arguably the best junior class in the nation, Harvard will look to build on the team’s highest finish since 2007 and capture its first CSA national championship in 14 years.
“We learned a lot last season and over the summer, and everyone came back a much more mature player,” said sophomore Nick Hopcroft, who played at the No. 4 spot in last year’s final team match. “We look strong. Our goals remain the same as last year. We’re just hoping we do a better job of getting there.”
The 2011-12 Crimson squad featured a young lineup, with five sophomores and two freshmen playing in scoring matches. And despite losing one senior—former co-captain Will Ahmed—to graduation after the campaign, Harvard returns its entire top nine from last season.
“We hope that there’ll be that little bit of extra maturity or experience from last year,” Harvard coach Mike Way said. “If [the players are] all better versions of themselves from a year ago, we’ll be very good. What we look for is a little bit more experience and maturity, which manifests itself in may ways.”
Included in this season’s more veteran lineup is junior and defending CSA Individual Champion Ali Farag. The Egyptian transfer student was quick to adjust to his role at the No. 1 spot for Harvard, finishing his rookie campaign with a perfect 16-0 record. Farag took down then-defending national champion Todd Harrity, and earned Ivy League Player of the Year and co-Rookie of the Year honors last season.
Farag and classmate Brandon McLaughlin were both named All-Americans after playing most of the season in the Crimson’s top two spots. Juniors Gary Power and Nigel Koh round out the current top four spots in the lineup.
“The junior class is unbelievably strong,” Way said. “They make up our top four positions on the team.... They’re not captains—though I imagine some of them may be captains next year—but we will look to them in part for some leadership.”
Standing in Harvard’s way if the team hopes to claim a national title will likely be last year’s CSA champions and runners-up, No. 1 Princeton and No. 2 Trinity, along with the traditionally strong Rochester, Yale, and Cornell.
“My feeling is that we will be in contention [for the national title], but that’s as far as I’m willing to go,” Way said.
After a 30-year drought in national titles, the Tigers took down the 13-time defending national champion Bantams, 5-4, in the finals to claim their first national championship since 1982.
Harvard faced its first test last week at Ivy Scrimmages, an annual tournament that pits perennially strong Ancient Eight teams against each other for preseason bragging rights. The Crimson came away with the title this year, as sophomore Tyler Olson, who is also a Crimson business editor, secured the final match in a 5-4 victory in the finals.
“[Olson] managed to win a nail biting match at Yale,” Hopcroft said. “It was unbelievable for us…. He’s someone who has really improved his game. He was one of our most consistent players last year, but he’s gotten even stronger this year.”
The victory pushed the Crimson to its second straight team win at Ivy Scrimmages. And according to Harvard players, this success bodes well for the upcoming season.
“[Winning] Ivy Scrimmages…puts us in a good [position] at the beginning of the year,” Hopcroft said. “It gives us the foundation for a good chance to win Ivies and nationals.”
The Crimson officially begins the 2012-13 campaign on Friday at the MIT Round-Robin Tournament, where Harvard is pitted against crosstown rival Boston College.
Although the No. 33 Eagles will likely not be as tough a test for the Crimson as its Ivy competition, the matchup marks the Crimson’s first opportunity to showcase new talent—Harvard added six freshmen in 2012-13—and get off to a strong start after what players described as a difficult preseason.
“Our preseason revolved mostly around fitness,” Hopcroft said. “It was tough but really rewarding. We have a chance to win a national title [this year], and that isn’t something that comes around all the time. Everyone’s excited to get going and start competing.”
—Staff writer Catherine E. Coppinger can be reached at ccoppinger@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Dec. 4
An earlier version of this article misstated the class year of squash player Ali Farag. He is a junior.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The last time the Harvard women’s squash team hit the court, the Crimson came away with a dominating 8-1 victory over archrival Yale at the CSA National Championships.
In its 2011-12 campaign, Harvard strung together 17 consecutive victories, culminating in its second national championship title in the past three years.
The Crimson, which returns the bulk of its starting roster from last season, is ranked first in the country in the preseason polls.
“Being at number one, there’s a bit of pressure on us now,” sophomore Amanda Sobhy said.  “People are going to be after us.”
Harvard will have the opportunity to live up to its expectations when it kicks off its season this Friday. The team will travel to neighboring MIT, opening a round-robin tournament against Boston College.
“We’ve been training hard so far and we’re looking forward to the season, especially to kick things off this weekend,” Sobhy said.
A common theme from last year’s impressive season was the standout play of Sobhy in her rookie campaign. Despite missing the first part of the season, Sobhy finished the year with a flawless 15-0 record, earning first-team All-American accolades while also nabbing Rookie and Ivy League Player of the Year honors.
Sobhy capped her perfect season with an individual victory at the national championships, topping then-reigning national champion, Yale’s Millie Tomlinson, in straight games.
“I’m trying to improve as always,” Sobhy said. “I’m also [trying] to repeat as individual champion and do everything I can to help out the team, so we can win the national championships again this year.”
The sophomore will be at the helm of what looks to be another strong Crimson lineup.
Senior Laura Gemmell—the 2010 individual national champion and three-time first team All-American—looks to be a strong force in the Crimson’s number two spot. The senior finished last season with a 14-2 record, good for the third highest winning percentage of any Harvard player last year.
The end of last season saw the departure of former co-captains Nirasha Guruge ’12 and Cece Cortes ’12, who played in the third and fifth positions, respectively. But a strong incoming freshman class should help fill the void.
Freshmen Isabelle Dowling, Saumya Karki, and Gemmell’s younger sister, Michelle, all enter their first collegiate season with impressive high school resumes. The three are expected to make an immediate impact on the team as part of the top nine.
“They’ve added a really great dynamic to the team,” co-captain Sarah Mumanachit said of the freshmen. “They have some big shoes to fill, but I think they are ready for the challenge and ready to step up.”
Though the team has yet to compete in any official matches, the Crimson has already garnered some competitive experience. Last weekend, Harvard competed against other Ivy League schools in an informal scrimmage match hosted by Yale. The injury-hampered Crimson squad placed third on the weekend.
“We had two girls missing because of injury,” Mumanachit said. “But despite that, we did really well. We came away with some wins, [and] some losses. But if there’s anything I’ve learned in these past four years, it’s that you learn more from the losses than from the wins.”
Harvard will not face its toughest competitors until later in the season. The squad will not play a ranked opponent until it takes on No. 8 Dartmouth on Nov. 28.
The Crimson will have to wait until Feb. 10 to take on Yale in a championship rematch.
“Usually in the beginning of the season we don’t play any of the tougher schools,” Sobhy said. “That being said, we don’t take any school lightly. We’ll go in there and put 100% effort into [every game].”
Though the competition may not be the stiffest Harvard will face, the team is ready to get its first match of the season underway at the round-robin tournament this weekend.
“We’ve been training for two months now,” said Mumanachit. “We are just really excited for the season to start.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last season, the Harvard men’s hockey team played its way into the ECAC Championship game by topping traditional rival Cornell, 6-1, in the semi-finals in Atlantic City. Though this weekend’s matchup between the two will not carry the same weight, emotions will be running high in the much-anticipated rivalry game between the class of the Ancient Eight.
In its first road contest of the year, the No. 17 Crimson (3-2-0, 2-2-0 ECAC) will face the No. 10 Big Red (3-2-1, 1-2-1) Friday night at Lynah Rink. Harvard takes on Colgate (4-6-1, 0-3-1) the following evening for its second game of the weekend.
The Crimson enters its first road stint of the year coming off a five game homestand, which culminated in a decisive 4-0 victory over Rensselaer last Saturday. Harvard’s win over the Engineers followed a 6-2 loss to defending champion Union the night before.
“The win was good to get after a loss,” senior forward Luke Greiner said. “We’re searching for a little consistency, and that’s probably what we’re going to look to bring this weekend.”
The Crimson started the season with back-to-back wins against Bentley and Brown before suffering a pair of tough losses to Yale and the No. 7 Dutchmen.
“I think we are off to a pretty good start [even though we’ve looked] a little shaky,” senior forward Alex Fallstrom said.  “We’re just trying to establish our team identity.  We’ve seen glimpses of it, especially in the first Bentley game and the RPI game.  But it’s still early, [there are] still a lot of games to be played.”
The Crimson kicks off the weekend with one of the most anticipated games of the season. The hockey equivalent of Harvard-Yale, the rivalry between the Crimson and Big Red, dates back to well over a century ago. The two teams have historically been the top threats in the ECAC.
The Big Red holds a 71-60-8 record all-time against the Crimson. The Crimson leads the ECAC with 13 regular-season championships, but Cornell tops the league with 12 league tournament titles.
“We are all excited, trying to give the freshmen a little preview of what it’s going to be like,” Greiner said. “The atmosphere is pretty incredible.”
The Crimson hopes to walk away from the year’s first contest with a similar result to the last year’s final showdown between the two schools. In the third match-up of the season between the archrivals, Harvard skated to a decisive 6-1 victory over the Big Red, to split the season series.
Cornell got the best of the Crimson the first time the two teams faced off on the ice last year, with a 4-2 win over Harvard at Bright Hockey Center. The teams tied their next contest, 1-1.
This season’s high-profile opening matchup at Cornell will be the first televised game of the season for the Crimson.  The game will be broadcast on NBC Sports Network.
“It’s huge,” Fallstrom said. “It’s going to be a packed barn, loud, probably not a single Harvard fan in the stands. It’s going to be fun though.”
The Big Red enters Friday’s contest coming off back-to-back losses last weekend, the first major stumbling blocks for Cornell in an otherwise solid season. In the first game of its weekend road stint, Cornell dropped a 5-3 decision at Princeton despite scoring three goals in the final period. Saturday night’s game at Quinnipiac proved no better with a 4-1 loss to the Bobcats.
Goaltender Andy Iles has anchored the Cornell defense. The junior boasts a .927 save percentage on the season.
“We are going to look to put a lot of shots on him, get some traffic,” Greiner said.  “Definitely take away his eyes. He makes the first save pretty well, so we are going to have to get some rebounds, passing plays and stuff like that.”
After the game against Cornell, the Crimson will travel to Hamilton, N.Y. to take on Colgate in its Saturday evening matchup.
The Raiders are coming off a disappointing road stint. Colgate lost an overtime nail biter at Quinnipiac before being shut out by Princeton in a 4-0 decision.
Sophomore defender Spiro Goulakos and freshman forward Tylor Spink lead the Raiders with nine points apiece. Goulakos has netted four goals in the past five games.
On the defensive end, junior goaltender Eric Mihalik has split time in the net with freshman Spencer Finney. Colgate has allowed 30 goals thus far this season, the most of any team in the ECAC.
Aside from the much anticipated rivalry game against Cornell, this weekend will be important for the Crimson as it faces its first road test of the year.
“We’re trying to establish ourselves as one of the top teams in the country,” Fallstrom said. “I think this [weekend] will definitely highlight the season. It’s our first roadie, so it will be interesting to see how we respond.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Every year, the hard-working students of Harvard and Yale shut their books for a weekend and loosen up by tailgating, watching football, enjoying the tradition of the 129-year rivalry—and oh yes, pulling pranks.
The Game has long provided an opportunity for pranksters to make their mark on the rivalry. The Harvard Lampoon kidnapped Handsome Dan II, Yale’s mascot, prior to the 1933 Game. Photographs later showed the bulldog licking the feet of the John Harvard Statue (after slabs of meat had been smeared on them).
In 1961, The Crimson handed out a parody of The Yale Daily News indicating that President John F. Kennedy ‘40 would be at the game in New Haven. At The Game, Robert Ellis Smith ‘62, the President of The Crimson, wore a mask of the President and walked across the field, flanked by “Secret Service” agents, as the Harvard Band played “Hail to the Chief.” Reportedly, thousands of spectators were fooled.
Yale has struck back, though, including carrying out arguably the most notorious prank to date in 2004.
A group of Yale students dressed as the “Harvard Pep Squad” handed out thousands of placards to unsuspecting Harvard fans, telling them that they would read, “GO HARVARD.” In fact, they read “WE SUCK.” The prank made national news and was featured on ESPN.
In 1992, when the Harvard Band tried to “X-out” the Yale Precision Marching Band as it stood in its “Y formation,” the Yale Band quickly moved into a large “H formation” as the Harvard band approached so that Harvard X-ed itself out.
Harvard and Yale are not the only schools to join in on the fun, though, as MIT has famously pulled several pranks at The Game and stolen the show.
In 1982, MIT students planted a black weather balloon painted with “MIT” under the 45-yard line. After a Harvard score during the second quarter, the balloon burst out of the ground, exploding and sending talcum powder all over the field.
MIT students launched a rocket carrying an MIT banner over the goalposts in 1990, and in 2006 replaced the “VE-RI-TAS” logo on the Harvard Stadium scoreboard with “HU-GE-EGO.”
These pranks—even when perpetrated by students from other schools—have undeniably become an integral part of The Game and the Harvard-Yale rivalry.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It has not been a fun year to play offensive tackle against the Harvard football team. Nor quarterback, for that matter. Nor running back, either.
Thanks to a front four that has swarmed opposing offenses all season long, the Crimson leads the nation in sacks and is second in rush defense, just one yard per game behind North Dakota State.
A large part of that dominance can be attributed to the breakout seasons of defensive ends John Lyon and Zach Hodges, a fifth-year senior and sophomore, respectively. Hodges’ nine sacks place him fifth in the FCS, while Lyon ranks 12th with 7.5.
“It’s certainly a luxury that very few teams [get], to have two bookends,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy says. “They’re silent but deadly. They’re really humble, classy, sincere kids off the field, but on the field you just see a different side of them that seems to manifest itself in those extremely physical, competitive situations that football can present.”
Few would have expected the Crimson to be able to rush the passer as well as it has this season, especially after the graduation of Josue Ortiz ’11, who had a team-high 10 sacks last year. Lyon and Hodges were tied for second on last season’s team in sacks with three each.
But 2012 has been an entirely different story, as the duo has established itself as the best pass-rushing ends in the Ancient Eight.
Lyon—who missed all of 2010 due to injury—has been waiting for his breakout season for a long time.
“I really had a desire to [be a better pass-rusher],” he says. “I’m glad and thank God that I was able to put it together this year.”
That was not something that had to happen. After winning his first Ivy title last season, Lyon could have decided to begin pursuing a career in the medical field, which the psychology concentrator plans to do in the future. But he instead chose to come back and play another year—a decision that for him was an easy one.
“I’ve been playing football since I was in the fourth or fifth grade,” Lyon says. “I’ve had my ups and downs with it. But since I’ve been in college, talking to my friends who went into the real world, I really understand [that] I have the rest of my life to work, but while I’m young and have energy, I really think it doesn’t get much better than getting the chance to play football. I’m just taking advantage of that opportunity while I still have it. Work and career can come later.”
Hodges’ road to Harvard, meanwhile, was exceptionally challenging. The sophomore’s father passed away when he was six, leaving him and his mother to move from place to place—at times even battling homelessness. Then, when Hodges was a junior in high school, his mother suffered a fatal stroke.
“I wouldn’t say I had the easiest of childhoods, but I definitely didn’t have the worst,” Hodges says. “I’m very fortunate and blessed that God has placed me in the condition that I currently am in.... My goal is just to try to be appreciative of that every day and make the most of it.”
Hodges’ religion, in addition to helping him overcome life’s challenges, has also brought him close to Lyon, his roommate on the road.
“First and foremost, the biggest connection between me and John is our faith,” Hodges says. “He leads our Bible studies that we do every Sunday and on Friday nights before away games. We pray a lot together. He’s a great guy, and I think his work ethic and his faith in God is a foundation for my own.”
Hodges met Lyon on his official visit to Harvard, and since then the pair has developed a strong friendship that extends off the field.
“I’ve been able to serve as a mentor to him, but I’ve also learned a lot from him about life,” Lyon says. “We’ll always talk and check in [on one another]...and we pray for one another. It’s a really close relationship.”
But despite the quiet reflection they share on Friday nights, both Hodges and Lyon turn into completely different people on Saturday afternoons.
“They definitely come out of their shells a lot more,” says senior defensive tackle Nnamdi Obukwelu. “They really epitomize what it means to be an athlete.... That’s the thing that intimidates a lot of other teams—their tenacity and their physicality. They’re not afraid to sacrifice their body to make a play, and they let their opponents know that on the field.”
Hodges has remained solely a pass-rush specialist this season, but he has excelled in that role, ranking second in the country in tackles for loss yardage.
“For lack of a better word, he’s just a freak of nature, an absolute beast,” Obukwelu says. “He’s a kid that works his butt off every day.”
Lyon describes himself more as a power rusher, which helps him play the run and attack angles at higher levels than the speed-rusher Hodges.
“At the beginning of the year, he had a lot more variables to attack the quarterback with,” Hodges says. “I’ve tried to spend some time this year and learn from him, and gain new ideas and new ways to come up with different pass rush moves.”
While Hodges—who Murphy says made a “quantum leap” this season—still has two more years to keep learning, Lyon has been playing with an extra bit of motivation in his final season.
“When you play football, even as a kid, one of the famous phrases is ‘play every down like it’s your last,’” Lyon says. “Knowing [at the beginning of the season] that I had 10 games left, knowing there was a number on it, really gave me a heightened sense of urgency.... I’ve been a little bit more on edge this year.”
“He let us know early on he was going to give us everything he had,” Murphy adds. “I think [his success] came from his incredible work ethic and his motivation to become the best player, the best kid, the best person he could be.”
Combined with Hodges’ relentlessness, Lyon’s determination has helped make this year’s defensive line even better than the one Ortiz led last season.
“We’re able to send a lot of [talented] guys at the QB, which has given us a lot of ability to be able to do a lot of different things, throw a lot of different looks at teams, [and] attack and dominate a game,” Hodges says.
“Last year with Josue being dominant was great,” Lyon adds. “But this year, we really have shown that we have a lot of guys that really can play.”
More than four years after arriving at Harvard, Lyon couldn’t be happier to be part of that elite defensive line.
“I’ve always wanted first and foremost to win games, win an Ivy League championship, but the secondary or tertiary goal for me is to be a dominant defense,” Lyon says. “It’s something that I’m really proud of, and I really think it’s a testament to the great work we put in in the offseason.”
That type of work by Lyon and Hodges, and the breakout seasons it led to, has brought about one simple result. As Murphy puts it, for opposing quarterbacks facing Harvard this season, there was “really no place to hide.”
—Staff writer Scott A. Sherman can be reached at ssherman13@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The winner of this year’s Game will earn the distinction at Harvard Stadium, but the outcome of future Harvard-Yale contests could be decided across the South in places like Deerfield Beach, Fla.
Last year, the Crimson football team dominated the Bulldogs, 45-7, with two of the squad’s top three rushers, its kickoff returner, and its second-leading tackler all hailing from the Southeast.
This year, the South will play an even bigger factor in The Game. Harvard’s backfield of senior quarterback Colton Chapple and senior running back Treavor Scales hails from Georgia, as does team sack leader Zach Hodges. Fifth-year senior John Lyon, who is second on the team with 7.5 sacks, calls North Carolina home.
In total, a dozen significant contributors on this year’s team were recruited from Florida, Georgia, and the Carolinas. Several of them were recruited by current Yale coach Tony Reno and might not be here if it were not for him.
“[Reno] was my recruiting coach,” Hodges says. “He was my sole contact with Harvard for a long part of my recruiting process.”
Current seniors from the area were recruited before Reno joined the team in 2009, but the former defensive secondary and special teams coach is responsible for bringing in underclassmen like Hodges and week one starters Norman Hayes and Seitu Smith II to Cambridge.
But in the longer term, things may be changing as Reno now recruits for Yale, leaving Harvard to attempt to maintain its preeminence. The best way to see the effects of that struggle is to take a trip to North Broward Preparatory in South Florida, where Reno went two years ago in an attempt to get Smith to commit to Harvard.
The Smith family was taken with Reno immediately.
“Who can’t like Coach Reno?” Smith’s mom, Mari Smith, asks. “He always communicated, and he was upfront with us…. He was just really, really nice.”
For the remainder of the recruiting period, Reno remained in contact with Smith, even coming to the family’s house for dinner three times in addition to talking to Smith at school.
“Coach Reno is probably the best recruiter in the Ivy League,” Mari says. “He just really kept in touch.”
All of the hard work eventually paid off when Smith committed to the Crimson.
Once Smith got to Cambridge, he and his family remained close with Reno. When his mom couldn’t get in touch with Smith by phone, she called Reno, who returned the call and helped. But Reno didn’t call when he decided to bolt for Yale last January, taking three other Harvard coaches with him.
“We found out [for] the first time on ESPN,” Mari says. “The reason why I was upset was that, with Seitu, we finally got close with Coach Reno. I mean, I see his wife at the games, we talk to her, [and] see his kids. Coach Reno was personable, and he was approachable. I was upset at the fact that he left and disappointed at the fact that we had to find out that way.”
But that wasn’t the end of Reno’s relationship with the Smith family.
Seitu’s brother, Semar, is a running back with Division I potential. After Semar finishes his junior season, he expects to be recruited by Reno, who has an advantage over other recruiters.
“He’s definitely using his edge,” Mari says. “Semar’s nickname is Chino, and [Reno’s] sent letters to my  house under Chino Smith as opposed to Semar Smith, and only close friends know that nickname—friends and family.”
Reno has an advantage over Harvard’s new Florida recruiter, Ryan Crawford, in particular, whom the Smiths have never met even though Seitu said the Crimson has shown interest in his brother.
“We are going to the Harvard-Yale game, and I haven’t even met Coach Crawford,” Mari says. “I just feel like if that was Coach Reno he would have made sure he was heads up.”
It is clear that Mari is still adjusting to Reno’s new situation.
“It’s definitely weird,” Mari says.
Part of what makes it strange may be that Reno is using the same system as he did before, only this time as Yale coach.
“It’s funny because the way coach Reno recruited me for Harvard, he’s kind of doing the same thing for Yale with my brother,” Seitu says.
Crimson coach Tim Murphy has noticed the same phenomenon across the board.
“It’s the Harvard recruiting system [that Reno is using]—we are seeing that, hearing that from the recruits,” Murphy says. “There is no question. It’s the Harvard system. That’s why [the Yale coaches] were hired.”
Even before Reno officially started recruiting Semar, the running back says Reno’s move changed his college outlook.
“Now [Yale’s] a school I could see myself going to,” Semar says. “I would still have had a chance if they recruited me [if Reno wasn’t there]…but I don’t know if I’d actually end up there.”
Murphy says he understood that Reno was going to use every edge possible in his new role at Yale.
“That’s business; that’s the business of the recruiting,” Murphy says. “Everybody is just trying to do their job.”
How well Reno is able to conduct business in places like Florida with people like Semar may decide who holds the balance of power in the Harvard-Yale rivalry for years to come.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacobfeldman@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Harvard University—center of truth, knowledge, and communism? It seems Bloomberg News has finally caught on to the trend. A Nov. 9 article entitled "Harvard-Trained Communists Vie for Power as Party Gathers" describes a series of executive training programs at Harvard's Kennedy School in which many of the world's leading communists have participated.
While Bloomberg focused on Kennedy School graduates such as Li Yuanchao, Chen Deming,and Bo Guagua (all of whom are associated with the communist party elite) we at Flyby are surprised they didn't pick up on some other more obvious communist tendencies right at the university's center. Herewith, a closer look at what might have given Harvard away as a breeding ground for communism.First culprit: HUDS food. When students enroll at Harvard, they are forced into uniform eating plans. No opting out. No opting up. No choice. Nothing. Breakfast, lunch, dinner, and brain break. Only two types of soup and about a dozen options on the made-to-order grill. Could there be a more obvious tip-off?
If meal plans weren't an egregious enough breach in the democratic philosophy to make Harvard's real, albeit covert, mission clear, Bloomberg could have turned to UHS, another no opt-out feature of the Harvard experience. Requiring all students to join a plan that gives them access to world class medical experts and specialists on a 24-7 basis? No freedom there! Just another example of Harvard's real agenda.
But when all is said and done, the dorms and Houses have the greatest potential to do us in. Everyone living on campus? Forcing thousands of eighteen to twenty-two year olds to live with gobs of their friends and peers in stately, historic, red brick buildings within blocks of each other? Please. What sort of an institution is this? Where is the choice? Where is the democracy? How could Harvard expect not to be discovered, providing students with only bare essentials in their dismally similar dormitories: running water, iron bedsteads, wood floors, decorative fire places, and the occasional common space outfitted with sofas, paintings, chandeliers, and a grand piano? It's all just too obvious.
Fortunately for our university's public image, Bloomberg News has yet to follow the trail of Annenberg bread crumbs, HUHS prescriptions, and manufactured housing day cheer to the truth of Harvard's collectivist intentions. For now, at least, the real "Veritas" of Harvard's plans for world domination remains silent.
Sections
Looks like students aren't the only ones getting excited about this weekend's football game. This shuttle has the right idea. With the Yale football team at its weakest in years, we're optimistic that Harvard will be able to heed the shuttle's directive on Saturday.
Sections
You may not have heard, but Harvard is hosting a football game this weekend. If you're a student and haven't picked up your ticket for The Game, today is the last day you can do so. Bring your ID to the Murr Center Ticket Office before 5 p.m. to claim your ticket. No, you can't send a friend with your ID to pick your ticket up. Yes, this means you have to walk across the river.
If you've already got a ticket, get excited for The Game by checking out The Crimson's recent coverage below.
Harvard Administrators: Yale Has No Chance 
Andrew J. Berry, a lecturer in Organismic & Evolutionary Biology, claimed that Harvard will beat Yale by 73 points in a lecture titled "Harvard is Better than Yale." If he gets that one right, we think even Nate Silver would be impressed.
Jessica Simpson Is Team Yale 
Apparently, she's engaged to a Yale football alum. What's there to say? Some people are willing to settle for second best.
Yale's Harvard-Yale Game Shirt Design Rejected 
Since there aren't any obvious jokes relating to Yale and rejection, we're just going to move on.
Head to Head: The Harvard-Yale Faceoff 
The Boston Globe published an article pitting Cambridge and New Haven against each other in nine important categories, including best hamburgers, music clubs, and science museums. It ended in a tie. That means we won.
Take Your Pick of Harvard-Yale Shirts
Needless to say, you should go wearing crimson.
Sections
The quick and dirty about what's been going on around the Ancient  Eight (and other schools too).
Even Jon Stewart has weighed in on what's going down this weekend, and it's not looking good for the Bulldogs. According to the Yale Daily News' Cross Campus blog, when asked by a Yale student which team would win The Game, Stewart said: "I'm pretty sure Goldman Sachs wins that one." That means Harvard, right?
 U.S. News and World Report has ranked Cornell #15 on its list of best undergraduate universities in the nation. Cornell did not take the news well and is, as usual, verging on the embarrassingly defensive. A recent Op-Ed in the Cornell Daily Sun suggests that students take an active role in countering this most shameful insult. "First," it reads, "remind your friends and parents that we are both the hottest Ivy and the sixth best school academically in the country. Second, when we think about ways to improve Cornell, we should learn from the guidelines that are already out there." Yes, you read that right. From now on, this writer suggests, any changes they make should adhere to the U.S. News and World Report guidelines. Start rejecting more students, already! Jeez. 
 At the University of Pennsylvania, a newly-revealed alcohol policy allows mixed drinks at campus events for the first time since 1999. Same here! Cheers, guys. 
 Also at Penn, they're taking a page from Harvard's book and starting a pilot program in kindness, creatively titled Penn Compliments. Columbia has followed suit with its own "Compliments" page, which is apparently exposing a friendly underbelly of the school the likes of which its students have never before seen. And—followers that they are—Yalies couldn't stand being left out of the fun. Been there, done that. 
Last but not least, a junior at Brown has set off a small frenzy with his publication of an editorial about why universal suffrage is immoral. "If person A contributes 100 times more than person B in income taxes, person A should have 100 times more voting power than person B," he writes, concluding that "a vote is a right, but it should be a privilege." Umm... what?
