News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Make Music Harvard Square, a street music festival organized by the Harvard Square Business Association and the Québec Delegation, will feature 71 bands on 11 different stages throughout the Square on Saturday.
The fifth annual event, which will bring eight hours of live music to the Square, was inspired by the Fête de la Musique, a street music festival celebrating the summer solstice. Founded in France nearly three decades ago, the Fête has spawned similar events in more than 300 cities across the globe, including Cambridge.
“We wanted to make sure that it’s authentic as it possibly can—it’s an American version of the fête,” said Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association.
The festival is co-organized by the Québec Delegation, an organization meant to promote cultural, political, and economic exchange between New England states and Québec. Québecois artists Isabelle Cyr and Yves Marchand will perform in Winthrop Park as part of the festival.
In addition to these artists, the Make Music Harvard Square festival will give listeners the opportunity to hear a wide variety of musical genres. The Harvard Square Business Association’s website lists 18 different styles ranging from classical to grunge, and many of the featured artists have blended or created unique new genres in their work.
Hip-hop artist Larry “Lak” Henderson calls himself a “hip-hop educator,” with his work inspired both by musical figures such as LL Cool J and Rakim and by books that include “The Autobiography of Malcolm X” and “Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass.”
“There’s no other album that you can classify as a hardcore educational hip hop album,” Henderson said of his debut, “Lesson One: Hip-Hop and Education.”
In order to maximize the diversity of music represented, the festival made room for all artists who applied to participate, according to Jillson.
“This is a celebration of music,” she said. “It’s really important to us to ensure that everyone is welcome.”
Artists who have performed at the festival in the past praised the atmosphere of the event, expressing their excitement for this weekend’s concerts.
“You can’t beat playing outside,” said Mick Greenwood of the Self Proclaimed Rockstars. “And you can’t ask for anything more than an audience of people that don’t know you yet—you get the chance to impress them.”
Joe Bourgeois of the Vermont-based alternative rock band Onetothree expressed similar sentiments, saying that being able to draw a crowd from passersby was a fulfilling experience.
Jonathan D. Bojarski, the bandleader of the seven-piece ensemble Sultans of Sax, said that he appreciated how engaged his group’s audience was at previous festivals.
“It turned into an interactive event, which was a lot of fun for both the audience and us,” Bojarski said.
Bands and artists who are new to the Make Music Harvard Square festival said they were attracted by the locale. Henderson, a first-time performer, found the setting appropriate for his distinctive style.
“I wanted to perform at the Harvard Music Festival because of Harvard's rich academic history,” Henderson said. “After all, the President of the United States Barack Obama is a Harvard graduate. It's an ideal crowd for my brand of hip-hop music.”
—Staff writer Petey E. Menz can be reached at menz@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Every week, The Crimson publishes a selection of articles that were printed in our pages in years past.
June 10, 1913: Not the Rich Man's College
A report was recently made before the Associated Harvard Clubs by the Committee on Secondary Schools which discloses some interesting facts concerning Harvard. In making the investigation the Committee selected a group of 292 men in the classes of 1910, 1911, 1912, and 1913, representing the most prominent men in each class, such as class officers, athletes, editors, Phi Beta Kappa men, student councillors, etc.
June 16, 1966: War Protest at Harvard Is Not New
More than a hundred Harvard students gathered on the lawn in front of Widener Library on that afternoon in April. They handed out leaflets and condemned war and aggression, but they were not worried about Vietnam. Most of them, in fact, had probably never heard of Vietnam.
It was the spring of 1940 and the students were members of the Harvard Student Union, a leftist political organization that was determined to keep the United States out of the war in Europe. From September of 1939 to September of 1941 they waged a campaign that rivals in intensity and conviction anything that Students for the Democratic Society has done in protest against the war in Vietnam.
June 10, 1968: Sen. Robert F. Kennedy '48 Is Buried
Amidst hysterical sorrow and calm remembrance, the ceremonies planned for the funeral of Robert F. Kennedy '48 were duly carried out today.
The church service was short. When it was over, after Edward M. Kennedy '54 had delivered an emotion-choked eulogy, the mourners spilled out into the brilliant sunshine of New York City.
—Compiled by Julie M. Zauzmer
