News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Jeremy Lin’s ’10 mercurial rise from the end of the bench to the cover of Sports Illustrated (twice) was one of the biggest sports stories of 2012. Those two weeks of magic have also been amply rewarded, Lin is likely to land a sizable contract, especially in light of a recent ruling, a spot on the sophomore squad in the All-Star weekend Rising Stars game and even recognition as one of Time Magazine’s 100 most influential people in the world.
The Knick’s guard might just add an ESPY to that list. The ESPYs, sports’ version of the Oscars, will be held on July 11 and can be watched at 9 pm ET on ESPN. Lin is nominated in the “Best Breakthrough Athlete” category and can be voted for here.
The competition is stiff. There’s a national hero in Alex Morgan of the U.S. Women’s soccer team.  New England Patriots’ Tight End Rob Gronkowski set an NFL-record with 17 touchdowns last season, and his dancing and his afterhours exploits are well documented.  Then there’s Robert Griffin III. All RGIII did was win the first Heisman in Baylor history on the way to being the second pick in the NFL Draft – Jeremy Lin wasn’t even drafted. And last, but not least, is Anthony Davis; only the best NBA-prospect since LeBron James. Oh yeah, he also was national player of the year while leading the Kentucky Wildcats to a national championship.
It would seem like Lin’s performance in just 12 games does not stack up to his competitors. But that’s before you remember the international phenomenon that is Linsanity. The ESPYs are entirely determined by fan vote, and though Big Blue nation might make Lin “Fear the Brow,” my money’s on Lin walking away with this one with ease.
Regardless of the outcome, tune in to watch as it may be the last time for you fan-boys to get your Lin-fix before the NBA season starts up again in late October.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It's 1:30 in the morning, and you're hungry. But where do you go? It is a divisive debate among the Harvard student body, and loyalties to the Square's late-night stops run deep. Over an 11 day period, The Crimson will debate 11 popular choices around campus. Now up: Felipe's.
 
Imagine yourself in one of the following situations. You return from a rough evening at lab and need a boost. You’ve just perused Final Club Row and are ready to pig out. Or you’re just in the mood for beans and rice, and it’s too late for Chipotle, Qdoba, or Boloco. Enter Felipe’s, the premiere option for South-of-the-border eats come midnight, and not a bad choice among everything open and available at that time.
 
I say “not a bad choice” because it’s nearly impossible to realistically make Felipe’s sound like the best decision one can make before going to bed. As a rule of thumb, making a case for burritos past dinnertime is rather unwise. After all, late-night Mexican food gets a bad rap to begin with.
Actually, let’s back up a second—Mexican food in general gets a bad rep. One Crimson commenter (Felipe’s #1 Fan, at least by self-proclamation) advocated food from a certain Mexican joint in the area only if he or she “[were] in the mood for diarrhea.” Doesn’t really put you in the mood to eat, does it?
But let’s move past that for a moment. Don’t even look back at it. Continue with me to the comparatively innocuous benefits of Felipe’s after dark. First, it’ll fill you up. Basically, you won’t be tearing through a bag of Lay’s an hour afterwards like some desperate cannabis fiend. Second, it’s cheap. ’Nuff said. Third, the music. Who doesn’t enjoy a little banda while waiting in line?
And the last point is one which is often overlooked—it’s very easy to go and pick up Felipe’s. You walk in, you order, you walk out. No problem. You aren’t bogged down by the perpetually intoxicated congregation of the Kong. You aren’t stared down awkwardly as you decide what to get you are at Market in the Square. And you know what you’re buying, unlike whatever culinary dice roll Pizza Ring tosses into its discolored, vaguely rectangular box.
 
One of the few arguments I hear raised against a late Felipe’s run is the astronomical calorie count associated with the food. But let’s be honest—if you’re eating that late, you’re not worried about eating healthily anyway. Might as well go HAM and pick up some carnitas and Jarritos before calling it a night.
 
Felipe’s isn’t five-star dining, but it’s good eats before bed. And it’s probably one of the safest dining options in the Square at that time. For that, and for all the air-tight contentions above, Felipe’s is my clear preference for late-night food.
 
(At the very least, studies say that individuals under the influence of alcohol lapse into their secondary languages. Good news for the hungry bilingual drunkards out there—you’ll still suffer from slurred speech when ordering your super burrito, but at least it’ll be in the native tongue of many of the friendly employees.)
