News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last month, the Crimson Coalition organized students to run for Undergraduate Council seats and reform the UC. Members of the Coalition called for increased student power, envisioning the UC as a vehicle for undergraduate input in University governance and community issues. Even without winning a majority on the UC, the Crimson Coalition did raise an important question that has shaped student discussion about the UC this semester: What, after all, is the role of an Undergraduate Council?
Should Harvard’s UC represent student concerns about University governance to the Harvard administration? Recently, students have explored the UC as a tool for institutional change. For example, this semester, the UC had “an unprecedented 150 applicants for around 60 spots” on student-faculty committees, two-thirds more than last year. This UC election will also feature an unprecedented three student-initiated referenda of the ballot, suggesting that student activists view the UC as an important vehicle for organizing and expressing student opinion issues ranging from endowment ethics to sexual assault policies on campus.
This year, four tickets are in the running for UC President and Vice President positions. As candidates seek student group endorsements and student votes, they will be asked to articulate their visions for the UC’s role on campus. In fact, only two days into campaigning, many already have. For example, candidates Spenser R. Goodman ’14 and Darren C. McLeod ’14 have declared that they view the UC as a strictly student-life organization. Their platform states that, if elected, they will consolidate the UC’s resources into a Social Programs Committee and the Finance Committee, focusing on dances, parties, and other events. Similarly, Tara Raghuveer ’14 and Jen Q. Y. Zhu ’14’s platform notes, “The most important function of the Undergraduate Council for student organizations is funding for their programming.”
In contrast, Michael C. George ’14 and Nicole E. Granath ’15 tout their vision to “rebuild” the UC. An email blurb from their campaign notes Nicole Granath’s “knowledge of how to mobilize the Harvard community on behalf of larger issues that the UC has often been unable to tackle,” like the Responsible Investment at Harvard campaign. They call for the UC to take an active role in conveying students’ ideas and demands to the Harvard administration, echoing the ideals of the Crimson Coalition. (As of my writing, the fourth pair, Akshay M. Sharma ’14 and Akanksha Sharma ’14, do not have a platform online.)
In September, the Crimson Staff urged undergraduates not to devote energy to the UC, declaring, “We believe that both men and women can affect far greater change on Harvard’s campus outside of the UC’s futile sub-committee meetings.” Perhaps a revisioning of the role of the UC as a vehicle for student advocacy as well as student life, like that proposed by George and Granath, would rectify the perceived ineffectiveness of our student government.
But would an activist UC actually have the power to make important changes at Harvard? In the past two years, students across the world have demonstrated that they can effectively influence university administrations. For example, in Chile, the Confederation of Chilean Students, representing democratically-elected federations at dozens of Chilean universities, organized around issues of students’ rights. Between 2011 and 2012, hundreds of thousands of students went on strike demanding free tuition to public universities and better access to education for working-class students. And earlier this semester, students in Quebec, who walked marched in the streets on strike for months, forced the Quebec government to go back on its plan to raise tuition for the next seven years. Many of these students were organized in groups like CLASSE and FEUQ.
I don’t expect the UC to lead Harvard students in a University-wide strike for lower tuition any time soon. But, importantly, organizations like CONFECH and CLASSE are student unions that exist outside of university power structures. Achieving student goals may require working with university administrations, but it may also require standing up to the administration when it doesn’t acquiesce to student demands. At Harvard, real student power would be able not only to demand the ear of top administrators, but also to demand a student voice in University governance, ranging from allocation of funds to decisions about University investment choices and labor practices. This would make our University more democratic, more accountable, and more progressive. Those who think that the role of a student government is simply to allocate funding for large parties and student activities have drunk the Kool-Aid of student disempowerment.
Unfortunately, despite efforts by former UC President Senan Ebrahim ’12 and the members of the Crimson Coalition, today’s UC has very little ability to advocate for the interests of undergraduates within the University. Will the UC ever be able to represent undergraduate opinions within the University community effectively? Perhaps not. But, as the candidates for Undergraduate Council President and Vice President begin campaigning for next week’s election, we should consider each ticket’s platform and what it means for the future of the UC.
Sandra Y. L. Korn ’14, a Crimson editorial executive, is a joint history of science and studies of women, gender, and sexuality concentrator in Eliot House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the first time in six years, Harvard College students will vote on more than their favorite Undergraduate Council leaders in the upcoming UC election. This year’s UC ballot will feature three referenda on some of the College’s most hotly debated questions: University sexual assault policy, divestment from fossil fuels, and University absorption of the Fair Harvard Fund, a social choice fund developed by students last year. Unlike previous years’ ballots, which merely required students to make the largely inconsequential choice between presidential and vice presidential contenders, this year’s ballot invites undergraduates to make their voices heard on issues that matter.
Importantly, all three of this year’s referenda have made it onto the ballot thanks to the hard, determined work of student activists. Harvard has a storied history of inspiring student activism: Student-organized campaigns have compelled Harvard to make important changes in its labor practices and expand resources for women. There is little doubt that activism has done much to steer the University forward, and the work of contemporary student activists ought to be commended in the same regard. The U.C. should encourage more of this sort of grassroots involvement in the governance of student life on campus.
The proposed sexual assault policy changes warrant the most urgent attention of these questions. The long-overdue proposals of Kate Sim ’14 and Pearl Bhatnagar ’14 include suggested changes that would drastically increase the power of students in combating assault. Specifically, they reframe sexual assault policy to reflect affirmative consent and call for increased administration transparency with federal law enforcement.
Moreover, the referendum proposes crucial increases in specificity and clarity in the wording of sexual assault policies. These include revising the “mental incapacitation” phrase to more clearly refer to the point at which someone is unable to consent under the influence, as well as using language inclusive of LGBTQ-identifying students.
Many of these policy changes have already been instituted at fellow universities, and the recent occurrence of two stranger rapes at Harvard makes their arrival to our campus tardy. Due to the urgent need for such changes to be implemented, all students should vote for the sexual assault policy referendum during the fall elections. In addition, the Undergraduate Council should continue to publicize the process by which students can propose petitions for referenda of their own. With an amplified voice for the student body, we are confident the most crucial issues on our campus can be solved.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I was in the middle of reading the novel Cat’s Cradle when I heard the news that its author Kurt Vonnegut had just passed away. Sitting in my Greenough bedroom, I’d looked up from my book and refreshed the home page of the New York Times: Vonnegut dead at 84, April 11, 2007. In Cat's Cradle, characters form communities around a fictional religion called Bokononism. Followers of the religion, one after another, commit suicide after declaring, "I will now destroy the whole world." As I finished the book, I thought of Vonnegut's mother who had committed suicide.
The next day, the obituary quoted one of the most meaningful things Vonnegut ever said, spoken in the voice of a character in his book God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater: “Hello, babies. Welcome to Earth. It’s hot in the summer and cold in the winter. It’s round and wet and crowded. At the outside, babies, you’ve got about a hundred years here. There’s only one rule that I know of, babies—damn it, you’ve got to be kind.”
That was his only advice: you've got to be kind. Vonnegut understood the inextricable link between suffering individuals and their communities. He knew that kindness to an individual affects the whole world just as a suicide does.
For me, Vonnegut was a voice of reasonable hope in some of my darkest times. At the moment I learned of his death, I was as lonely as I’d ever been. Reading his words, though, I knew Vonnegut understood the deep pain and depression I was experiencing. I also knew that he had managed to live 23 years after surviving a suicide attempt. Even after he died, Vonnegut’s evocative words gave me hope, as I’m sure they did for millions of others.
When five days later on April 16, 2007, a student opened fire on his classmates at Virginia Tech, killing 32 people and sending shockwaves across our country, I wished Vonnegut were still with us. I wished we could hear his reassuring voice, as hopeful as it was pessimistic, pointed toward this tragedy. I wished he could react to the sensational images I saw of the shooter when I refreshed the home page of CNN.
Fortunately, for those of us at Harvard at the time, we still had Reverend Peter J. Gomes, then the Plummer Professor of Christian Morals at Harvard Divinity School and longtime minister of Memorial Church. Reverend Gomes, in his beautiful manner of speaking, offered words of hope during a candlelit service at Memorial Church held soon after the shootings. The church was full that somber night, just days after the tragedy, and I remember the parallel movements of falling tears and melting candles. Six hundred miles away from the campus of Virginia Tech, the Harvard community gathered to remember the victims and to draw strength from the words of Reverend Gomes and one another.
But now, Reverend Gomes and Kurt Vonnegut are no longer here. What do we do when we are left without  our sources of strength?  Who will now lead us into the future with a realistic hope?
The answer is, and will be for many years, you and me.
Now, that might send some eyes rolling, but it is a simple truth. At this time in our lives, we must realize that very soon, we may be called upon to be the Vonneguts and the Gomeses of the world. The hard times will inevitably come, our generation must prepare now to take up the mantle of previous generations. It is now time for us to be the hope of the world.
And I have absolutely no doubt that we will be. But, we have to get started right here, right now, in the Harvard community. Before we can be the hope of the world, we must strive to be the hope of Harvard University. We must create a community in which saying the word “suicide” does not stop the conversation, but rather, begins it. We must create a community in which we are not afraid to care for one another with kindness, even though we may go separate ways soon. We must create a community in which we can tell our friends what’s really going on without considering it a burden too heavy.
I believe the first step is for us to come together, out in the open, and to stand up and speak up about the impact of suicide on the Harvard community. Vonnegut spoke up, and he made it. I hope we can, too. Please join the Harvard community tonight at 8 p.m. in Harvard Hall 202 for a discussion and panel on the subject of suicide. I will be one of the panelists.
Seth Riddley ’12 is a History and Science concentrator in Mather House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editor:
Sarah Siskind’s November 2nd column on affirmative action was, by turns, well-argued and pointlessly dismissive. However, in general, her piece was a painfully repetitive and unoriginal exercise in missing the point.
Siskind writes that affirmative action is “fundamentally flawed because it uses race instead of targeting these groups [the discriminated against, the poor, and those with unique experiences and intellectual merits] themselves.” But this is patently false. Colleges can and do target these groups independently, by asking applicants to provide information about their income, their particular challenging circumstances, and their unique virtues. Colleges can and should do more to reach out to the poor, the oppressed, and the unique; The Crimson has sometimes carried thoughtful pieces on the importance of doing so.
However, Siskind fails to recognize that race-based affirmative action has little to do with any of this. Race based affirmative action does not simply use race as a handy but clumsy indicator. Instead, it recognizes race as an actual category. Our society has a history of racial oppression—one that continues, unfortunately, to this day. This oppression does not merely manifest itself as individually experienced discrimination; instead, it also (and perhaps primarily) operates as an aggregate influence on the opportunities available to young adults. In particular, these systems of racial oppression dampen the college prospects of young people of color, especially African Americans and Latinos.
Siskind seems altogether unaware of the existence of these systems. She uses glib correlations to demonstrate that race is not unique in its status as a generalizing indicator, but ignores the fact that, though socially constructed and not biological, race is a real and significant category.
It is a moral obligation of college admissions to recognize that these systems of oppression exist, that they are immoral, that they operate subtly and on a broad scale, and to work to counteract them. It is for this reason, above and beyond any other, that race-based affirmative action exists, and should continue to do so—at least until, in some happy and far-distant future, these systems have conclusively broken down. Its aim is not diversity, nor restitution. It is integration, the breakdown of our current oppressive racial system in order to produce one of true equality.
Race-based affirmative action can’t accomplish this lofty goal alone. But it is a valuable tool in that overall project, and it should be sustained, by the Supreme Court, by the states and their universities, and by Harvard as well.
Louis R. Evans ’13
Cambridge, Mass.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
You’ve seen them lurking, lingering on the last lines of words you once read. You’ve wondered how they have so much time, you can barely skim. It’s possible you—innocent you!—have even engaged one in a cyber war.
 It’s time to meet one of thecrimson.com’s top commenters, alias ShadrachSmith.
 “A Night to Be Free,” an op-ed on overtly sexual costumes as a form of escapism
Express your inner slut? Why?
 “Education and Application,” an op-ed on tangible methods of addressing local homelessnes
Why did Obama get his head handed to him by Romney last night?
They both went to Harvard, but it looked like only one of them showed up at class.
 “An Insectivore’s Manifesto,” an op-ed on “the joys of eating insects”
What if a kid brings a bag of fried grasshoppers to school for lunch?Will Michelle let him eat them?
“The ‘People’s Senator’ Fights to Make Mass. Seat His Own,” a news article on Scott Brown’s senate race
 It would take a whole heap of nuance to explain why you would reject a good and decent man who is devoted to public service to elect a corrupt, Marxist Pretendian.
 “Mandarin? No thanks,” an op-ed on why Mandarin is not the language of the future
Jorge has a good point.
English is the world's language. That isn't my fault, and I don't feel a bit guilty about it. If you do, you need therapy, or a new political outlook.
Tonal languages are not as good vocally, because all the expression that tone can add to English is entirely used up by vocabulary in tonal languages. If we had a tonal language, Mel Torme would have never existed.
I have no problem with studying any language you wish, I don't have that Liberal fetish about not wanting anybody else to do whatever I don't want to do. But insofar as Jorge, after considered study, has decided to disagree with his dad...well done.
You guys who want to pick on somebody who is glad English is the world's language?
I'm your huckleberry :-)
Sections
Stand up straight. Tilt your head. Smile a bit more. Pose with a fat friend. Wear sunglasses. In these and other ways we try to make ourselves look better as we stand before the reflector of truth, the illustrator of occurrence that is the camera.
But what if, by some electronic spectacular, there was a surefire way for all of us, even that freshman who still looks like Frankenstein a week after Halloween, to look like the Venuses and Mitt Romneys (a natural pair) of the world? Funny you should ask, for I know just such a mechanism, and it’s available on an iPhone near you—Instagram.
Through its plethora of filters, Instagram evokes the vivid colors and tactile textures that reflect what you’re really feeling about your subject. The love between you and your girlfriend submerged in the Hefe filter will generate an army of jealous exes just like the Toaster filter can make a HUDS beef fajita fettucini look like Jenna Jameson-quality food porn—still old, but you’d go for it anyway.
Instagram allows even the most amateur photographer to be an Alfred Stieglitz or a Cindy Sherman. It represents the democracy of a once highly-labored art form—and don’t we love democracy? Instagram will eventually become a part of our heritage just like baseball, apple pie, and George Washington. Speaking of which, wouldn’t the big G look even badder if Benjamin West had used the Walden effect on “Crossing the Delaware”?
So now, I implore you to embrace your inner artist and become the photographer you never thought you could be if not for your smartphone. They say the camera adds 10 pounds, but Instagram can add anywhere from five to 50—depending on filters.
Bonus: Instagram is owned by Facebook, which was invented by a Harvard student, which we are now, so we’re basically all part-owners! Own it.
Sections
Do you pine for the days when you could live your life free from unexpected assaults by large people holding small camera phones? Do you wistfully recall a time when you could go to a party in sweats without having to wake up to 35 photos of yourself on the internet the next morning? The online photo culture has taken hold of our society so much so that I’ve forgotten an age when I didn’t hear “Tag me in this!” before getting a photo snapped of me as I do my laundry.
The menace of Instagram represents the next step in the over-photo-ization of the world. Prior to Instagram—though I couldn’t go to a pre-game without being involved in the latest “Junior Fall!” Facebook album—I could still safely brush my teeth. Now, I have to duck for cover whenever anyone brandishes a phone near me. This is particularly horrifying for a person such as myself who tends to look like a sleeping, wounded monkey in all photos.
People use Instagram for two reasons:
1)   To show the world they have friends. To this I say: Look, you don’t have friends. If you did you wouldn’t be posing with your TF outside the Kong.
2)  To pretend every photo of them has just been recovered from a time capsule. To this I say: It’s not the 1960s, time to accept that.
For those who use Instagram to view others’ photos, the experience is completely disheartening. Want to go hang with your friends? They’re already having fun snapping pics at a bar. You weren’t invited. Depressed about your love life? Here are 10 pictures of happy couples. Being single never felt so…Sierra.
The Instagram photos themselves are the embodiment of amateurs gone wild. All of a sudden, everyone is the next Annie Leibowitz. Your Instagram of a 7-Eleven Big Gulp is not going to be the centerpiece of the next photography exhibit at the MOMA. Let’s leave artistic photography to people who know what they’re doing and are holding actual cameras. Use your iPhone to give your parents a call and stop posing for faded photos in front of the Owl.
Sections
I snap a fifth tongue depressor against my inside jaw, giving it a wet chew before lobbing it into the trashcan a foot and a half away. Buckets. (1)
Tongue depressors were, in my opinion, invented to be stolen and abused. Perhaps you don’t agree with me, but when you’re a fourteen-year-old kid and some guy in a white lab coat with a koala pin leaves you alone in an eight by eight exam room with last June’s “Highlights” magazine, your mother, and variously colored pamphlets on whooping cough and ADHD, you don’t have much else to keep you distracted. Of course I wouldn’t have had to fuck with this guy’s popsicle stick collection if he didn’t keep us waiting forever so that he could saunter around his clinic, jerking off his stethoscope and planning where in Florida he would vacation next so that he could contract his second case of malignant melanoma. Who lets these guys become doctors, anyway? Anyway, after five or so minutes of doing barrel spins on Dr. McDoctor’s (2) wheely stool and another 30 or so of me telling my ma (3) how impatient I am, the jerk-off finally shows up.
“Well howdy there, big man,” he says. “How’s your year been…[He looks down at his chart]…Noah?”
I’m already pissed off with the guy for making us wait. My ma sees me resisting, so she has to kick me with a glare before I come to.
“Not bad, Doc. And yourself?”
“Doing reeeal well,” he says, dragging out that “e” like a porpoise being anally penetrated as it axes its way through a bathroom door so that it can murder its innocent porpoise family in cold blood. He grabs a tongue depressor out of the jar, oblivious to its missing contents, and he tells me to say “ah.” I acquiesce. And, following his next request, I consent to him exploring the remaining orifices of my face with a penlight. I better get a goddamn Dum Dum out of this, I think to myself.
We finish playing doctor and he rolls back on his wheely stool like he’s some goddamn magician. He then pulls off his latex gloves and presses his fingers in a pistol shape against his chin.
“Well, Noah, everything looks good,” he says. “You staying out of trouble?”
“Of course,” I say back. My ma gives him a confirming nod, which sucks because it means that even she knows I’m too soft of a kid to do anything of real concern.
“Okay, doo du doo du doo,” he continues, in hum, pulling out my BMI (5) charts. “So everything looks good. Weight looks good; I hope you’ve been eating well. Blood pressure is good. Doo du doo du doo. Height’s still below average, but I don’t think you’ll grow more anyway. And other than that—”
“Hold up, doc,” I cut him off. “Say that again.”
“I’m sorry?”
I choke up. That’s not how this is supposed to work. He’s not supposed to just say it. I’ve seen the movies. He’s supposed to take me back into his office. He’s supposed to fold one hand over the other, lean over his mahogany davenport or something like that. And he’s supposed to tell me in a soft, sodden tone, “You might want to take a seat.” I mean sure, right here, right now, I’m already sitting. But he didn’t fucking tell me to sit. He’s supposed to do that. Then he’s supposed to tell me “I’m sorry, but there’s nothing more we can do. I wish there was a better way of telling you this, but there’s no real reason to beat off the bush; I’m just going to be straight: You’ve developed a chronic condition—there’s no treatment.” My ma is supposed to gasp and tear up and say, “there’s got to be something, doctor McDoctor—anything, an experimental treatment, anything?” And then he’s supposed to shake his head and cautiously explain the morbidity of the situation. And all the while I’m supposed sit there in that chair he told me to sit in, meditating on my mortality. That’s how he was supposed to do this, but instead this guy just decides it’s okay give me this fatal fucking diagnosis in a passing comment.
The words clang in my head again: “I don’t think you’ll grow more anyway.” Who the hell does this guy think he is, some kind of doctor? Well maybe, but—but still.
“What exactly do you mean not growing anymore?” I finally say. “I thought I had at least four more inches in me? My dad’s five eleven for Christ sake (6)!”
He sways his head. “Well it’s certainly possible.”
Aw hell no, I start thinking to myself: Stop there. Sorry, doctor, but you might as well have just dropped the C-bomb, cause that’d be a helluva lot better than what you just told me. Sure I’d become bald, possibly even die, but at least I’d grow past the knees of the kindergarteners. But oh no, this doctor was too heartless to care, a goddamn Satanic troll. Well guess what Doctor Troll (7), I just broke all your fucking popsicle sticks. We finish the exam. I get a root beer Dum Dum pop and I steal an extra cream soda because fuck him. Then I go home. I don’t grow anymore after that.
I’ve sometimes wondered whether or not I would’ve kept growing had I not been told that I wouldn’t.
1. I am taking some creative liberties here with what actually happened. For instance, it is quite possible that the tongue depressor didn’t actually make it into the trashcan. It’s also possible I’m a part-time point guard for the Washington Wizards and that I have a pet fish. Two truths and a lie, go!
2. This isn’t his real name, in fact.
3. Short for mother, and, coincidentally, Massachusetts
4. Cause everyone in Virginia is a cowboy, especially pediatricians.
5. An acronym
6.  Pardon this inappropriate language.
7. This also isn’t his real name. It’s a nickname I’ve provided.
—Noah B. Pisner ’14, an FM Staff Writer, is a Social Studies concentrator in Winthrop House. He is 5 foot 8 on a good day, and otherwise has the body of a Greek god (namely, Pan).
Sections
After competing in the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, Alex M. Meyer ’10  has come full circle (made a complete lap?) in his swimming career, returning to Harvard to train with and coach for the men’s swimming and diving team.
Meyer is honest and ambivalent about his Olympic experience, saying it was an honor, yet a constant source of stress. He was disappointed with his tenth place finish, but this chip on his shoulder “has been nothing but motivation” for the 2013 World Championships in Barcelona.
However, Meyer’s Harvard coach, Tim Murphy, underscores his Olympic performance. “It can’t be underscored how proud of a moment it is—for the athlete, for the coach. It’s such a good and positive reflection on Alex and on Harvard,” Murphy said.
Murphy and Meyer have worked together since Alex’s freshman year of college, and Murphy respects Meyer’s determination, a quality that was apparent when Meyer broke his collarbone a few months before the Olympics and overcame the injury to compete in the Games.
Now back in Cambridge, Meyer is both happy and honored to give back to his former team. “They’ve given a lot to me; I’m not a student here any more but I’m allowed to have a locker in the locker room and I train here all the time,” he said.
Although Meyer is now legally allowed to coach, not much about his daily routine will change. He’ll continue to train with the team and will only step into his coaching role when Murphy and Assistant Coach Kevin Tyrrell are out of town.
“His experience of being a Harvard student athlete is something the guys [on the swim team] can relate to and respect. That’s a unique perspective that I think is very valuable,” Murphy said.
After six years working together, does Murphy have any funny stories or telling anecdotes about Meyer?
“None that I can share with you,” he joked. “It’s a continuing, evolving story. As time passes he continues to make progress and reap the rewards. So one story wouldn’t be good enough.”
Sections
From the backseat of a cab traversing a Sandy-stricken New York City, Obie Award-winning composer and lyricist J. Michael Friedman ’97 picks up the phone to dial Fifteen Minutes. The cell service is spotty—it’s what disaster-zone reporting must be like, Friedman quips—but that doesn’t stop him from happily chatting about anything from writing music on the subway to his time as a History and Literature concentrator.
A member of the critically acclaimed investigative theater company The Civilians, Friedman made his Broadway debut in 2010 with “Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson,” which opened in Boston on Oct. 19. The complete version of this interview can be found online.
1. Fifteen Minutes: When you first came to Harvard, were you interested in entering musical theater?
J. Michael Friedman: I was a music guy, like a classical music guy…. Honestly, I am the latest bloomer ever. I had never really written a song for theater before I was 25. I am a hope for late bloomers everywhere. When I was at Harvard I think I didn’t write a single thing.
2. FM: Were you going to be a musician?
 
JMF: No, I think I thought I wanted to go to law school. Or business school. God, I don't know. I had no plan. I was an undergraduate with no plan. No goals, no plan. Terrible!
3. FM: You were a History and Literature concentrator. Does that mode of thinking influence your work?
JMF: I always joke that my entire career is based on books that I didn’t read in college. I took “Jacksonian America” with William Gienapp—History 1620, I think. It was one of the most amazing and transformative courses that had a lot of influence on why I wrote “Bloody Bloody,” and all the books that [collaborator Alex Timber] and I read were the books assigned in History 1620—a few of which I will admit I’d never read. And when I wrote “Paris Commune,” which was performed at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, that was actually based on an article in a book that I had been assigned in my Hist and Lit tutorial sophomore year that I had never actually read. I read it some rainy day because the book was sitting on my shelf like a reproach, so in fact even the books you don’t read in college can have a huge influence on your life.
4. FM: You compose music in a variety of styles—everything from pop to folk to salsa. How do you match subject matter to musical genre?
 
JMF: For "Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson" I started looking at emo rock and also at Americana, political songs, etc. And then for a show like “This Beautiful City,” that was about evangelical Christians, I looked at a lot of Christian worship rock, obviously. For a show like “Gone Missing,” that contained a salsa song, it was like, it was a show about lots of interviews—totally different interviews with people who had lost things in New York. And I wanted the songs to each feel like they might have been written by a completely different person so there’s a German song, and a salsa number in Spanish and a rock song in English. So I think it's about making music reflect the content of each piece and letting each work dictate what the musical form will be.
 
5. FM: It seems like you have a new song on The Civilians' podcast every few weeks. How often and how much do you write?
 
JMF: I once had a banner year when I wrote like 75 songs in one year, which was crazy. Not all of them were good, not all of them were long, but there were certainly many of them. I try to write every day. I write very early in the morning, like between 4:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. weirdly. I just can't write after lunch. I try to write every day, but sometimes writing means sitting staring at your computer and eating a bagel…. I get most of my best writing done on the subway.
 
6. FM: Why do you think that is?
 
JMF: I don't know. I think maybe the pressure's off. Then you take your notebook out and don't have to worry about it. Any situation in which it feels like “I don't have to be doing this but I'm doing it” is when I write my best lyrics or music, weirdly. Airport terminals! Oh my god, I get so much done in airport terminals. I have trouble writing at home, honestly.
7. FM: Is musical theater changing to reflect contemporary culture?
JMF: I think anyone my age is astonished—I hate to use the phrase “anyone my age,” that’s terrible, makes me feel old—anyone my age is astonished by how mainstream musical theater has become. People who really liked musicals when I was in college were slightly shameful…. It was like the musical theater was always kind of the bastard stepchild of better things. But it’s so funny, between “Glee” and “Book of Mormon” and all these things, it seems like musical theater, for lack of a better term, came out of the closet. Like, it’s become fashionable, which is shocking and even a little upsetting to somebody like me who still thinks of it as a little bit shameful.
8. FM: So was shame the reason that you waited until after college to become heavily involved in musical theater?
JMF: There was a little piece of me that always thought, “Really shouldn’t I be doing something better than this?” But that’s what’s good about [musical theater]. I think it’s powerful because it’s a little unsure of what it is. I say these apparently negative things about musical theater, but you’re talking to someone who believes that “Marriage of Figaro” or the late Verdi operas or “Porgy and Bess” are as great works of art as have ever been written. So I think at its greatest musical theater is possibly the greatest form of art. It’s funny that way.
Sections
How much does a House at Harvard cost? The Hutchins Family Foundation recently donated $30 million to support the Harvard House Renewal and other academic programs. In case you too have $30 million sitting in your pocket, or just are eager to do a lot of shopping, here are five ways to “pimp le pad”—as they say in Europe.
STOCK UP ON TOILET PAPER
Avoid the hassle and embarrassment of asking for toilet paper multiple times a week and just stockpile your own. The extra rolls can double as bed risers, end tables, or even mattress pads. And at the average price of $1 per roll you can’t lose.
INVEST IN 125 PERSONAL CHEFS FOR FOUR YEARS
Tired of the same old cafeteria food? According to the internet, personal chefs cost about $60,000 a year. #HotBreakfasts4Lyfe
LOUNGE ON 120,000 FUTONS
Line your room—and ALL the rooms—with hundreds of thousands of futons from Harvard Student Agencies. At $250 a piece, a slew of these mattress-cum-sofa pieces ensure that entertaining Harvard-Yale guests will never be the same.
TREAT YOURSELF TO 375,000 CAPPUCCINO MAKERS
Perfect for when you need that extra jolt of caffeine and want to avoid the trek to the dining hall (N.B.: option four only worthwhile at the exclusion of option two).
RAGE ALL NIGHT WITH 600,000 DISCO BALLS
And make them all fit in your room. Hang them from the ceiling, the walls, the shower—anything. Turn them all on at once, start the music, and get ready to host the most intense disco party Harvard has ever seen. In the words of that one Yelp reviewer on page five, OONTS OONTS OONTS.
Rage all night with 600,000 disco balls
And make them all fit in your room. Hang them from the ceiling, the walls, the shower—anything. Turn them all on at once, start the music, and get ready to host the most intense disco party Harvard has ever seen. In the words of that one Yelp reviewer on page five, OONTS OONTS OONTS.
Sections
Platonic no more. According to a recent study published in Scientific American, we’re hot for our friends. The study, conducted by researchers at University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire, examined 88 pairs of opposite-sex heterosexual friends and found that men were more likely to be attracted to their female friends than women to their male friends. Males were also more likely to see this attraction as mutual, an observation FM made well before the Scientific American.
FM wanted a Harvard opinion on this study and consulted Social Studies lecturer Bonnie M. Talbert, who teaches Freshman Seminar 47p:  “Just Friends: I Don’t Love You Like That.”
Talbert quickly noted that men and women could just be friends and, when asked about possible evolutionary explanations for the findings, Talbert tilted her head back and chuckled.  “Evolutionary claims about mating behavior in general are subject to a lot of challenge. In this study of only 88 pairs, there isn’t enough data to warrant evolutionary and universal claims about human behavior,” Talbert said.
Using evolutionary psychology, Talbert outlined two problems with these conclusions. First, there is not much known about the savanna, the environment in which our brains and human instincts evolved when we were still in tribal societies. In turn, it is unfeasible to make broad assumptions about the evolutionary origins of our behavior. Second, even if certain genes were expressed in the savanna, that doesn’t account for current radically different environments. “It’s almost too simple to say that men were and are promiscuous and that evolution proves this,” Talbert explained.
Talbert also noted that an analysis of our popular culture is critical to a study on sexual attraction between friends. “You need seriously to consider rivaling hypotheses. For example, there are many romantic comedies about friends becoming involved, and that’s what you want in a movie—you want sparks, the dramatic tension. These narratives have seeped into our culture and have certainly influenced the nature of our relationships,” Talbert said.
“I don’t think that the researchers were trying to imply something sinister about friendships, but I’m afraid that people will question their friendships and think that they are false or inauthentic, ” Talbert cautioned. “Studies like this could reinforce a dangerous stereotype in which men only value women insofar as their possible objects of their sexual desires, and we should push back against that.” Moral of the story? Billy Crystal is 23 years ahead of the Scientific American, and we’re still caught up in Meg Ryan’s hair—and the happy ending.
Sections
Dear Readers,
Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. (Look, I’m a balloon!) Inhale. Pop.
Signed,
Weatherman
This week in last week’s weather, we introduce a new segment that we probably won’t ever use again: “The Beforecast,” wherein we give a brief summary of each day’s weather in the style of the week. This week’s style of the week, “inspirational death threats” was suggested by online commentor SluttyTimTam40. Thanks, SluttyTimTam40! We’ll be sure to send you a free T-shirt, of sorts, complete with anthrax dust we never cleaned off of it. Anyway, this shit’s about to get fucking biblical.
Thursday, Nov. 1: Clouds, if you don’t get the fuck out of the way of the sun next time, you’ll never achieve your dreams. I believe you can achieve your dreams. You just have to wish hard enough. Also, I’m going to kill your children to death, and then [censored by editor] with your cloud of a wife. You got me, puffytits? Or have you mist my point?
Friday, Nov. 2: Oh man, you had best be kidding me. Rain? Rain?!? God fucking dammit. Rain, I swear to whatever deity you hold dear, if you don’t stop getting my new cashmere wet this fucking instant, a whole new world of pain is going to precipitate down upon you. And I’m not even talking about steam. You’ve never even heard of this phase of matter, so watch your shit, reach for the stars, explore, love, and stop dripping on my ass.
Saturday, Nov. 3: You think this is fucking a joke, atmosphere? You think shrinking my already undersized micropenis with your high humidity and low temperature is funny? Well la-de-da. I guess you’re the comedian then, right? Well, alright Mr. Comedian atmosphere, tell me a joke. Come one, this is no-zone to be serious. Tell me a joke. Ha. Ha. Ha. Ha. No seriously, you should consider a career as a comedian. I think it’d be really fulfilling for you. The only thing stopping you from having a perfect life is you, atmosphere.
Sunday, Nov. 4: Jacket, I love you. You are everything this air is not. Warm, cuddly, stuffed with down (and, for that matter, down with stuff). Air, get out of here. I haven’t had to deal with your 36 degree bullshit for so long I’d almost forgotten how sick I was of it. How cold do you think you’ll be once I light you on fire, huh? Now hold your breath, make a wish, take a chance, and leave me alone with my blanket.
Monday, Nov. 5: Sun, you’re not shining bright enough. Get your shit together. Remember, like, four weeks ago when you were making me sweat? Get on your own level, bro. If all you’re going to do is shine weakly through some visible-spectrum wavelength, like blue or some crap, then I’m done with you.
Tuesday, Nov. 6: LOL no. Get the fuck out of here, Tuesdays. Seriously you better get going. A journey of one thousand miles can’t begin without that first step, and if you don’t start this instant I’ll cut your feet off at the shin, so you can’t even take that step. Go! I’ll check in on you at the 500-mile mark to make sure you’re actually doing it.
Wednesday, Nov. 7: There are only two ways to live your life, wind. One, as if nothing is a miracle. The other is to sit your ass down and blow on me like your mother did last night.
Rating: Green out of Orange
Disclaimer: Any similarities between these threats and actual events happening within the next week are purely coincidental and not related in any way. But watch your fucking back, Kyle, I’m coming for you.
Sections
House: Winthrop
Concentration: Human Developmental and Regenerative Biology
Hometown: Stockton, Calif., asparagus capital of the world
Ideal date: People date here?
Favorite pickup line: I’m far too small to pick anyone up.
Sexiest physical trait: I make any man feel tall.
First thing you notice about a guy: Wow, there’s another one who’s taller than me!
Wear to find you on a Saturday night: Wearing my glasses
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: Don’t you think cookies should be called bakies? Because you bake them, right?
Favorite childhood activity: Building IKEA furniture
Favorite thing about Harvard: The cranberry orange muffins
Worst thing about Harvard: The raisin bran muffins
Describe yourself in three words: Optimistic, caring, short
Best/worst lie you’ve ever told: I can’t come; I have to feed the fish!
In 15 minutes you are: Running somewhere
In 15 years you are: Still running, trying to beat Forrest Gump
Sections
Kendall/MIT:
Son: Is this a city?
Father: Yes, it’s part of a big city.
Son: It looks like an an empty doughnut factory.
Father: A lot of smart people are here...quiet,  smart people.
Central:
Construction Worker 1: Does he think I’m an idiot? Does he think I’m an idiot?
Construction Worker 2: Nah, he’s just strict.
Construction Worker 1: He treats me like a fucking idiot.
Construction Worker 2: He’s not that bad to you.
Construction Worker 1: You’re an idiot.
Construction Worker 2: I think we all agree, you’re the idiot here.
Harvard:
Father: This is the John Harvard statue!
Mother: Okay guys, time for a picture. Let’s see if someone will take it....
Son 1: Mom, I hate pictures!
Son 2: Come on, Max, just pose next to the dead guy.
Daughter: Can we leave? I feel like I’m inside a J. Crew catalogue. Why is that guy wearing a bow tie?
Inman:
Nothing interesting was overheard in Inman.
Davis:
Girl 1: He didn’t even, like...want to  hang out.
Girl 2: He’s not making the effort for you.
Girl 1: Yeah, but sometimes he’s so cool. You know, when we do hang out.
Girl 2: He’s ignoring your texts.
Girl 1: Look, you don’t know if he has his phone on him!
Porter:
Homeless Man: Spare change for booze!
Man walking by: [Gives him a dollar.] You're the first honest person I've met today.
Sections
Andrew Warren, Assistant Professor of English, has taught English 90we: “David Foster Wallace and Environs,” a class that plays special attention to Wallace’s encyclopedic novel. FM sat down with Warren to learn more about the book’s connection to Cambridge.
“Wallace lived in Inman Square while he was a student at Harvard in the Philosophy program. He was writing ‘Infinite Jest’ probably 1991 to 1995, but it takes place in a near future world around 2009 or 2010, so he’s anticipating what Cambridge will look like. It’s really a pretty accurate description. Cambridge has a juxtaposition of super high culture with homeless shelters and drug recovery centers, and David Foster Wallace would have been familiar with both sides. While he was at Harvard he was friends with famous professors like Stanley Clavel but he was hanging out with people who stole money and did drugs. Cambridge is unique in having social programs but also intellectual heft—the city attracts an urban population dealing with contemporary modern problems like addiction, but also has the institutions that pretend to be disassociated with these problems.
One of the key Cambridge places he mentions in ‘Infinite Jest’ is the student center at MIT, which gets blown up by militant grammarians and then rebuilt somewhere else in the shape of a brain. The Madame Psychosis radio show is taped in the brain and broadcasted out across Boston and many different characters listen to that broadcast. In one scene a radio show engineer nuzzles into the folds of the brain and looks out over Boston.  Aesthetic qualities like these make the book beautiful.”
Sections
Standing at the intersection of Boylston St. and Mass. Ave. I realized that I was infinitely lost. Originally, I had set myself a ridiculous quest: to visit all 100 or so places David Foster Wallace mentions in his novel “Infinite Jest.” Wallace himself was a former Harvard philosophy student, and set “Infinite Jest” in the Boston-Cambridge area.
I had hoped to embark on a local homage of sorts, and I was reasonably equipped to do so. For starters, I had actually read and finished “Infinite Jest” (I assure you, it’s no laughing matter to navigate the tome’s digressions and footnotes), and also regularly explore Boston and Cambridge.
I had not anticipated, however, the volume of Wallace’s allusions to landmarks, or how extremely, infinitely lost I would become in the streets of Back Bay. The Berklee School of Music would be all I could manage in a day.
On page 477 of Infinite Jest, Wallace’s protagonist Don Gately drives past the Berklee School of Music. On a frosty Sunday afternoon, I found my way there by foot. I did get terribly lost but, in the end, I realized that the destination hardly made a difference. It was the quest that mattered.
I am searching for the Berklee School of Music, but what I am really after is something far less substantial—the ghost traces of Don Gately, a phantom trail of his fictional car. Blind gropings into unknown paths and stumblings into strange streets immerse me deeper into spatial dislocation. The zigzag of seemingly random crossings, street signs, and billboards crisscross into a tangled topography. Eventually, I find comfort in the unfamiliarity of these streets, and reassurance in my ignorance of what buildings are ahead, what shops lie in the next corner, what people might cross my path.
Yellowing fall leaves fluttering in the wind, colonial red brick facades, and gleaming window displays promising a confectionary collection of goods for sale all merge into one another. Their colors become less distinct, blurring into a colorless blank in my mind’s eye. The experience of not knowing where I am brings my physical journey closer to the narrative one crafted by Wallace.
When I finally stumble upon the Berklee School of Music, the destination presents itself as a sadness, a regret that the quest has to come to an end.
Sections
“Let’s go somewhere,” said B., one of my best friends, after showing up in my room in Hollis. We were supposed to be studying for our Ec10 final, but we blew it off and climbed down the fire escape through the bathroom window—not because it was necessary, but because we could—out of the Yard, into the Square.
I was uncertain, that spring, about what the end of freshman year would mean and what it would bring. A few weeks earlier, we’d been quadded, a mob of 20 upperclassmen from Cabot invading our entryway to celebrate this rite of passage. But I was still holding on to the centrality of the Yard, the comfort of being labeled as new, and the familiarity of it all.
B. and I walked out Johnston Gate and crossed over to Garden Street—a walk, we joked, we would become well-acquainted with in the coming year. But we didn’t make it to the Quad this time. We ended up at the park in the middle of Cambridge Common, and pushed open the gate into its playground.
Away from the chaos of screaming toddlers, we found two abandoned swings and sat down, pushing ourselves faster and higher off the ground.
I thought of my first memory of getting to know B. We had decided to go on a run. It was our first week on campus, still in that introductory phase where you’d only just learned everyone’s names—we’d turned to each other during a rare hour of downtime between orientation activities. As soon as we’d gone outside, it started to rain, but kept going anyway, through the Yard and then down to the River, crossing back and forth over its bridges. Since then, I’d considered her one of my best.
That day in May, our conversation was still uninhibited by our motion. We were nowhere, doing nothing: I focused on my rhythmic rise and return to the woodchips, each time anticipating the lurch in my stomach right before the dive back down.
It was the expectation of that rush during free fall, knowing that you could defy danger, that in just another second you’d be meters off the ground once more—it was that expectation, I think, that kept us there for over an hour, just swinging.
Grounded in mid-air, we knew that all else fell short to our view of a horizon that moved with us, the heights we reached only for seconds, the creaking sound of a playground swing.
Sections
Nestled under thick blankets, I can feel the cold air of our apartment on my nose. We like rules, and we set one a while back, when it was still warm, that we’d wait until the high outside was consistently below 55 degrees to turn on the heat. To save money on gas each month, we said. For now we burrow in bed for as long as possible and then rush out of the apartment. We kiss goodbye in the little yard behind our house and I nibble on a concord grape from our neighbor’s vine. Sam bikes to MIT, and I bike to Harvard. On my way to campus I pass the Rindge & Latin School and that’s when I know I’m almost there.
Like every other Harvard student, I live in Cambridge. But my Cambridge is a 15-minute bike ride and two and a half miles away from campus, and it’s not really a destination for most students. In order to explain where I live, I’ve developed the following explanation:
Have you ever been to Inman Square?
Oh, good! Yeah, it’s really cute.
Do I live there? No, not exactly. I live past Inman, in East Cambridge.
I’m actually pretty close to the Cambridgeside Galleria.
That’s right, the mall. Have you been?
My neighborhood is suburban and quiet. I live on a street that is part of a larger network of streets filled with three-story houses and small lawns. It’s the sort of neighborhood where people decorate their houses for Halloween and leave them up even once the holiday has ended. We have local convenience stores that don’t carry everything but generally do the trick. A few days ago I tried to buy pureed pumpkin for a cake I was making. The store only had pureed squash, but I figured it would do. Last Saturday night I tried to get a slice of pizza from the local place, but they were closed. What kind of pizza shop is closed on a Saturday night? It worked out, though, because we went home and put some soup on the stove. It warmed up the apartment nicely.
Sections
As I swing open the door to the Barker Center, Dale R. Riley flashes a smile of recognition and pulls out a bundle of budding yellow roses from behind his back. “I don’t miss appointments,” he says, pushing the flowers towards me and apologizing for not meeting me for lunch during Hurricane Sandy. Clad in a red Henley shirt with shiny white hair, Riley, 63, holds open the door as we exit the building.
Turning left on Quincy Street we join the gaggle of students flocking from the Yard back to the river for Friday lunch. Riley’s never explored the houses before, but he says he hears about places like Pfoho and Adams all the time.
As we saunter through Leverett courtyard Riley shouts out to an administrator he knows and stops to chat. “I knew her since she was an undergrad,” Riley beams. We continue on towards Dunster where we will be dining, and I point out Mather towering to our left. “Mather—oh, this is where those elevators always break down!” he chuckles.
As we pass through the swipe desk, Riley is already talking about all the Barker Center professors he adores. Steven Greenblatt always brings him a Christmas gift, he says, and Jorie Graham once pretended she and Riley were engaged to play a joke on a visiting friend. The leaf blower roaring outside reminds Riley of Professor Bob Orsi who can’t stand the sound of yard work, and Riley marvels at how people like Eugene Rivers go from presenting to the President of the United States to chatting with him in a single day. “It’s interesting guarding them because [the professors] are aware of who they are but they drop all pretense,” he explains.
“When I first came to Harvard,” Riley recalls, “I was reading bad Victorian novels, drinking coffee, and eating Bartley’s burgers every day.” Then Daniel Aaron (the Victor S. Thomas Professor of English and American Literature Emeritus, Riley reminds me) plopped down a copy of “Moby Dick” on Riley’s desk and told him to get to work. “I’m allowed to read at the desk, and I’ve read over 2250 books. I’ve gotten a wonderful education at Harvard,” Riley grins.
As he scoops long-grain white rice onto his fork, Riley explains how he has lived in Middlesex County for his whole life aside from a brief stint as an undergrad at the University of Wisconsin. Estranged from his parents when he dropped out of Wisconsin, Riley spent years attending night classes at Suffolk and the Harvard Extension School while working during the day.
“Security jobs get you thrown in everywhere,” Riley explains. Guarding since 1994, Riley worked at Mass Eye and Ear Infirmary and the Massachusetts Records before coming to Harvard. One night, while on duty, Riley stumbled upon papers proving that both of his parents had died.
At Harvard, Riley’s primary responsibility is the Barker Center, though he occasionally patrols “hotels” which includes many of the science buildings on Oxford Street. He has had more unconventional assignments at Harvard, too. Riley has guarded the Harvard Cylcotron Laboratory and he brought in the new millennium guarding primates in William James Hall.
“This is good food. I could eat here all the time,” Riley remarks, surprised. The red spice chicken fillet has almost disappeared from his tray.
Sipping down the last drizzle of Coca-Cola, Riley explains how he survived mostly on doughnuts and coke while driving a taxi for 20 years. Driving a cab was hard work, Riley remembers: “They’d make you sing for your supper, then they’d throw you to the worms.” But he says the security job at Barker is different. “Whether it’s a laptop missing or a water bottle, I’m the first person they see [in Barker]. But I’m not the show. It’s a blast supporting the students and faculty—it’s relaxing but it’s also a huge challenge.”
Riley asks for my zodiac sign and explains that he’s a Sagittarius (in fact, he tells me that his birthday is the same date as John Lennon’s shooting). He’s an active musician, producing what he calls “background music” that sounds like “north Indian classical music.”
“People don’t like my music except for Professor James Simpson who came out raving about it. I have like a four percent approval rate,” Riley says. He also describes himself as a professional photographer. “I’m self-taught, an autodidact,” Riley remarks, explaining that his ambition upon leaving Harvard is to pursue his music and photography careers. In the meantime, he always keeps a camera in his knapsack.
The wind hits our faces as we wander back up Dewolfe Street towards Barker. We part ways at Grafton Street, and he continues on to Barker while I peel off towards the Harvard Bookstore. Two hours later I receive a text:
“Dear Ginny Thank you for such a wonderful interview It was an honor I will always cherish. Please remember to ‘keep your feet on the ground and keep reaching for the stars...’ Dale Riley.”
Sections
Timothy P. McCarthy ’93 has, maybe, four people he’s obsessed with at the moment. One of them is Nate Silver.
Sunday bread night has just ended and I’m at his office as he’s wrapping up with a few students. Nate Silver dominates the conversation, and it smells like election season. McCarthy’s life and work is inherently political—he came of age during the presidency of Ronald Reagan, the era of the anti-apartheid movement and AIDS. For much of his adult life, he’s been speaking out about racial justice and LGBTQ issues. And for 16 years, that voice has been coming from Quincy.
Inside McCarthy’s ground-floor office are relics of his life at Harvard, little testaments to his work and to Quincy House. It’s the house where he changed, grew up, came out.
On his desk is a framed poster for a documentary about the living wage and assorted awards—one for teaching and advising, another given by Quincy House. One of the walls is lined with bookcases holding hundreds of volumes and memories, but the books still overflow: They form neat piles on the floor and fill up crates set upon the bookcases themselves. The shelves also hold photographs of past students, no doubt, and a pillar candle with Pope John Paul II.
On another bookcase, action figures: Derek Jeter, Barack Obama, Abe Lincoln. And on the bottom shelf, Ann Coulter. (She’s a gift from a student, McCarthy says.)
Once upon a time, McCarthy was part of the first sophomore class to be sorted into Quincy under the non-ordered four-choice system. At the time, McCarthy was a total jock, a basketball and track star from a “cultural rhythms” blocking group who wore a “straight but not narrow shirt.”
“At least I wasn’t one of those closet cases who was a homophobe,” he says. “I was one of those closet cases who was desperately trying to come out.” (McCarthy married his husband, C.J. Crowder, in the Quincy Courtyard in May 2011, “under the graduation tent.”)
And his class in Quincy House was a prime example of house randomization working—McCarthy says the sophomores were an unusually social, well-balanced group that helped Quincy shed its “Asian pre-med” reputation. Now, it’s known as “the people’s house.”
Upon arriving on campus, he joined the anti-apartheid movement, reflecting a passion for racial justice that rings through his work till this day.
And it was at Harvard that McCarthy “fell in love with learning all over again.” “I felt like I was at all-you-can-eat buffet,” he says. He  was one of a few white kids studying African American studies—another fact that’s changed over the years.
When we talk Sunday night, the election is weighing heavily on McCarthy’s mind, though it’s only the third he’s experienced in Quincy. The last one he spent here was 2000—he left the JCR at 3:00 a.m. and went to bed thinking Gore had won.
“And I hadn’t voted for Gore!” McCarthy exclaims. “I voted for Nader!”
So, I ask, was Bill Clinton the first black president?
Clinton-talk animates McCarthy. He’s up in his chair, hands alternating gripping the armrests, gesturing, and firmly landing on his desk. Suddenly, I see how the tattered armrests must have come about, as the light catches his broad wedding band.
“He systematically threw three black women under the bus,” McCarthy says: Sister Souljah, Lani Guinier, and Joycelyn Elders.
Elders, he said, wanted to teach kids about masturbation. “What the problem is with that, I don’t know! Everyone in the United States masturbates.”
And that’s not even mentioning LGBT issues, which, McCarthy says, Obama spent most of his first term undoing.
Definitely not the first black present. That was Obama, he says, though Clinton was a “political genius.” Obama, on the other hand, has spoken less about race “than any president since Lyndon Baines Johnson.”
So, is Obama the first gay president?
No—and if you ask McCarthy, Andrew Sullivan got the slogan from his Huffington Post piece. But, Obama is “the LGBT movement’s LBJ.”
And his evolution? “Everyone knows the evolution was a performance.” (As an aside, he tells me, he got news of Biden’s endorsement of marriage equality as he was powering down his phone for a private tour of the West Wing with his husband.)
When it comes to other issues, McCarthy still hopes Obama will evolve on. He joined his campaign in the last election cycle, McCarthy says, primarily because he was the peace candidate. That rhetoric has shifted as fast as the drone war has escalated, but McCarthy says he thinks the President wrestles with those issues on a personal, moral level.
Right now, though, it’s important for Obama to win. “In order for us to have a second black president in the near future, he has to win a second term,” McCarthy says. Inevitably, future black candidates will be judged on Obama’s success.
But the real problem isn’t with those who aren’t voting for him, but those who are rooting for him to fail. Those, McCarthy says, are “complicit in all the worst elements of this country...a 21st century manifestation of racism.”
He tells me that on Tuesday, he’s hosting an election night party at Tommy Doyle’s, near the only place that feels like home.
But no matter what happens on Tuesday, one thing isn’t likely to change.
McCarthy’s friends, he tells me, say that there are only two people in the world who say where they live without a street address or postal code: Santa Claus in the North Pole, and McCarthy in Quincy House, Harvard.
Sections
On a warm night in October of 1957, history professor Charles S. Maier ’60 left his dorm room to stand on Weeks Footbridge and stare at the sky. The Russians were launching Sputnick, and Maier and his classmates watched the satellite, an experiment that would trigger the space race” and fuel the Cold War, floating above Cambridge.
Every once in a while, the Harvard community experiences moments when persons in all stages of academia take their noses out of their books to learn not about quantum physics or Russian literature, but about events that end up forever shaping the nation’s historical landscape.
Just as these events have the power to divide and unite the country, so too do they have the power to divide and unite the campus, making real the connection between Harvard and the world with which it interacts.
“It brings you back to the fact that you’re American, and that Harvard isn’t a country,” government professor Harvey C. Mansfield ’53 says. “Its well-being depends on the well-being of our country.”
November 22, 1963
Michael Shinagel, Dean of Continuing Education and Harvard’s Extension School, still remembers walking from his office to Eliot house, where he was a tutor, and hearing the news of President Kennedy’s death from a student playing frisbee in the Mac Quad.
“One guy said, ‘Hey, did you hear? Kennedy was shot in Texas,’” Shinagel remembers. “The other guy just threw the frisbee back. It was so nonchalant that it was unnerving.”
Entering Eliot, Shinagel was ushered downstairs into the basement, where he watched Walter Cronkite tell America that its president had been killed. “When we all went up for lunch, this kind of deathly pall fell over the members of the senior common room as we tried to figure out what this would mean,” he says.
Mansfield was also in Eliot dining hall when the news of JFK’s death began to spread—by word of mouth, not cell phones—through the campus like wildfire. “Suddenly, everybody just turned pale and looked at each other,” Mansfield says. “You tend to look at your friend to gain some confidence or to share this experience.”
Mansfield immediately realized that the event not only meant the assassination of a beloved president, but also required the ushering in of a new one. “President Kennedy was a great favorite of Harvard, and Lyndon Johnson wasn’t,” Mansfield says. “If you were thinking politically, your first reaction was, ‘Uh oh.’”
For the next couple of days, Shinagel recalls, the world was a blur for everyone at Harvard: a mixture of images on television screens, from Lyndon Johnson being sworn in next to a stunned, bloodied Jackie Onassis, to the Kennedy children following the horse-drawn carriage bearing their dead father’s body.
“It was just like a sustained wake, with an unstoppable sense of grief throughout the weekend,” he says. “It just seemed like the longest time—time without end.”
Three years after President Kennedy’s death, Harvard renamed its graduate school of government in his honor.
“He was one of our own, so we took it personally,” Mansfield says.What made the day livable for Shinagel, just as for Mansfield, was the sense of community he found as he and others on campus sorted the assassination out in their minds.
“There are times that both faculty and students get the sense that they live in an ivory tower,” Shinagel says. “In moments like this, you realize that you’re not actually separated that much from the real world.”
September 11, 2001
Bob Butler was, as usual, on duty as Kirkland House’s beloved security guard. But after news that the Twin Towers in New York City had been hit by two planes, Butler remembers seeing the house’s familiar faces turn from smiles into dumbfounded expressions of shock. “Everybody was walking around in a daze,” Butler says.
Shinagel was in his office when he got the call telling him about the first tower. He came home early that day to a call from his brother, who was watching the chaos unfold from his house in Manhattan.
Although the mood on campus likely reflected that of campuses across the country, the 9/11attacks, Mansfield says, shook Harvard’s campus particularly because the attackers had stayed at the nearby Charles Hotel only a night earlier.
“We had been through all the security lines that they got through so easily,” he says.
The day after the attacks, Mansfield remembers, an overwhelming number of dorm room windows displayed American flags.
“People started wearing flag lapel pins that, today, you only see on Republicans that are running for office, and sometimes, [on] Obama,” Mansfield says. “Everybody could see what it meant. It brought out everybody’s patriotism."
May 2, 2011
It was an otherwise quiet night in Matthews Hall when Edward Escalon ’14 heard someone in the dorm room next to him scream. Next thing he knew, Harvard Yard was full of screaming students. President Barack Obama had just appeared on televisions across the country to announce to the world that America’s number one enemy was dead.
Surrounding the John Harvard statue, students—some in bathrobes—joined in chants of “USA, USA” and sang patriotic songs between huge smiles. Some climbed onto the statue, waved flags, and asked for a moment of silence to honor fallen soldiers.
“It was kind of surreal,” Escalon says. “Osama Bin Laden was dead, and I knew the war wasn’t going to be over. You feel like ‘Oh, the war should be over there...’ and, in your heart, you know it’s not.”Watching the scene, Escalon couldn’t help but flash back to the terror attacks on 9/11, particularly because those attacks sparked the war that took his stepfather from their California home to Iraq. But even in the wake of what most perceived as good news, the scene seemed strange to Escalon.
“It was kind of crazy because [the students] were out there having a party over someone’s death,” he recalls. In the next few days, some students began to speak up about the celebration, an act that many felt was an inappropriate display of patriotism. Others across campus felt the announcement reverberate in different ways. “It put a period on this long sentence that began at 9/11,” Shinagel says.
Despite this divide in reception, Bin Laden’s death marks yet another moment in which Harvard joined the country in rallying together even through fragmentation. “These big events remind us that we’re part of the country and that we’re Americans, besides being sophisticated students who somewhat look down on patriotism as being a rather raw and unsophisticated emotion,” Mansfield says.
Escalon acknowledges the event’s ability to pull students out of the Harvard bubble and into the global community. “It’s jolting when things happen here at Harvard,” he says. “You get snapped back into the fact that you’re still in the real world.”
In the Yard that night, just as on Weeks Bridge in 1957, students were brought together as a community and witnesses to the same history: some singing, some in tears, and some, simply watching.
Sections
“Po-le, po-le,” the wide-smiled women cry as they stride past me, their cheeks gleaming with obsidian sweat. They each balance a large bundle of canoe-length firewood branches atop their heads and churn their legs forward, gaining momentum to propel themselves up the hill. My sandals scrape up dry brown dust as I semi-stumble through the grassy savanna, kids-sized L.L. Bean backpack tight on my back and floor-length skirt swishing. It’s the daily walk home from school in Shistoni, a rural Tanzanian village, and these strangers are apologizing to me.
We learned about pole in Swahili class. Pronounced “po,” like the smallest Teletubby, and “lei,” like the type one would wear to a luau, pole was one of the first words my teacher etched on the chalky blackboard on day two of class. Between clapping hands and sing-song renditions of new vocabulary words, my teacher told us that pole meant sorry. “You’ll want to remember this one,” she advised.
Now, three weeks later, I am living in the village—a 20 minute walk from the nearest water pump and an hour from the closest electrical outlet—and pole is following me. “Pole,” my host mama chimes as I meander into the driveway after a long day of teaching. “Pole,” Baba repeats over and over again when he comes home after dark. Baba, my host father, knocks on the door of my room, shakes my hand, and then continues to shake my hand while his eyes stare me down. “Pole. Pole sana, dada. Pole,” Baba repeats.
People say pole to me all the time and in situations that don’t merit a sorry. In the market on Sunday, a chubby-cheeked four-year-old pulls on the hem of my skirt and motions to play tag. As I chase her around the open field, the adults shout out to me, “Pole. Pole, dada.” But I’m having fun, and so is she. Why is everyone so sorry about this innocent game of tag?
It happens again after I get out of teaching a class at school. Exiting the classroom I move into the central courtyard towards the other teachers, only to be met by a storm of profuse pole-ing. I feel confused—almost guilty—taken aback by their apologies. I shouldn’t deserve an apology more than any other teacher. But the poles keep coming.
Worrying that I might seem rude if I don’t conform to sprinkling at least a few poles into my stilted Swahili speech, I start inserting the term into my daily conversations. That night as Mama warms well water for my bucket shower, I decide to try it out. “Pole, Mama,” I utter, grinning as she walks towards me. “Pole, Ginny,” Mama corrects, speaking louder than I do and plopping the scalding bucket down at my feet. First attempt failed.
A few days later, I’m doing laundry, or trying to. With buckets of thick soapy water, thin rinse water, and powder detergent at my side, I violently rub the soap flakes into my browned polo. My oldest host sister Tumaini is doing laundry too, her stack of dirty clothes Tanzanian family-sized, nine times the size of my own small heap. With her newborn folded into the colorful kanga fabric tied around her back, Tuma trudges over towards me and forcefully pokes her finger into my shoulder. “Pole, Ginny. Pole, pole, Ginny.” She pulls the polo shirt out of my grasp and shows me how to stroke it against my forearm with enough force to erase the dirt wedged in the fabric. She knows I’m out of place, but appreciates that I’m trying.
More than sorry, pole is a recognition of unfamiliarity, of exertion, and of effort despite a foreign situation. Pole celebrates an honest attempt. It’s pity, something to be sorry for, but also admiration, laden with respect.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Professor James T. Kloppenberg began his talk at a history department panel event on Wednesday night with a question: “When you hear the phrase ‘democracy in America,’ what comes to mind?”
Several audience members shouted out answers­, but one attendee—who offered “a question mark” as an answer—helped set the tone for the rest of Kloppenberg’s talk.
Kloppenberg said that all the question marks of American democracy—the Electoral College, voter restrictions, and even the idea of voting itself—can only be puzzled out through the historical method.
“All of our understanding of democracy is historically constituted,” he declared.
Kloppenberg was among a handful of faculty members in the history department who spoke at Wednesday night’s panel, which was titled “Everything is History—History is Everything.” The event, which was part of the College’s Advising Fortnight, was aimed at students considering history as a concentration.
For the faculty members who spoke at the event, all the world—and especially Tuesday’s presidential election—can and should be viewed from a historical lens.
In her talk, history professor Emma Rothschild argued that particularly in this election year, candidates alluded to the nation’s past economic trends and events.
“All elections are historical,” she said. “But the U.S. election of 2012 was historical...in that it turned to an unusual extent to U.S. economic history and economic thought.”
In another presentation, Kelly A. O’Neill, an associate professor of history, showed how different narratives can be told using different types of maps.
While a typical electoral map of Tuesday’s election creates a geographic picture that seems to favor failed Repubican nominee Mitt Romney, a map that distorts state size based on population creates a clearer visual picture of President Barack Obama’s victory, O’Neill said.
Tuesday’s election was not the only current event discussed at the panel.
Ian J. Miller, an associate professor of history, used the example of the New York coastline to show how human efforts to shape the environment can have disastrous consequences.
Miller said that New Yorkers have long been extending their coastline outward, a process which he said was ultimately undone when Hurricane Sandy flooded the region last week.
In the final presentation of the night, History professor Laurel T. Ulrich focused on a subject closer to home for many audience members: the John Harvard statue’s toe.
Ulrich argued that the statue’s design gives us valuable insight into a 19th century perspective on the 17th century.
Ulrich said that memorials, even when constructed centuries later, are valuable because they can convey people’s memories of the past.
“I am here to argue that memory is history,” Ulrich said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just a week before an event on Israeli and Palestinian activists’ peace efforts was set to take place, Harvard Hillel decided Monday that it would no longer host the discussion after administrators learned a Palestinian student advocacy group was a co-sponsor.
Harvard Hillel Executive Director Rabbi Jonah C. Steinberg said that he canceled the venue reservation for Harvard Progressive Jewish Alliance’s “Jewish Voices Against the Occupation” talk because, according to Steinberg, co-sponsor Harvard College Palestine Solidarity Committee’s platform conflicts with Hillel International guidelines.
They state that Hillel organizations “will not partner with, house, or host organizations, groups, or speakers” that support the “boycott of, divestment from, or sanctions against the state of Israel.”
Steinberg said that because PSC promotes boycott, divestments, and sanctions—commonly referred to as BDS—with regards to Israel, this policy prevents Hillel from hosting the discussion.
“It is very important to find ways for pro-Israel and pro-Palestinian groups to enter into meaningful and substantive conversation here at Harvard and beyond,” Steinberg wrote to the Harvard Hillel Board of Director in an email he later gave to The Crimson. “Co-sponsorship of an event with a BDS-endorsing group is another matter.”
PJA chair Emily S. Unger ’13 and PSC member Alexander R. Shams said that at first Hillel, not realizing that Shams’ organization would also sponsor the talk, seemed comfortable with hosting the event.
“At our initial meeting, we were given approval and were assured that there would be efforts to see this event through,” said Shams, a student in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. “But we later found out that there was a lot of uproar about the event when people from higher up heard that PSC was co-sponsoring it.”
The event will still be held on Nov. 15,  but now in Emerson Hall. It will bring together Israeli Jew Noam Lekach and American Jew Jeff Stein to talk about  Israeli-Palestinian relations.
“I thought that it was clear that it was a co-sponsorship because we were both there and both shared interest in the topic of the event,” Unger said. “But Jonah apparently thought it was a dialogue, not a co-sponsorship.”
Steinberg, realizing that he may have misunderstood PSC’s presence at the meeting, said he scheduled a second conversation.
But before that meeting could take place, Steinberg said, he received emails from concerned parties including Boston-area Jewish organizations and the vice president of Hillel International. Upon receiving these emails, Steinberg told Unger and Shams that they could no longer hold their event at Hillel.
“He told us that it would cause too much, far too much outrage and conflict and wouldn’t be worth it,” Unger said.
She added that the Jewish community is “particularly sensitive” to any mention of boycotts, divestments, and sanctions, as such actions can be perceived as undermining, and threatening, the Israeli nation.
Though many Israeli Jews think that settlement in the West Bank and Gaza Strip is justified, not all may agree with this position, Shams said.
“I think it’s problematic that Hillel takes a particular political stance on the issue, which may be alienating,” he said. “This silences anyone with a different opinion and pushes them out of the Jewish community.”
—Staff writer Michelle Denise L. Ferreol  can be reached at mferreol@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This fall, as Harvard investigates the roughly 125 undergraduates implicated in a massive cheating scandal, instructors in the Expository Writing Program are continuing a push to teach freshmen to avoid plagiarism.
Karen L. Heath, a senior preceptor for the Harvard College Writing Program, wrote that she and her colleagues saw the Government 1310 scandal as a chance to emphasize the need to use sources responsibly in academic writing.
“The case that arose recently was certainly one we talked about this fall, as an opportunity to reaffirm the importance of the approach we’ve already adopted in our courses,” Heath wrote in an email to The Crimson.
The program has long included instruction on proper citation practices, and last semester it began requiring freshmen to print or electronically submit copies of their sources for their final research paper.
Heath added that the buzz generated by the scandal prompted preceptors to prepare for students’ questions about proper collaboration practices.
Nicole W. Bassoff ’16, a student in Expository Writing 20, said she found it helpful that her preceptor devoted an entire class period to teaching students how to identify plagiarism and properly cite sources.
“[That lesson] didn’t seem forced,” she said. “I’m sure it will help students not to plagiarize.”
Ken Urban, a preceptor who teaches Expos 20, wrote in an email to The Crimson that he has not changed his teaching approach following the scandal.
Instead, he wrote, he has addressed the issue with his students the same way he does each term: “I give a talk that consists of basically two simple words: ‘Don’t plagiarize,’” he wrote.
Throughout the semester, Expos students typically complete multiple exercises designed to teach them how to paraphrase and summarize material, integrate sources into their writing, and evaluate sources for credibility.
The program has also developed the Harvard Guide to Using Sources, an online resource that all preceptors now use in their courses.
Heath wrote that as a result of these practices, the program has experienced very few instances of plagiarism and does not perceive it to be a major concern in their classrooms. According to Heath, the program typically has between zero and two cases of plagiarism each year.
Urban wrote that he encourages his students to avoid plagiarism not just to follow the rules, but also to develop their own intellectual voice. Each semester he shares the following saying with his freshmen: “Believe that your own ideas, however hard they are to articulate, are ultimately far more interesting.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Change: it is the message that swept President Barack Obama to the White House twice. It is also the message that this year’s Undergraduate Council presidential hopefuls are counting on to deliver their own victories.
All four candidates—Michael C. George ’14, Spenser R. Goodman ’14, Tara Raghuveer ’14, and Akshay M. Sharma ’14—have served on the council, but now say it is time to reform the way the UC does business.
George, who is also a Crimson news editor, said that it is time to “rebuild the council.” He pointed to his selection of a UC outsider for vice president as evidence of running on what he considers to be a “revolutionary ticket,” despite his time on the council’s executive board. While advocating for reform, George said that he also recognized the council’s achievements, which include extending Lamont Library’s hours during reading periods and final exams.
George said that his platform aims to make structural changes that include splitting the UC’s internal committees, making the referendum process more transparent, and formalizing channels of communication between different University interests.
“I’ve spent a lot of time on the executive board, and it takes experience with the inner working of the UC to reform it,” he said.
The Sharma duo—Akshay and vice presidential candidate Akanksha Sharma ’14—emphasize their aim of synthesizing student opinion to bring about change. Akanksha said the ticket would utilize Harvard’s existing online registration tool to collect feedback from all students. Although she said the two would fight for community-building initiatives that include school-wide Stein clubs and concerts, their main aim would be to engage the council in addressing University-wide issues that emerge from student feedback.
“The UC can, and should, be doing more than just pet projects,” said Sharma. “We should be focused on things beyond student life. These include big issues like mental health, sense of community.”
Akanksha echoed this dissatisfaction with the current scope of UC initiatives.
“The things that need to be advocated for are not,” she said. “We need to reform a body that primarily focuses on funding.”
Tara Raghuveer ’14, this year’s only female presidential candidate, said she sees the UC as “increasingly irrelevant.”
“People vote unanimously,” she said. “I am blown away when we do that. There is not a level of government where that is appropriate. I want to fix that culture of needing to get out of the room by 8 p.m.”
Raghuveer’s proposals for reform include increased transparency for UC grants, the establishment of an online grants portal, and the creation of a forum where students, faculty, staff, and community members can gather to discuss big-picture issues such as investment and hiring practices.
Goodman, the self-proclaimed “social life candidate,” said he is taking a unique approach to reform by focusing on improving social life through campus-wide events and community building.
“The three other tickets have gone toward this student advocacy approach, but I want to take us into a different direction,” said Goodman, who chairs the Social Programs Committee and has worked on the College Events Board to plan Yard Fest.
He said he aims to increase school-wide programming by planning large events throughout the year, increasing funding to student groups, and better promoting the concerts, plays, and events that already occur on campus.
The presidential candidates will debate their proposals alongside their running mates Thursday evening at the Institute of Politics’ John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum at 8 p.m.
—Staff writer Quinn D. Hatoff can be reached at quinnhatoff@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Wednesday, several Harvard professors said that while they reacted to Obama’s victory Tuesday with a level of enthusiasm similar to that in 2008, his win in 2012 was momentous for different reasons.
“Obama’s victory was sweeping, and the Democratic gains in the Senate were surprisingly strong. Young voters turned out at a high rate that many analysts had not expected,” Government and Sociology professor Theda R. Skocpol wrote in an email.
“This election is more important than 2008, because it confirmed the new directions in which American society [and] politics are slowly and fitfully headed—toward a more inclusive country where government opens opportunity for the middle class and for young people,” added Skocpol, who said she voted for Obama.
Government professor Graham T. Allison Jr. ’62 wrote in an email that while he expected Obama to win, this year’s results left him relieved because he had been more confident of victory in 2008.
Philosophy and Public Policy professor Mathias Risse wrote in an email that when Obama won in 2008, he wept “tears of joy.”
Risse said that like many Americans, he has since realized that the nature of American politics made many of Obama’s 2008 campaign promises beyond reach.
“We have...learned that Obama doesn’t walk on water, and it now looks like the popular mandate is unfortunately quite narrow,” Risse wrote. “I hope that this doesn’t mean we are in for several years of bickering between the White House and the House of Representatives.”
For Risse, the Obama victory presents the opportunity to move forward on the issue of climate change.
“I was delighted with how things turned out,” he wrote. “With Obama we have a chance to make progress on climate change, and with Romney we don’t.”
Risse was not the only professor to lay out expectations for policy changes during Obama’s second term.
Regina E. Herzlinger, a professor of business administration who identifies as an independent, said that the 2012 results sent “a clear message” to both parties.
“To the Democrats, the people worry about your ability to better the economy,” Herzlinger wrote in an email. “To the Republicans, the people worry about your hard lines on the issues of personal freedom and immigration.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A day after Harvard Law School professor Elizabeth Warren defeated U.S. Senator Scott Brown, colleagues and students at Harvard said the senator-elect will bring the characteristic intensity they have come to know well to Capitol Hill.
“She was a fabulous colleague and one of the very best teachers here. Students universally loved her. But this is a higher calling, and I don’t know anyone at the Law School who is selfish enough to think it would have been better if Elizabeth had remained in Cambridge,” University professor Laurence H. Tribe ’62 wrote in an email.
Tribe was one of the professors who first brought Warren to Harvard Law School in the 1990s. During the campaign, he repeatedly stepped up to aid his colleague and friend, hosting multiple fundraising events and defending Warren in the press.
Warren’s campaign relied heavily on interns and volunteers from across the University, and the professor’s campaign pocketbook was bolstered by more than $220,000 in donations from her Harvard colleagues.
“In Senator-elect Elizabeth Warren, we have a history-making future leader of the nation in the grand progressive tradition,” Tribe wrote.
Law School professor Jody Freeman, a close friend of Warren’s, said the law faculty was delighted for Warren, but that it will miss her expertise in the classroom and friendship outside of it.
“I remember when I joined the Harvard faculty, Elizabeth took me to lunch and gave me some advice. She told me that a lot of people here agonize over how they got here and whether they belong, and she said not to spend even a minute on that kind of thing,” Freeman said. “‘Just seize the opportunity and run with it,’ she said. ‘Figure out what you want to do, what’s important and meaningful, and just do it.’ And I think that is exactly the attitude she will bring to the U.S. Senate.”
Warren, who has been Leo Gottleib Professor of Law since 1995, is the only law professor to win the school’s prestigious Sacks-Freund Teaching Award twice, the last time being in 2009. The award is voted on by the students and recognizes their choice of the best teacher on the faculty.
Students who had Warren in class before she began a leave of absence last fall and have followed her campaign since said that Warren’s presence in the Senate should compensate for her absence from the classroom.
“I think it’s definitely a loss for Harvard Law School, but I think it will definitely be made up for by the good she’ll be doing,” said Jessica E. Harris, a second-year law student.
Wearing a Warren for Senate t-shirt, Harris joked that students might not miss Warren’s characteristic intensity in the classroom.
“She was also a really, really tough professor,” Harris said with a smile.
Jonathan G. Hiles, a first-year law student, said even though he never took a class with Warren, her presence was always tangible at the school.
“We had a professor...who said some of the people on the law faculty wouldn’t vote for her, not because they don’t think she’s qualified, but because they don’t want to see her leave,” Hiles said, explaining that the professor was joking.
Warren’s husband Bruce H. Mann, who is also a professor at the Law School, will remain on the faculty even as his wife departs for Washington.
“It’s going to be a pleasure to work with her as part of the Massachusetts delegation,” said University President Drew G. Faust in an interview with The Crimson. “We’ve always had very close relationships with our delegation.”
—Staff writer Nicholas P. Fandos can be reached at nicholasfandos@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Allston residents criticized several details of Harvard’s Institutional Master Plan Notification Form—a draft of Harvard’s Institutional Master Plan for Allston development—Wednesday evening during a public meeting at the Business School.
The meeting combined an “Article 80 Public Meeting” with one of the regularly scheduled Harvard-Allston Task Force meetings.
The “Article 80 Public Meeting” was part of a 30-day comment period required by the Boston Redevelopment Authority following the filing of an IMPNF, during which community members are able to give feedback on the plan. According to BRA Senior Project Manager Gerald Autler, the BRA will incorporate resident feedback into the revisions it requires for Harvard’s final draft.
Several community members drew attention to Harvard’s unclear plan for a plot of land that sits just northeast of Barry’s Corner. The parcel, Harvard officials said, may serve as a parking lot during construction in Allston.
Brent C. Whelan ’73, an Allston resident and member of the Harvard-Allston Task Force, said that residents have already been living with an empty construction site and suggested that the plot be converted into a community garden for Allston residents and Harvard students.
“I think this is a terrible way to move forward,” Whelan said. “It feels to me that you’ve not succeeded in planning.”
Whelan and others also complained that Harvard had broken promises about benefits that it would provide to the community.
Harvard Associate Vice President for Public Affairs and Communications Kevin Casey argued otherwise.
“There is no evidence that Harvard has done anything other than abide by our cooperation agreement,” Casey said. “We’ve been moving forward on a lot of things at the same time.”
In 2007, the University filed its first plan for Allston development that included, among other proposals, the transformation of Barry’s Corner into a thriving “main street” and the construction of a $1 billion science complex.
However, Harvard halted its Allston development in 2009 due to financial constraints, a move which prompted an outcry from Allston residents.
In 2011, the University announced that it was resuming its planning for development in Allston, an announcement that was met with some skepticism from residents. However, tensions eased somewhat as the University formed more concrete designs for its Allston development, plans which the University formalized when it filed an IMPNF on Oct. 18.
Leslie G. Cohen, senior vice president for development at Samuels & Associates, kicked off the latter portion of the meeting with a presentation of plans for a mixed-used development at the Corner.
She explained that ground-floor retail, underground parking, and low- and mid-rise residential units had been designed with the goal of “creating a sense of identity and place in Barry’s Corner.”
Other residents were concerned that Harvard’s Ed Portal, which holds mentoring services for local children and other community events, will lose space and resources.
“We are committed to the Education Portal, and now the Ed Portal annex,” Casey said, referring to a recent addition to the center. “We do intend for that to be part of the secret sauce.”
—Staff writer Samuel Y. Weinstock can be reached at sweinstock@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The School of Engineering and Applied Sciences is reconsidering its approach to graduate education with the hopes of enhancing students’ experience by providing more personalized guidance and resources.
The school’s Graduate Education Task Force, co-chaired by professors Gu-Yeon Wei and Eric Mazur, will evaluate all stages of the graduate experience from the application process to research and course requirements for Ph.D. students.
In the last few years, SEAS has focused on revitalizing its undergraduate experience through measures such as creating stand-alone mechanical engineering and electrical engineering concentrations as well as implementing nontraditional teaching methods.
Now, with a growing number of undergraduate students taking courses at SEAS, the school hopes to address specific concerns regarding the nature of graduate education. Faculty members will tackle issues including the need for a universal teaching requirement for graduate students and address ambiguities regarding the qualifying exam and admissions process.
According to Mazur, SEAS hopes to assess the extent to which its graduate curriculum is meeting the needs of students, especially at the Ph.D. level.
“The main goal is to build a better sense of community for the graduate students and to make the entire process as clear as possible,” Mazur said.
Some of the measures currently under consideration are directly inspired by those taken at the undergraduate level, including the incorporation of hands-on, interactive learning methods into the curriculum. “We have a lot of demand from the graduate students to have more demand-centered active learning classes,” SEAS Dean Cherry A. Murray said.
But with other issues, the experiences and needs of graduate students tend to differ from their undergraduate counterparts. For instance, there is a much greater emphasis proposed on graduate research.
“Many grad courses are more interactive by nature—they’re smaller and less structured around problem sets and exams. Rather, students’ primary objective is research,” Wei said.
Moreover, while the College as a whole tends to take responsibility for ensuring that incoming undergraduate students are well-supported, the task tends to fall on individual advisors at the graduate level. This fact places a great deal of emphasis on the adviser matching process undertaken by SEAS faculty at the beginning of the spring semester.
Among the initiatives being considered to refine this process is the expansion of the SEAS Connect system, which matches incoming students with higher-level graduate students. The school also hopes to clarify the planning of study tracks for graduate students by expanding the number of model Ph.D. tracks available for different fields of study.
Furthermore, professors hope to emphasize the interdisciplinary nature of research by increasing collaboration with other Harvard schools, including the Graduate School of Design and Graduate School of Education.
“The really wicked problems of the world do not have solutions that are specifically technical or policy-focused but rather overlap domains,” Executive Dean for Education and Research Fawwaz Habbal said.
The school currently collaborates with the Law School on matters of cyber-security and with the Business School on issues such as the commercialization of the sciences. SEAS may expand this collaboration into the establishment of explicit degree relationships amongst the different schools. “Harvard is really a very unique place where students can interact with colleagues from very different fields—it makes sense to utilize these relationships,” Habbal said.
The task force plans to spend another year reviewing these issues with the greater SEAS faculty. Its recommendations will be implemented over the next few years.
—Staff writer Akua F. Abu can be reached at aabu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As snow blanketed Cambridge streets Wednesday, students got their fill of warm, gooey deliciousness at Insomnia Cookies.
After much hype, the small cookie and ice cream store opened Wednesday, showcasing its 11 cookie choices and 7 ice cream options. Students flowed in to try a free cookie after receiving fliers and coupons in dining halls from store employees.
“I lived off of Insomnia Cookies this summer so I couldn’t be happier that they’re here.” said Nicole R. Delany ’14, who frequented the cookie chain’s outlet in New York City.
Cameron E. Niven ’13 was one of the first customers to order the 12 cookies for $12 special. “The first time I had it was in Madison, Wisconsin, so I’m really excited,” she said. “The triple chocolate chunk is delicious.”
Some students trudged through the accrued snow piles, shaking off some of the snow as they walked into the store. But others didn’t have to travel far. “We live in Ridgely [Hall], so it’s too close for comfort,” Emma R. Lipshultz ’15 said.
For students living farther away, Insomnia offers delivery service to all in the Cambridge area, between 6 p.m. and 2:45 a.m. every day. Customers can place orders online or by phone; employees at the Harvard location assured the effortlessness of the option, explaining that deliverymen call when outside the designated dorm and students come to the door to pick their orders up.
“I like new food options. And the fact that it’s open until 3 a.m. and has the delivery option is nice,” Oliver J. Russ ’15 said.
The array of cookie options has expanded dramatically in the Square in recent weeks. Last week, Have a Sweet Idea, another college-campus based cookie delivery service, started providing its late-night treats to Harvard students. Have a Sweet Idea has also expanded to serve college students at Boston University, Northeastern, and Tufts. Its deliverymen, who ride bikes in orange jumpsuits, deliver their competitively priced desserts until 3 a.m..
Insomnia Cookies—which brands itself as “baked right...late night!”—will be open daily from 11 a.m. to 3 a.m., joining the Hong Kong and Market in the Square as Harvard Square’s newest late-night eatery.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a nearly unanimous decision, professors at Tuesday’s monthly meeting of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences voted to adopt officially a new set of College-wide alcohol policies aimed to curb underage and high-risk drinking.
The revised regulations went into effect on a provisional basis last spring, according to FAS spokesperson Jeff Neal. Tuesday’s vote makes the new rules a permanent part of the Handbook for Students.
Though the new policies ban high-risk competitive drinking games and set out explicit guidelines for private parties and House events, they also loosen restrictions on the type of alcohol that can be served at House formals.
After a year-long ban on hard liquor at House formals, students over 21 can now enjoy mixed drinks along with beer and wine at formals. Hard liquor is still prohibited at other House social events and tailgates.
Although faculty present at the meeting expressed support for the changes, several questioned whether the new rules were doing enough to combat a culture of illegal and dangerous drinking at the College.
“The making of rules is not necessarily going to create adherence to them,” classics professor Richard F. Thomas said in an interview after the meeting. Nevertheless, he threw his support behind the new policies.
At the meeting, Lowell House Master Diana L. Eck also said that the new legislation alone may not be sufficient to change the drinking culture at Harvard. She said she thinks a second push to foster greater awareness of the consequences of high-risk drinking would make excessive alcohol consumption less attractive to students.
Eck described “chilling” HUPD reports of late-night encounters with inebriated students that are released weekly to House Masters—including the story of a student passed out on a pile of cardboard boxes and covered with vomit.
“Each incident cries out that this high-risk drinking—this drop-dead drinking—is really not cool, and it has lots of reverberations,” Eck said to her colleagues. “Why don’t we want this kind of information known to our students?”
Questions also remain about the often vague language of the new policies.
Administrators have declined to comment on whether the policy allows students to play beer pong. And at the Harvard College Governance Panel last week, Eck said that Undergraduate Council President Danny P. Bicknell ’13 and Vice President Pratyusha Yalamanchi ’13 came to a recent House Masters’ meeting to “talk about the need to maybe have a little clarification on the new alcohol policy.”
But Pforzheimer House Resident Dean Lisa Boes wrote in an email to The Crimson that she thinks the new policy empowers both students and administrators to work together to plan safe events involving alcohol. “I support this proposal because it is developmentally appropriate for 17-22 year olds,” Boes wrote. “It provides structure, communicates expectations, and asks students to be responsible for their behavior and one another in a community.”
Tuesday’s vote marks the culmination of a nearly two-year push by College administrators to crack down on underage and dangerous drinking at Harvard. Administrators have sought to include undergraduates throughout the decision-making process, but students have repeatedly proved unmotivated to engage.
Last fall, as an alcohol policy committee worked to craft the regulations that were approved on Tuesday, administrators held a series of sparsely attended meetings across campus to solicit student input about Harvard’s drinking culture. Then, after the regulations were released in March, administrators held three more meetings that drew a total of five students.
—Staff writer Rebecca D. Robbins can be reached at rrobbins@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Kevin J. Wu can be reached at kwu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This week Harvard alums are dominating the job market, with three separate graduates inking contracts on and off the field—not to mention a certain Law School alumnus who won reelection on Tuesday.
Olympic swimmer Alex Meyer ’10 announced this week that he is coming back to the Harvard swimming and diving program as an assistant coach. Meyer notched a 10th place finish in the 10k in London.
Overseas, outside hitter Matt Jones ’12 will play professional volleyball in Luxembourg. Jones, who signed a one-year contract with Volley Bartreng, led Harvard men’s volleyball to its first ever nationally ranked season last year. He finished his Crimson career atop the record books in all-time kills, digs, and service aces.
Off the field, former Crimson sports editor David Stearns ’07 was named Assistant GM by the Houston Astros, making him one of the youngest in baseball. At 27, Stearns has spent the past four years working in the MLB, including three years with the Commissioner’s office and stints with several major league teams.
The pressure is off Jeremy Lin ‘10 this week, after James Harden—recently acquired from Oklahoma City—continued to dominate with the Rockets. Some are calling it the best backcourt in the NBA, but while most are more hesitant, there is no arguing that Friday night’s dismantling of the Atlanta Hawks could be a sign of things to come for the duo.
Harden scored a career-high 45 points and Lin added 21 points, 10 rebounds, and seven assists. However, Lin couldn’t match his performance the next night, with 13 points and seven assists in the loss to the Trailblazers.
On the gridiron, Ryan Fitzpatrick ’05 continues to struggle for the Buffalo Bills. Fitzpatrick completed 25 of 38 passes for 239 yards in the week 9 loss to the Texans, and the quarterback has come under fire for not being able to make long passes and get the team into the endzone.
Despite the consistently poor performance dating back to last season—with 25 touchdowns and 25 interceptions in his past 16 starts—the Bills’ front office has yet to speak openly about making a move.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It has been nearly 20 years since the school with the most Division I varsity sports programs in the NCAA has added a varsity team. Since women’s golf became a varsity sport in 1993, Harvard has not seen any new additions to its varsity lineup.
But the wait is over—starting in 2013-14, the Harvard-Radcliffe Rugby Football Club will change from club status to varsity, making it the 42nd varsity program at Harvard.
“What happened was maybe 18 months ago we approached the athletic department with the request to go varsity, and they gave us sort of benchmarks,” coach Brian Hamlin said. “In order to go varsity, we had to meet certain standards. So over the last 18-24 months, we met those standards. We were very fortunate that the athletic department was willing to talk about it and willing to sort of lay out a foundation for what we had to do to become varsity.”
Assistant Athletic Director Kurt Svoboda explained the changes necessary for a sport to move from club to varsity status.
“There’s so much to be considered,” Svoboda said. “There’s everything from gauging student interest to numbers, commitment, participation, administration, facilities, athletic training—all these things that are kind of ancillary that people maybe wouldn’t consider. There’s just a lot that goes into elevating a program in that matter. It’s not as easy as just flipping a switch and saying, ‘Now we’re a varsity team.’”
In the spring of 2011, the Black and White made a convincing argument to be considered for varsity status when it captured the USARugby Collegiate Division II National Championship with a 22-10 upset victory over No. 3 Notre Dame.
After the stellar 2010-11 campaign, Harvard secured a spot in Division I for the 2011-12 season—a spot the team has maintained since then.
“[The womens’ rugby team has] such a strong history of success and competition,” Svoboda said. “I think that people within the University saw that they were carrying themselves more like a varsity program than a club program, as far as commitment and regular practices and adhering to guidelines that are in place.”
The change marks the first time that a women’s team has gone varsity before its male counterpart, a distinction that rugby team  president Sarah MacVicar attributes to Title IX.
“Because of Title IX, and how far out of compliance [with the amendment] most schools are, it’s hard for a men’s team to go varsity, and I think that’s probably the main reason why we’re making that transition [first],” MacVicar said. “But it really will provide a lot of resources for both teams, which will be very exciting.”
Harvard will be the first of the Ivies to add women’s rugby to its slate of varsity teams. Although MacVicar says every school in the league is still out of compliance with Title IX—Harvard included—the move marks a step in the right direction and sets the bar for the rest of the Ancient Eight to follow.
The Black and White will continue playing in the newly formed Ivy Rugby Conference, composed of club rugby teams from around the Ancient Eight, but the shift to varsity will bring with it benefits to the program.
“[Being varsity] means a lot more resources,” said Ali Haber, who serves as captain of the forwards. “The athletic department is supporting us—we’ve been a little rag-tag in the past. We’re going to get new equipment, new uniforms, [and] a lot of travel support from the athletic department that we haven’t had before.”
Before the team can reap the benefits of varsity status, though, it must use this year’s transitional period in order to come into line with expectations for a varsity sport.
“We’ve stepped up our practice times, so we’re practicing every day of the week when we’re in season,” MacVicar explained. “We’re also lifting twice a week and basically [are] trying to operate as much like a varsity team as possible.”
The team’s transition to varsity reflects both increased popularity on campus and a desire to grow the sport nationally.
Haber believes that rugby has grown and broadened its appeal during her time on the team.
“We must have had 40 new girls show up to the first practice, which was really amazing,” she said. “You see all different types of people—people who are really in it because they want a varsity-level sport, people who just want to try something new, and people who are in it for the community, which I think was what the focus was on before. It was on the community and less on the competitiveness of the sport, and that’s what’s changing [now].”
But despite rugby’s increased commitment level, Svoboda still believes there is room for newcomers to join and be successful.
“Because it’s still an emerging sport, there’s room for new athletes to come into the school and sport and say, ‘Hey, I just want to try this out,’” Svoboda said. “I mean in all our sports, we have open tryouts and walk-ons, and I think it’s just an awesome setup. ”
Perhaps more important than the campus-wide changes that the varsity status brings are the nationwide changes that Radcliffe’s precedent will likely launch.
“For us, the biggest thing was what [becoming a varsity team] does to rugby throughout the country, how becoming a varsity sport legitimizes women’s rugby, and that was really important for us,” Hamlin said. “Once Harvard went varsity, it opened the gates for everyone else to go varsity.”
There seems to be increased interest in collegiate rugby, especially among Ancient Eight schools, although it remains to be seen whether other schools will follow the Crimson’s lead and seek varsity status.
“The Ivy League basically formed its own rugby conference, and I think that speaks to the interest in the sport, certainly on the Ivy League level,” Svoboda said. “Forming that kind of league for club sports is something that you just don’t see in other sports, and that’s a sign of increased interest from students in rugby.”
Further, rugby is growing on the world stage. It will return to the Olympics in 2016 for the first time since the 1924 Games, which makes the team’s successful transition even more exciting, according to Megan Verlage, who serves as captain of the backs.
“The sport is growing and is going to be in the 2016 Olympics,” she said. “Because of the development of the sport, we wanted to make sure we weren’t just keeping up but leading the way for making rugby a competitive sport at the collegiate level.”
Svoboda, for one, cites the physical nature of the sport as evidence of rugby’s high potential for growth and popularity—something that is unique within women’s athletics at Harvard.
“This will be the only full-contact women’s team that we have, which I think is pretty cool,” he said. “I can’t wait to go out and see games. Don’t tell me [the players are] not intense and don’t care about gaining that extra yard.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a 5-1 drubbing at the hands of Yale last Saturday, the No. 14 Harvard men’s hockey is not going to catch a break this week. The Crimson (2-1-0, 1-1-0 ECAC) will resume home ECAC play against No. 8 Union Friday evening before hosting Rensselaer on Saturday.
The Dutchmen (5-1-1, 2-0-0 ECAC) are coming off their program’s first ECAC tournament championship and NCAA Frozen Four appearance. This year, Union topped both the ECAC coaches’ and media preseason polls and is the only ECAC team to receive a first-place vote in the most recent national rankings.
Harvard went 0-2-1 against Union last season. The Dutchmen earned a 2-0 victory in Harvard’s first outdoor game at Fenway on January 13, snapping the Crimson’s streak of 18 straight games with a power-play goal.  And in Harvard’s last game of the 2011-12 season, Union edged the Crimson, 3-1, in the ECAC Championship final on St. Patrick’s Day.
On Friday, Harvard skaters will have a difficult time putting pucks past 2012 Hobey Baker finalist Troy Grosenick, who led all ECAC goaltenders in save percentage and goals against average as a sophomore last season.
2012 NHL draft picks Shayne Gostisbehere (Philadelphia) and Tim Boyle (Ottawa) command the Union blue line to buttress one of the nation’s stingiest defenses. On offense, senior forwards Kyle Bodie and Wayne Simpson lead the Dutchmen with 11 and 10 points, respectively.
“[Crimson coach Ted Donato ’91] is telling us they kind of play like Yale, so they’re going to be pinching down and putting a lot of pressure on us in our own zone,” freshman Kyle Criscuolo said. “We’re going to try to change some things this week in practice and hopefully get the puck into their end instead of playing in our own D-zone for most of the game.”
RPI (1-3-2, 0-2-0 ECAC) enters this season with lower outside expectations than Union. The Engineers ranked eighth and ninth in the ECAC coaches’ and media polls, respectively, and are hoping to improve upon last year’s 10th-place finish in the 12-team conference.
But Harvard is not about to underestimate RPI. Both of the Crimson’s 2011-12 games versus the Engineers ended in 2-2 draws.
“RPI is obviously a good team as well [as Union]. They hit hard, [and] they pressure as well,” sophomore defenseman Patrick McNally said. “So it will be very similar styles of play that you will see this weekend.”
On Saturday, Harvard will look to shut down sophomore forwards Jacob Laliberte and Matt Neal, who have led Engineer scorers so far this season with 10 and nine points, respectively. In addition, senior defenseman Nick Bailen, who ranked second among RPI scorers last season, is a strong presence for the Engineers on both sides of the rink.
Union and RPI met last Friday and Saturday in a home-at-home series as the Dutchmen soundly defeated its upstate New York rival at home, 7-3, after edging RPI, 4-2, on the road. Union has outscored opponents 31-15 through seven games; RPI has been outscored 16-21 through six.
The Crimson freshmen continue to impress as Criscuolo succeeded classmate Jimmy Vesey as ECAC Hockey Rookie of the Week.  The class of 2016 entered the season as the ECAC’s top-rated recruiting class.
“Vesey getting rookie of the week was great for him, and it’s just great to get some recognition for our class, hopefully trying to live up to some hype,” Criscuolo said.
Criscuolo tallied his first collegiate goal and assist versus Brown last Friday before scoring Harvard’s sole goal versus Yale. Vesey leads the Crimson in scoring with two goals and two assists.
Following the Yale loss, Donato praised Criscuolo, freshman Brian Hart and sophomore Tommy O’Regan as Harvard’s best line of the weekend.
“We all play different styles,” Criscuolo said of his line. “[Hart] is obviously bigger, can play well in the corners and can shoot the puck a little bit. [O’Regan] is really creative and is good along the walls. Together, I think we mesh really well.”
While the Crimson’s young players have provided Harvard a boost, Donato will be looking for increased production from the Crimson’s veterans this weekend.
“Sure, the freshmen looked good, but in games like this, you’ve got to really live on how your seniors and older guys perform,” Donato said after Saturday’s loss to the Bulldogs.
Still early in the season, Harvard will hope to iron out the wrinkles in its game as it looks to pick up some more points in the ECAC standings.
“We’re just going to try to have a good week of practice [and] get our timing down,” Hart said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s basketball team has a lot to prove this Friday in its season-opener against North Dakota State. Ranked second in the Ivy League, the Crimson is coming off a winning 2011-12 season, going 18-12 and advancing to the second round of the WNIT, a feat no other Ancient Eight team has accomplished.
“Winning an NIT game was a huge deal for us,” co-captain forward Emma Golen said. “It was really exciting to make history and be a part of that. I think it was a real confidence booster to see how good we really can be. I think everyone worked really hard this summer and came back with even higher goals in mind.”
Last season Harvard upset an NCAA Sweet 16 team, St. John’s, and finished the season ranked second in the Ancient Eight for the fourth straight year with an Ivy record of 10-4.
Only losing two graduates this season, the Crimson’s roster has gained more than it lost with the arrival of three new freshmen and the return of sophomore center Temi Fagbenle, who spent a year in residency last season. Four starters are also returning to the court this season.
“We don’t have a quote unquote ‘young team,’” co-captain forward Miriam Rutzen said. “I think it’s pretty exciting that we have a veteran group…we have a solid group of upperclassmen to lead the way.”
Rutzen and Golen lead the team as co-captains for the 2012-2013 season. Last year, Rutzen ranked sixth in the conference in blocks per game, averaging 0.8. Golen’s three-point average of 40.4 percent came in at second place in the Ivy League and the senior averages 9.2 points per contest.
“Miriam and I have grown together every year,” Golen said. “Last year we communicated really well on and off the court, and we balance each other out…we’re reasonable, and we talk about things really well.”
Senior forward Victoria Lippert has racked up the most points for Harvard with 1,108 career points, placing her in 14th place in program history.
Fagbenle will also add a new dynamic to the team this season. The London native participated in the 2012 London Olympics for Great Britain. She appeared in all five games and started in three. Fagbenle is just the second women’s basketball student-athlete to be an Olympian in Ivy League history.
“Temi adds a lot of size, height-wise, at 6’4,” Golen said. “Last year that’s definitely something we were lacking….she’s a smart player with the ball and without the ball, and she’s such a presence inside. She’s going to attract a lot of attention, but she’s athletic enough to score even when she’s guarded.”
Although the team is coming off a strong season finish, Friday’s game against the Bison marks the beginning of a fresh start for the Crimson.
“I mean obviously it’s our first game, so we’re very excited to get on the road and see what we can do and take another team,” Rutzen said. “It’s fun to finally compete against someone else other than yourself in practice.”
North Dakota State has not been a regular opponent on the Crimson’s schedule in the past.
The Bison are ranked fourth in their league in the preseason poll with one of their key players, senior point guard Katie Birkel, returning from an ACL injury. In the 2010-2011 season, Birkel scored 384 points, averaging 13.2 points per game.
“They have a point guard who’s really quick and really fast,” Golen said. “She’s really good at off-ball screens, so we’ve been working on our ball-screen defense and just different ways to come at them defensively to take away what they like.”
Even though Birkel is returning to play this year, North Dakota State lost graduate Abby Plucker who scored 756 points over the past two seasons.
“I think one of the biggest areas that we are continuing to develop in and we’ve improved on a lot is that ability to make on court decisions with communication,” Rutzen said. “I think that will be an area that will be challenged especially playing a team we haven’t played previously in years past.”
The Harvard women’s basketball team is looking to excel not only in the Ivy League conference, but on the national level as well.
“Obviously we want to win an Ivy title and go to the NCAA tournament, and this team has confidence that if that happens we can potentially do some damage and go somewhere in the tournament,” Golen said. “We are pretty excited. We have high goals set this season.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While the Harvard football team and its fans celebrated Saturday's 69-0 drubbing of Columbia—the program’s largest margin of victory since 1891—many of the Crimson cheerleaders were probably quietly regretting their decision for in-game pushups in the wake of the record-setting beatdown.
For those that haven't been to many of the Harvard football games, it’s customary for the cheerleading squad to get down and do pushups after every Crimson score. For a mediocre football program this wouldn’t be a problem for the cheer squad, but one of the highest-scoring seasons in Harvard history has incidentally led to a lot of sore arms.
Take last Saturday, for instance. The cheerleaders happily dropped and gave seven after the Crimson's first score, and then 14 after that, and 21 after that, and so forth. Three hours later, they were doing 55, then 62, then 69 pushups. In a 45-second span in the second quarter where Harvard scored three touchdowns, the cheerleaders did 84 pushups. Throughout the course of the game, they did 381 pushups in total.
 “I cannot believe we did all that,” freshman cheerleader Tiana Raphel said in disbelief. “I think some people weren’t even moving by the end, and I was shaking.”
 The Harvard cheer squad has had to face similar hardship all season. The football team has scored more than 40 points in half of its games this season, and is averaging almost 43 points a game through the season. As a result, the cheerleaders have done an astounding 1,355 pushups. 
In fact, it’s reaching a point where the squad has started to dread any more scoring.
 “It usually happens after they score about 21 points,” Raphel said. “It’s kind of hard, because you’re supposed to cheer them on, but you secretly don’t want them to score any more points.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the Harvard men’s basketball team’s season opener less than two weeks away, The Back Page is breaking down the Crimson’s non-conference opponents. Each week, we will take a look at two new foes. Last week, we profiled Boston College. Next up is Boston University.
Harvard got off to a slow start against Boston University last year, but after a 20-1 run at the end of the second half, the Crimson opened up a lead that the Terriers couldn’t crack.
Harvard ran away with a 76-52 victory behind a game-high 20 points for Kyle Casey and 18 from then-sophomore Laurent Rivard.
This year BU is banned from the postseason after announcing its impending move to the Patriot League, but the program maintains that the ban won’t impact its goals or work ethic for the season.
But the reality is that the impact of the ban on the program became especially apparent after the Terriers’ 6’9” forward Jake O’Brien, who was injured during BU’s last NCAA appearance in 2011, decided to transfer to Temple in his final year of eligibility.
O’Brien—the 2009 America East Rookie of the Year—averaged career highs of 13.8 ppg and 6.4 rpg in his sophomore season with the Terriers.
The loss of O’Brien will compound the graduation of the Terriers’ top scorer Darryl Partin, who averaged 19.6 points and 3.9 rebounds last year.
Partin was the 49th overall pick in the NBA Development Draft, following his selection as the America East Player of the Year in 2012.
But the Terriers’ offense is deep, and the team’s two other offensive standouts will be juniors this year. The team will look to guard DJ Irving (11.4 ppg, 2.9 rpg) and forward Dom Morris (6.8 ppg, 5.9 rpg) for scoring.
The BU team is young, with only seven players returning from last year’s 12-4 conference run, and only three players were with the 2011 America East champion squad.
Joining the Terriers is a talented four-man freshman class, led by ESPN Top 100 recruit Maurice Watson, Jr. The point guard was named to the 40-man 2012 PARADE All-American team, and joining Watson is Kentucky’s Mr. Basketball, 6’7” forward Nathan Dieudonne.
Adding depth is John Papale, one of ESPN’s top 25 three-point shooters nationwide, and Justin Alston, a 6’8” forward.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In this mini-series, Flyby profiles one of the seven fall 2012 IOP Fellows each week. This week: John Carr.
"I don't feel at home in the political status quo," John Carr said. "My priorities are questions of human life and dignity, and those don't seem to be priorities of either party. I'm politically homeless."
Carr, who worked as a Catholic policy advisor for over three decades, may have been "homeless" in Washington D.C., but this fall as a fellow at the Institute of Politics, he said he feels at home. "The IOP is such a welcoming place from the moment you arrive," he said.
His study group, "The Role of Religion in the 2012 Campaign: Directions and Dangers for Faith and Politics," meets from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Wednesdays in the IOP's Faculty Dining Room. Each week, Carr brings in a guest to analyze the religious forces at play in the election.
And with a Mormon presidential candidate, two Catholic vice presidential candidates, and an incumbent incorrectly assumed to be a Muslim, religious undertones cannot be underestimated in an analysis of the campaign, Carr contends. "We don't lack for material," he said.
Dubbed the Catholic Karl Rove by what Carr calls a "very flattering article" in the Washington Post, Carr was Director of Justice, Peace and Human Development for the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. "I had the most pompous title in my old job," he said with a chuckle.
"Working for Catholic bishops and then coming to Harvard University," John Carr said, spreading his arms wide apart and pausing for dramatic effect, "There's a real difference."
Carr admitted he's accustomed to dry Washington presentations, and engaging with undergrads takes some adjustment. "This is not a 90 minute PowerPoint," he said of his study group. "This is a discussion."
Carr's primary focus is on political inaction regarding issues like poverty and climate change. "We've had three debates and no discussion of how to lift up the poor, or, in biblical terms, no discussion of how we care for God's creation," he said.
He blames the ubiquity of polling and focus groups. "'I'm going to help you' tests better than 'I'm going to ask you to help others,'" he said.
While he worries that issues like gay marriage and abortion shove poverty to the side in the religious discourse in Washington, Carr is hardly unconcerned about them. "The president insists that contraception is the most important part of his healthcare bill," he said. When pressed, he admitted, "Well no, but it's all he talks about—you'd think his running mate was Planned Parenthood!"
As an IOP fellow, Carr is responsible for leading a group of six liaisons, appearing on panels, and organizing his weekly study group. "We're not just sitting around thinking deep thoughts," he said. "They work us here! We sing for our supper."
But Carr said he's made room in his packed schedule for some fun. He and his six liaisons have relaxed over meals at Noch's, a "pilgrimage" to Fenway Park for a baseball game, and a group viewing of the Al Smith Dinner.
"What a blessing," Carr said. "This is one of the best experiences of my life."
Sections
Attention all aspiring public speakers: Harvard Thinks Big is looking for a student speaker to present at its 4th annual event on Jan. 31, 2013.
Think you're the student for the job? Here are the guidelines for submitting your "big" idea:
Film a video of yourself, talking about anything you want. Keep it under four minutes, and upload it to YouTube with the title "Harvard Thinks Big Student Speaker #htb4."
Change the video's privacy setting to "unlisted," and email the video URL to collegeeventsboard@gmail.com.
In an email, Alicia Y. Zhu '14, one of the event's organizers, encouraged students to choose a topic that will "inspire the community to think in different ways."
Need inspiration? Check out this list of last year's speeches in a sentence each. If you're concerned that your ideas aren't of much import, fear not! Daniel E. Lieberman '86, Professor of Human Evolutionary Biology, who spoke at last year's event, said ahead of time that he had nothing profound to say. He got the gig nonetheless.
All Harvard undergraduates are eligible to submit a video. The deadline for submission is Nov. 20 at 5 p.m., so start thinking BIG, Harvard!
Sections
Abe Liu, the Harvard Extension School student who pretended to be a member of the Class of 2015 last year, has returned to campus and launched a surprise campaign for Undergraduate Council president—or so Facebook, Tumblr, and Twitter would have you believe.
The platform supposedly released by Liu, which includes some traditional campaign issues like revamping social spaces and improving dining hall food, also features novel ideas like the Harvard DREAM Act. Under the act, students who were denied admission to the College could apply for "studentship" status if they meet certain qualifications.
"It's not fair to punish those who weren't accepted into Harvard or never applied by forbidding them from becoming students at Harvard," reads a statement on the campaign's Facebook page.
Students would qualify for the new program if they "maintain residence in an unsuspecting freshman's room for sixty days, steal a Harvard ID, and [do] not get kicked out of the Yard by HUPD until after Reading Period."
The Liu campaign Tumblr includes purported testimonials for Liu.
"Abe Liu really made an effort to get to know everyone in my class last year. It's obvious he cares about the community and wants to continue to be a part of it, even after elections. He has my vote for UC president," reads one.
Another reads, "I'm voting for Abe Liu because he won't let closed doors stand in his way."
Poor taste, or a way to lighten up the campaign season? Let us know what you think in the comments section below, and check Flyby for more updates.
Sections
It's all fun and games until a snowman gets murdered. While plenty of snowmen were enjoying quiet evenings in courtyards across campus last night, the same cannot be said for Franklin, a brand new, Quidditch-playing, Quincy House resident created by Catherine G. Katz '13 and a friend. The poor guy met his untimely end shortly after midnight, when two unidentified miscreants entered the Quincy courtyard and gave the defenseless snowman a ninja-kick to the stomach.
"The thing I love about snow is that it brings out everyone's inner child," said Katz. "Apparently, it also brings out the inner second-grade bully." Reflecting on happier times, Katz recalled how Franklin, equipped with a broom and a snitch, had achieved instant popularity among stressed-out students upon his appearance in the Quincy courtyard. "[Students] would see the snowman, smile, stop, take a picture, and head inside, happier than they had been before coming into the courtyard." But shortly after midnight, the evening took a turn when two girls entered the courtyard and spotted innocent Franklin.
"They ran over, kicked him dead in the stomach area, laughed, and ran away, laughing the whole time," said Katz, who was drinking hot chocolate with her friend in the dining hall when she witnessed the scene.
"We were really appalled," she said. Katz and her friend were not the only ones upset by the cruel act of violence committed against Franklin. "It created a little bit of a public outcry in the dining hall," said Katz, noting that she was encouraged to send her story to Flyby by a fellow onlooker. Although Katz acknowledged that some people may consider making snowmen to be a childish activity, she expressed concern that Franklin's death "speaks to a larger issue of people not being very kind."
"There are happy people, and there are other people who are unhappy," she said. "What is it inside people that makes them so unhappy that they want to attack innocent and happy things like snowmen?"
