News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just nine days after top-tier basketball recruit Stephen Domingo chose Georgetown, another hot prospect has taken himself off the market. Earlier today, point guard Nigel Williams-Goss announced his decision to play college basketball for Washington via Twitter.
The No. 57 recruit in the class of 2013 according to ESPN and the No. 39 player in the class of 2013 according to Rivals, Williams-Goss' final five included Harvard, Washington, Oklahoma, UNLV, and UCLA. In the end, the point guard said that his choice came down to the Huskies and the Crimson.
“Over the last year, the two standouts were Washington and Harvard,” Williams-Goss wrote in a blog post for Recruiting Spotlight. “I can honestly say the thing I love most about both programs are the coaching staffs. I knew either way I couldn’t go wrong and I would be in great hands at either location.”
Despite ultimately deciding to sign with the Huskies, Williams-Goss cited the Crimson’s recent success on the court as a major pull in Harvard’s direction.
“While some questioned my love for Harvard due to their athletics, I do believe their program is on the up rise,” the rising senior at Findlay Prep wrote. “This was evident last season with them being ranked in the top-25 nationally for multiple weeks and making the NCAA tournament. Obviously the academics are second to none and the connections are invaluable.”
Although Williams-Goss’s commitment to Washington is undoubtedly disappointing to Crimson faithful, his strong consideration of the Ivy League school marks the continuation of a historic year that has seen Harvard near the top of many blue-ribbon recruits’ respective lists.
Domingo—a 6’7” forward from San Francisco, Calif.—named the Crimson as one of his top four choices before ultimately committing to the Hoyas on May 21.
Earlier this year, Zena Edosomwan became the first top-100 prospect in program history to choose Harvard, picking the Crimson over the likes of UCLA, Texas, and Washington.
And recruiting season is far from over. As Harvard looks to secure a few more key pieces for its 2013-14 roster, high school stars Davon Reed and Alex Foster will likely headline Tommy Amaker's continued pursuit of top-notch players.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
