Sections
Looks like Sex Week isn’t the only Harvard event that’s coming soon. Inspired by real courses and campus events, FM channels its inner 13-year-old boy and invents what could be this semester’s smuttiest soirées. Fair warning: we have no idea what these events actually are, so they could be cool.
Mather CPR Course: Hear that, single people of Harvard? Save the blow-up dolls for grad school.
The House of Yes: How could you say no?
Premed Online Chat: 
Biologista92: hey, i think ur in my chem20 section
Dr.69: yah, that class suxxx. cum help me with my anatomy class instead ;)
Biologista92: um don’t think so lol
Dr.69: why? wat did i say?
Dr.69: ;)… ;)…;)? winky face never fails
Biologista92 is offline.
Lone Gay Male: Is it still technically gay if it’s just you and your hand?
Moral Entanglements in Medical Research, Other Professions, and Everyday Life: Discussing the morality of your everyday life entanglements, you naughty person, you.
Adult Class: The Art of Botanical Drawing: Think Georgia O’Keefe was a vaginal visionary? There’s a whole world full of penis-shaped flowers just waiting to get brush-stroked.
“The Last Butch Standing”: Is the loser. Seriously, shouldn’t you be first one lying down?
Intuitive Eating Seminar: This could easily act as the opener for the Female Orgasm Seminar.
Male Same-Sex Intimacy and a Clergy Sex Scandal in 19th Century New England: If we’re lucky, this will draw inspiration from Tropic Thunder’s satirical movie trailer, “Satan’s Alley.” With erotic gems like dim candlelight and hand sex with rosary beads, you will be titillated (or something).
Unnatural Acts: Otherwise known as having sex in the Widener stacks.
Carving Out Tradition: Wood as Artistic Material: Phallic symbols, phallic symbols everywhere.
Head of the Charles: Do I even have to say it?
Sections
Sex Week
About reproductivity
STIs
Likely to be advertized with a costume of a vagina
Learn to read a pregnancy test
Helping people get it up
Achievement Gap Awareness Week
About productivity
SATs
Unlikely to be advertized with a costume of a vagina
Learn to read
Helping people lift themselves up
Both
Concerned with the lower half of a body but doesn’t forget the top
Discuss people slipping through cracks
Cheating is frowned upon
Inspire people to take initiative: the do-it-yourself approach
Encourage regular testing
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Up 34-10 two minutes into the fourth quarter, the Harvard football team seemed to be on its way to a 15th straight win. 29 unanswered Princeton points later, the Crimson’s streak had come to an end as the Tigers faithful stormed the field at Princeton Stadium following the Tigers' improbable 39-34 comeback victory.
With under a minute to go, Princeton starting quarterback Connor Michelsen was knocked out of the game with the Tigers (4-2, 3-0 Ivy) down two points. But backup QB Quinn Epperly threw up a prayer to the back corner of the end zone on a third and two from the 36-yard line, and Roman Wilson came down with the ball to put the Tigers up five with 13 seconds to go. After accruing 634 total yards of offense in the game, the Crimson didn’t have anything left after that, suffering its first Ivy loss since 2010.
"The thought of losing this season never crossed my mind until they actually scored that final touchdown," senior tight end Kyle Juszczyk said. “It’s tough; it’s probably the toughest loss I’ve ever had in my career.”
Over the course of the game, Juszczyk amassed 192 yards to go with three  scores while Harvard quarterback Colton Chapple passed for over 448 yards, breaking the Crimson  all-time record.
Harvard (5-1, 2-1) had seemed in control of Saturday afternoon's game in the first half, outgaining the Tigers 415-51 in total yards, but the tables turned in the second half. Princeton put together drive after drive in the fourth quarter, often taking advantage of good field position provided by the defense and special teams to help diminish and eventually eliminate what was a 24-point lead.
"[They were] extraordinarily different halves.... The best way I can explain it is ‘Go figure,'" Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. "We just couldn’t get it done when we had to."
After being shut out in the first two quarters, Princeton came to life in the second, beginning with an 86-yard drive that culminated in a one-yard touchdown run to make the score 20-7.
Freshman Paul Stanton fumbled the ensuing kickoff, setting up the Tigers at the Harvard four. But the Crimson defense held strong as Princeton settled for a field goal.
Juszczyk then brought in his third touchdown catch of the day to cap a 75-yard response by Harvard that gave it a 27-10 lead. An interception by senior linebacker Alexander Norman on Princeton’s next drive led to a touchdown reception by junior Cam Brate that put the Crimson up three scores.
Princeton returned the ensuing kickoff into Harvard territory, and four plays later Michelson connected on a 29-yard touchdown pass. Epperly then completed a pass for a two-point conversion to cut the Harvard lead to 34-18.
The Crimson went nowhere on its next possession and a punt by senior Jake Dombrowski was blocked, giving the Tigers good field possession once again.
And once again Princeton took advantage, scoring on a 29-yard touchdown pass by Michelsen to Matt Costello. Epperly passed for another two-point conversion to cut the lead to 34-26.
The Crimson seemed ready to post a response on the final drive as it had a first-and-goal from the five-yard line. But the Tigers stuffed three straight Harvard runs and then blocked a field-goal attempt.
Michelsen then led Princeton 79 yards in just over two minutes to cut the lead to 34-32 before a third two-point conversation attempt was broken up.
The Crimson went three and out again on the following possession, but this time a Dombrowki punt pinned the Tigers at their own 10.
That set up a wild final possession for Princeton. Michelsen was hurried on first down by senior Nnamdi Obukwelu, leading to an incompletion. But then he completed a 15-yard pass, and then an eight-yard pass after another incompletion. A sack knocked Michelsen out of the game with less than a minute to go, but Epperly was effective after coming in, eventually heaving a pass into the back corner of the end zone that was brought down by Wilson.
"Roman [Wilson] is a great matchup and we needed to get the ball down the field so I took a shot," Epperly said. "And Roman came down with it."
Billed as one of the Crimson’s toughest tests of the year, the contest was a blowout early on as the visitors jumped out to a 20-0 lead.
On the second drive of the game, senior quarterback Colton Chapple found junior Ricky Zorn streaking down the sideline for a 52-yard score.
Attempting to respond, the Tigers went three-and-out on their next drive and senior D.J. Monroe blocked a punt attempt to give his offense the ball at Princeton’s 16-yard line.
One play later, the score was 14-0 thanks to a 16-yard pass from Chapple to Juszczyk. Chapple found Juszczyk again on the team’s next drive after two red-zone penalties had forced Harvard into a first-and-30 situation.
Yet Harvard had its extra-point attempt blocked after Juszczyk’s second touchdown, the first of several miscues that took points off the board for the visitor.
A fumble by senior running back Treavor Scales inside Princeton’s 30 and a Chapple interception in the end zone both ended scoring threats deep in Tiger territory.
"It’s a game where we could have scored 50," Murphy said. "We did some things really well, but we just had too many missed opportunities."
Princeton managed just 46 yards through the air between the two quarterbacks it rotated in and out in the first half, and the running game was just as ineffective as a slew of runners combined for just five yards at halftime.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacobfeldman@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Whether or not you watch a lot of TV, you've most likely seen the ads for the Scott Brown-Elizabeth Warren Senate race that appear before practically every YouTube video. If you tune out whenever one of these ads pops up, here's Flyby's recap of the best lines from these ads, presented in debate format for your reading pleasure.
Scott Brown: I filed to stop insider trading in Congress, and it got passed and signed into law.
Elizabeth Warren: She exposed the tricks in credit cards and mortgages, and led the fight to create a new consumer agency to hold the big banks accountable.
SB: To me, creating jobs is more important than what party you belong to. That's why one of the first votes I took as a Senator was for a Democratic jobs bill.
EW: Scott Brown voted against President Obama's three jobs bills, against jobs for firefighters, teachers, cops, construction, just to protect tax breaks for millionaires? I don't get it.
SB: Don't be fooled by Elizabeth Warren's negative attacks.
EW: President Obama calls her "one of the fiercest advocates for the middle class."
SB: Like a lot of you, I came from nothing. I'm on your side, fighting for the middle class.
EW: Like a lot of you, I came up in a family that worked hard and I've spent years fighting for working people.
SB: I want to set the record straight. Scott Brown is pro-choice, he supports women's healthcare, and he's for good jobs with equal pay.
EW: Scott Brown had one bill to vote on for equal pay for women. He voted no. One vote to protect insurance coverage for birth control, he voted no.
SB: When my daughters grow up, I want to make sure that they have good jobs with equal pay and I know Scott Brown will fight for that.
EW: Elizabeth Warren is a real fighter. I don't know about Scott Brown.
SB: Elizabeth Warren is not telling the truth about her career. Elizabeth Warren was a key lawyer in an asbestos case working for big corporations.
 EW: Scott Brown is attacking Elizabeth Warren about her work. Scott Brown is not telling the truth.
SB: I'm Scott Brown and I approve this message.
EW: I'm Elizabeth Warren and I approve this message.
Sections
 
Whether you're an indecisive sophomore or overachieving freshman, picking a concentration probably plagues your every waking moment. If you're still undecided, hopefully some advice from your predecessors will help; here's what Harvard students of years past have said about several concentrations, as reported in The Crimson.
ENGLISH: According to J.S.P. Tatlock in a Crimson article from April 4, 1927; "English literature (including American literature) is one of the most immediately attractive fields of study, and one which everybody knows something of before he comes to college."
EARTH AND PLANETARY SCIENCES: EPS didn't exist back in the day, but Crimson writer R. A. Daly praised Geology in a 1927 article: "During his daily walks, from railway train, steamer, or motorcar, he can see the earth evolving; he can see her majestic rhythms, her wonderful adaptations to life, her profound control over human history. Such permanent enrichment of life comes to the man who elects a full course in general geology."
GOVERNMENT: According to an article from May 27, 1938, the increasing number of government concentrators can be attributed to "the fact that students who were not really interested in the subject concentrated in it in the belief that it would help them in Government or business. As taught here, the field is theoretical."
ECONOMICS: The same May 27, 1938 article called it "a field whose importance is becoming more and more widespread" but "a subject in which one cannot gain practical experience in College."
SOCIOLOGY: Even in 1948, this concentration was very important; an April 27 article stated "Until men eschew relations with women, men, and the animal kingdom, Social Relations is pertinent of the livelihood and enjoyment of every student."
Sections
This week's Crimson Arts cover story may have led some readers to believe that Crimson editor Alexander Tang '14 frequents a tailor. Some readers would be mistaken. Mr. Tang is on hand to detail why.
Reasons I don't visit a tailor:
1. I like having the extra room in my suits so I have a place to store all my shame.
2. I abide by the rule of Occam's Blazer, which states that between equal outfits, I should select the one with the fewest alterations.
3. I'm still not entirely convinced that it's legal to receive performance-enhancing stitches. Also, I heard in a rap video once that "snitches get stitches," and I'm no snitch.
4. I believe it was John F. Kennedy who once said, "Conformity is the tailor of freedom and the enemy of growth." I like freedom, and conformity seems like it's a bad thing.
5. I'm pretty sure tailored suits were what was rotten in Denmark.
6. I don't want people to think I care about what I look like. I want people to think I fell into a pile of clothes, writhed around for a minute or two, and then stumbled out into the world with whatever stuck. Because that's what I do.
7. Who has the time to see a tailor? My schedule is packed with important business deals, hugging attractive women, and living free. If you're seriously asking which I would choose, between hugging a certified dame and a wearing suit that doesn't look like I fell into a burlap sack that I was too lazy to extricate myself from, well, clearly you don't know a thing about living free.
8. I'm worried that if my clothes start fitting too well, they will finally make the leap from being one of the reasons people like me to the only reason people like me.
Sections
Being a vegetarian doesn't mean you have to limit your diet to tofu and tomatoes. Follow this delectable guide to vegetarian cuisine in Harvard Square. Of course, meat lovers are welcome to hop on board as well.
The first two spots serve exclusively vegetarian entrees. Tucked in the underground space across from Border Café on Palmer Street, Veggie Planet offers both vegetarian and vegan options that can be served over a choice of brown rice, coconut rice, or pizza dough. Highlights include Henry's Dinner (small $7.15, large $11.35), which comes with roasted butternut squash, caramelized onions, rosemary, and sage topped with goat cheese and asiago. Another worthy choice is Oddlot (small $6.85, large $11.15), a vegan option of fresh marinated tomatoes, spinach, and homemade tofu-basil mash with kalamata olives and fried garlic.
Clover is another vegetarian eatery in the Square. Originally started as a food truck, Clover has transformed into a sit-down eatery that boasts a cozy dining atmosphere with an open kitchen and windows that stretch from the ground to the ceiling. Its wide range of sandwiches--such as BBQ Seitan ($6) and Soy BLT ($6)--are wrapped in a whole-wheat pita with green leaf lettuce and tomatoes. You can also skip the pita and opt for a platter. The Chickpea Platter ($7) includes six bite-sized chickpea fritters, hummus, "Israeli salad" made with diced tomatoes and cucumbers, and a medley of pickled carrots, red cabbage, and onions.
Eating out with non-vegetarian friends shouldn't cause too much trouble when you go to Crema Café. Its signature Sweet Potato Sandwich ($6.95) packs avocado, green apple, sprouts, hummus, sweet potato, and caramelized shallot vinaigrette in between lightly toasted wheat bread. If you crave something sweeter, go for the Nutella & Banana ($5) on homemade brioche.
Other favorite and affordable eateries, such as Boloco and Otto, also offer plenty of options for vegetarians. All burritos at Boloco can be made vegetarian-friendly if you select fajita veggies or tofu as your choice of protein. Otto's choice of toppings like three-cheese tortellini, butternut squash, and eggplant are suitable for veggie lovers.
For a fancier night out, try the mouthwatering Potato Gnocchi ($19) at Nubar, a restaurant in Sheraton Commander, or the five-course Vegetarian Tasting Menu ($55) at Upstairs On the Square.
If you don't feel like leaving the comfort of your residential House, fear not. Harvard University Dining Services serves at least one vegetarian entrée every meal (and two entrees on "Less-meat Mondays"), from Spinach Ricotta Pie to Beijing Style Crispy Tofu.
And, if none of these items sound appetizing, you can always smother two slices of bread with peanut butter and jelly for a good ole' PB&J sandwich.
Sections
University President Drew G. Faust may have maintained a cool composure when she appeared on "The Colbert Report" in mid-September, but in actuality she was "terrified."
Faust during a conversation with students at Kirkland House Wednesday evening described her interview with comedian Stephen Colbert as one that was "really fun" in retrospect but was, in prospect, "terrifying."
Faust appeared on the show to promote "Death and the Civil War," a PBS documentary based on her book entitled "The Republic of Suffering." The film chronicles the impact of the Civil War's unprecedented casualty count on the American people.
"I thought, how am I going to be funny, or how is he going to be funny about the subject of death," Faust said. "So I entered the fray with some trepidation."
Colbert staffers sent Faust possible questions prior to the interview, according to the Faust. The list, she said, left her concerned that she might "say something so outrageous" on television.
"I won't even tell you in public what some of these questions were," Faust said. "Thank goodness he didn't ask most of them."
During the segment Colbert took several jabs at Harvard and its reputation for intellectualism, but took a serious tone when addressing questions related to Faust's book.
Faust said Colbert told her after the interview that both he and his wife's ancestors fought in the Civil War.
"I think he thought death and the Civil War isn't a joke and when he got to that part of the [interview] he just took it very seriously," Faust said.
