News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ah, music. Our comfort, our solace, our aural version of macaroni and cheese. We're always listening, but how often do we stop and really think about what our favorite songs mean? Think back to the last time you were working on a paper at 4:30 a.m. and listening to Miley Cyrus. Did you stop and think about what went through her head as she sang about her fabled cardigan that she inexplicably wore as she partied in the U.S.A.? If not, let the internet do the job for you. Compiled below are some particularly profound interpretations of various songs from songmeanings.net.

Tears for Fears: "Shout"
"I had the feeling that [Tears for Fears] had been to Hampton Court and were being philosophical about Henry VIII.
They (his wives) gave you life (i.e. his daughters)
And in return you gave them hell (and took their royal heads)
As cold as ice (he was not the most sensitive of proper gentlemen in his day)
I hope we live to tell the tale (hey, defame him if powerless to kick his fat ass)
I hope we live to tell the tale (agan, he earned a good badmouthing)"
—aeroview
Radiohead: "Weird Fishes/Arpeggi"
"think its about a weird fish(those from the dark ocean abysses) that meet an submarine(lighty) and follows it to the high ocean with the ilusion that he was leading to somewhere better, or somehow blindly following it would achieve him goods, there he due to the different water pressure falls off breathless/painfully on the ocean botton(sand), get hurt by weird fishes(those normal ones we eat) and worms(maybe smaller fishes?), and then he escapes by jumping back on the abyss(or by falling on the abyss botton again)"
—Mirabile
Uncle Kracker: Follow Me
"mr. kracker is in fact an agent of dark forces we cannot hope to comprehend, hence the opening line, "you don't know how you met me". but need you know this at all? his name says it all; he would like nothing better than to krack you in his kavernous klaws. "i'm not worried 'bout the ring you wear", he pleads, "cause as long as no one knows then nobody can care". oh poor fool! as you can see, your rapid descent into the fiery pits of hell will be a lonely journey. "you're better off if you don't ask why ", he advises, further masking the full horror of his diabolical plans."
—zygoticmynci
Carly Rae Jepsen: "Call Me Maybe"
"I think her wish is that he porks her. just a guess."
—chodmcv
Miley Cyrus: "The Climb"
"I think this song is about the Myth of Sisyphus, the Greek figure who was to spend eternity pushing a boulder up a hill. As Camus said, 'The struggle itself...is enough to fill a man's heart. One must imagine Sisyphus happy.'"
—Rumpoleisdead
Foster the People: "Pumped Up Kicks"
"I think this song means not happieness."
—jabadobadeda
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, The Crimson reported on the University’s lobbying effort in support of the DREAM Act in light of the upcoming presidential election. That the University is heavily involved in the debate over this legislation should not come as a surprise to anyone. Harvard has been entwined with the debate ever since the DREAM Act rose to prominence. In fact, Harvard played an essential role in bringing the DREAM Act into the spotlight. First introduced in 2001, the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors Act languished in the halls of Congress until 2010, when the case of Eric Balderas, an undocumented Harvard student facing deportation, made national headlines. Ultimately, Balderas was not deported, but his case imbued the debate with a sense of urgency, and soon after the DREAM Act came within a few votes of overcoming a filibuster in the Senate and becoming law.
Even before the Balderas case, Harvard expressed support for this legislation, which would offer a work permit and a road to eventual citizenship upon graduation to undocumented students who arrived in the United States as children. President Drew Faust has been vocal in her support of the DREAM Act, showing her support through her signing of a letter urging Congress to pass this piece of legislation. In the past, The Crimson has praised the University and President Faust for their advocacy on behalf of this bill and the students it is designed to help. When Senator Scott Brown attacked Harvard for its support of undocumented immigrants, The Crimson defended the University and its position. The University has a duty to support its students no matter what their legal status, and thankfully, the University has delivered.
Although President Obama’s executive order issued this summer implements several provisions of the DREAM Act, it does so only for a period of two years. The President’s deferred action program has offered hundreds of thousands of undocumented students across the nation, and a few here at Harvard, a respite from fears of deportation and renewed hope of being able to work legally after graduation. However, the deferred action program is only a temporary measure, and the University should not be placated by its implementation. Harvard should continue to advocate on behalf of the DREAM Act, so that a permanent solution for our undocumented peers can be enacted.
This is an issue that affects not only undocumented students, but the entire nation. America would be ill-served by a generation of immigrants denied access to a college education due to their legal status. Our current policy denies America the potential future earnings (and tax revenues) of millions of undocumented minors who stand to benefit from the DREAM Act’s passage.
This is not to say we would consider DREAM Act’s passage the end of immigration reform. Even the DREAM Act itself is only a stopgap measure. It is a bill that would offer to a path to citizenship for these deserving students while the country continues to debate what comprehensive immigration reform would look like. Even if the DREAM Act were to pass and all undocumented students given a work permit and a path to citizenship, these students would still face other challenges caused by our country’s broken immigration laws. Many of these students, including those at Harvard, would still have to worry about their parents or other relatives being deported, but until the fight for comprehensive immigration reforms, we urge Harvard to keep up the good work.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editor:
Last week’s news story “True Love, New Name” did not go to great lengths to hide its agenda. Through a gross mischaracterization of the Anscombe Society and its platform, it clearly sought to marginalize the group, with the ultimate aim of pushing it out of existence or at least of forcing it to change its platform.
The implication of the piece is clear: the Anscombe Society is a group that no respectable person should consider joining. Furthermore, if you happen to share any of the group’s more controversial views, you had best keep them to yourself. Your thoughts are not welcome here.
Why has Anscombe come under attack? The claim, sometimes implicitly and sometimes quite overtly expressed in the article, is that we are an exclusive, unwelcoming, and even bigoted organization. In reality, our only offense is disagreeing with the loudest voices on campus, which seem to have decided that no dissent can be tolerated on issues like the definition of marriage. This may be a convenient and useful strategy in the short term, but it poses a very serious threat to constructive discourse. How can we sustain healthy dialogue when the presumed majority is content to quash opposing positions, even those that are held in good faith and defended by reasoned arguments, by demonizing them with accusations of bigotry or malice?
This thought policing inevitably has a chilling effect on campus discussions of marriage and other contentious issues. If it continues, we risk turning Harvard, which should be an ideal place for open intellectual conversation on our society’s most hotly debated issues, into nothing more than an echo chamber for left-wing ideology.
James P. McGlone ’15
Cambridge, Mass.
Vice President of the Harvard College Anscombe Society
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last month, the Harvard Gazette, Harvard’s official newspaper, published a story entitled “Back to basics: Army cadets work out at Harvard for the first time in 41 years.” The article notes that, for the first time since the Vietnam War era, Harvard students enrolled in the Reserve Officer Training Corps are training on Harvard’s campus.
Ignoring the fact that the women’s soccer team has probably been doing “high knees” for years, the Gazette fondly describes the exercises done by ROTC students, including push-ups, sit-ups, and high knees, which it describes as a “heart-pumping exercise that resembles skipping.”
Last month’s story was the sixth story about ROTC published in the Gazette in the past year, compared to just seven stories in the same amount of time about the Phillips Brooks House Association (which involves many hundreds of students in public service each year) and a single story on Occupy Harvard. Clearly, Harvard’s official mouthpiece has made a concerted effort to publicize one of Harvard’s newest student organizations, the Reserve Officer Training Corps Association.
More notable than disproportionate coverage in the Gazette, however, is the Harvard administration’s unequivocally positive attitude towards ROTC. President Drew G. Faust is quoted in the Gazette as saying, “The resumption of ROTC training on campus marks a new phase in the historic relationship between Harvard and the military…The increased activity will make the military experience more familiar to many of our students, and it will introduce them to the leadership opportunities that the ROTC has to offer.” It’s quite clear that President Faust views the military fondly. Her academic work centers on the Civil War, and her father, grandfather, and brother have all served in the military. As the President of Harvard University, Faust is, of course, allowed to have political opinions and allegiances.
However, Faust has used her position as the President of Harvard to bring the military to Harvard’s campus without room for critical discourse. This fall, for the first time, ROTC appeared at the Student Activities Fair, ROTC courses are advertised in the Handbook for Students, and some naval science courses taught at MIT may even count for Harvard course credit. (Of course, Niall Ferguson has been teaching a course on “Western ascendancy” at Harvard for years, so perhaps glorification of American military might is not so novel here.) All of the decision-making in this process happened at a distance from student input.
Faust welcomed ROTC back to campus two years ago without invoking any formal procedure to gain student input, ignoring the fact that military policy still excludes transgender people, which not only violates Harvard’s nondiscrimination policy, but also ignores a precedent of student and faculty debate about the military’s role on campus.
Of course, there are outlets for critical discourse about the military on campus. But when the Anti-Imperialist Movement, an anti-war educational and activist organization, petitioned to become a recognized Harvard student organized, they were denied by the Office of Student Life. Instead, they were told to “explore collaboration opportunities with the Institute of Politics and other similar organizations on campus.” Although most would hardly conceptualize the IOP as an anti-war activist organization, there is apparently no other conceivable way to engage with the military on Harvard’s campus than through politically balanced and institutionally vetted discussion. And when students planned to protest Harvard’s signing of an agreement with Naval ROTC last spring, Harvard hosted an alternative “speak-out” later that night, far away from military officials and the media, for students to express their thoughts.
And there are plenty of thoughts to be had. When the U.S. continues an unjustifiable occupation of Afghanistan that has claimed tens of thousands of causalities, it wouldn’t be surprising if students had questions about Harvard’s complicity in the military’s role in the occupation. Additionally, military values aren’t exactly the same as Harvard’s values: the military still marginalizes women (who can’t serve on front lines and who are sometimes silenced when they report sexual harassment) and transgender and intersex people. There’s a lot of discussion to be had there. And when the military industrial complex continues to pull over $1 trillion of taxpayer dollars each year that could be used for social programs and economic stimulus, it’s no wonder students want to protest the military.
Yet President Faust and the Harvard Gazette seem intent on introducing Harvard’s undergraduates to the military by framing ROTC—and the military—in a uniformly positive light. This uncritical and undemocratic ideology not only negates engaged campus discussion about the role of the U.S. military on a university campus, but also runs contrary to the University’s mission of fostering critical academic discourse on campus. Harvard’s new close relationship to the military should not go unquestioned by campus publications, by the faculty, or by the student body. After all, if President Faust wants to make the military more “familiar” to us, the least we can do is make a diversity of opinions familiar to her.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard community is waking up to the benefits of plants. As the science increasingly reveals the harm caused by meat and dairy to both the planet and personal health, many are choosing more vegetarian and vegan foods.
As factory farming and free-range operations alike struggle to keep pace with rising demand for meat, dairy, and eggs, livestock have become some of the biggest global contributors to both climate change and water scarcity.  This demand also takes its toll on billions of farm animals a year, animals who have emotionally rich and complex lives and can think, feel, and relate with one another far more than we have ever previously thought possible. Those who, for ethical and environmental reasons, decide to eat more vegan foods also discover a bounty of new tastes as well as healthier, more disease-free lives.
Now that I’m a graduate student at Harvard, I’m proud to be part of an institution that, at its best, cuts through the misinformation to provide reliable information on healthy and sustainable eating. For years, the Harvard School of Public Health, through its Nutrition Source website has warned against the over-consumption of milk. Almost a decade ago, I used this website to learn that I could eat leafy greens or take supplements for my calcium if I wanted to avoid milk’s saturated fat, cholesterol, lactose, and elevated risks of some cancers. Furthermore, the Harvard Nurses’ Health Study has rigorously demonstrated the correlation between consumption of red meat and cholesterol and heart disease by following thousands of subjects’ eating habits over multiple decades.
Today, Harvard is establishing its reputation as a testing ground for healthier, more ethical and sustainable diets. Our community garden and farmers’ market invite us to take a closer look at how our food is produced while introducing us to fresher and better tasting produce. Our renowned “Science and Cooking” classes and lecture series bring innovation to bear on improving flavors and refining our palettes. Our community is pushing the boundaries of flavor, health, longevity, and environmental stewardship.
But some of the strongest evidence of Harvard’s evolving awareness of our food lies in the daily eating habits of our staff, students, and faculty. The dining halls are seeing a warm response to new soymilk dispensers, cage-free eggs, and the meatless alternatives of “less-meat Mondays.” Additionally, on the north end of campus where I study and work, seminars and social events have seen an influx of meat-free and dairy-free options. Vegetarian-friendly burritos, Mideastern mezzes, smoothies and more provide new and welcome alternatives to the usual fare of pizzas and burgers. The culinary changes on our campus mirror those in the greater Boston area, which has seen an explosion of new vegetarian and vegan restaurants in just the past couple of years.
In light of our University’s push for less meat and dairy, I feel hopeful that we can make further changes that will reduce our harm to the environment and animals and will provide students with tastier and healthier options. Some of these changes would require minimal effort for a huge payoff. Asking Harvard University Dining Services to cook vegetables in heart-healthy plant oils instead of artery-clogging butter would be simple and painless. Now that students are eating less meat, we can make further steps to try cutting back on dairy and introducing more rich and delicious vegan entrees, from creamy cashew-based alfredo sauces to soft fruit pancakes with smoky strips of tempeh “bacon” at breakfast to warm and wholesome apple crisp with spiced whole-grain topping for dessert. Options such as these would be enthusiastically received by students no matter what their dietary habits are.
Outside of the dining halls, students and staff alike could begin discovering new alternatives to pre-packaged microwave dinners and boxed cookies. Decadent vegan desserts like pumpkin blondies with dark chocolate chips are easy to bake and make for novel and guilt-free treats at weekend parties. Additionally, just as administrators who organize seminars among grad students have helped provide ample vegan food at events, resident tutors would also be happy to oblige students who ask for more vegan options at study breaks. Sweet potato chips and bean dips, for instance, could give studious midterm-crammers a brain boost instead of slowing them down with saturated fat, sodium, or blood sugar spikes.
The horrors of the meat and dairy industry can be very daunting for those who choose to question where their food comes from. Any interested readers can simply do an internet search for PETA’s “meet your meat” or Mercy for Animals’ dairy farm investigation to see how animals raised for food regularly endure cruel conditions. These videos are as grim as they are factual. However, I believe there’s another much more positive and inviting trend in awareness that’s gaining momentum on our University’s grounds. More and more, our community is realizing that when we cut back on meat and dairy, we gain fair more than we lose. With a little effort and some healthy enthusiasm for exploring new and delicious vegan foods, members of the Harvard community can continue to make choices that avoid cruelty, reduce their impact on the environment, and feel great about making nutritious changes to their diets.
Matthew N. Hayek is a graduate student in Environmental Science and Engineering at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
A note to anyone, desperately anyone:
Help. Since operation WTF started in last week’s this week in last week’s weather, I’ve hit some hard times. I had thought I’d found a gold mine when I tried to sell all of my Google Plus +1s for Facebook likes, but it turns out the conversion rate is so poor I’d have to sell several million +1s for even a handful of likes. Instead, I’ve been forced to sell my home and mail-order bride to cover the difference. I’ll miss you, Anastasiya, but I trust you’ll meet someone else who can appreciate your freakishly large hands.
I’m currently writing to you, dear readers, on the back of a piece of cardboard I found, laying my words out using the mud on which I sleep, in the hopes that my editors may be able to transcribe this for your reading benefit. Anyway, keep those likes coming, I could really use them right about now. I’m going to go check the trash can over there for scraps.
Weather Truth Forever, and thoughts of ending it all.
Godspeed,Weatherman
This week in last week’s weather, I’m sad.
I’d like you to picture to yourself the most beautiful week imaginable—a week so beautiful that it would far exceed my pathetic talent for weather reporting for me to even try to put its beauty into words. I’d fail in trying to describe whether the weather was hot, not hot, steamy, holy cannoli, or neat. I’d fail in saying if the clouds were fluffy or puffy or round or cumulus or wispy as a wisp. I’d fail in the usual comparisons where the sky is concerned: for instance, blue, flush with purplely petally streaks, wide, or blue—again. And I would fail in articulating how it’d make you feel, be it sad, nostalgic for pesticide, tree, hapless (whatever that means), or opium. Instead, I shall leave it entirely up to your imagination to fill in this blank with your own ideal of climatalogical beauty.
This week was nothing like that. It sucked. It was as bad as spikeball apparently isn’t, and that’s just from what I could see out my bedside window, the real outdoors being too depressing to warrant even five minutes of my time. Actually, wait. If I say that it sucked as much as spikeball, will I get 100 plus likes and dozens of impassioned commenters, too? Yeah, fuck spikeball, ultimate sport of losers and stupid people everywhere. Hold my dick, Mr. CEO of “I play with string trampolines” Incorporated.
Anyway, remember Halloween last year? It sleeted. It fucking sleeted. That’s just three last-weeks away. Prepare your faces for the icy-rainy onslaught.
Also, fuck rain.
Happy Halloween, 11.5 months belated.
Aggregate Score: Fuck it.
Fun fact: We used the word “fuck” five times in this edition. Including this one: fuck. That’s one more fuck than the number of times I’d fuck That’s So Raven star Raven-Symoné if she ever came back to write for us. Seven times now.
Sections
House: Quincy
Concentration: Human Evolutionary Biology
Hometown: Brookline, Mass.
Ideal date: A leisurely autumn bike ride to a Boston coffee shop
What you look for in a girl/guy: A healthy sense of whimsy
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Throwing pots in the Quincy House ceramics studio
Your best pickup line: “Heeeeeeeeey sexy lady!” Sixty percent of the time, it works. Sometimes.
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: Yeah, it’s just like “The Social Network.”
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: Really good piece of advice: throw away all of your socks and buy 50 identical pairs.
Favorite childhood activity: Pokémon Blue for Game Boy Color
Sexiest physical trait: A nice, big brain
Best part about Harvard: My friends
Worst part about Harvard: Everyone else
Describe yourself in three words: Feisty. Succulent. Peach.
In 15 minutes you are: thinking of wittier answers
In 15 years you are: trying to reclaim the soul I lost to the corporate world. Kidding. Not kidding.
Sections
Everyone who has ever taken a Harvard tour knows that what we’ll call an "after hours visit" to the Widener stacks is one of the three things you are supposed to do in college. But why stop there? From the Belltower of Pfoho to the labyrinths of Mather, there are tons of escapades waiting for you (and a partner). When you’re ready for the big leagues, take this quiz to determine your next Harvard sex spot.
1. With which of the following HUDS meals would you choose to spend the rest of your life?
a.  Lentil Portabella Patty
b.  Beef Fajita Alfredo Fettuccini
c. Red Spice Chicken
d.  Loco Moco
2. Who is your professor crush?
a.  Niall Ferguson
b.  Steven Pinker
c.  Harvey Mansfield
d.  Matthew Kaiser
3. With which of your freshman advisors would you make out?
a.  PAF
b.  Academic Advisor
c.  Proctor
d. The professor for your big lecture course (techinically not an advisor, but whatever.)
4. What course title best describes your love life?
a.  English crr: Fiction Writing: Workshop
b.  Engineering Sciences 123: Introduction to Fluid Mechanics and Transport Processes
c.  WGS 1154: I Like Ike, But I Love Lucy: Women, Popular Culture, and the 1950s
d.  History 79j: The Oldest Profession? A Global History of Sex Work 1750 to the Present
5. When I say stacks, you say:
a.  Thesis
b.  What?
c.  ;-)
d.  Been there, done that
6.  You get asked on a date by a grad student. (S)he’s from which school?
a.  Business School: “Let’s get down to business.”
b.  Law School: “Stop in the name of love.”
c.  Education School: “You teach me and I’ll teach you.”
d.  Divinity School: “Like a prayer, I’ll take you there.”
7.  What is your concentration?
a.  Economics
b.  Chemistry
c.  VES
d.  Folklore and Mythology
8. What is your exercise regimen?
a.  None. We’re at Harvard, remember?
b.  I run on the treadmill and lift weights occasionally.
c.  Pilates. I’m all about the sculpted, flexible bod.
d.  Varsity athlete. I don’t mess around.
9. It’s a Saturday night at 11:00 p.m. You are:
a.  Transformed to a level 70 paladin. Bring it, underworld scum.
b.  A show. Or a concert. Or a ballet. I’m cultured, you know.
c.   Lost my first game of pong. Grabbing a side beer, then going back for round two.
d.  WHERE AM I?? HOW DID I GET HERE?? #YOLO
10. You live in a walkthrough double. You want to bring someone home, but your  roommate is asleep. You:
a.  Wait, what? That would require me leaving my room.
b.  Try to be as quiet as possible. Can’t make the bed squeak.
c.  Sombrero on the door.
d.  Invite the roomie to join. It comes with the territory.
How to calculate your score: Give yourself 1 point for every (a) answer, 2 points for every (b) answer, and 3 points for every (c) answer, and 4 points for every (d) answer.
10-18
Your ideal sex spot is a classroom above Memorial Hall. Quiet, private, and with ample space to study, these hidden rooms above Annenberg will give you the security to experiment. Just be careful for the wandering eyes of freshmen eating down below.
19-25
Your ideal sex spot is the SOCH. Open to all, the SOCH is the perfect place to begin trying out exhibitionism. You’ll be practicing in public, but don’t worry about being caught—who goes to the SOCH anyways? Take advantage of the new furniture on the first floor. It’s never been used before!
26-32
Check out the Harvard Community Garden. Embrace the fertility of the landscape and its delightful aromas. Just watch out for poison ivy and don’t mistake your partner for the scarecrow. Straw is rough.
33-40
Woah there, cowboy. You’re already a pro. The only thing left to do is make it a threesome with John Harvard. He’s always hard and ready to go, but do expect an audience.
Sections
Wow, what a tremendous honor! I mean, I can’t say I’m surprised, but I think we were all expecting the Nobel in economics instead, amirite? Thanks so much to the prize committee, all of our member states, and the Treaty of Lisbon for making this all possible. Special NO THANKS to Switzerland, who is the worst. Just because you take fun pictures of your eight Presidents that look like corporate stock photos doesn’t mean you’re better than the rest of us. So stop being such a stuck-up bitch and just join me like everyone else, okay?
In all seriousness, though, this award isn’t just about me. I see this prize not as a recognition of our accomplishments, but as a platform to call attention to the plight of the European people. You know, I’ve been working tirelessly to overcome centuries of colonialism, industrialization, and democratic progress to bring true prosperity to the continent. Sure, I may have the largest GDP in the world, but that doesn’t that automatically make me rich. Do you have any idea how much it costs just to exist in Paris? I don’t, since I can’t understand French, but I’m sure it’s crazy expensive.
But most importantly, Western Europe is one of the most dangerous and unpleasant places to live in the world. And remember World War II? Remember how fucked up that was, y’all? My creation was literally the only thing standing between you people and a third world war. Too often this award goes to people who were just in the right place at the right time (lookin’ at you, Mandela), so it’s about damn time the REAL peacemakers got some recognition.
Thanks again, Nobel committee. Oh and if you could be a doll and wire the prize money directly to Spain, that’d be great.
Sections
Don’t ask me why or how, but until I became acquainted with spell-check at the age of 16, I misspelled “very” every time. The first writing assignment I ever had was to write a five-line thank you note. My teacher handed it back with big, glaring, red-pen circles around the same word on each line. “Very,” apparently, didn’t have two “r”s. I was supposed to add less to a word that meant more, and it didn’t make the slightest sense. As a six year old in the first grade, I had just met my personal nemesis. It would take about 10 years and copious amounts of red-pen circles to get the proper spelling of “very” straight in my head. By that time, I just flat-out detested it.
No word in my writing has been so consistently overused, so consumptive of my editing hours. Only four little letters, “very” should be sweet, simple, and useful. Instead, it’s nauseatingly slimy, slipping unwanted into sentence after sentence. It scatters itself liberally through my paragraphs like all those handfuls of nuts and raisins my father insisted on adding to perfectly good chocolate chip cookie dough. I spent far too much time picking all the nuts and raisins out of those cookies to have any affection left for overdone “fruit-and-nut” sweets, and I’ve spent far too many hours editing and re-editing “very” out of my writing to care for it much either.
“Very” is weak. It needs to go. It’s a “modifier,” a parasite. It means nothing without the words around it, but when do those words need it? Never. There is always a stronger, richer word to be found: intensely, extremely, extraordinarily, exceedingly. If you’re going to make friends with a parasite, or use a modifier for that matter, at least make it an interesting one. Besides, if you don’t use verry too often, you can’t spell it wrong.... Right?
Sections
“Sorry, my dad says I’m going through puberty,” says my neighbor. He’s 12 and his voice has just cracked during a rant on the merits of Panic! at the Disco. I’m 14; I prefer Fall Out Boy and my voice (mostly) stopped cracking a year ago. And because I’m 14, squeaky voices are hilarious.
But this time, I don’t even chuckle. Something is bothering me. “Wait, wait. Go back,” I tell him. “How did you say that word?”
He repeats it slowly and again fumbles the first syllable, his tongue rising not quite high enough to form the right vowel: “Poo-ber-ty.” The result is vaguely flatulent and totally off-putting. Something shifts in my brain: from then on the word makes me cringe.
Years later I’m more self-aware, and I try to find some deeper motive for my aversion but come up with nothing. Puberty is awesome. It’s the process that evolves you from a cute but wimpy starter Pokémon into a fully-formed fire-breathing creature. Who cares if I have to spend a few gangly years covered in spots? The name for this process, however, is lacking. Metamorphosis, transmutation: both convey the transformative arc that finally culminates in maturity. Next to them, “puberty” flops.
Flash back to 2006 and I find myself trying to correct my neighbor. “Pew-ber-ty” I enunciate. He smiles and tries again, his pronunciation corrected. But my new-found animosity is unaffected. Worse, I start to loathe any word that starts with the same syllable: putrid, pupa, puce, puerile. I try to sterilize it with repetition but, stripped of meaning, it’s just a handful of wet syllables in a blender. “Puberty, puberty, puberty.” Defeated, I lock the word up in the back of my mind and refuse to grant it parole.
Sections
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu (known affectionately as “Bibi”) went for a direct hit in a speech at the United Nations last month when he sternly advocated for a “red line” to be drawn on Iran’s nuclear program: a point after which the program would no longer be tolerated.
Whether Bibi’s speech bombed or not is still a matter of debate, as murky as the possibility of an Israel-Iran war in the Middle East. What is clear however, is the increasing presence of Bibi’s “red line” in the USA’s own presidential war of the words. As the Middle East heats up, so has the rhetoric of the “red line.”
It is often said that truth is the collateral damage of rhetoric, getting caught in the vicissitudes of speech and meaning and then limping—battered and bruised—into the emergency hospital of interpretation. In this light, let’s reconstruct and deconstruct Bibi’s “red line.”
Structuralism: What would Saussure say?
Bibi’s speech presents structuralists with multiple signifiers to work with: the linguistic signification in Bibi’s verbal lexemes and morphemes and, moreover, an actual physical sign in Bibi dropping a bomb (diagram) onto the UN General Assembly. Bibi’s verbal “red line” signifies the concept of an ultimatum on Iran, with Iran’s nuclear program (and its attached anxiety-inducing angsts) as signified object. Bibi’s visual bomb, however, takes it one step further. The proudly held diagram, which displayed a bright red line at “2nd Stage 90%” drawn in marker, signifies Bibi’s verbal signifier, which itself signifies what is most significant: Iran’s likelihood of nuclear proliferation.
Poststructuralism: Foucault might fume.
Do you find yourself asking the following: What the heck does all that mean anyway? Why did Bibi present the UN with lines at 70 percent and 90 percent and not 85 percent? How does any of this really reflect the truth of Iran’s nuclear situation? Or even what is truth? What is meaning? What is Bibi? If so, you would be in good company in the poststructuralists camp. Poststructurally speaking, you, dear reader, are the meaning-maker and your interpretation takes primacy over the signified. A decentered author, Bibi is no longer at the center of this rhetoric. His red lines unravel under the deconstruction of his assumptions and knowledge systems that only ever presented a false front of convincing truth. Alas, stable meaning follows the decentered author into a Barthesian grave. That said, under poststructuralist thinking, you wouldn’t believe that stable meaning was any more possible than a stable Middle East, anyhow.
Sections
Little is more American than driving and the open road. Together, they’re the nostalgic twang of country music, “Life in the Fast Lane” by the Eagles, the glory days of radio, “The Grapes of Wrath.”
Naturally, then, it came as quite a blow when I realized that I wasn’t a good driver.
Okay, perhaps that’s kind. I was a terrible driver, Godawful in fact.
It’s unclear when that truth finally dawned on me. Maybe it was on the way to my first driving test shortly after my sixteenth birthday, when I asked my mom if pushing down the turn signal meant left or right. Maybe it came after I failed my first driving test when I allegedly “ran” a red light. But I still debate that claim. Or maybe I didn’t admit I was destined for the passenger seat until I failed my second of three driving tests.
That one was actually a little more embarrassing and went something like this:
Grader: “Robert, let’s take a left turn out of the parking lot.... Okay, let’s take a right here...and another right...and another right...and right back into the parking lot.” Apparently, I had almost “hit” someone. I still swear that was a kosher driving maneuver, too.
The realization had certainly hit me by the time of my third driving test. With two embarrassing fails under my belt and driving causing far more anxiety than the SAT ever would, we found the West Covina DMV, which apparently had the highest pass rate in the state.
After waiting for 20 minutes, a middle-aged woman sporting bright red fingernails, heels, and a tight-fitting blouse strolled into my silver car and plopped herself down on the passenger seat. I wondered whether she had confused my driving test with a night out; she announced she would grade my exam. With me nervous as hell, things went fine at first until she grabbed my arm and screamed “Robert!” as I began to “turn” into a treacherous intersection’s oncoming traffic.
Yet somehow, she passed me, though only on the condition that I read an article she handed to me saying no 16 year olds should be allowed to drive. The guilt of throwing it out immediately only lasted until I turned 17.
By the time I slipped through the cracks and the Driving Gods so irresponsibly passed me, I had come to grips with my serious lack of skill and consequently made two vows: 1) I would drive as infrequently as possible, and 2) No matter what, I would avoid freeways. Too fast, too furious—why not stick to surface streets?
It’s unclear to me why my second rule came as a natural outgrowth of the first—I still have suspicions that I was incepted by my mother, ever-critical of my driving skills. Nevertheless, shortly after I became a licensed driver, the freeways were off-limits. Period. Those Steinbeckian fantasies of me (and maybe my dog) cruising the open road and soaking in America had gone the way of the Hindenburg.
By the time I graduated high school, my fear of driving had vanished. I now knew definitively that pushing down the turn signal meant you were going left. Friends no longer recited Ave Marias before stepping into my car. My mom stopped phantom breaking at every red light. But the rule regarding highways remained. Still didn’t do them, still wouldn’t do them. It had become that irrational snowball, starting as a small thought and ultimately gathering enough momentum to become an accepted truth.
In the end, I guess I still didn’t trust myself to navigate alongside 1000-pound hunks of metal flying by at warp speeds. I had tried it once, briefly, early in my driving career—five exits with an instructor to my right—and that had been quite enough, thank you.
The mental block proved as impenetrable as ever until reality kicked in after my sophomore summer, when I landed an internship downtown. After briefly running through other options (Public transportation? Difficult. Carpool? No good.), the choice became clear: I would have to take the freeway.
“Bobby, how are you going to get to work in the morning?” my mom asked as my first day approached.
“I’m going to drive.”
“Who’s going to drive?”
“I am.”
“What do you mean?”
“I’m going to drive.”
“But sweety, you don’t like driving on freeways.”
No shit.
So, before Day One, my dad and I did practice runs on the Pasadena Freeway.
A note on the Pasadena Freeway: by highway standards, it’s ancient, coming in at 70-plus years. As any sensible highway designer would, the builders worried that drivers would fall asleep on the road and so went out of their way to make it treacherously windy with non-sensical turns all over. I would have the pleasure of dealing with it twice a day.
The first few runs were iffy at best. Giving the steering wheel my death grip, I managed to navigate the turns as my dad delivered tense words and fellow drivers welcomed me to the freeway community with a friendly honk or six.
Day One to the internship came and went without a hitch: no accidents, no trauma, safely there and back. Day Two: even got comfortable enough to turn on the radio. Day Three and Day Four: knew where I was going, and perhaps survived the whole thing with only one honk.
And, as the summer went on, I even began anticipating the turns, blasting the radio, rolling the windows down, sticking my arm out the side, relinquishing my force choke on the wheel. Those high speeds which at first were prohibitive now were all part of the fun, and weekend trips to grungy (18 and up) casinos suddenly became a possibility. And so too are roadtrips to cover the football team as it travels up and down the northeast. The open road and football? Doesn’t get much more American than that.
But it’s not just these newfound skills—when and how to merge lanes, lifting the turn signal to move right—that have made the two fails and a pass worthwhile. It’s also the feeling of staring down that fear, even if it’s embodied by a woman in red nails, heels, and a tight blouse.
And as far as I’m concerned, that victory—well, that’s pretty American, too.
 —Robert S. Samuels ’14, a Crimson sports chair, is an applied mathematics concentrator in Leverett House. He likes driving and dogs, but prefers smaller dogs over larger ones.
Sections
“Keep it up, boys! Just inside!” come the yells from the sideline of Jordan Field. It’s half past six on the first truly cold Saturday night in October, and Harvard is beating Yale, 100 to nothing.
“Go Crimson!” one muted voice cheers from the stands. A few other spectators take their hands out of their coat pockets to clap.
“So…what exactly is going on right now?” I ask the man standing to my right, my Internet-encyclopedia knowledge of the sport having failed me. Cricket, I’ve realized, is a complicated game.
“That one’s a four,” he tells me about whatever has just occurred. As it turns out, the “four” is in reference to the number of runs the batter has just scored by hitting the ball to the edge of the field, no running involved. Cricket seems like a quainter version of baseball at first: a batter runs when he hits the ball, and whichever team gets the most runs wins the match. But the vocabulary of the sport—bowlers who bowl the ball to strikers, strikers who attempt to hit the ball before it hits the wicket, non-strikers waiting, bat in hand, to make runs for the striker, not to mention overs and innings and leg byes—has proved a tough language to learn.
It’s Freshman Parent’s Weekend, but it is clear that my translator, Vijay Kuchroo, would be here at the Harvard Cricket Club match anyway. “I taught him to play cricket in the driveway,” he says, smiling and pointing out his son, Manik R. Kuchroo ’15. Kuchroo’s father played cricket in India and Australia during his university years, before he had a driveway in Newton, Mass. In both places, Kuchroo says, “Everybody plays.”
Ibrahim A. Khan ’14, the captain of Harvard’s team, echoes Kuchroo’s sentiments when speaking of his own youth in Pakistan. “Cricket is big in Lahore, where I grew up. I think I started playing at three or four with a plastic bat and ball,” Khan recalls. Most cricket players begin with a tennis ball or a plastic one. The real thing, made of hard cork wrapped in red leather with a seam of white thread running across its middle, tends to be dangerous when it comes in contact with a player’s head.
Even so, cricketers start early. Tyrel C. Dat ’14 describes the sport as a constant presence in his hometown of Queens, NY, where large numbers of West Indian immigrants have brought the game to the city’s parks. “It’s either you play baseball or you play cricket,” he says. Dat remembers going to watch his older cousins play the game before picking up a bat. “I wasn’t necessarily the biggest fan of cricket at that age, but I was the biggest fan of my cousins,” he explains. “Eventually, watching turned into participating.”
Dat played in a cricket league in high school, but he did not expect to continue in college. “I figured that once I left Queens, that would be it for cricket,” he says. By chance, though, he arrived at Harvard the same year as Khan, who was looking to reactivate a dormant group that used to play in the Malkin Athletic Center. “The first challenge was to get a critical mass going to get people interested in cricket,” Khan remembers.
As Khan got the word out and Harvard approved the new club team, attendance grew and practices became more regular. By Khan’s sophomore year, the team began to outgrow the confines of the gym. “At the end of last year, I said, ‘Look, we can take this to the next level,’” Khan explains of the impetus behind his search for a proper competitive league.
The Harvard team received confirmation over the summer that they had been accepted to American College Cricket, the only formal league for university cricketers in the United States. Being a part of a league meant getting more serious about the sport, especially with the qualification tournament of the ACC North East Championship looming in early October. “We knew we only had a month to prepare for it after we got back from school,” Khan explains. In the fall, the team began practicing regularly seven hours a week, and scheduled matches with Boston University and Williams College.
They won both games. And when they headed to New York for the ACC tournament, they defeated Princeton and Long Island University to land a spot in the tournament’s final four, qualifying for the televised semifinal and final rounds that are set to take place during the last weekend of the month.
For the members of the Harvard Cricket Club, the success is unexpected. “It’s surprising that we haven’t lost a game,” says Londoner Yaaser Vanderman, a one-year master’s student at Harvard Law School. “I didn’t know at what level we would be,” says Kuchroo, who took a gap year to play cricket in India. “Evidently, we’re very good,” he observes.
According to members of the team, being “very good” at cricket is as mental as it is physical. “There’s talent involved, but there’s also a lot of brainwork,” Kuchroo explains. “You bat until you get out, essentially. It takes a lot of focus,” he says. Khan agrees that a good player must be quick to adapt to an ever-changing game. “You’re always on your toes,” he says.
The other side of brainwork is “sledging,” the breed of trash talking that’s integral to cricket matches. With the referee far off in the field, it’s easy for the wicket-keeper to pester the striker. “You’re just trying to get into their minds to make them to concentrate not on their batting,” Vanderman explains. He also points to another purpose: to combat boredom on the pitch during long games. “Otherwise, you’re just standing in the field for ages,” he says. As for the Harvard team, he continues, “We’re quite good at it.”
Like everything else about cricket, sledging is designed to be clever, not crude. Largely developed within eighteenth century England, the modern sport has lost many of the class implications of the “gentleman’s game,” but it still carries the rules—written and unwritten—that speak to its history. “On the field, you never swear. You always have your shirt tucked in,” Dat says of pitch decorum. He continues,  “You don’t wear black shoes or black socks—that’s just disrespectful to the game.”
Back at Jordan Field, my crash course in cricket continues. “Dad, watch what happens now,” Kuchroo calls up to his father as the next batter practices his swings on the field, showing off for the small crowd.
The bowler sends the ball his way, and the batter goes for it. The ball flies and makes hard contact with the window of the press box before clinking down the metal bleachers and onto the ground. The assembled parents and friends let out a collective guffaw. On the bench it’s whistling, back-slapping, howling.
“He chipped the bat!” a voice calls out among the clamor as the striker heads over to the side of the field to exchange it for another. Apparently, it’s a borrowed one.
“Your bat’s done!” he says, shrugging and handing the chipped willow to a teammate.
The bystander who rushed under the bleachers emerges, ball in hand, and runs it back to the field. “Cricket is not like baseball. You have to give the ball back,” says Kuchroo’s father, his eyes still on the game. “As it gets older, it spins better.”
Sections
"I think the gay male population is much more visible than the lesbian community, and I don’t know why that is. It’s something I’ve always thought about, but I’m just not sure.”
Caroline K. Lauer ’14 speaks softly and  wears her long blonde hair knotted in a ponytail. Lauer is a Peer Advising Fellow and a volunteer at the Phillips Brooks House Association; she holds an on-campus job and made her best friends during a pre-orientation program and over long conversations in Annenberg. She is also in a long-term relationship with another woman.
“I don’t think it’s something Harvard talks about a lot,” says Lauer, in reference to the disparity in the number of gay men and gay women on campus.
Female students who identify as gay, especially those like Lauer who are not involved in specifically queer groups, recount trying and often failing to find other women of their sexual orientation.
“That’s so real, that’s such a real frustration,” says Linda M. Buehler ’14, who identifies as queer.
After she came out during freshman year, Buehler made it her mission to seek out other queer-identifying women in the area to whom she could look for support. “I’m really comfortable because I spent a year finding lesbians all over Massachusetts. I spent an entire year finding lesbians,” she says. “I actually have a book in my room called ‘Finding the Lesbians.’”
At a school where gay men are more easily encountered, addressing the question of where the lesbians are involves engaging in a larger discussion of existing stereotypes about lesbians and the fluidity of female sexuality. Inevitably a dialogue concerning the role of queer-identifying females at Harvard cannot be separated from considerations of any woman’s place on campus.
FINDING A PARTNER
“I guess I feel like if I were a gay guy, I could go home with a different guy every night of the week if I really wanted to, whereas as a lesbian you can’t really do that because you end up going back with the same people,” Maddie O. Studt ’16 says.
Brianna J. Suslovic ’16 and Grace E.G. Huckins ’16 met at an open house for the Office of BGLTQ Student Life at the beginning of the school year and have been happily dating since—but they’re the exception. Huckins, a Crimson Arts comper, recalls a conversation with a friend: “We found it easy to rattle off the men who are openly gay in the Class of 2016, but we could name fewer than 10 women,” she recalls, pausing to consider the significance of her statement. “It’s very stark when you kind of look at it like that.”
Huckins’s inability to name many lesbians in her Harvard class is not uncommon.
“Whenever I go to a queer party I see so many gay men and hardly any lesbians.” says Lindsay, who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because she has yet to come out to her family. According to her estimation, for every 10 gay couples seen on campus, about eight of them are men.
“The markers for being a gay male are very recognized by society,” says Lynne S. Peskoe ’14, who identifies as bisexual and interns at the BGLTQ Office of Student Life.
“Everybody knows about gaydar for men; only queer women know about gaydar for women,” continues Peskoe. “You have a checklist in your head when you meet someone. You’re like, oh, she’s cute: Who are her blockmates? Who does she hang out with? What does she study?”
Peskoe, a junior, has, to a certain extent, figured out a system for identifying signs of lesbians or bisexuals at Harvard. But, for others, finding lesbian women can be a daunting task.
“I could not tell you what defines a lesbian on the Harvard campus,” says Sasanka N. Jinadasa ’15, who identifies as pansexual, meaning that she is open to relationships with people of any gender.
“It’s not like people walk around with ‘lesbian’ tattooed on their forehead,” she continues. “Though sometimes I wish they would!” As a pansexual, Jinadasa expresses a desire to have relationships with both men and women, but she says that the small dating pool of lesbian and female bisexuals makes it much easier to date men.
“It’s math: Let’s say I’m attracted to 50 percent women and 50 percent men. Let’s say there are 40 people in a room and I’m attracted to all of the guys and all of the girls. There are nine guys who are gay and one girl who is queer.”
Jinadasa recounts breaking up with her boyfriend last year partly because she wanted to have a relationship with a woman. After an unsuccessful search for gay females, she is now back together with her boyfriend.
Studt also expresses difficulty with finding other queer women. “I know where they would potentially exist, but seeking them out is a struggle,” she says. “You can’t just go up to somebody and say, ‘Hey, I heard you’re queer.’”
The desire for a larger, more visible lesbian community extends well beyond a desire for romance. “We’ve been through this non-normative experience,” says Linda M. Buehler ’14, and for this reason many lesbians and female bisexuals at Harvard seek more opportunities for friendship with queer-identifying females.
Lindsay has been out at Harvard since her freshman year, and she still wishes that she knew more lesbians besides her girlfriend’s friends from the rugby team.“It’s really frustrating and sad because, outside of dating, it would have been nice to have a friend like me who’s gay and in PBHA and in the Seneca and that’s fine.... It still would be,” she says.
SAFETY IN NUMBERS
“I think you do have lesbians on campus; I think it’s just harder to come out,” says Lindsay. She describes having been “on the fence about coming out,” attributing her hesitancy to the difficulty of finding other lesbians in the Harvard community who looked and acted as she did. “I didn’t know anybody who was like me that was gay, too,” she recalls.
Lindsay says she only came out at Harvard when she started dating another girl who was able to introduce her to a community of lesbian friends on the rugby team. Without that connection to other lesbians on campus, she says, she probably would have stayed in the closet.
She describes the coming out process as extremely difficult because she did not know any lesbians outside of her girlfriend’s network of friends: “It would have been really nice to have something like that [community] disassociated with a sport to help with that coming out phase.”
The limited visibility of gay females can make coming out an intimidating prospect. “I can’t really say that anyone’s coming out experience is more difficult because there are so many factors that go into it,” says Emily, who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because she has not shared her sexuality with much of her community at home. “Everyone’s experience is unique. I think—just in terms of visibility—it’s definitely harder for women, especially if you don’t know where to go at first or where to look.”
For lesbians or bisexuals who arrive at Harvard and question their sexuality, there simply are not as many women who have come out to look to as examples. “There’s a vicious cycle of people not coming out because they don’t think there are lesbians or bisexuals in the community,” says Studt, who came out as gay at her California high school.
“There’s safety in numbers to come out and be who you are,” says Lindsay, echoing Studt. “With women, since we don’t have that community in place, since we don’t have the numbers, there’s no space for us to come out and be who we want to be.”
SEEKING A SPACE
Many lesbians and female bisexuals at Harvard lament the lack of queer-female-specific space—both physical and symbolic—that Lindsay alluded to. Places such as the Women’s Center, the Queer Resource Center, and the recently opened Office of BGLTQ Student Life attract queer women, but they are also aimed at other subsets of the Harvard population. Girlspot, Harvard’s student-run group for queer women and allies, has not been very active in recent years.
“The thing about Harvard’s queer network of women that’s different from other schools is that you can go to those spaces to be queer, but they’re not queer spaces,” says Buehler over dinner at the Dudley Co-op, citing schools such as Boston University, which has a center for women’s sexuality and activism. “[At other schools] you have places where you go to be with specifically women who are queer. That space has never really materialized here.”
Some frequently visited social spaces on campus, such as final clubs and sororities, do not attract many queer-identifying females. “A big thing about female sororities and final clubs is their interactions with the male components,” says Huckins. “People talk about trying to get into final club parties, dressing up and looking nice, which men find attractive—which I think for a lot of women who don’t identify as straight is something that’s very difficult to stomach.”
Peskoe has also noticed the lack of gay female representation in sororities and final clubs. “I think queer women exclude themselves,” she says. “They’re not interested in spaces that aren’t totally welcome to them, and they can sense that.”
You would not commonly find a queer woman inside a male final club, says Peskoe, who believes that as a minority group, lesbians and female bisexuals are often more “plugged into the socially liberal and activist culture.” And “if you’re aware of these issues, they’re going to point you away from the front doors of final clubs,” she says.
According to many of the women interviewed for this article, there are places on campus, such as the Co-op or Cafe Gato Rojo, that are known for attracting a relatively higher number of queer-identifying females. There are also some sports teams and student groups that are known for having visibly high numbers of people of various sexualities, but these are not first and foremost spaces for queer female students.
Though Harvard may be lacking in institutional space allotted to queer-identifying women, Buehler, among others, has made an effort to create a symbolic space—a space formed by the community itself. Buehler sports a short haircut and wears a sweater over shirt and tie. “My goal for the past few years has been uniting the Harvard lesbians,” says Buehler. She describes her hair and clothing choices as intentional acts to identify herself as “a walking safe space.”
In Buehler’s opinion, the symbolic space that queer women provide for other women can offer a different kind of support than physical spaces such as the QRC. “That comes with a lot of reasons why I don’t join a lot of queer groups, because I want you to know that this visibility can exist outside of explicit visibility,” she explains. In dressing the way she does, she hopes to serve as an easily identifiable queer female at Harvard.
COVERING THE SPECTRUM
Buehler’s impetus to dress and act in a manner that makes her more visible to other gay women highlights another problem for women seeking women on campus: It’s often hard to tell when a woman is gay.
This lack of uniformity among the community can be freeing for lesbian women, but it can also make it more difficult to figure out who is and isn’t out. The stereotypes that do exist may be another reason that Harvard women are less likely to come out. If a woman doesn’t conform to one of the propagated stereotypes—the butch lesbian, the lipstick lesbian, the activist lesbian, etc.—she hesitates to identify as a lesbian at all.
Lindsay says that the majority of her friends are straight, but that some of them might openly question their sexuality, if they weren’t limited by these popular conceptions. “They have this mindset of ‘No, I couldn’t do it, I want to but I couldn’t,’” says Lindsay. “They have this picture of butch lesbians in their minds. That’s just a stereotype; not all lesbians are muscular and tattooed with short hair.”
“I think we’d have more lesbians on campus if there was more of that space to see there isn’t that one type of lesbian,” she says, frustrated by how few lesbians she has been met at Harvard.
Many queer-identifying Harvard females gesture to media representations of gay people that tend toward the depiction of males rather than females. “The gay characters you see on TV, the vast majority are male,” says Huckins.“
Lesbianism is trivialized by the way it’s treated by the media as something that men find attractive,” she continues. “The word ‘gay’ originally referred to all genders, not just men, but now we use it for men. I think sexism is something that definitely comes into play.”
Studt echoes this idea: “In ‘Modern Family,’ there’s a gay couple, but there’s less portrayal of successful lesbian couples in common media.”
Suslovic, an active member of the QSA and volunteer at the QRC who identifies as queer, also voices disappointment at the tendency to put lesbians in strictly defined categories.
“There have been scenarios where I’ve been with my girlfriend and someone else has been like ‘Oh no! She’s definitely straight’ because she has long hair and looks feminine,” says Suslovic. “And so they refuse to believe she’s gay.”
Huckins, Suslovic’s girlfriend, wears her long dark brown hair down, and accessorizes with dangling earrings.“
It goes back to this deal of being forced into a stereotype,” Suslovic concludes. “I think that changing that sort of mentality around the entire issue is important.”
A SENSE OF FLUIDITY
“It’s easier to kiss a girl at a party than to formally come out,” says Lindsay.
“I have friends who’ve said ‘We’ve made out at. like, a final club and stuff like that just to get people to pay attention to us,’” continues Lindsay. “That’s not what experimentation should be.”
Hesitation to classify oneself as a single sexual orientation, combined with a cultural readiness to accept girls making out with other girls as just another night in the party scene, may make it easier for women to stay in the closet.
“As a whole, women tend to view sexuality as more fluid,” says Huckins. “Numerically, you’ll find fewer women who identify as lesbians but more women who identify as bisexual.” This, she says, may explain why more men are active in the QSA. “If you identify as gay you tend to get more involved with those [queer-oriented] groups. Women are less strictly defined sexually so they might not join a group.”
Therefore, Huckins concludes, “the gay community as a whole is very distinctly male-dominated.”
Huckins is not the only woman to voice this perception. “I think that there are a lot of women that perhaps experiment with other women–or find themselves attracted to other women situationally–but wouldn’t go as far as to define themselves as a lesbian,” says Emily. “I think for women there’s a lot more fluidity, as opposed to gay males where that’s not what the perception is.”
Jinadasa identifies an attitude “that male bisexuals don’t exist, but every female is bisexual.”
This fluidity can be a double-edged sword, giving rise to the popular belief that no woman is ever exclusively interested in women.“
Sexuality is fluid in my opinion,” Suslovic concedes, “but I don’t think that someone is necessarily going to go through a phase of just dating girls in college because it’s fun and they’re experimenting. I think that that’s okay to do, but I don’t think it’s okay to stereotype that as something that someone is doing because they want to play around.”
A MALE DOMINION
Neimy K. Escobar ’15 lounges on a couch in the QRC next to her girlfriend. She has dark hair, long, almost waist-length, and wears a sweatshirt over leggings. Two other women sit nearby typing at their computers. All of them are undergraduate students who identify as lesbian and who spend much of their time in between classes hanging out in the QRC located in the basement of Thayer Hall.
Escobar, the QSA social co-chair, says that she avoided thinking about her sexuality as a teenager growing up in Las Vegas. Upon arriving at Harvard, Escobar fell for her current girlfriend during her freshman fall.
“If I wasn’t in the QSA I don’t know if I would be able to find other lesbians,” she says. Even at QSA events, Escobar concedes that it can be hard to find other lesbians. “As social chair I try to host events, and the only people that show up are gay males, and I’m the only female.”
Jinadasa also describes the QSA as a predominantly male organization.
“I tried to go to a lot of QSA events at first because I told myself that if I’m out I have to do this whole thing.” But she found it to be full of males.
Jinadasa concedes that the QSA puts on a lot of positive events for the queer community, but she expresses a larger frustration with what she perceives to be a male domination of queer life at Harvard.
Kenneth M. Mai ’15, a QSA board member, acknowledges that “there definitely is a deficit in terms of lesbian representation, in terms of how many out lesbians we see.” He points to a QSA-sponsored excursion to the gay nightclub Machine as an example of an event that was advertised as co-ed, but ended up being predominantly male.
Mai says the QSA has made a concerted effort to improve lesbian representation by targeting lesbian invitees for their events.
“I’m not seeing any kind of clear discrimination against lesbians at Harvard,” Mai says. “But there does seem to be a trend in that we don’t see as many queer women represented here. I think there are a lot fewer out visible gay women at Harvard and in gay social scenes in general.”
Indeed, many lesbians express that low levels of lesbian visibility is not a Harvard-specific phenomenon.
“I don’t think it’s something that Harvard can really be blamed for.… It seems to be pretty universal,” Suslovic says.
Speaking on this lack of female representation in the gay world, Suslovic—who hails from Syracuse, New York—says, “I think it’s almost true everywhere. I knew quite a few guys who were out in my high school, but in my high school of close to 1,000 people there were maybe three girls who were out, and I was one of them.”
Perhaps the low level of lesbian visibility on campus contributes to the perception that Harvard has a long way to go in terms of gender equality.
“I think campus in general is very male dominated in all senses of the word,” Escobar says.
She recalls her frustrations in planning QSA events as just one of many instances in which she felt that women were underrepresented at Harvard.
Peskoe adds, “Any discussion about queer women is inevitably a discussion about women and misogyny.”
ONLINE AND OFF CAMPUS
“I think it would be really challenging to be a lesbian who was single here,” says Lauer, who is currently dating another Harvard student. “I wouldn’t even know how to go about it. I wouldn’t know what to do.
”Many gay women, frustrated with the lack of options available to them at Harvard, head off campus in search of sexual partners. Online dating, specifically through the website OkCupid, is a popular method of finding women seeking women.
“A lot of people turn to online dating,” explains Escobar, who is preparing a panel on the subject for the QSA. A reference to the panel elicits snaps of approval from the other women present in the QRC.
“The beauty of OkCupid is that it’s a space where you can say ‘I am queer’ and not have to broadcast yourself. You can be queer without having to wave a rainbow flag or wear a tie everywhere. It’s a big relief,” says Buehler, who is scheduled to appear on the panel with Peskoe.
Buehler, an inactive Crimson blog editor, mentions an event for lesbians attending local colleges as another example of an off-campus opportunity to meet other gay women. The 18-plus event is hosted by a group at Boston University and modeled after an initiative called “Dyke Night,” which is only open to women who are 21-plus.
Many lesbians at Harvard do not attend such events, as they require insight into the Boston lesbian network, which remains largely unfamiliar. “We want to mix with other schools,” says Escobar, leading to agreement from her peers in the QRC. “But there’s a surprisingly low level of mixing.”
COMING BACK
Although many queer-identifying Harvard women resort to going off campus to find other lesbians, most hope that this will not always be the case.
“I think we need more education on campus about issues like this. It would be really nice to have a mix and mingle for gay women,” says Lindsay. “Put some food down, let’s just talk and meet each other over something that’s not ‘The L Word.’ But nobody’s ever done that.”
For those Harvard women who have gone through the difficult process of finding a community of lesbians here, the rewards are worth the search.
Even though it can be difficult, says Buehler, “that’s what makes it so beautiful! You gotta work for it, but then you think, yes, we’re gonna be friends for life. That’s what makes it such a treasured community, too. That’s a part of the solidarity of being a queer woman, because you get what it’s like, and it sucks a lot of the time. There’s a certain solidarity to being not visible and finding each other.”
—Michelle Denise L. Ferreol contributed to the reporting of this article.
Sections
Ah, Halloween, the magical time when every cheap creative costume idea you’ve brainstormed in the last year goes out the window and you end up as some sort of sexy baby animal. Lucky for you, FM’s here to make sure your budget’s no excuse for being the seventh person to show up to the costume party in cat ears, a tail, and not much else.
 1. All 50 Shades of Gray
It’s not quite your typical slutty Halloween costume, but, hey, it’s erotic, right? Pile on every shade of gray you can find—your roommate’s stained gym sweatshirt, your old tweed tie, that pair of Converse that never matches anything—and voila! You too can be a bestseller.
 2. Binders Full of Women, Lisa Frank Style
Mitt Romney has ’em, and so can every costume party this fall! Lisa Frank, stationary goddess of the 90s, was known for her purple and green alien and unicorn-emblazoned binders. First graders stored homework in them, but Romney preferred using them to organize his women. If you’re a girl, fold a poster board around yourself, secure it across your body with duct tape, and color it appropriately using only neon shades that clash. But don’t stay out too late; Mitt needs you home in time to cook him dinner.
3. Ted
You know you brought your teddy bear to college—now’s your time to carry it with pride! Throw on the suit you usually save to land a job in corporate America and grab Teddy before setting out for a night without a verbal filter.
 4. Olympic Girl’s Gymnastics Team
The legacy of the Fab Five shouldn’t be left in London—rep America’s most medaled tweens for Halloween! Throw on a jumpsuit, hold a bouquet of flowers, and scowl all night like a true Olympian. Bonus points to anyone who rocks a leotard instead, and note that this does not only apply to females.
 5. Kim Kardashian, Nicki Minaj, or Pippa Middleton
Use that ugly throw pillow your roommate brought and show the world that baby got back. This outfit is not character-specific—feel free to vary accessories from party to party and transform from one bootylicious icon to another.
 6. ‘The Big Bang Theory’
NBC’s most popular sitcom doesn’t have to stay in the studio—feel free to bring it to the party. If you’re a girl, be Penny and find a few physics nerds to be your Leonard and Sheldon (you go to Harvard, it shouldn’t be too hard). If you’re a physics nerd, find a Penny—you’ll benefit in the long run.
 7. Ryan Gosling
Guys, this one is simple: just dust off your Ray-Bans, run a hand through that coiff, and throw on a white T-shirt with the words “Hey girl” on it. Stop a fight on the mean streets of Harvard Square, and girls will fall at your feet.
 8. ‘American Horror Story’
Revitalize that slutty maid costume from last Halloween with some fake blood and suddenly, you’re Moira from “American Horror Story.” Throw on a morphsuit, and you’re the rubber man. The only necessity is some blood and a serious face, so get creative with your take on this second-season thriller.
Sections
Now that days of trick-or-treating have passed, a new metric for a successful Halloween is emerging: the superlative costume. In anticipation of the many nights of dressing up ahead, FM brought together six students for the ultimate Halloween costume contest. Combining their creativity, drive, and affinity for repurposing household items, Daniel E. Silberwasser ’15, Zena M. Mengesha ’14, and Doug M. Bright ’13 battle before judges Joshua J.R. Friedman ’15, Mariel N. Pettee ’14, and Jayshlyn D. Acevedo ’14 for the title of Costume Champion.
The contestants search for inspiration in piles of clothing, paper plates, stuffed animals, and even the occasional vodka bottle. For the first round, they strive to frighten the judges with the scariest costumes. “I think toilet paper going awry is our biggest threat,” says Mengesha, looking at her material of choice. “It’s our strong suit, but it could also be our undoing.” On the other side of the room, Bright tapes red Solo cups to a skirt and Silberwasser stares at a stuffed Broccoli doll. He seems intent upon using the toy as he scours through the pile for his next steps.
The participants line up before the judges. Silberwasser, disguising his face with the stuffed broccoli toy, presents himself as “homeless broccoli.” “I am broccoli being silenced by the haters. I am broccoli who has been kicked out of the homes of millions of children,” Silberwasser presenting. Bright follows with a rendition of “Memories from Last Night,” a vertical chronology of a night, beginning with a beer pong crown, continuing with a case of PBR and loose Solo cups, and finishing with a colorful skirt, which he describes as the color of vomit. Mengesha ends the round as an angry old lady, crouching as she slugs down the runway, fuming at the youth of our generation.
The judges huddle after the round to deliberate on the performances, evaluating the contestants on a 15-point scale for creativity, production, and performance. Pettee says, “The idea of homeless broccoli never occurred to us before,” says Pettee. Yet this new idea is not so well-received. “He put himself out there, but sometimes you’ll get shut down,” critiques Acevedo. “It was definitely a political statement to be made, but not the right venue.” The judges did, however, respond positively to Memories from Last Night, which Pettee found “was very relevant. [Bright]’s in touch with his audience.” Despite responding strongly to Mengesha’s crabby strut, the judges end the round awarding Bright 14 points, Mengesha 13 points, and Silberwasser 11 points. The neglected  vegetable will need to step up his game in the next round.
After a rousing first shot down the runway, the contestants are back in the costume closet for the second round of the competition: silliest costume. “I feel like we started out pretty silly,” says Bright as he sifts through a mountain of colorful scarves.  “I don’t know what will be next.” Mengesha, on the other hand, already has an idea in mind.  She rips a green paper plate in half and is trying to smooth the jagged paper semi-circles over her ears using duct tape—perhaps the beginnings of a Yoda costume.  “This is extremely rigorous and stressful,” Mengesha says as she struggles to make the costume stick.  Silberwasser just stands in the corner, looking overwhelmed.
The runway is hot as round two of the competition commences. Silberwasser appears dressed as “Frat Boys are Animals,” Mengesha surprises the crowd by appearing as “Alien in Malibu,” and Bright is “Peas ’n‘ Poop.”  Animalistic frat boy is up first.  “I’m a frat boy.  Frat culture turns men into animals. I stand against that,” Silberwasser says as he stumbles “drunkenly” towards the judges.  Next is “Alien in Malibu” with a poolside beer. “Peas ’n‘ Poop” finishes off the round.  “I’m the only contestant to not use alcohol,” Bright proclaims, “but I do use toilet paper.” He snickers.
In their second round debrief reveals that the judges bemoan the distinctly un-animalistic performance of “Frat Boys are Animals,” the un-alien performance of “Alien in Malibu.” The disappointment that the judges felt with second round performances showed in their scores: 5 for Frat Boys are Animals, 9 for Alien in Malibu and 11 for Peas ’n‘ Poop.
Once scores from both rounds have been combined, Bright emerges victorious.  Flattered and seemingly out of breath, he begins a monologue of thanks.  “I want to thank my mom. . . and Party City,” he says, flooded with emotion. Touching.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard psychology professor Steven Pinker explained the long-range decline in human violence at a lecture and signing for his 2011 book “The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined,” which was recently released in paperback. Speaking to a packed room at the Harvard Museum of Natural History on Wednesday evening, Pinker said that humans may currently be living in the “most peaceful era” of their entire species’ existence.
Pinker said that the “better angels” of humankind—which include self-control, empathy, moral sense, and reason—have deterred people from engaging in violent acts.
Despite this decrease in violence, human nature has neither changed nor lost its inclinations for violence.
“We continue to take a tremendous enjoyment in vicarious violence, such as murder mysteries, Greek tragedies, Shakespearean dramas, video games, hockey, and movies starring a certain ex-governor of California,” Pinker said.
Although the motives still exist, people are less likely to act on their feelings, according to Pinker.
“If the ends are infinitely good, arguably, you can be arbitrarily violent,” he said. “After all, you can’t make an omelet without breaking eggs.”
The decline of violence prompts a reexamination of modernity, Pinker argued.
“Everyone acknowledges that modernity has bought us many gifts: longer and healthier lives, less ignorance and superstitions, and richer experiences,” Pinker said. “There’s always been a kind of nostalgia and romanticisms that has questioned the price.”
Despite the shfit to modernity, there are still examples of human violence.
“We have to live in the shadow of terrorism, genocide, and nuclear weapons,” Pinker said. Ultimately though, he believes that this long-term trend warrants gratitude for the society that made decreased, albeit not eliminated, violence possible.
While describing the history of violence, Pinker did not shy away from discussing brutal examples of violence and sharing gruesome facts.
Revealing statistics about homicidal fantasies, he said that one in three males and 15 percent of females frequently dream of killing a person they dislike, while 75 percent of men and 60 percent of women occasionally do.
“What does this say about human nature?” Pinker asked.
He quipped, “It says that 25 percent of men are liars.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Special offerings such as Maine lobster bisque, five-cheese tortellini with spinach and mushrooms, and New England apple crisp had students going back for seconds and thirds during Wednesday night’s Food Day dinner.
To acknowledge the annual national celebration of healthy and sustainable food, Harvard University Dining Services planned different sustainable and local food options at dining halls and restaurants across campus.
In the undergraduate dining halls, HUDS served a full menu made of local or sustainable foods. Dishes included cider glazed chicken, fresh brussel sprouts, and local cheese from Cabot, Vt. The scallion whipped Yukon potatoes came from Young’s Farm in Rhode Island.
In HUDS’s retail locations, there were sandwiches and soups made of locally sourced ingredients. For example, some retail locations offered a squash soup served with a baguette, local apples, and Vermont cheddar.
Special labels, decorated with an autumn leaves design, detailed the origin and the ingredients of the dishes, allowing students to take note of where their food was from.
The main focus of the night was sustainability.
“It’s a really important idea to communicate to Harvard students,” Resource Efficiency Program Freshman Representative Paige V. Kouba ’16 said. “A lot of people aren’t aware of how much energy goes into making their food.”
“We’re being environmentally friendly in very simple ways, such as cleaning your plate,” John M. A. McCallum ’16, also a REP representative, added.
Although some students received emails explaining what sustainable food was, others only realized it was a special dinner upon entering the servery.
“It’s amazing,” Bobby T. Fitzpatrick ’16 said. “I had no idea it was going on, but it was the best surprise.”
Students said they enjoyed the variety and the presentation of the food.
“The food looked more aesthetically pleasing,” Derek C. Jansma ’13 said.
“As a Vermonter, I appreciate the effort to integrate local food,” Tanya V. Avilova ’13 said. “I enjoyed the variety. You really can tell the difference.”
Students said they appreciated the focus on health.
“I think there is way too much junk food in the dining halls,” Vincent Li ’15 said. “It was refreshing.”
Some students felt that the concept of using locally sourced ingredients and being sustainable shouldn’t be reserved to just one dinner.
“Every day is food day. I think it’s preposterous to be isolating out specific days,” Daniel W. Erickson ’14 said. “If [HUDS] is going to be supporting local ingredients, they should make a big commitment to it.”
The Food Literacy Project and Eco REPS worked with Harvard University Dining Services to plan the sustainable meal.
—Staff writer Laya Anasu can be reached at layaanasu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Lucia R. Hulsether, a second-year student at the Divinity School, grew up with conflicting beliefs about sexuality and body image as a resident of a conservative town but a member of a progressive church. These influences had an impact on her understanding of love and sex.
As part of the second annual Sex Week, Hulsether, along with two Harvard chaplains, led a discussion on Wednesday about how religious backgrounds affect individuals’ perspectives on sex and sexuality at “Faith, Sex, and Love: Bring It On!”
After the short panel, students broke into small, confidential groups to discuss faith, relationships, and sex in discussions led by several chaplains.
The event Wednesday was designed to give students a safe space to discuss faith and love together, explained Hazel A. Lever ’13 and Martha R. Farlow ’13, co-presidents of Sexual Health Education & Advocacy throughout Harvard College, the organization that runs Sex Week.
“Religion is a big part of life for a lot of students on campus,” Farlow said, “We want them to be able to talk about that in the context of sexuality, love, relationships, gender identity, and how that lens influences things.”
Bringing faith into conversations about love, relationships, and sex is important and adds a special dimension, panelist W. Scott Campbell, a United Methodist chaplain said.“I think it’s part of our belief as chaplains that the faith perspective ought to be represented in the most important conversations of our lives,” Campbell said.
“I think most of the chaplains believe very strongly that the traditions that we represent are able to bring an integrated perspective to the big questions of life.”
Cyatharine M. Alias ’15, who identifies as Indian Orthodox, agreed that the conversation added a variety of perspectives.“
It was very interesting because it gave us a safe space to talk about things that we otherwise wouldn’t have space to talk about,” Alias said. “[The discussion] gave a variety of ideas and backgrounds, and how that affects each of us differently.”
Even with those different perspectives, though, Alias found that in group discussion, many people were asking the same questions about faith and sexuality.
Thursday’s Sex Week events include “The Female Orgasm & All Things Penis!” and a panel on sexual assault policy.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Part III of a four-part series analyzing how successful the 2009-2010 reforms have been in making the Administrative Board’s disciplinary process more educational, transparent, and empowering for accused students. Part I, Part II, and Part IV were published Oct. 23, 24, and 26.
Despite its best intentions, Harvard’s Administrative Board has long had an image problem.
“The deans and the members of the Board take very seriously confidentiality and privacy, so I think people think there’s this Star Chamber-esque ethos that pervades the Board,” said former Ad Board member Paulette G. Curtis ’92, alluding to the notoriously corrupt and secretive Renaissance-era English court.
In fact, Curtis said, “students might be surprised by how thoughtful the discussions are and how long they actually are.” When she served on the Board during her 2002-2008 tenure as resident dean of Dunster House, Board members would sometimes spend up to an hour and a half talking about a single case.
To combat the widespread negative perception that Curtis described, the committee charged with reforming the College’s disciplinary body in 2009 said that the Ad Board needed formal terminology, like that seen in criminal and civil court, to explain to the public the level of proof it needed to find a student responsible for a disciplinary violation. The committee came up with the words “sufficiently persuaded.”
At the same time, it advocated for moving student testimony from a hearing before the whole Board to a small subcommittee. That reform, some say, has made it difficult for deliberators to truly hear enough evidence to ever be “sufficiently persuaded.”
This fall, as students implicated in the current Government 1310 scandal try to clear their names, critics say the closed deliberations in the Forum Room on the third floor of Lamont Library on Tuesday afternoons may not really offer due process.
SETTING THE STANDARD
Two years after the implementation of the formal standard of evidence, Jeff Neal, a spokesperson for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, deems the reform a success. The new standard of evidence “has made the process more clear to students,” he wrote in an emailed statement.
All 30 current members of the Ad Board declined to comment or did not respond to requests for comment for this series.
Despite Neal’s assertion that the reform has achieved its goals, some who have been connected to Ad Board hearings say they still feel left in the dark.
Biology professor Richard M. Losick, who has advised multiple students facing the Ad Board, said that he is dissatisfied with the term “sufficiently persuaded.” “It could mean anything,” he said.
Matthew L. Sundquist ’09, a former Undergraduate Council president who served on the reform committee, said the group believed the wording it came up with was “demonstrative and indicative of the care and consideration that we thought would go into decisions.”
But Michael R. Schneider, a lawyer who has consulted with students involved in Ad Board cases, pointed out that Harvard’s standard of proof has no legal significance. He said that he thought the Board should use more widely recognized terms—like “beyond a reasonable doubt” or “clear and convincing evidence”—so that students could better understand how they are being judged.
Neal, who declined to speak by phone or in person about the Ad Board, wrote that the Board does not use typical legal language because it “is not a judicial board and therefore does not use judicial procedures.”
However, many peer universities that do not identify their discipline systems as judicial do use more widely accepted terms as their standards of proof. A Stanford student must be judged guilty “beyond a reasonable doubt,” commonly thought of as a 95 percent certainty test. At Dartmouth and Columbia, there must be a “preponderance of the evidence”—typically considered more than 50 percent proof—that a student is guilty.
When Harvard’s Ad Board deliberates under its “sufficiently persuaded” standard, it requires a simple majority of its roughly 30 members or, for cases of required withdrawal, a two-thirds majority.Students who have gone through the process said they had trouble understanding the Ad Board’s standard of proof.
Natasha, a student who went before the Board for a non-academic disciplinary case and requested that her name be changed because she did not want it known that she had faced Board proceedings, said she had no idea what criteria she was being judged upon.
“Do they have a rubric I didn’t see, or were they using their judgment?” Natasha recalled wondering as she awaited her decision. “Were they basing this just off of my statement and my interview, or out of prior knowledge that they had about me?”
Daniel, a student implicated in the current Government 1310 cheating scandal, said he was dismayed when his resident dean told him the decision would come down to the “gut feeling” of each deliberator.
“‘How do I influence your gut?’” Daniel recalled wondering. “If there’s no burden of proof, you don’t even know what you have to do.”
POWERFUL PANEL
In a second effort intended in part to improve students’ perception of the Board, the reform committee recommended decreasing the number of people present at an accused student’s Board interview.
Although the new subcommittee hearings have been praised by some for making the Ad Board process less intimidating, critics say that the reform has had the unintended consequence of reducing the amount of evidence directly available to the full Board.
Previously, most hearings were conducted with all of the roughly 30 members of the full Board present. Now, small subcommittees of only two or three Board members conduct the student interviews for each case.
Sundquist said that the shift was motivated by two factors: a desire to make students less anxious about the proceedings, and a sense that the full Board was not needed at every step in the process.
Following a subcommittee student interview, the members prepare a report listing their findings and recommending a punishment. The full Board then meets, without the student present, to vote, taking into consideration the subcommittee’s report and other evidence.
Curtis, who left Harvard before the new reform was implemented, said she thinks much is lost in the new interview format.
“It often worked in a positive way for the student that they were able to present their case in their own words and answer questions directly,” Curtis said. She added that she often reflected on a student’s presentation and demeanor when casting her vote.
Furthermore, now that Board members only sit in on a small fraction of interviews, Curtis said that she is concerned they have less opportunity to accrue expertise in the fact-finding process.
“Because the full Board is no longer involved in the preliminary stages or earlier on in the process, students might feel that the deck feels loaded, even if it’s not,” Curtis said.
Daniel said he feels disadvantaged by a system that only allows him to communicate in writing with the Board members who will decide his fate, and he wishes could ”look every single one of those guys in the eye” as he pleads his innocence.
Neal wrote that although no student has successfully appealed a decision of the Board recently, the full Ad Board “often” requests more information from the subcommittee before making a decision and “sometimes” issues a different punishment than that recommended by the subcommittee.
HARVARD LAW?
Critics say that together, the uncommon standard of proof and the small interview format fail to create an atmosphere in which students are treated as innocent until proven guilty.
Daniel said he feels he is presumed guilty because he has not yet been proven innocent. He said that the Board has asked him to provide his Government 1310 notes and study guides—materials that he threw away at the end of last semester. Daniel said he is frustrated that this lost evidence seems necessary for him to clear his name.
When asked whether the Ad Board operates under a presumption of innocence, Neal wrote, “The Administrative Board simply works to understand what happened. The board seeks as much information as possible to determine how events transpired.”
But Gary Pavela, a former director of academic integrity at Syracuse University who has also consulted with other institutions on disciplinary proceedings, emphasized the importance of giving students the benefit of the doubt even in non-judicial systems.
Losick agreed. “To say that it’s solely educational is a really unsatisfying rationale for not having due process and a fair, transparent system,” Losick said. “I’d much rather be accused of something in the Middlesex Courthouse than at the Ad Board.”
Furthermore, Losick said that the Board, as part of an academic institution, should subject charges of misconduct to the same rigorous analysis required in an academic thesis.
“This is an institution of learning and discovery, where nothing matters more than the truth,” he said. “Therefore, there should be a high standard of establishing something is true.”
But to Peter F. Lake ’81, a Stetson University professor who studies higher education law, an academic setting does call for a different mindset than a courtroom.
“I think it’s essentially important these days for academic institutions to preserve what they do best and to not be hyper-legalistic,” Lake said.
Yet consequentially, Lake said, Harvard’s academic fact-finding process is ill-equipped to handle a case the size of Government 1310.
He said, “It just feels to me like someone has brought a 600-pound turkey home for Thanksgiving and the oven’s not big enough.”
—Staff writer Mercer R. Cook can be reached at mcook@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Rebecca D. Robbins can be reached at rrobbins@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The social tensions caused by existing injustices in the world ultimately serve as strong inspiration for journalists, Harvard Kennedy School lecturer Richard Parker said at an event Wednesday on journalism’s role as an agent for social change.
Parker, who came to Harvard after working at several news magazines, extolled journalism—considered dying by many—as a powerful arbiter in discussions of social inequality or oppression.
“We all live in societies which contain injustices of various kinds and in various scopes. The inescapability of that fact creates natural tension,” Parker said. He added that journalism is created by the “people who can speak or write about the possibility of justice.”
Parker spoke candidly about his experiences in journalism, from his working at shuttered political magazine Ramparts to his co-founding of the award-winning independent news magazine Mother Jones. The bimonthly magazine recently made headlines for releasing the video of presidential candidate Mitt Romney calling 47 percent of the American population “dependent on government.”
“The role of journalism is not to reprint the Constitution. It’s not to point to the flag and urge you to salute it. It is rather to do that simple thing which is captured in the phrase, ‘Speaking truth to power,’” he said.
But Parker’s optimism for media is restricted. He explained that he still does not use social media for his journalism.
“Twitter is what I let birds do outside the window,” Parker said. “Your generation has social media and the internet—we didn’t have that.”
Anes Sung ’16, who was encouraged to attend the event by friends familiar with Parker’s work, said that she thought the media sometimes can offer a biased report of objective facts. “The media is becoming more influential every day. A lot of people are ignorant of important issues in the world, and the media serves to provide that information, but at the same time, not a lot of it is true, or it’s biased.”
But Parker ended his talk with enthusiasm for journalism and a call for audience members to join the field. “Think about why you do what you do, in a sense that is larger than yourself. Try to keep your fears in check, and ride your hopes as often as you can,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Hutchins Family Foundation, endowed by Glenn H. Hutchins ’77, has donated $30 million to Harvard to support House renewal and academic initiatives in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, the University announced Wednesday.
In addition to specifying usage of the funds, the Foundation established the Hutchins Family Challenge Fund for House Renewal, which will match gifts from other donors who pledge their funds to the continued improvement of Harvard’s 12 undergraduate Houses.
A former resident of Winthrop House, Hutchins said his residential experience inspired his support for this specific cause. He and his seven other College roommates remain close friends, holding annual Columbus Day reunions that he described as “the centerpiece of our year.”
“We became lifelong friends, attending each other’s weddings, raising our kids together, and sharing life’s triumphs and tragedies for over 35 years,” he wrote in an emailed statement to The Crimson. “My life would simply not have been the same without that ‘band of brothers’ at my side.”
Hutchins, who also holds degrees from Harvard Law School and Harvard Business School, co-founded the private equity firm Silver Lake and is a member of the Harvard Management Company’s board of directors. Although his gift precedes the official launch of what administrators hope will be Harvard’s largest capital campaign, University leaders have pegged House renewal as one of the campaign’s top priorities, estimating the costs for an overhaul will exceed $1 billion. The campaign is currently set to kick off in late 2013.
“Because of his efforts to create this Challenge Fund, we are another step closer to strengthening one of our most cherished traditions,” University President Drew G. Faust told the Harvard Gazette Wednesday.
The Challenge Fund’s commitment to matching donations aimed at House renewal will likely be an important contribution to footing the program’s steep bill. The University first announced its intention to renovate some of its residential Houses in 2008. The renovation of Old Quincy was identified as a “test project” for future renewals in 2011, and construction on its new interiors began immediately after Commencement this past spring. Leverett House’s McKinlock Hall and Dunster House have since been added to the renewal roster and will undergo renovation beginning in June 2013 and 2014, respectively.
Hutchins’s donation is the latest in a number of large gifts Harvard has received in recent years as part of the initial “quiet phase” of the capital campaign. In this preliminary period, it is common for institutions to raise a significant portion of campaign funds before announcing their final goal.
In March, Joseph J. O’Donnell ’67 and Katherine A. O’Donnell announced a $30 million donation to the University, potentially earmarked for House renewal and financial aid. Last October, Rita E. and Gustave M. Hauser donated $40 million for the Harvard Initiative for Learning and Teaching, a University-wide effort to identify and implement innovative teaching practices. Hutchins’ gift is the first that has been explicitly routed to House renewal efforts.
In the past, senior administrators have said that the University hopes to raise at least $6 billion when the capital campaign is officially announced. Harvard has identified a number of priorities for the capital campaign, including a campus-wide student center and the construction of the Allston Science Center, which was put on hold in 2009 following the financial crisis.
—Staff writer Radhika Jain can be reached at radhikajain@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Kevin J. Wu can be reached at kwu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Recognizing the possibility of failure is a key to excellence in both teaching and medicine, Harvard Medical School professor Atul Gawande said at a lecture at the Graduate School of Education Wednesday.
The difference between competence and greatness in these fields is important, Gawande said, because teachers and doctors affect people’s lives daily.
Top performers in these fields rise because they understand the possibility for failure, said Gawande, who is also a surgeon at the Brigham and Women’s Hospital, a professor at the Harvard School of Public Health, and a staff writer for the New Yorker.
“These are people who come to grips with their fallibility, and the fallibility of the systems they work in,” said Gawande.
Gawande used stories about emergency rooms, basketball courts, and classrooms to highlight the importance of striving for excellence.
He said that attention to details makes for success and illustrated this point with a  story about James Wooden, the UCLA basketball coach whose team won the NCAA championships 10 times.
Teachers can learn important skills from coaches, Gawande said, adding that teaching involves telling students what to learn, while coaching shows students how to learn for themselves.
Gawande said he had been coached recently by a retired surgeon and colleague of his. Although Gawande said he did not anticipate that the surgeon’s advice would help him, his colleague’s small suggestions did improve his performance.
Similarly, teachers can improve by having a colleague sit in during their classes and offer criticism and advice for their future classes, Gawande said.
“What do you see when all goes right?” asked Gawande.
“Teachers are now teaching eighth graders math concepts that Euclid would have struggled with, and doctors are diagnosing and treating more than 13,000 different conditions that human beings can have,” he said.
Though doctors and surgeons work in complex systems with people’s lives at stake, there are great rewards for their difficult work, he said.“We change lives...and that is a privilege and an opportunity,” said Gawande.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ben Emmerson, United Nations Special Rapporteur on Counter-Terrorism and Human Rights, announced on Thursday that an investigation based in Geneva will soon inquire into drone attacks which have caused civilian deaths—including those carried out by the U.S.
During a lecture at Harvard Law School, Emmerson critiqued U.S. counter-terrorism activities that involve targeted killing, torture, and secret detention as outright violations of human rights. He added that his next report to the UN Security Council will focus around an inquiry on Guantanamo Bay detainees.
“It is only by adherence to human rights regulations that counter-terrorism can survive,” he said before a crowd of about 50.
Even though a state’s primary human rights obligation is protecting the lives of its citizens, Emmerson said that this does not “mean infringing the rights of those suspected of terrorism.”
“Victims demand the accountability of public officials and the rule of law, not more human rights violations,” Emmerson said. “They’re not asking for the use of counter-terrorism as a justification of abuse and torture”
Speaking about the upcoming presidential elections, Emmerson criticized the candidates for avoiding discussions about the drone program and waterboarding during the electoral campaign. Emmerson said that the absence of this topic in political discussions is linked to a lack of clarity surrounding American counter-terrorism policy.
“There is increasing international pressure for transparency and accountability,” he said.
The UN introduced Emmerson’s current position in 2005 in an effort to promote human rights and fundamental freedoms in countries’ counter-terrorism programs.
“It’s not my job to speak for the UN,” the lecturer said. “I speak to the UN.”
Law School Lecturer Mindy J. Roseman, who introduced the speech, said that Emmerson added an important perspective to the political discussion on campus.
“This talk was especially important because the issues of waterboarding and accountability that Ben Emmerson brought up today have disappeared from the presidential campaign,” she said.
After the lecture, Law School students said they wished Emmerson had delved further into the Obama administration’s counter-terrorism activities.
“I wish we had a more in depth conversation about the closing of Guantanamo and the role the Obama administration has played in this issue,” said Law School student Maria A. Parra-Orlandoni.
“I didn’t know much about human rights, but I thought that the issue of protecting human rights within the state was very fascinating,” said Cathleen Chang, also a student at HLS. “I’ve never thought about it that way.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On a chilly night when goalkeeping reigned supreme, Harvard women’s soccer found the back of the net early in extra time to help head coach Ray Leone reach a milestone in his career.
The Crimson (8-4-3, 2-2-1 Ivy) edged the Bears (7-7-0, 1-4-0 Ivy), 1-0, to hand them their second loss to Harvard this season. But this time the Crimson took down its Ivy rivals on its own turf on Wednesday night at Soldiers Field Soccer/Lacrosse Stadium.
The non-conference game against an Ivy League opponent, a first in program history, proved to be a much tougher test than the first time around.
“Brown’s a great team, we have a lot of respect for them,” senior midfielder Aisha Price said. “We knew that even though we beat them last time, it’s a whole new game this time, so we took this game really seriously and they’re a good opponent. We came out with a good win today.”
After being held scoreless for 91 minutes, Harvard prevented a staunch Brown defense from recording its eighth shutout of the season.
Working off of a corner kick from sophomore midfielder Lauren Urke, freshman midfielder Brooke Dickens headed the ball to junior forward Elizabeth Weisman, who shot the ball into the lower right corner past Bears goalkeeper Amber Bledsoe to tally the lone goal of the match.
With Weisman’s goal, her fifth of the season, the Crimson lifted Leone to 250 all-time victories—58 of which have been with the Crimson in his six seasons leading Harvard.
“It means a lot to all of us,” Price said. “Ray is an amazing coach, we have an amazing, amazing coaching staff and we play for him every day, so it was great that we were here, playing for him on this great, big win today.”
Despite having played Brown earlier this year in a game that ended with the Crimson’s decisive win, 4-1, Leone acknowledges the difficulty of playing a team twice in the same season.
“They’re so tough,” Leone said. “If there’s anybody you don’t want to play twice, it’s Brown, and we did it anyway. They made some adjustments and so did we, and that’s why you can’t just repeat a performance. It’s not that simple, so it was tough for us especially since we had some players not play today.”
Although both teams had multiple opportunities to score throughout the game, neither found its offensive footing in regulation as each goalkeeper recorded five saves.
Harvard took what little offensive momentum there was for the first half, tallying three shots on goal to the Bears’ one.
The Crimson saw an early chance to score two minutes into the game when freshman midfielder Haley Washburn headed the ball towards the net, but Bledsoe logged one of her five saves, preventing an early Harvard lead.
The Crimson had another shot to score halfway through the first half, when sophomore defender Marie Margolius’s headed shot bounced off the crossbar.
Bethany Kanten, whose fourth shutout of the year kept Brown off of the scoreboard, went to work 22 minutes into the first half, by notching a diving save off of a cross from Bears forward Eliza Marshall.
Brown took over possession of the ball for much of the second half, topping Harvard in shots, 9-6, forcing the Crimson to increase the intensity and focus of its defense.
With 43 seconds left in game time, the Bears missed a key opportunity to score when Brown forward Chloe Cross took a free kick to the goal. Kanten, who recorded four of her five saves in the second period, snagged the ball to send the game into extra time, for the fifth time this season.
Entering overtime, the Crimson upped the intensity to aid their coach in reaching his milestone victory.
Harvard took advantage of its corner kick early in the first overtime period and gave Weisman the opportunity to bag the game winning goal. With it, the Crimson captured its second overtime victory of the year.
“[We] just had to keep pushing—it was a rough night for us,” Leone said. “We were off a little bit, on our play—just keep fighting, get one chance, and we got one chance, and that was it.”
Leone, who has led the team to three Ivy League titles in his time at Harvard, said that even though his team is now out of contention, he remains grateful to his players over the years
“It’s not about me,” Leone said. “[It’s] just about the team, and all of the teams that I’ve coached. I didn’t play in those games, but I’ve been very fortunate."
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After dropping both its games last weekend against St. Francis and Mercyhurst, the Harvard men’s water polo team ended the regular season on a nine-game losing streak. The Crimson, which finished third in the CWPA Northern Division, plays in the Ivy Championships this weekend at Yale.
Although Harvard (12-14, 4-2 CWPA) ended the season on a skid, the streak included five losses in the Gary Troyer Tournament that all came against nationally ranked teams.
The Crimson’s past nine opponents included five top-20 teams and a top-5 squad in the No. 2 University of California-Santa Barbara.
“I think that we are better than we were before we left for California,” Harvard coach Ted Minnis said. “We don’t have the wins to show for it, but we’ve played top-10 teams and we are getting better from it.”
“If you want to be in the situation those teams are and playing at as high of a level as they are, you have to see what they are doing,” Minnis added. “You have to play against the best to beat the best and that’s what we’re doing right now.”
Both Minnis and junior co-captain Will Roller agreed that the Crimson’s main focus all year has been the Northern Championships at Brown held Nov. 3-4. If Harvard can win its first game at Northerns, it will advance to the CWPA Eastern Championships at Princeton on Nov. 16-18.
Qualifying for the Eastern Championships tournament was one of the goals that the team set for itself at the beginning of the season.
“The Ivy League Championships is an important part of our season, but it definitely takes a backseat to Northerns because that’s where the true championship lies for our league,” Roller said. “With that in mind, Ivies is a chance to prepare for Northerns and in particular we are very eager for the opportunity to play Princeton and Brown again. We think that we can do a lot better than earlier in the season and we are looking for revenge.”
Roller said the recent slew of games against nationally ranked teams has helped show Harvard what it needs to work on in order to be at the level of the teams it is playing against.
“The difference between those teams [in the top 20] and the others are the level of intensity with how they approach the game,” Roller said. “The physicality is at another level and from the moment the whistle blows they are out there going full speed. That attitude and mental consistency is something that we need to be able to do to match these teams and ultimately beat them.”
The Crimson has received substantial contributions from underclassmen all season. The top three goal scorers on the team—Ben Zepfel, Noah Harrison, and Blake Lee—are all freshmen, and  Lee and Harrison are in the top three on the team in assists as well.
Relying on young talent came with initial instability as the team learned to play more cohesively. But, according to Roller, the team has developed chemistry as it became more accustomed to playing with each other over the course of the season.
“We are a young team and we haven’t had a lot of time to play together yet,” Roller said. “However, we are already seeing this mental toughness come together in some respects even if its not reflected in our win-loss record over the past stretch. Having that mental fortitude to go from being a moderate team to being a championship team is something that everyone on the team has their eye on.”
The team will begin play on Saturday and play through the weekend depending on how many games it wins. Minnis said that in order to achieve its goals, Harvard must mimic those tendencies of the elite teams it has played the last couple of weeks.
“I think that we have had some times that we haven’t played consistent for four quarters this year,” Minnis said. “We turn the ball over a lot and there’s a lot we need to learn from in the last couple of weeks. [We need to focus on] the little things [nationally ranked teams] do that make them so effective.”
Conscious of his team’s weaknesses, Minnis is optimistic moving forward.
“We are hoping to keep playing consistent water polo and keep working hard so that we play our best water polo in two weeks.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Under the floodlights, Harvard and Yale stood shivering, squaring off against each other like so many teams before them in the schools’ storied past. Only, this wasn’t The Game. Not even close. The stands were empty, save for a handful of friends and family—a generous 15 spectators. And this was the first time the two teams had ever faced each other.
Harvard and Yale have competed for more than two centuries in dozens of sporting events, but never in cricket. Last Saturday the two teams met to play the first cricket Game in history.
The “Founded in 1868” splashed across the back of the Crimson jerseys is misleading; Harvard had a cricket team in the 1800s and competed against other northeastern and Ivy League schools.
The Crimson had extended an invitation to compete against Yale in 1887, but the Bulldogs didn’t have an official cricket team. But formal cricket hasn’t been seen at Harvard since 1927, and the club has remained dormant until only recently. Few people in the university could tell you the rules of cricket, and even fewer still probably know that Harvard now has a cricket club.
The administration only this year recognized the team as a club sport, and the team has only just started competing legitimately against other colleges. The game against Yale was the team’s fifth game—ever.
Despite the team’s infancy and anonymity, the few fans who stuck around until the end of the match witnessed a ferocious drubbing of the Bulldogs at the hands of the fledgling team. The final score-line read 249-72. Even those that know nothing about the sport can grasp that it was a blowout. Comparable to a 15-run rout in baseball, Harvard hit ball after ball over the fences and bowled out Yale in the 14th of 20 overs.
WHAT’S CRICKET, YOU SAY?
The average American could probably tell you very little about the sport of cricket, apart from its similarities to baseball. The parallels between the two are fairly obvious; there’s a batter and a pitcher, there are outs, and there are innings, albeit all with different names. The rules and lingo will sound strange to the uninitiated.
An ‘out’ is a wicket, an ‘inning’ is an over. It’s not called pitching, it’s bowling. Instead of rounding three bases, the batters run between two to rack up points. Hit out of the park and it’s six points, but if it bounces or rolls out of bounds, it’s only four.
A batter can’t get out if they miss a bowl, only if the wicket (three sticks) behind them are knocked over or they are run out; a batter could conceivably bat the entire inning, all twenty overs. In international cricket, innings last hours every day, and test matches last days on end. Match days are always big events, and cricket enthusiasts demonstrate their loyalties by spending entire days at the pitch.
For Americans, it might be hard to conceive of just how popular cricket is in some parts of the globe. In Pakistan, India, Australia, and other British-Empire-influenced areas around the world, the sport is unparalleled in popularity—especially true in South Asia where few other sports are followed. In last year’s Cricket World Cup, an estimated 123 million people tuned in to watch from India alone; that’s more than watched Super Bowl.
“I think it’s difficult to compare to a U.S. sport, because even for someone who’s not interested in sports, you will know when Pakistan is playing a game,” says junior captain Ibrahim Khan, the  leader of the revival movement.
“In America, you have cities playing against each other so there’s no national pride. But most competitive cricket is played on an international level, and when your country is playing you will know because everyone will be talking about it.”
That said, cricket fanatics are working on popularizing the sport across the States. The club cricket team this year became the newest member of the newly founded American College Cricket conference. Although the conference was only founded in 2009, it now boasts more than 60 colleges across the United States and Canada, with more being added every year.
“Months of research confirmed for me the game was missing a tremendous opportunity for development by not pursuing an American modus operandi of development—that is, through college competition,” wrote ACC President and founder Lloyd Jodah in an email. “Colleges have provided the grassroots for development of major American sports unlike the rest of the world.”
HUMBLE BEGINNINGS
Even as early as a year ago, the idea of cricket being a club sport at Harvard was difficult to imagine. Interest in the team was largely limited to international students who understood cricket’s worldwide appeal and had grown up with a passion for the game.
“Here in America, I never thought I’d get the opportunity to play cricket at this level,” said Khan, a native of Pakistan. “I thought we’d be able to play pickup games once or twice a semester.”
But there was enough interest to band together a solid team that was committed to playing cricket on a regular basis. It began almost two years ago with several students gathering on weekends to play with a taped tennis ball on the top floor of the Malkin Athletic Center, all the while working to get cricket approved as a club sport. Much of the team’s early development can be attributed to Khan and the other students’ hard work and perseverance.
“Ibrahim has done an incredible job putting the team together,” freshman Manik Kuchroo said. “Talking with the administration and dealing with all other aspects of the club such as buying equipment and so forth.”
The team now consists of a core of undergraduates as well as some graduate students, all with ties to England and its former colonies. The members are a compilation of differing skill levels and experience. Some have had years of formal cricket competition, such as law student Yaaser Vanderman who played for Cambridge University’s team while studying as an undergraduate. Others grew up playing it after school with friends, such as Khan in Pakistan. The team has no coach and is mainly run by the captain and several of the other upperclassmen.
“I would say there is even more team unity because of the lack of a coach,” Kuchroo said. “We all try to help each other with regards to our technique and push each other to improve.  As a freshman I was really welcomed on the team, and I really appreciate that.”
Their team unity and skill is evident in their play. Despite this being the team’s first year, it won its first five games before losing to Boston University by a slim margin last weekend. The game against Yale had several displays of Harvard’s high skill level. Vanderman put on a Pedroia-esque lasershow, scoring almost 100 of his team’s 250 points alone. Kuchroo bowled a “wicket maiden,” bowling an over (six bowls) without giving up a single point and bowling the batter out. The offense averaged more than two points a bowl, and the fielding held Yale to less than 80 points in 84 tries.
“It’s incredible how we’ve clicked so quickly,” Vanderman said. “When you click with your teammates and when you’re having a good time, you play better, and it instills confidence in the whole team. Some of the teams we’ve played also hadn’t been playing together for very long either. The difference between us and them was that they didn’t know each other’s names or look like they were having a good time, and they certainly weren’t playing as a cohesive unit.”
BIGGER, BETTER AND SHINIER THINGS
The Crimson’s record so far has been so stellar that it has already qualified for both regionals and nationals in the ACC, a hugely impressive feat for a team in its freshman year. This weekend, the team heads to New York to play in the Northeast Regionals against the other top college teams from the area. Harvard will play against Boston University, Rutgers, and York College, with the victor coming away with the Northeast crown and a trophy to boot.
Despite the Crimson’s encouraging start, the competition will be much stiffer as Harvard moves up to the big leagues. York currently holds the national title, and BU handed the Crimson its only loss of the season. Harvard is slated for a rematch with BU in the semifinals, and if it can triumph over the Terriers, either Rutgers or the national champions will await it in the finals.
“I am actually very glad we had our first loss before our big weekend coming up,” Khan said in reflection of his team’s performance at BU. “The team was creeping into overconfident territory and needed to regain the desire that had served us so well earlier…. There’s a trophy we’re playing for now and we’re in this to win it.”
No matter the outcome this weekend, the team will be looking ahead to the spring, when it will fly down to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., to compete in the ACC Spring Break Championships, the national tournament. Around 30 of the best college cricket teams will be playing on the only international cricket grounds in the United States, batting and bowling for the Shiv Chanderpaul trophy (Chanderpaul is one of the highest cricket scorers of all time).
Thousands of spectators will come to watch the tournament, and the matches will be televised on TV Asia nationwide and overseas. The tournament is one of the biggest cricket events in North America, and is helping to propagate the sport throughout the continent.
“What’s important to me is that cricket is now wearing American and Canadian uniforms,” Jodah wrote in an email. “Practically all the players in American College Cricket are passionate about the game, and when they step on the field they’re representing their colleges. Of course those who grew up playing the game ensure a generally high standard of play.”
For a team that has only just started playing competitively, the escalation in play may be a bit overwhelming. After all, only a few months ago the team was still only on the drawing board.
“It’s been quite an interesting journey from really nothing when I came here,” Khan said. “We now have a proper team. We actually just put in orders for uniforms, it’s all quite exciting.”
Only time will tell as to how Harvard will fare against the challenge. Despite how far the team has come already, Khan is still looking towards the future.
“A good example we see is the [women’s] rugby team, which was formerly a club team, but it was announced this summer that it would become a varsity sport at Harvard,” Khan added. “I think this is a good example for us to follow. If we keep doing well, three or four years down the line, why can’t it become a varsity sport? That’s the ultimate goal.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As seen on the Freshman Newsletter in Annenberg.
Sections
As a self-proclaimed foodie whose hobbies run gamut of anything food-related—from trying out different eateries in Boston to taking pictures of food to writing about food—I would never miss the opportunity to sample delicious tidbits from some of the best restaurants in Harvard Square at a free event yesterday.
In honor of Food Day, an annual celebration that promotes healthy, sustainable, and affordable food, Harvard Square Business Association organized a tasting event showcasing food samples from about nine local restaurants. All the dishes at the events were made with ingredients sourced within 20 miles of Cambridge, MA.
The first stop was Grafton Street,  which served wheat berry risotto with parsnips and apple butter. Unlike  traditional risotto made with Arborio rice, this dish used wheat berries for a crunchier texture. The smoked parsnips provided another  layer of flavor, while the apple butter underneath added some sweet side to the otherwise rich, savory dish. The fried kale chips garnished on top were a  bit greasy.
To the right of Grafton Street, a strong smell of pork wafted from Russell House Tavern's station. The restaurant featured slow roasted Brambly Farms pork leg with honey crisp apple butter and spicy Verrill Farm squash caponata. This interesting combination of sweet and savory was served atop a round garlic toast chip. The pork was juicy and tender, but the caponata may have been too overpowering.
The Red House wins the prize for the most creative (and frankly, the most convenient to consume) dish: a skewer of sliced roasted beets layered with local goat cheese and arugula and drizzled with lemon-herb dressing. Called the "Roasted Beet Napoleon," the salad skewer was not only beautiful in its presentation of natural colors, but also provided a refreshing palate compared to the rich entrees above.
To cap off my mini food adventure around the Square, I sampled Sandrine's Bistro's pumpkin brûlée, which was served in an individual ramekin. As the pastry chef caramelized the sprinkles of sugar using a blowtorch, a sweet aroma that reminded me of toasted marshmallow aroused my senses. After cracking the warm, caramelized sugar on top, I found the cold, pumpkin flavored custard balancing to the temperature of the dessert.
Other highlights of the event included roasted pumpkin soup from Rialto and bread pudding with a scoop of pumpkin ice cream from Cardullo's Gourmet Shoppe.
