Sections
Sometimes, prep is staid. Not with these fifteen. Dignified, surely, but never boring. And this year’s group might be our most sweltering yet. They may not have been around for the University’s whole history, but there’s a good chance they’ll go down in it.
Visit the Magazine Homepage to give them a look.
Sections
A few months into the school year, I got a phone call from my aunt.
“Matthew’s standing at the door,” she said. “He has his shoes and coat on. Listen to what he’s saying.” I heard the static as she moved the phone from her face to his.
“We’re going on the Staten Island Ferry!” he said.
“He just saw your note,” my aunt continued. “It must have been from early August. Now it’s eight o’clock at night, and he thinks we’re going to Staten Island.”
The only thing was, we had already ridden the Staten Island Ferry. It was now October, three months too late.
I pictured him standing at the door: round little body topped with brown mushroom cut—eager, excited, ready to go. He always had a facility with letters and would sit on the floor for hours if I let him, making words. Couldn’t engage me in conversation much, but could find and respond perfectly to the note.
*
I wore belly tops all last summer, stomped around Manhattan in Timberlands, rode trains across the city in search of Indian pastries, Ecuadorian karaoke, pig intestines, daal. The summer was hot; I was hungry. I was 18. But my peregrinations ended each day around three o’clock on West 23rd between Ninth and Tenth Avenues, where I picked Matthew up. I had come from the distant land of New Jersey to spend the summer in my aunt’s Manhattan apartment and to watch her son.
My cousin Matthew was six years old, the happiest person I’ve ever met, and autistic. His autism meant that he remembered phone numbers with uncanny ease and spelled nearly everything with phonetic precision. At the beach, he liked to write long words in the wet sand. But Matthew’s autism also meant that we rarely had normal conversations: It was a victory when he said, after coaxing, that he wanted to eat chicken nuggets or go to the pool. When he addressed me directly I felt like I had been given a present, like the couple of times he said “I love you, Reina” as I kissed his cheek, or the one day he told me that he had colored at school.
On those hot July afternoons, he’d grin up at me from the tiled floor of an old school building in Chelsea. “Today Matthew played with blocks,” that day’s teacher would say. Or, “Today we went to the park, and Matthew ate nearly all of his blueberries.”
“Hi, Matthew!” I would exclaim, and he would say, “Hi, Reina!” and we’d start singing Beatles songs, hands swinging between us, walking down the street. He always combined “I Wanna Hold your Hand” with “Martha, My Dear”: “Hold your hand, you silly girl—look what you’ve done,” he’d sing, and I would kiss his face.
There were always urgent matters at hand: cool museum interiors through which Matthew could walk, running everything under his hands; ice cream to drench the little polo shirts his Upper East Side grandmother insisted on buying; buses to ride toward obscure or nonexistent destinations up and down the island of Manhattan as Matthew touched strangers’ hair and I fumbled with the map and we missed our stop nearly every time.
No matter how fun they initially seem, adventures with six-year-olds in the summer somehow always end in ten-block piggyback rides and the same querulous complaint: “When are we going home?” But Matthew was different—he hardly ever cried. Unexpected detours never fazed him: the day I got a parking ticket and brought him downtown with me to court; the time we couldn’t quite find Battery Park; rush hour on the subway.
On the weekends we went to the beach. Our trips proceeded with the normal confusion of complicatedly-divorced people: Matthew and I stayed at his father’s house, my aunt’s ex-husband, a well-meaning man who was sweet with Matthew but who had never been good with kids. I stayed weekends with him and Matthew in the lemon-colored beach house, dodging the arrows of divorcé conversations while doing laundry, riding scooters, and cutting farm stand tomatoes at the sink.  There was an unoccupied queen-sized bed in the next room, but I always ended up—at Matthew’s behest—in his Elmo-decorated twin. Some nights, he started crying. Mommy was what he wanted, wandering around downstairs in tears, trying to force the front door open as his father looked helplessly on. It calmed Matthew to ride on my back, to recite telephone numbers, to spell arcane words. At the end of the crying spells he’d fall asleep again next to me and I’d kiss his baby-smell and spit-sticky face.
On the Fourth of July we watched the fireworks from the cramped harbored deck of a boat belonging to some friends of Matthew’s father. I held the sleeping child against the pops and sizzles while bay salt and alcohol and the sulfured sting of firecrackers tinged the air. He woke enough to giggle at the pops, shrieking with pleasure, but when the display was over, he fell back to sleep.
We rode a small motorboat back across the water. On the swaying craft, I held the breath-swell of his warm weight. I wanted to write things to him, give him something. I wanted to make good of words­—to string them together precise enough for him to comprehend.
Instead, I clutched his body against the breeze and salt water as we headed for the dock. I was writing him a poem in a language he could understand, in zeroes and ones, in the binary of his breath.
Sections
On April 11, Henry A. Kissinger ’50 returned to Harvard for “A Conversation with Henry Kissinger,” a 375th Anniversary event that took place in Sanders Theatre. Kissinger, a German-born Jew who moved to the U.S. in 1938, served as President Richard M. Nixon’s controversial National Security Advisor during the Cold War and the Vietnam War and as Secretary of State under Presidents Nixon and Gerald R. Ford. Nobel Peace Prize winner, famed diplomat, and former Harvard professor, Kissinger holds 88 years of history and international encounters in his memory.
Fifteen  Minutes:How often have you returned to Harvard since you were on the faculty here?
Henry A. Kissinger: I didn’t return to Harvard after I left government for—what is it, since ’77—35 years.
 FM: Have you been surprised by any  of the changes that you have seen on campus?
HAK: Well, there are a lot more modern buildings.
 FM: What connections do you see between the relationships of Harvard and the White House, and the academy and the federal government?
HAK: When I was here first as an undergraduate and as a young professor, people weren’t thinking of going to the White House, they were thinking of doing academic work. And it was only in the Kennedy administration in the sixties that an organic relationship was established between the White House and Harvard, and, in one way or another, it has continued not so much between Harvard and the White House, but between the academic world and the White House.
FM: How did the Kennedys force the connection?
HAK: Well, Kennedy first put professors into administrative positions and executive positions, and not just advisory positions. And then almost every administration has created advisory boards to work with the administration. I think in almost every administration now there are two or three academics at the level of assistant secretary and higher.
 FM: As a statesmen, have any specific situations of which you’ve been part challenged your views of morality?
HAK: You cannot go through life without coming up against situations where you have to ask yourself, “What is the right thing to do?” It’s hard if it’s right in the abstract, but it is an essential part of life.
FM: Are there any moments when you found yourself having to ask that question?
HAK: You know the way the issue is always put creates the impression that there are a lot of wrong things that you may be considering. It isn’t the way it happens in life most of the time. Most of the time you have an informed view of morality, so you don’t ask yourself at every point how it conflicts.
 FM: Throughout your career you have been a part of negotiations with very high stakes. What was your strategy when entering tough negotiations and how did you learn and practice negotiating beforehand?
HAK: I had read about a lot of negotiations when I did nineteenth century history. I did my professorial work initially on nineteenth  century European history, and I studied a lot of the negotiation then. In the Kennedy administration I was a White House consultant and I saw the Berlin Crisis. But when I came into government, I had never really done any real negotiation myself, in ’69.
FM: And how did you learn and practice?
HAK: I learned by practice. And of course the historical background. You know, I had studied the diplomacy of Castlereagh, of Metternich, of Bismarck—the diplomacy prior to WWI. So I had read a lot about diplomacy.
 FM: Was there a single person or group whose diplomacy strategies you particularly admired?
HAK: I thought Bismarck was a great diplomat, and Disraeli, talking of the 19th century. And then, later on, I was a great admirer of Dean Acheson.
 FM: Do you remember a diplomatic situation during which you acted in an undiplomatic way?
HAK: I once had a meeting with Tito. I was out of government then, and he asked me what I thought of the Russian leaders. And I said, “What do you expect of a group of people all of whom are over 80?” And I realized he was over 80. And of course I was much younger then.
FM: How did he respond?
HAK: I think he just stared at me.
 FM: You came to America from Germany in 1938. You served in the American armed forces during WWII before returning here once more to live. How has your relationship with the country changed over the course of your lifetime?
HAK: Well, you know when you come from a totalitarian society as a member of a persecuted minority you get a profound admiration for this country and for the freedom that it represents in the world. And one reason that I sometimes disagreed with some of my contemporaries at Harvard was that they were carrying on about American inequities. I knew what America had meant to me and to so many others. And if you think of some of the hostile questions [from the audience at the 375 event], they all come, it seemed, reveling in being able to say bad things about this country—and I don’t accept this.
 FM: What are the most important problems facing American society today?
HAK: Internationally, the problem is that there are upheavals going on in every part of the world, but these upheavals don’t follow the same basic causes, and so the United States has to be part of an international system that we create domestically. I have to say that a big problem we are facing is that the new information technology produces a lot of information but not necessarily knowledge. And that social media connects you with groups but not necessarily with a purpose. And that is a challenge.
 FM: What do you think that Harvard students can do about this?
HAK: Well, Harvard students—or any students—should really learn that some of these facile, pre-packaged answers one gives can get you through a conversation but not through life.
Sections
[Preppy, n. Pronunciation:  Brit. /’prεpi/ , U.S. /’prεpi/]
Usually when one doesn’t know where to begin, one begins with the dictionary—Oxford English Dictionary references imply an attempt to unearth some deeper truth about your subject and yourself. For prep, though, it’s not quite that easy. The definition of “preppy” begins, “Of or relating to a student at a prep school,” and—as anyone who has ever walked through the Yard on one of the first sunny days of spring knows—preppy is a phenomenon that endures well beyond your high school years. The word’s first recorded use had an entirely different meaning—to signify someone “silly” or “immature.” It’s possible that this relates just as much to the famous Nantucket hue as it does to actually having attended a preparatory institution. After all, outside a Vineyard Vines catalog, most signature prep-set colors live most happily in the inspiration swatches for an interior designer’s baby room. Immaturity perhaps not, but it requires a certain playfulness to pull off a pair of pants embroidered with tiny animals, even if you’re not tempted to make them talk.
But what does it mean to be preppy at Harvard? Even if we ignore the fact that our friends at certain new media outlets think a non-prep has never graced our hallowed ivy halls, it must be admitted that, at least in the popular imagination, preppy lifestyle was created to get here—according to its OED definition, at least, where an article in The Crimson is cited as the first example of “preppy” in its current definition. But, back then, you would have been expected to attend Pencey Prep to merit the lifestyle. Then the eighties happened, and prep became a subculture, and, à la Salinger, they were all such phonies. It took a movement to figure out how men’s hair stayed so perfectly bouffanted without the apparent use of product. Hint: Only sometimes is it because it’s full of secrets.
And now, at Harvard, there are four kinds of preps.
First, there are the oblivious preps. (These are my favorite kind.) These are the guys who actually went to prep school. You’ll find yellow roses in their graduation pictures, Brooks Brothers in their closets, and a Patagonia half zip pullover on their shoulders. They probably sit in your section and sound smart; they learned their SAT words really well—with four different high school tutors, one must. They don’t fully understand that what they’re doing is A Thing, or at least they didn’t until they joined the Pudding freshman spring, attended its garden party, and realized that everyone else had to borrow or buy to dress in something other than their normal, “smart casual” clothes.
Then there are the self-aware preps. They can come from generations of Nantucket summers or just careful analysis of the “Gossip Girl” second season opening for notes on the Hamptons. They tweet about everything they ever bought from J.Crew, and it’s completely possible that they’re wearing everyday pearls right now, even though clearly that’s a privilege one gains when one reaches twinset age.
There are the hipster preps; as much as the H-word (not the H-bomb) is dead at this point, there’s no better way to describe it. You know them as the Vampire Weekend wannabes. They use words like “didactic” in dinner table conversation; they wear bow ties with shorts; and they’ve never met a seersucker they didn’t like. They’ll claim they’re doing it ironically—and maybe they once were. But what starts with a pair of knockoff Ray Bans can end up with a closet full of neckwear, and footwear that alternates between boat shoes and desert boots.
The final type is, of course, everyone else. While the three above types are caricatures, there are some preppy tropes that just ring true whether you’d like to admit it or not. Think Harvard-Yale. There’s little preppier than a knitted “H” varsity sweater, and it’s a rather amusing exercise, if one does not perhaps entirely understand the rules of The Game, to instead play “Count the Barbours.” The number of students who graduate from Harvard with a pair of Sperrys in their closet is exponentially higher than those who enter, and that’s a scientific fact. The odd thing about prep is that, for the most part, it looks the same today as it might have, say, 30 years ago when “The Official Preppy Handbook” was published. Consider “Love Story”: Granted, the flared pants and big glasses are gone, but you most likely saw someone in a tweed blazer and a pair of khakis 10 minutes ago, and it was probably your TF. What’s changed, however, is how many people fit somewhere on the prep spectrum. Instagram might even be prep—a billion dollars worth of people wanting their photos to look understated and bespoke. Bean Boots are just plain practical. Ray Bans were a preppy thing, until they were no longer A Thing, then they were a thing that looks like A Thing, and now they’re a thing that everybody has.
But now that we have #firstworldproblems and #whitegrlproblems and bougie and bobo and everything else, we have too many tropes to manage, even. Prep is our constant. It’s comforting, in a way—whatever the state of current events, you’ll always be able to find someone using the word “summer” as a verb in the Yard. And that someone will, if all is right with the world, be a hot freshman.
Sections
Prep is about much more than pedigree; it's a consummate lifestyle that reveals itself in sharpness of attire, specificity of comma placement, and musical selection. 
We at FM have identified some Cape-ready crooners to mirror the patrician appeal of perfectly-cuffed Nantucket reds. The substance of the songs is of little import; after all, in this case, it's all about the presentation. With a pinky wiggle and beat-timed shimmy, a reminder: Nothing sounds as good as preppy looks.
"Ladies of Cambridge" By Vampire Weekend
These lads from Columbia have become the figureheads of the prep movement. Appropriately, their musical catalogue reads like a guide for all who aspire to the dapper lifestyle. (Exempli gratia, university sweatshirts are deemed an "absolute horror.") With so many choice references, it’s difficult to choose just one song, so we’ll settle for a tie between "Ladies of Cambridge"—for ego's sake—and "Walcott" for the enlightening lyrics. "Fuck the women from Wellesley"—that is what it says, right? Let's just go with that.
"So Fresh So Clean" by Outkast
Sometimes the title really does say it all.
"Crew Love" by Drake
This song isn't about rowing, but it could be. So let's be generous here: The very fact that Harvard is mentioned in this rap should be enough to include this one on the list.
"Cape Dory" by Tennis
Looking back at your summers on Cape Cod, you might recall Cape Dory, the now-defunct yacht-building company from Massachusetts. If not, the lyrics to this song will probably not help you. But take a clue from the band name: We are definitely in preppy territory. It's practically a match made in heaven, if you’ll forgive the pun.
"I Get a Kick Out of You" by Frank Sinatra
Forgive me this last indulgence, but whenever I hear any song by Frank Sinatra—or anything written by Cole Porter, for that matter—I am inevitably reminded of my English tutor from Hotchkiss. You never forget the person who introduced you to "The Great Gatsby," and this, in my mind, always felt like the right soundtrack. Beat on against the current, boats, beat on.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Mey Akashah, an instructor at the Harvard School of Public Health, pleaded guilty in Bermuda on Monday to illegally transporting six grams of marijuana into the British territory by concealing it in her underwear, according to news reports.
According to the Associated Press, drug-sniffing dogs alerted customs officials in the Bermuda airport on Friday that Akashah was carrying marijuana.
Though a conviction could carry a prison sentence of up to 10 years and a $500,000 fine, according to the Royal Gazette of Bermuda, Senior Magistrate Archibald Warner did not impose any penalty on Akashah, stating that the conviction itself would have “an overwhelming effect” on the distraught instructor.
In court, Akashah reportedly said that her doctor had prescribed the cannabis for medical purposes following an operation. In California, where Akashah said the marijuana was prescribed, medical marijuana is legal.
Akashah testified that she knew that marijuana was illegal in Bermuda but that she “responded illogically due to the amount of pain I was in,” and chose to bring it into the country, according to the Associated Press.
Stating that her doctor could not be reached, Akashah failed to provide documentation of her marijuana prescription.
Warner said that it was “strange” that Akashah could provide no proof of her prescription, according to the Associated Press, but released her from custody on Monday.
Julie F. Rafferty, associate vice dean for communications at the Harvard School of Public Health, said that Akashah, who graduated from the school with a doctoral degree in 2011, holds a temporary appointment that was set to end on May 31.
Citing privacy rules, Rafferty declined to comment on potential disciplinary actions by the School of Public Health.
Akashah, who teaches a class related to environmental health, was travelling to Bermuda with her husband for a weekend vacation, according to news reports.
She could not be reached for comment.
—Amy Q. Friedman contributed to the reporting of this article.
—Staff writer Julia K. Dean can be reached at juliadean@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In one of Harvard sports’ most remote outposts, the Myopia Outdoor Arena in Hamilton, Mass., the Harvard club polo team’s graduating seniors fell to the alumni cohort by a score of 8-7 in Saturday’s annual alumni match.
The contest was part of the “Harvard Polo Renaissance Weekend,” an event organized by Harvard coach Crocker Snow ’61.
The night before the alumni match, Harvard Stadium played host to eight of the team’s 15 ponies who were put up for “adoption,” meaning supporters had the chance to sponsor the horses to help offset some of the club’s annual costs.
“You can do a lot of things on them,” Snow said of the team’s ponies, initially donated by critically acclaimed actor and long-time supporter of the program Tommy Lee Jones '69. “Polo ponies are great personalities. Other horses are not as quiet in a nice way as these.”
Throughout the weekend, members of the team were charged with the responsibility of saddling horses, entertaining guests, and announcing the matches.
“The kids have been a huge help,” Snow added of his players.
But Snow's seniors failed to top the alumni in Saturday's matchup, eventually falling 8-7. Marco Elser ’81, playing in his stylish orange pants, closed it out in style with two critical goals. Elser’s impressive back shot gave his team the 7-6 lead, and after the seniors found the equalizer, Elser struck again, tapping home the deciding goal.
The alumni team, creatively named “The John Harvard’s,” can credit its victory to none other than Jones' wife, Dawn Jones, whose surprise appearance catalyzed the team.
Jones’ three goals helped bring the Harvard’s even with “The Harvard Jon’s” heading into the final chukker before Elser hammered home the deciding goals.
The weekend was another step in the continued improvement of the Harvard polo program, which Snow and his family started about five years ago. Snow’s son, former Harvard hockey player and current US professional polo player Nick ’09, was part of the first group to play.
From a coaching standpoint, one challenge lies in the fact that the initial skill levels of the riders drastically differ.
“We started with a lot of players who never played at all. We’ve got to teach them how to ride,” Snow said. “A lot of these teams have been playing polo before coming to college. None of these players [on the current team] had ever played polo before us.”
But the outlook is positive for the team.
“Each year it has been a little bit better,” Snow added.
Historically, much of the program’s funding has come from Jones, a strong proponent of the sport.
“We are supporters of Harvard polo. We want to see it grow,” Lee Jones said. “The game is awfully good for people.”
And when asked if anything in his career rivaled the famous 1968 “Harvard Beats Yale 29-29” contest, an intently focused Jones, whose career has included multiple tournament championships and a US Open appearance, said, “We’ve had some thrills in polo.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In both of the two regattas this weekend the Harvard co-ed sailing team faced fierce competition on the water. The Crimson finished 13th in the Morris Trophy and sixth in and Fowle Trophy. While the sixth place finish did not earn the squad a place in the team racing nationals, Harvard still focuses forward to its temporary departure from the New England Intercollegiate Sailing Association (NEISA) to participate in national co-ed and women’s fleet racing regattas in the coming weeks.
George Morris Trophy 
Harvard sailed in the ninth annual George Morris Trophy at Boston University on Saturday and Sunday.
While the races began with a western wind of seven to 12 knots, the shifts and gusts increased in size and frequency as the day progressed. Sunday, the breezes spanned five to 15 knots.
In division A, freshman Emma Smith and sophomore Luke O’Connor finished in the fifteenth spot.
In division B, senior William White, who is also a Crimson Staff Editor, and sophomore Ben Lamont bolstered up the Harvard team score with a seventh place finish.
“It’s probably Will White’s last regatta,” co-captain and boatmate Lamont said. “He’s sailed four years for us and he’s been a really important part of our team. He’s a wonderful guy, so I’ll miss sailing with him.”
The Crimson squad finished with 248 points total—an impressive 98 points in the B division, combined with 150 points from the young A division pair settled Harvard at 13th place out of 16 teams.
The Crimson finished one spot ahead of MIT, but even with the boost from Lamont and White, the other teams Harvard routinely faces—Boston College, Boston University, Yale, and Tufts—all bested the squad.
FOWLE TROPHY
MIT hosted the Fowle Trophy, which also served as the 2012 NEISA Team Race Championship, on the Charles River last weekend. The prize raised the stakes; here, top finishers of this regatta qualified for team racing nationals.
Team racing at the Fowle Trophy differs from fleet racing at the George Morris Trophy and the majority of Harvard’s other regattas. In a fleet racing regatta, teams face many competitors and receive a point value correlated to their score, whereas in team racing regattas, teams face one another head-to-head and work as a unit to get a top finish for the entire group.
The Fowle announced two predetermined groups of six teams to compete insularly on Saturday. The top four teams from each set of six moved to the gold division on Sunday, whereas the bottom two competed for consolation. In the gold division, teams compete in round-robin style tournaments.
On day one, Harvard sailed with unit B. In addition to the Crimson, Boston College, Roger Williams, Dartmouth, Boston University, and Vermont composed the division of six.
On the cusp between fourth and fifth place, Harvard tied with Vermont. At the end of the day, the two teams raced in a tiebreaker to decide which team competed in the gold division and still had the opportunity to qualify for nationals and which sailed for consolation.
Both teams tallied two wins and three losses. Harvard lost to Roger Williams, where Vermont won. But Harvard beat Vermont in the initial race between the two teams and pulled ahead of Vermont into fourth place on the day.
Sunday, the superior competition challenged the Crimson. In the first round robin, Harvard accrued only one win and six losses, putting it into last place with MIT.
Through a stronger performance in the second round robin—where Harvard beat MIT, Tufts, and Dartmouth, at the end of two rounds—both the Crimson and the Big Green compiled four wins and 10 losses.
Due to the stalemate, the two teams entered a sail-off. Again, Harvard prevailed and continued forward in the competition. So, with the cut of Dartmouth and MIT from the gold division competition, only five other teams remained with the Crimson, vying for the top spot.
Harvard finished in last of the final six with five wins and 14 losses. This put the Crimson into sixth place of the overall twelve competing teams from the weekend.
At this co-ed regatta, senior Brendan Kopp, Emily Lambert, and freshman Gram Slattery skippered, while Sarah Pierson, freshman Brian Drumm, Isabel Ruane, and freshman Reid Bergsund crewed. Freshman Michael Drumm worked as both a skipper and a crew during this regatta in the Harvard lineup.
Boston College won the regatta after it won a tiebreaker with Brown and Roger Williams, as all three teams finished with a 13-6 mark. The Eagles, Bears and Hawks all earned a berth into the ISCA/APS Team Race Nationals in Austin, Texas. With its sixth place finish in the gold fleet, Harvard failed to qualify.
“We had a strong effort,” Lamont said. “But it was a very competitive field, and we have focused less on team racing and more on fleet racing this year.
Although the Crimson lost the regatta, the NEISA Awards named Kopp and Pierson to the first team for their positions. And with no regattas in the coming weekend, the focus shifts to training for the Intercollegiate Sailing Association Semifinals on May 12, for which the Crimson coed and women’s team qualified for April 15th and 22nd, respectively.
“Semifinals will be very competitive, but we feel confident going in because we’re coming out of the toughest sailing conference in the country: the NEISA,” Lamont said. “We feel like we’re in a good spot, and we’ll be sailing as much as we can during this busy time of year to prepare.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was the bottom of the final inning of his baseball career, and senior pitcher Stefan Botarelli was on the mound with a man on second, two outs, a powerhitter at the plate, and the lead in hand. Botarelli checks the man on second and notices he has a larger lead than usual. He gets the signal from his shortstop, spins, and picks off the runner, officially placing the Harvard Club Baseball team (8-3) placing first in the American Club Baseball Association World Series.
In its inaugural season, the American Club Baseball Association was created in order to provide club teams a chance at organized competition to complement the fall seasons that teams like the Crimson already have.
Facing some of the struggles of a club team this weekend, the Harvard was missing some of its key contributors and on top of that, was ranked fourth of a pool of 16.
Opponent expectations were low, but the Crimson came together to make a few upsets and steal the show from its New Hampshire host.
“We’re really thankful that the Harvard Varsity team allows us to use their field and facilities because at most schools this isn’t even a possibility,” Botarelli said. “But even with the practice we got, offensively we struggled at the beginning of the season to really get our bats going, so this weekend was a culmination of our team really coming together to pull out the victory.”
With minimal practice, the Crimson was able to piece together a few wins in low scoring games during the regular season, ending the year with a 5-3 record—only losing by one run to its best opponents.
“The three teams we lost to in regular season were the same three teams we had to beat to win the championship,” Botarelli said. “This weekend we really got our bats going, and it allowed us to come out victorious.”
Faced with a double header on Saturday, Harvard started the weekend off with a road trip to New Hampshire to play Vermont in a seven-inning game.
“Heading into the weekend we were pretty nervous about how we would do because we were missing arguably one of best pitchers in the league in Brian Furey,” said co-captain catcher Adam Arthurs. “But guys like [senior] Pat Arnold and [junior pitcher] Robert Hero really stepped up this weekend even though they haven’t been able to pitch much the entire year.”
Botarelli and Furey were known for pitching complete games for the team. This Saturday was no different for Botarelli, going the distance once again against Vermont and allowing five runs in a 6-5 victory won in walk-off fashion.
In its next game against across-the-river rivals and No. 1 ranked Boston University, the Crimson upset the Terriers through a strong offensive performance by putting nine runs on the board.
Combined with the six innings of pitching from Hero and a close from Arnold, Harvard was too much for its highly-ranked opponent.
“BU had their ace pitcher against us, and he has shut us down for the past three years, so it was great to come out and play well against them,” Arthurs said.
The championship was played on Sunday with the Crimson pitted against second-ranked host New Hampshire. Arnold went on to pitch yet again for five strong innings, only allowing one earned run. The final two innings were left up to Botarelli.
“[Arnold] really hasn’t pitched very much this season because of all the complete games that our two main pitchers have thrown, but he was able to give us a chance to win and we took advantage,” Arthurs said.
The last inning theatrics were the perfect ending for Botarelli, who was named playoff MVP for his pitching performances and offensive presence (4-12, 2 DB, 5 BB).
“I’m really proud of everyone for the way we went out and played this weekend.” Arthurs said. “This is probably the last time Pat, Stefan, Mark [Chiusano] and I will play organized baseball—and I’ve enjoyed playing—but these last few games were really something special.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: May 2
Due to an editing error, an earlier version of this story incorrectly stated that Adam Arthurs said that his teammate Stefan Botarelli had not pitched much during the season but gave the team its chance to win during the American Club Baseball Association World Series. In fact, Arthurs’ statement referred to his teammate Pat Arnold.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
With a tongue in cheek and pinky in air, FM presents to you our final issue of the year, plein de P.R.E.P. in which even our dogs are dapper-ly decked. Check out Kayla, a preppy puppy puggle who is just as into repetition as we are. Jury's out on how she feels about alliteration. If she doesn't agree, though, we'll just wait 15 years.
And those 15 years will bring us to 390 years of Harvard history, a history we've decided to celebrate in this issue, in style and song. The songs belong to a playlist by Rachel Gibian '15, who—excuse us as we cough into our Paul Smith pocket square—is much more Canada than Cape. For preppy, you'll have to turn to our Harvard homegirl, Nora A. Tufano '13, and her break-down of the four types of Harvard prepsters.
For the oblivious (her favorite kind), we'll transition to the obvious, and the glamorous—the 15, if we can be so bold as to say, hottest. They're beautiful, and what's more, cooperating and intelligent and kind. We lament that we're most likely to see them in Lamont, and that they're more likely to pick up sports than editors. Plus, we've an interview with Henry A. Kissinger '50, world-renowned sixteenth hottest freshman.
S.V.P., DEARS, UNDERSTAND: We're laughing and cajoling; we're making a silly, Gawker. We know you know that we know even less about Hotchkiss than we do about Tufts. Like the House wars, it was never A Thing.
Here is where we must concede confession: We don't have any idea what we're doing. This issue is the product of non-ironic country music-loving cowboy hats and boots, of a "Springsteen" that is everything but New Jersey. 6 a.m. Coronas and conclusions that don't follow, about Florida sands and otters. (Why is it always about the otters?) When spelling p-r-e-p, we're sorely tempted to substitute an i-m where the r-e should be, and it's not because we’re more self-centered than down to repeat, and it's certainly not because of the second beer.
It might be because of the second beer, but there's a certain sentimentality that unfolds at seven in the morning, after nights and months spent with the team that made this issue what it is. It's the sort of sentimentality we're glad is missing in the bad trend alert by William R. Dingee '15 and, in a different way, from Reina A.E. Gattuso's Modern Love. And it's the sort of sentimentality that makes us appreciate, revere, and adore Mark J. Chiusano '12 and Elyssa A.L. Spitzer '12, for their hard work, precedent, and general lack of responsiblity-related bitchery. We think of you often, though less often than we think of pawn shops and ants.
IT'S FM, YET AGAIN: Someone once told us that we would adore those twice above, resent who we were under. Yeah, yeah, we said. Sure, we said. We get it. We knew what we were doing and we knew that spread belonged in the middle. No one told you, but you told us. Because that's the thing about you, you care too much. And we wish we had said more.
But there's a thing about us, too, and some things are worth repeating—that we learned from you. Design, photo, biz, execs: As seems to be the trend, this is where we went, this is what we saw, and this is how we changed. And all was possible because of you.
KATHRYN C. REED
MICHELLE B. TIMMERMAN
FM chairs
Sections
With reading period in full swing, many students look forward to relaxing and letting loose. Often that relaxation comes with a side of alcohol. But Samir S. Faza '15 and Henry H. Wang '15 don't think it has to.
According to the 2010 Harvard College Health Assessment, approximately 73 percent of Harvard students identify as drinkers. However, among incoming freshmen, 78 percent say that they abstain from drinking alcohol.
Recognizing this significant decrease in the percentage of abstainers, Faza and Wang organized "Harvard Goes 48HRS," an initiative to raise support and awareness for non-drinkers.
Last week, the two freshmen asked fellow students to pledge to spend the weekend—the 48 hours from Friday night to Sunday night—enjoying fun activities that didn't involve alcohol.
Students who pledged received a white wristband with crimson letters reading "Harvard Goes 48HRS." The organizers wrote in a press release that the wristbands helped to "commemorate and publicize the event."
Faza and Wang created a list of 48 activities to indulge in while remaining sober. Suggestions included everything from attending ArtsFirst events to packing to shopping for bathing suits for summer.
Students like Annie F. Garofalo '15 took Faza and Wang up on their advice. "This pledge encouraged me and my friends to head over to the movie theater where we enjoyed the movie 'The Five-Year Engagement,' which I highly recommend," Garofalo said.
Overall, 475 students pledged and more than 750 wristbands were distributed.
"I think the idea was really good," Lanya T. Olmsted '15 said. "It was a really cool initiative that I would like to see continue."
