News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A woman reported that she was raped Tuesday night near Oxford and Kirkland Streets, just four days after another rape was reported inside Harvard Yard.
This culprit was described in a University police email to the Harvard community on Friday as a white male in his mid-twenties, 5'6" with a thin build and dark hair.
"We are in the preliminary states of the investigation, but the descriptions of the offenders [in the two rape cases] do not match,"  said HUPD spokesperson Steven G. Catalano. He said that both cases are under active investigations.
Prior to the first of the two recent rapes, no stranger rape was reported on Harvard's campus in the past 12 years, Catalano said. He said that an average of four students each year report rape by someone known to the victim.
Both victims of the past week's attacks were women unaffiliated with the University.
HUPD has increased the number of uniformed and plainclothes officers and uniformed security guards around campus, Catalano said, for "as long as needed."
The police department asks that anyone who has information regarding this incident call the Criminal Investigation Division at 617-495-1796.
—Staff writer C.C. Gong can be reached at xigong@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Every week, The Crimson publishes a selection of articles that were printed in our pages in years past.
August 16, 1956: McKinley, Bryan Buttons Collected by Student Here
That quadrennial phenomenon known to the politically-minded at the National Nominating Convention, and to the television observer as a circus, stirs many to fond memories. The wide-open blustery conventions of yesteryear are remembered by few, but one Summer School student can conjure up a panorama of past politics via his unusual collection of campaign buttons.
Bert Sugar, an undergraduate at the University of Maryland, has maintained an assemblage of campaign pins for a period of some eight years, and numbers within his collection pins dating back to the second nomination of Ulysses Simpson Grant in 1872, and continuing up to the present campaign. The most valuable items in the collection are two large buttons for the McKinley inauguration in 1900 and for his first nomination in 1896. Among Sugar's more than 3,000 buttons are ones for William Jennings Bryan, Samuel Tilden, Rutherford B. Hayes, Wendell Wilkie, Alfred Landon, Alfred Smith, Herbert Hoover and Alton B. Parker.
August 16, 1963: Folksing Tonight Benefits March
Jackie Washington, the Silver Leaf Gospel Singers, and Eric Von Schmidt head the bill for a folksing tonight in Sanders Theater at 8 p.m. The proceeds of the event, sponsored by the Harvard-Radcliffe Liberal Union, will be donated to the Greater Boston Committee for the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom.
Four thousand marchers from the Boston area are expected to travel to Washington Aug. 28. Present estimates for the total number of demonstrators is about 200,000.
August 18, 1967: Council To Rid Holyoke of 'Undesirables'
When the City Council convened Monday after about a month's recess, everyone expected a hot debate to develop on the new Harvard Square traffic plan. But oddly enough, there was not even a mention of it.
Instead, the councillors attacked other heavy traffic—not drugs, not underground publications, not rats. But hippies. Harvard's hippies at Holyoke Center.
August 16, 1977: New JFK School To Open in a Year
Workmen should finish construction on the new John F. Kennedy School of Government in time for the building to open for the 1978 school year, the school's assistant dean said this week.
Ira A. Jackson '70 said work on the new building "is moving at a hellish pace," and should be completed by August 1978.
—Compiled by Julie M. Zauzmer
