News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The mother of a 21-year-old man who was fatally shot in a Harvard dormitory three years ago has filed a lawsuit against the University and three Lowell House officials claiming that Harvard’s negligence in allowing a drug dealer to live in Lowell for months led to the wrongful death of her son.
Jabrai Jordan Copney, who was convicted of the murder of Cambridge resident Justin D. C. D. Cosby in criminal court last year, lived with his girlfriend, a Harvard student, for most of the school year before the murder in May 2009.
B. Denise Cosby, the murder victim’s mother, filed a wrongful death suit last Friday against the University, Lowell Co-House Masters Dorothy A. Austin and Diana L. Eck, and chemistry and chemical biology lecturer Ryan M. Spoering, who was resident dean of Lowell at the time of the shooting.
The complaint alleges that the three Lowell House officials either “knowingly allowed Copney, a nonstudent, to live in the Lowell House for an extended period of time, in contravention of Harvard’s rules, and allowed him to have unfettered access to the House and the rest of Harvard’s campus,” or “negligently failed to detect Copney’s continuing, unauthorized presence.”
As a result of the University’s negligence, the complaint says, Copney was able to run “a criminal enterprise”—a pattern of holding Ivy League drug dealers at gunpoint for their marijuana.
Copney, who is originally from New York, had been living for most of the academic year with his girlfriend Brittany J. Smith, then a Harvard senior, in her Lowell House room when the Kirkland shooting occurred.
According to testimony in Copney’s murder trial last year, Copney and two other men, who had come from New York to conduct a drug robbery with him, invited Cosby, who sold marijuana to Harvard students, into the basement of Kirkland’s J-entryway with the intent of stealing marijuana from him at gunpoint. When Cosby refused to hand over the drugs, Copney shot him, prosecutors and witnesses said.
Earlier in the year, Copney and one of the two associates held up two other drug dealers—Yale students whom they had met at a party in Kirkland House during Harvard-Yale weekend—in an incident that was termed a “blueprint” for Cosby’s killing.
Copney was sentenced to life in prison for Cosby’s murder in April 2011.
Copney’s two associates, Jason F. Aquino and Blayn Jiggetts, both pleaded guilty to manslaughter charges and accepted shorter prison terms.
In September, Smith pleaded guilty to five charges connected to her role in hiding the murder weapon after the fact and protecting Copney. She was sentenced to three years in prison.
University spokesperson Kevin Galvin wrote in an emailed statement that the University will fight the suit.
“We recognize that the Cosby family has suffered a heart-rending loss, but there is no basis in law or fact to hold the University accountable for Justin Cosby’s death,” Galvin wrote. “He entered Harvard property that day for the sole purpose of selling a large quantity of marijuana to people unaffiliated with the University, and one of them shot him. We will vigorously defend against this lawsuit.”
In a phone interview with The Crimson, Denise Cosby’s lawyers Isaac H. Peres and Dennis A. Benzan said that Denise Cosby had waited for the criminal trials to conclude and for more information about the murder to be revealed before suing the University.
“She felt that the time was right,” Benzan said. [The criminal proceedings have] taken a tremendous toll on her, but she’s been able to regroup over the last few months and move forward with this suit.”
Denise Cosby said in September that her first reaction to Smith’s sentencing was “thank you, Jesus, this is all over with.”
The Harvard College Handbook for Students, which is cited in the complaint, states that “students who wish to have guests who are not Harvard students for more than two nights must first also obtain permission of the House Master or Dean of Freshmen. The hosts of repeated overnight guests who are not Harvard students must make their guests’ presence known to the Building Manager and security personnel due to safety considerations.”
Peres said that this language makes Harvard liable for Copney’s unpenalized presence in Lowell House.
“The rules recognize that that’s a dangerous thing, to have a non-Harvard student living there,” Peres said. “Someone looked the other way and they knew about it, or they were just lax and allowed this situation to occur.”
According to documents filed in October 2010 in Smith’s case, Lowell tutors did approach her about the smell of marijuana from her room. After that, Copney, who smoked $100 worth of the drug a day, according to court documents, moved his daily drug use to Kirkland.
Peres said that Denise Cosby chose to sue Eck, Austin, and Spoering because they were “the ones that are closest to the situation.”
“They’re supposed to enforce the rules, and obviously someone did not enforce the rules as to non-Harvard students living in the dorm,” Peres said.
Benzan added, “There is clearly a drug culture on campus.... Harvard University should take more responsibility.”
The University has twenty business days to respond to the complaint, at which point the discovery phase of the suit could begin.
If a jury in a potential trial delivers a verdict in Denise Cosby’s favor, the University and the three Lowell officials could face monetary damages.
Eck declined to comment, and Austin and Spoering did not respond to an emailed request for comment.
—Staff writer Rebecca D. Robbins can be reached at rrobbins@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The tally of more than 360,000 living Harvard alumni grew by roughly 7,500 as undergraduate and graduate students from every school of the University marched in Thursday’s Commencement ceremonies.
With fanfare and nostalgia, Thursday’s commemoration marked the close of the University’s yearlong 375th anniversary celebration.
During her speech, University President Drew G. Faust recognized the momentous anniversary year. “There are few institutions in this country or even the world that can claim such longevity,” she said.
She also recognized students graduating with highest Latin honors and conferred honorary degrees on eight attendees, including Commencement day speaker Fareed R. Zakaria, a noted journalist and CNN host.
“In the name of this society of scholars, I declare that these persons are entitled to the rights and privileges pertaining to their several degrees, and that their names are to be forever borne on its roll of honorary members,” Faust said.
In his Commencement address, Zakaria argued that the world is in a position of peace, with the United States remaining at the top of the pecking order. But while much of his speech rested on an international outlook, his parting advice was more personal.
“You will never understand how much your parents love you until you have children of your own,” he said. “Get up, today of all days, and hug your parents and tell them you love them.”
During the ceremonies on Thursday, Paul J. Finnegan ’75 was elected as the newest member of the Harvard Corporation. Six overseers also formally joined the Harvard Board of Overseers.
James F. Rothenberg ’68, treasurer of the University, also announced the record-breaking donation that the Class of 1977 made to Harvard.
“This class has a history of breaking reunion records, and it has now officially broken the all-time Harvard reunion gift record for any Harvard class in any year by raising an extraordinary $68.7 million,” Rothenberg said. “That number even makes the president of Harvard smile a little bit.”
Rothenberg also commended the Class of 2012 for a 78 percent participation rate in amassing the “largest senior gift on record.”
Three student orators—Anthony C. Hernandez ’12, Jonathan Service, and Michael K. Velchik ’12—opened the ceremony, each with a five-minute address.
—Staff writer Fatima N. Mirza can be reached at fmirza@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: May 29
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that the Class of 1962 made a record-breaking $68.7 million donation to Harvard. In fact, it was the Class of 1977.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Curious to see what students decided to leave on campus, and hoping to find some gifts for the family—father’s day is coming up—I channeled my inner raccoon and dug through the Habitat for Humanity donation bins set up in the Yard.  After two hours of digging and losing all of my dignity, I discovered that there were some pretty questionable items—and students—in the freshman class. Here's a recap of some of the notable items I found:
Weld Basement:
-One green and yellow mattress pad; the original color is still a mystery.
-Two bricks.
-Two boxes of Girl Scout cookies—unfortunately, Samoas. I don’t like coconuts, so I left them.
-One medium sweater from Banana Republic. I did take this. [Author's Note: I would like to justify my stealing from a non-profit by the fact that I have low blood pressure and get cold really easily.]
Mathews Basement:
-A flowerpot.
-One Mac iBook G4.
-One set of shoehorns.
-Three copies of "Out" magazine. I had a short panic attack after seeing my celebrity crush, Ewan McGregor, on the cover, but it was a false alarm, and our wedding is back on.
-A GE microwave, perhaps one of the first.
-A great selection of diet books, including "The Biggest Loser" and "How the Rich Get Thin."
Thayer Basement:
-About two-dozen hangers. Obviously, someone had already been through this bin and taken the good stuff.
Canaday Basement:
-One Halloween cookie tin.
-One large North Face jacket (unfortunately not my size, or my father's).
-Four books on Law: Clearly, reading about wills, trusts and estates, and game theory doesn’t make for great summer reading.
-A gently-used V-neck shirt from Banana Republic. (Is this the only store the freshman class shops at?)
Wigglesworth Basement:
-One long wooden pole (use unknown).
-A cone with the following text: "Falling Ice: Caution."
-One teacup.
-A one-armed desk chair.
-Four dining hall trays.
-One cane (the jackpot!).
-A mirror, which I used to check whether my new sweater looked good.
-One blanket. Surprisingly not from Banana Republic.
In the end, I emerged from the cardboard with a new wardrobe, and haunted by the question, "What was the pole for?"
