News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Alien, otherworldly, radiant chords fade in slowly, laced with faint dissonances and staccato punctuations meant to depict unknowable power and the Word spoken by a burning bush. The voice of Moses, transfixed with awe, exclaims, “Singular—eternal—omnipresent—unseeable and unimaginable God!”
This disquietingly beautiful passage of music, the opening of Arnold Schoenberg’s massive opera “Moses und Aron” (“Moses and Aaron”), echoed through the dimly lit sanctuary of Trinity Church in Boston on April 17. The excerpt was one of many that music critic Alex Ross ’90 incorporated into a presentation on 20th-century sacred music. Ross is the music critic for The New Yorker and the author of two books—the Pulitzer Prize finalist “The Rest is Noise: Listening to the Twentieth Century,” a survey of the 20th-century musical tradition, and “Listen to This,” a collection of essays on music. With an extensive playlist of excerpts, he took his audience at Trinity Church through some of the central events and impulses of 20th century religious music.
In his talk, Ross said he was inspired to examine the topic when he was doing research for “The Rest is Noise,” in particular the chapter that focused on French composer Olivier Messiaen. Ross realized, he said, that although the 20th century is usually viewed as the age of secularism, it seems to have produced a more significant corpus of religious music than did the 19th century. This difference, Ross explained in an interview later, is in part explained by the overwhelming social changes the 20th century brought, particularly war and genocide on an unprecedented scale. “Perhaps the strongest factor…[is] the rise of extreme 20th-century violence,” Ross said. In myriad ways, he explained, major composers of the 20th century employed the musical and textual vocabularies of ancient religious tradition in order to negotiate with the realities of the modern world.
For many of these composers, Ross said in his talk, religious texts and the religious musical tradition became powerful means of commentary. “Suddenly you do have a lot of composers who are not devout, who may even be agnostic or atheist in their religious beliefs or lack thereof, nonetheless employing these texts in order to drive home a point of one kind or another. It very often has to do with violence or war,” Ross said in the interview. He pointed to Benjamin Britten’s 1962 “War Requiem,” which uses the text of the traditional Catholic requiem mass in tandem with lines by the British antiwar poet Wilfred Owen. “The text of the Mass is deployed, is reinvented, is confronted with a picture of the modern world…. Britten is ingeniously, brilliantly taking these texts, and in a sense, weaponizing them…deploying them against the violence of the 20th century,” Ross said. He noted the near-howls of “Libera me” (“Deliver me”) and “Dona nobis pacem,” (“Grant us peace”) in Britten’s choruses. “He is making you think about what these words really mean. It is not the ritual that is being recited the same way, week after week in church—it is becoming an almost political utterance.”
The presentation also made note of composers for whom a religious musical vocabulary may have represented an answer to the spiritual destitution of the industrial world as well as the horrors of the century. A number of composers—Ross mentioned Schoenberg, Igor Stravinsky, and Arvo Pärt, among many others—had a more complex relationship with religious faith, in their compositions and their lives, than did composers like Britten, who employed religious texts for more distinctly political effect.
Some of Ross’s subjects had been directly touched by the terrible instances of 20th-century brutality. György Ligeti, most of whose family was murdered in the Nazi genocide, later fled Soviet oppression in his native Hungary to write haunting avant-garde works such as his “Requiem”; Messiaen, whom Ross called “the greatest religious composer since Bach,” wrote his famous “Quatuor pour la fin du temps” (“Quartet for the End of Time”) while interned in a German prisoner-of-war camp in 1941.
Yet, Ross continued, part of what he finds impressive about Messiaen’s piety is the way in which it seems untouched by the ugliness of 20th-century realities. “You can detect a sense of resistance there, in terms of the momentous nature of the piece, against what was going on around him in the war, but in a strange way, I think he would have written the same piece no matter where he was at that time,” Ross said of the “Quartet.” “There’s something kind of eternal and unchanging about Messiaen’s language.”
Messiaen, Ross remarked, drew inspiration from the natural world in some of his religious compositions. “His religiosity is, in a sense, much more everyday,” Ross said. “I think he’s very much focused on these epiphanies that can come upon us—being out in nature, hearing the sounds of birds, looking at the ocean, looking at mountains, and suddenly feeling these deeper, powerful forces at work.”
Ross closed the talk with the final segment of Messiaen’s “Des Canyons aux étoiles” (“From the Canyons to the Stars”), a passage inspired by the majesty of Zion Canyon in Utah. Messiaen’s resounding chords, carrying an almost delirious sense of wonder, filled the sanctuary. “So many people do respond to Messiaen [with an intense emotional connection], no matter what their beliefs, and there is something incredibly powerful that comes to the surface in his music,” Ross said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
He begins by talking about his family. “My wife is Jamie and we have three kids,” he says, spelling out each name. “Our eldest, Aiden (‘e-n’) is seven. We have two girls that are five, Addison and Emerson. We live in Roslindale and for a little while now we were looking for a business to call our own.”
A clean-shaven, bespectacled man in a striped button-down shirt—salt-and-pepper hair combed neatly to one side—Adam S. Hirsch thanks the waitress at Tealuxe as she brings him his teapot. Hirsch, who, with his wife, is the new owner of The World’s Only Curious George Store, excuses himself mid-sentence to retrieve honey for the tea and napkins to dab the tea-spotted table. He picks up exactly where he left off and begins discussing the store, weaving business pitch and personal narrative in a manner that is clearly practiced, though not at all tired.
The Hirsches are preparing for the grand opening of The World’s Only Curious George Store, which will take place on Saturday, April 28. The store is located in the space once occupied by Harvard Square’s Curious George Books and Toys, which closed its doors last summer after 16 years of operation.
Neither Adam nor his wife, Jamie, had any exceptional interest in Curious George growing up. The character entered their adult lives through what Adam refers to as “the award-winning Curious George TV show.” His background is in marketing, and his allegiance to the brand comes through even in casual conversation.
Although the previous Curious George store was built in tribute to the story’s creators, H.A. and Margret Rey (who settled in Cambridge after fleeing the Nazis), it did not market itself as much more than a general children’s bookstore. With declining business and climbing rent, the previous store was forced to close, leaving many of its devoted customers to fear it was gone for good.
Then came the Hirsches. After years of working for others, the couple wanted to work for themselves. “I’ve been working for 20-plus years for other people, helping to grow businesses,” Hirsch says. “If we do well, we want to be the ones who benefit from that, and if things don’t go right, it was our decision as well. It’s really about control for our family. And hopefully that leads to more freedom. Those are two nice things to have: control and freedom.”
“A lot is at stake,” he continues, “starting with myself and my family. We’ve put everything on the line. This means everything to us.”
That the store be successful is especially crucial for Hirsch, given his three young children. “Having kids is a great motivation,” he says. “There’s no room for failure; they’re a big reason why you get up every morning and do whatever it is you need to do.”
Given that the newest incarnation of the Curious George store is both his first retail venture and one that appears similar to a business concept that did not work, Hirsch is painfully aware of the possibility of failure. There is always the chance that customers won’t come, or that the Curious George brand will not be as popular as Hirsch hopes. Hirsch, however, has a plan. He is passionate about explaining just how his new business model will work in a way that the old one could not. Going into the project, Hirsch knew that “it would be too challenging for it to be just a standalone, 100% retail bookstore.” He needed, then, to make The World’s Only Curious George Store a destination.
“This is the world’s one and only brick and mortar Curious George store,” he says. “Why not call it that?”
With the new store’s opening rapidly approaching, Hirsch is working around the clock, though he manages to stay mostly calm—at least outwardly. Entering the store, he gives what he calls the “counter-clockwise tour,” stopping along the way to introduce members of the construction team. “That’s Joe,” he says.
“Joe’s the foreman who’s been driving this effort. So if you don’t like what you see, blame Joe.”
While most construction team members paint the store in primary hues of red, blue, and yellow and install light wooden shelves, some of the builders lean on the windowsills and gaze out at rainy Brattle Street while they eat lunch. Hirsch jokes: Are they allowed to eat at Au Bon Pain when the company they work for builds Panera stores? “Isn’t it obligatory you eat at Panera?” he asks.
The next day the construction crews are gone and, besides the odd staffer running inventory checks in the dusty basement offices, Hirsch is now entirely alone in the brightly lit  store. Every few minutes, in spite of the empty shelves visible even from the outside, passersby attempt to pull open the glass doors—still locked. Finding they cannot, the would-be visitors proceed to knock and peer into the windows. Mostly, they are families with young children, clutching cameras, and presumably tourists. Hirsch greets virtually everyone himself, informing them that the store is not yet open but that it will be soon.
Turning customers away is not an annoyance but rather a pleasure for Hirsch, who hopes their interest bodes well for his new store’s success. With any luck, there will be more eager families at the grand opening on April 28 and for years to come. “Every shekel that’s going into this is from our money or money we’ve raised,” Hirsch says. “This is all of our chips on the table to make this work.”
But Hirsch wouldn’t have it any other way. “Being self-employed is where I need to be,” he says. “Probably should have been here a long time ago. I wouldn’t want to be anywhere else.”
Sections
The other day, my boyfriend’s mom gave him an ant farm. I hadn’t seen one since I was young. It was one of those twin-windowed plastic set-ups. Between two clear plastic panels just smaller than pieces of printer paper, 25 mail-order ants are placed beneath sand and soil and kept from escaping by talcum powder—or in more elaborate arrangements, by a moat. In there the ants dig tunnels, build roadways, construct a viable city that is less than an inch wide.
What funny things, ant farms, I thought. Tiny zoos of only one creature. What predictable lives those ants lead.
The box was red. Its design and its contents were the same as they were in the 1950s, when boys and girls first crowded around to watch the ants dig and tunnel in neat order. Those kids liked the boxes’ contents, and schools and parents bought more. When the ant farm inventor died last year at 97, over 20 million of his plastic constrained worlds had been sold. My boyfriend’s box wasn’t yet in that tally. The 1950s were, of course, the height of the Cold War. All ants looked the same to the peering boys and girls, and not one defied order. Matching kitchenette sets and magazines with images of space—science, sameness—also sold well. The boys and girls who first watched the ants in the farms, they were our parents.
I had an ant farm in my kindergarten class, too. The ants were so small; they all looked the same; they all did the same. These were the years when I thought bugs were fascinating, superbly delicate toys that moved without a push, whose hinges weren’t plastic, whose colors were prettier than markers. Worms, I was told, could be split in two and grow again, which I thought was the single neatest thing I had ever heard. At day camp, when I was supposed to be putting on my bathing suit, I’d go outside the cabin to flip over the grass carpet and look at the worms.
Around then, I was also told that ants can lift something (a piece of leaf, a pebble, a dandelion) that is five times its own weight. My grandparents’ house had ants, but they set out traps for them, small white hexagonal things with little gateways for the ants to enter, lured by the ant pheromones inside. I was told never to touch them so I didn’t. It was the same with the ant farm in kindergarten: no one could touch it, because we might knock it over, that’s what Mrs. Epstein said. So I didn’t, but I always put my face really close.
I know that ants can walk alone, in ways other than lines. Once, in Costa Rica, my sister tripped over a trash can that lodged an ant colony. The ants crashed out of the exposed colony, probably bumping their little heads against each other. In a hurry, the mass of them zigzagged and circled about the room. My sister screamed and jumped on the bed. My parents came running over to see what was wrong. Everything was fine, of course.
To look at an ant farm, though, is to see a world of pathways and no diversions. Of group movement and collective missions. All of that is well, but there is no space for difference, no space for any one ant to matter. There is just a way forward, and all of them follow that path.
The problem of being twenty-two and having read Frost’s “The Road Not Taken” in second grade is the existential worry that there is nowhere that someone else hasn’t stepped. To be a senior in college is to look out at terrain ahead and see a number of pathways. It is a moment when, suddenly, it seems, that those choices are limiting. To take a step to the left is to proceed on a certain route. To go right might not be an option later. Open fields actually seem worn with paths.
Yesterday, I ordered some tea at Starbucks, the one in the Garage because the lines there are shortest. I sat by the window to drink it, face again by the glass. The windows are floor to ceiling, and from the wooden chair it is possible to see a sizable portion of Mt. Auburn Street. I saw people walking to JFK, and others down Mt. Auburn, and cars turning left and others going straight. Everything and everyone moved in rows and lines. The streets looked like ants’ trails.
This is the anxiety in looking at an ant farm: the concern that from a vantage point one floor up, I will look like just another ant carrying around a heavy leaf. Another dark suit marching on path. What shall I do, Mr. Frost, if it seems that all ground has been trod? I think of Costa Rica, and I wonder if ants in farms choose to walk in lines, or whether they do because they must.
Sections
The Ivy League
The ancient home of fierce, young intellectuals
Not religiously affiliated
Big endowments
Not in Paris
D.O.A.: Don’t Offer Admission
Frequently visited by Cornel West
A child’s future destiny
Don’t have shoulders
Blue Ivy Carter
The divine offspring of Sasha Fierce & Young Hova
Most likely the next messiah
Will have big endowments
In Paris
D.O.A.: Descendant Of Awesomeness
Frequently visited by Kanye West
The Future of Destiny’s Child
Keeps shoulders dirt-free
Both
Conceived in the coming together of geniuses
Get nutrition from mushy, overcooked vegetables
Recently promoted sensitivity towards women
Will enjoy lifelong praise and admiration
Associated with the Illuminati
Characterized by unrealistic expectations
Have trademarked namesNamed after colors
Sections
Crimson Key Society
Tour Coordinator: All right, we need one person to sign up to do tours this month if we want to keep our current arrangement going. Anyone? Come on, people, it’s one tour and we have 60 members. Not that big of a deal....
Tour Coordinator: Anyone?
Sophomore Member: I haven’t done one since I comped. I guess I could try a tour.
President: Right. Let’s have a party to celebrate our campus impact!
 Kappa Kappa Gamma
President: Hey girls! Let’s get sta-
Room: WOOOOO!
President: WOOO! Yeah, as I was saying, we have a lot to cover toda-
Room: WOOOOOO!
President: -OOO! We should probably start wi-
Room: WOOOOO!
President: WOOOO! Shots! Facebook statuses! WOOOOO!
 Culinary Society
Social Outreach Coordinator: GUYS!
President: Buh-wha...I’m up, I’m up. What is it?
SOC: THERE’S A NEW RESTAURANT OPENING!
President: But it’s a Panera.
SOC: BUT IT’S NEWS. AND—GET THIS—IT’S FOOD-RELATED!
President: All right, let’s send out six newsletters today about Panera and then our usual 18 because it’s a Friday.
 South Asian Men’s Collective
President: Hey guys, let’s throw A Party!Junior Rep: We did that back in October.President: Well, shit.
 Advocate
President: Why hello, mates. Aww, this guy, look at this guy here. What a guy. What do we have for this issue anyway?
Art Editor: I found a man on the T, and I gave him some change because I thought he was homeless, but it turned out he is this really famous artist that you should all know about. He makes art by pressing his nipples into plaster and then surrounding the mold with commercial products. It’s a statement about consumerism and pornography. Really, nobody’s heard of him? You would hear of him if you were in the right circles. He’s a big fucking deal in the nipple-printing community.
Poetry Editor: I have some student submissions for the issue. Ninety-five percent of them are haikus people wrote in response to emails asking for poems, but there are a few serious ones in there. No. No, yeah. One girl even took a poetry class before she began writing.
President: Great, man. Yeah, that’s great. I also found this really interesting splash of light as it fell through my glass of water at lunch, and I took a picture of it. Cover material? Yeah, man.
Technology Editor: Um, guys? I’ve mentioned this a couple of times, but we could really use an update to our software. Do we have anything in our budget to spare for this?President: Yo, look. We’re artists, man. We don’t have any money. Also we already spent it on red wine and cigarettes.
 
 CS50
Malan: So we’re nearing the summer, meaning it’s time to start planning the fall semester. Ideas?
Head TF: Okay, so get this. We’ve already done mugs, shirts, hats, sweatshirts, backpacks, computer cases, messenger bags, umbrellas, shorts, and flannel. What else can we do? Let me ask you this: What is the one thing every person needs but doesn’t yet have?Assistant
TF: Umm...a neckwarmer?
Head TF: Better. Ready? Bath mats.
Assistant TF: Bath mats?
Head TF: Bath mats.
Sections
Tired of waiting around to see if windbreakers will come back in style? FM’s team of sartorial savants took a look into their crystal ball to bring you the future of culture. This is what they saw:
After its temporary banishment to the cultural underground, the emo movement will regroup and colonize the genre of dubstep. “Droopstep,” as this hideous progeny will be known, will spread among hopeless teens like wildfire because it sets the perfect pace for loitering while allowing for long periods of nasal lament in between cathartic wobble breaks. Its sound will baffle parents, who could never understand tragedy anyway.
The iPhone 6 will be released, with the much-ridiculed Siri finally willing to accept marriage proposals. Everyone will have one; Mormons will have three.After rising tensions culminate in a psychotic-groupie-and-electric-razor incident, the dreamy boy band One Direction will finally split. One will join the cast of “Glee,” another will appear nude on the cover of Food Network Magazine, and a third will serve 20 years for armed robbery and for swearing on the set of “Barney.” The other two will release a post-droopstep concept album entitled “down/all/night,” before they all join together once more for their Many Directions reunion tour.
When leggings are formally decreed to not be pants, social norms will take a dramatic shift away from pants. Thus, leggings will become the go-to accessory for everything, including scarves, shrugs to hats, capes, and leashes for your toy St. Bernard.
“Going I.V.” will replace the vegan craze, and veganism itself will be derided as “bougie” and “gluttonous.” Followers will move to avoid all solid foods, instead opting to use a small intravenous pump attached to the ear.
Sections
Rolling Stones frontman Mick Jagger is many things: cultural icon, brilliant songwriter, archetypal hard-living rock star. His voice and his personality, both onstage and off, helped to bring the sex and grit of American rhythm and blues to a wider audience, something that neither Elvis nor the Beatles could ever quite accomplish. Even his stage antics have been credited with redefining the very definition of masculinity in our culture.
However, there are some things that Jagger most certainly is not, notable among them graceful or good-looking. As cultural watchdogs, we at FM feel compelled to highlight the disturbing proliferation of pop cultural portents that seem to suggest that posterity is in great peril of forgetting Jagger’s particular quirks. Are we failing to hold our recording artists to even the most basic standards of truth, integrity, and realistic representation of how funny-looking Mick Jagger is?
FM first noticed this disturbing trend when Ke$ha sang “and now the dudes are lining up ’cause they hear we got swagger/But we kick them to the curb unless they look like Mick Jagger” in her 2009 single “TiK ToK.” While surely a more expedient rhyme for swagger than “dagger,” Ke$ha’s invocation of the aging Stone has given thousands of impressionable young men and women the false idea that Mr. Jagger may now be, or might at some point have been, physically attractive. Jagger is a sex symbol­—but because of who he is, not how he looks. Even before 50 years of sex, drugs, and rock and roll had ravaged his face and body, he looked like a square-jawed, long-haired, big-lipped bullfrog whose eyes might leap out of his face in the event of an even moderately forceful sneeze.
Things only took a turn for the worse with 2011’s “Moves Like Jagger” by Maroon 5. Adam Levine sings “take me by the tongue and I’ll know you”—presumably in the biblical sense­—“kiss me ’til you’re drunk and I’ll show you/All the moves like Jagger/I’ve got the moves like Jagger/I’ve got the moooOOOooOOooOOooOOves like Jagger.” The implication here is two-fold; the song appears to be endorsing both Mick’s dance moves and his sexual prowess. While we cannot speak directly to the latter, anyone who has seen the video of 1981’s “Start Me Up” knows that it’s often difficult to discern if Jagger is dancing or attempting to dislodge a particularly stubborn wedgie. Seriously, Google it.
How did we get here? Things haven’t always been this way. When Andy Warhol did a series of portraits of Jagger in 1975, he knew how to represent him properly, and the result was pretty weird-looking. But we should have seen this coming: In 2003 Jagger was honored with knighthood by the Prince of Wales. Sir Mick Jagger? Please.
Mick Jagger is one of the most influential figures in the history of recorded music; he is also one fugly mother-lover, and he dances like a flightless, vaguely epileptic bird. We won’t hear a word otherwise, not from you, not from Adam Levine—nice as his falsetto is—and certainly not from a woman with a dollar sign in her name.
Sections
House: Woof!
Concentration: Woof!
Ideal date: Woof!
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Woof!
Your best pickup line: Woof!
Your worst pickup line: Woof!
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: Woof!
Sexiest trait: Woof!
Best part about Harvard: Woof!
Worst part about Harvard: Woof!
Bourgeois construct: Woof!
In 15 minutes you are: Woof!
In 15 years you are: Dead.
Sections
Rina A. Onur ’08
Then: Flaunting it as one of FM’s 15 Hottest Freshmen in 2005.
Now: Still not over it, writing about FM (inaccurately, we might add), in “The Ivy,” her series of young adult novels with classmate Lauren E. Kunze ’08. But is her “Turkish ass” still her best asset?
Gossip Guy
Then: “Gossip Guy was sad, then panicky, then euphoric, then horny, then bloody, then, ultimately, accepting of the fact that this is FM’s final issue under present management. In honor of the soon-to-be dearly departed, the Guy is proudly somewhat ashamed to present a special FM-only Gossip Guy. Recognizing FM standards, this column will feature snarky lies, self-aggrandizing rumors and un-sourced, assumption-heavy innuendo....”
Now: “Wakey-wakey, Upper East Siders.” Post sex change, rocking the CW. And when we say rocking, we do in fact mean narrating television’s lowest-rated network show.
Amit R. Paley ’04
Then: Breakin’ stories. Paley was the first to find forgotten records and publish a series on Harvard’s “Secret Court” of the 1920s. Paley also exposed two students’ $100,000 embezzlement from the Hasty Pudding Club.
Now: The Court has come and gone on Broadway in “Unnatural Acts,” and Paley made his way to The Washington Post, where he reported on the equally fascinating subjects of bailouts, loans, and Sallie Mae. Then he became a management consultant and an adjunct professor of journalism.
D. Patrick Knoth ’11
Then: What do magazine chairs write about? Four Loko: “Like flip flops, Nalgenes, dreadlocks and other college trends, I simply do not understand our campus’s current obsession with this vile liquid. Where are you possibly going tonight that your chances of obtaining more alcohol are so slim that you MUST consume the equivalent of four beers and an energy drink all at once?”
Now: Consulting. But, we hope, still championing the windbreaker on his off days.
 Amelia E. Lester ’05
Then: Defending the Land Down Under against its domestic aggressor: Ugg boots.
Now: Acting as Managing Editor of The New Yorker, using her free time to contribute bougie restaurant reviews. Tweeting.
 Alexander J. Ratner ’11
Then: Partying at Tufts. “Other than the snotty, wealth-fattened Final Club Fauntleroys who didn’t really get into Harvard, at least not academically, the boys at Harvard are straight up disasters. Or at least the kind of boys at Harvard who would write this article are straight up disasters.” Thanks, Gawker.
Now: Partying in Puerto Rico, more than a $15 cab ride away.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: August 1
An earlier version of this article stated that Amit R. Paley ’04 was a reporter for The Washington Post. In fact, Paley is a former Washington Post reporter.
Sections
-A contentious debate erupts in Adams concerning the vote for a House mascot. Acorn, unicorn, or corn on the cob?
-Adams HoCo adds wine and cheese as a mascot option.
-Residents of Currier House attempt to tamper with the Adams poll. Hey, Currierites eat lunch in Adams every day, they should probably have some voice in the decision too.
-Adams HoCo formally declares war on Currier. HoCo members haven’t been this excited since HUDS started issuing satisfaction surveys. Pforzheimer, Cabot, and Mather pledge their support for Currier. The Axis of Evil Lottery Results is formed.
-A Winthrop senior declares war on Lowell from his bunk bed.
-Lowell is confused but continues preparations for this year’s Lowell Opera, entitled “Suck It Winthrop.”
-Cabot declares that, unlike the rest of Harvard, Adams is “elitist.”
-Adams does much to disprove accusations of elitism by declaring that Currier is a “colony” of Adams.
-Adams residents continue to form alliances with other Adams residents. The rest of the Houses refuse to support Adams, though Kirkland does say that it “doesn’t care at all.”
-Adams HoCo adds a tree bursting into flames and an impaled polar bear as mascot options.
-Currier residents are denied access to meals in Adams dining hall. Annoyed, Currierites sneak in through the back entrance.
-Adams unleashes its cockroach army on Mather. Mather doesn’t notice as the roaches blend into the beer-stained wall-to-wall carpeting.
-Currier, Pfoho, and Cabot march on the river. Tired from the long journey, the quadlings return home on the party shuttle.
-Kirkland House remains ambivalent about everything.
-Adams attempts to pour beer all over the Quad Houses’ mascot costumes. Unfortunately, the costumes are waterproof because they’re used to reflect tears on Housing day. A video is made.
-Eliot tries to use the war as a reason to claim its superiority over all other Houses.
-Currier attacks Adams with tree branches. Mascotless, Adams cannot respond.
-HoCo members from all Houses start attacking each other, but only through computer-generated memes.
-After a three-day trek, Mather forces arrive outside Adams.
-The non-HoCo residents of Adams check their @college e-mail accounts and finally figure out why there’s a layer of foam covering the dining hall.
Sections
1.) Fifteen Minutes: You’ve performed at many other colleges. How was Harvard different for you?
Jujubee: I’ve kind of gone all over the country doing colleges, and every one is completely different from the other. The main goal is to have a good time and to break away from the studies for a minute and to enjoy being a young adult and, of course, to embrace the art of drag before your finals—because I know you guys have finals very soon, right? It’s gonna suck!
2.) FM: We’ve read that you’re quite the LGBT historian. Are there any highlights of that history in the Boston area?
JJB: Jacques Cabaret. You guys have heard of Stonewall, right? Jacques Cabaret is kind of the same version of Stonewall, but here. It opened in 1930, I believe. In 1939 it became gay, but it was an underground kind of situation, and there were drag shows. There are still drag shows there now; it’s right in Bay Village—like this seedy, little, tiny bar—and you get some fabulous drag shows out of it.
3.) FM: Do you have any words of advice for aspiring performers?
JJB: I would say practice, practice, practice, but also know what story you’re telling. Always create a story, because that way it’ll flow so well. You’ll be in the moment and the crowd will understand what you’re doing.
4.) FM: Harvard recently  opened the Office of BLGTQ Student Life. What else can the administration do to support the BLGTQ community on campus?
JJB: I’m shocked that it’s so new for you guys! I went to UMass, and I lived on the 2 in 20, which was the second all-gay floor at any university campus in the country. The hardest thing for me was going to college and realizing, “Oh my gosh, I’m gay, and I’m not going to have anybody to talk to, or anybody that’s relatable!” because it’s kind of hard to live in a world where everybody’s this way and you’re not. It’s definitely a great thing that you guys have it here because it’s going to help a lot of people. They’re going to see that it’s here and it’s natural. What does she say? Lady Gaga? “We were born this way!” And she was here!
5.) FM: Six-inch heels are a de facto uniform on Saturday evenings at Harvard. Do you have any tips on balance and poise for the young ladies and gents?
JJB: What you really have to do is tiptoe! Just pretend as though all your weight is at the front part of your feet and it won’t feel like anything. And always cross your legs.
6.) FM: What has  been your most  embarrassing performance malfunction?
JJB: I’ve fallen off a couple stages, not realizing it ended. A lot of the time I don’t get to see the actual space; I’m put on it, and then sometimes the lighting’s a little shoddy and I’ll walk, thinking, “I’m so fierce!” and then all of a sudden I’m down! But then I’ll get right back up.
7.) FM: In which drag challenge would you best crush the competition, and in which would you have your biggest train wreck?
JJB: I always wanted to do a drag challenge where we played news reporters, because I think I’d be great, like an anchorwoman. And anything that involves water I’m going to suck at. I don’t want to swim—I don’t want to get wet—so I’d fail that one.
8.) FM: What is your wildest drag fantasy?
JJB: Yes! My wildest drag fantasy is to take the shoes off—every single time. That’s really what it is! Oh girl, when I hit the car [after the show], it comes off!
Sections
"My sophomore year, I played an evil Irish communist potato called Spud Nick, and I had this giant costume—a blob of a costume—and I couldn’t move my hands around in it. Because the costume was so big, I just took up a wing offstage, and before my first entrance every night I had to catch a prop that was thrown offstage because I was there. So during one performance, my friend throws this aluminum hanger directly at my face and, since I can’t move my arms, it hits me in the mouth and knocks out a piece of my tooth. This was 10 seconds before I had to go on stage and I had a piece of my tooth in my hand—I ended up singing my song and doing a cartwheel in this potato costume with my tooth in my hand the whole time.
With these costumes you have to be a puppeteer because they’re so huge and so lavish; they can wear you if you don’t wear them, so you have to really embody not only the character but also the costume. You have to be believable as a character that’s larger than life."
—Ryan P. Halprin ’12
“I’ll always be a beautiful, proud, strong woman—it’s the best way to live your life.” ­
—Ethan D. Hardy ’14, on what he learned from drag
“We’re all scrambling to put our makeup on. We do our own makeup, but we have costumers to help us zip everything up. In an ideal world you would arrive 45 minutes before to shave and do everything, but realistically they’re like ‘Places!’ and you’re throwing on your makeup and begging someone to put on your wig.”
—Benjamin K. Moss ’13, on backstage prep
Sections
"We don’t want people touching, but we can’t do a whole lot about that,” says Adam J. Aja, smiling.
Aja is assistant curator of collections at the Semitic Museum, which is located on Divinity Avenue between the Harvard-Yenching Institute and the Bio Labs. We’re standing in front of a large Egyptian tablet near the base of the museum’s first-floor staircase. My tour guide for the day, Aja is a young, skinny guy wearing a tucked-in button-down, straight-leg jeans, and slim leather shoes—an outfit that seems popular among the several male employees I encounter. He has been working at the museum since 2009, after receiving his Ph.D. in Near Eastern Archaeology from the University. Aja seems like the kind of guy who would make a great teacher: someone who smiles a real smile when looking at a collection he’s probably seen too many times, whose unfeigned enthusiasm makes me feel, even for a moment, that the ancient artifacts in the museum are worth my undivided attention. I drop my bag off by his desk in the basement, and we start the tour.
*
The Semitic Museum was founded in 1889 and moved to its current location in 1903. It was closed to the public during World War II when it was used as office space for the Navy. In the fifties, it became the Center for International Affairs.
During this period, the museum’s collection was stored in the attic and the basement. According to Aja, it was only rediscovered after an incident during the Vietnam era: Somebody detonated a bomb on the third floor, destroying a large skylight and parts of the wall. The damage to the building exposed the collection of valuable relics stored in the rarely visited attic and brought attention to the possibility of making that collection available to the public. Since then, the museum has been restored and shares office space with the Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations.
On the first floor, Aja leads me to the main exhibition room, which houses a recreation of an Israeli house from the Iron Age filled with various relics, pots, and other vessels. We step across the threshold of the structure, and Aja explains the motivation behind arranging the artifacts in an interactive space.
“Objects behind glass don’t really convey the same message,” Aja says. Behind him, a sign reads: “PLEASE COME IN, but do not go beyond the barriers.” On the third floor, we take a look at Egyptian relics. It’s here that I realize how few visitors I’ve seen today, a weekday during lunch hour.
“As you can see now, it’s pretty lightly attended,” Aja says. There’s nobody but us in the room, but Aja reassures me that visitors and students tend to come later in the day.
After we’ve taken a look at the various artifacts on this floor and make our way to the attic, I ask Aja what appeals to him about working in a museum. He cites the integration of archaeology, art, and history, each of which plays a role in the job of a museum curator.
“It’s like a shotgun approach to scholarship,” he says.
We climb a steep, narrow staircase up to the attic. Beyond the exposed wood-boarding and moderately organized jumble of dusty display cases and crates are several tables covered with a plastic tarp. On these tables are large plaster replicas of an Assyrian monument. Aja’s latest project is to produce silicone molds of these replicas so as to create new replicas.
*
“Here’s a wall of dead babies,” says Aja. “Literally.”
Standing in a nondescript corridor of the labyrinthine museum basement, Aja indicates the boxes along shelves mounted on the walls. Inside those boxes, he tells me, are vessels that contain the cremated remains of babies and young children who were chosen for ritualized religious sacrifice.
I quickly learn that the basement, which is not open to the public, is where all the curiosities of the museum are kept. The vast majority of the museum’s collection is hidden from view, stored underneath the very small offering displayed upstairs.
Since becoming an employee of the museum, Aja has spent a great deal of time attempting to overhaul the existing storage system, which he calls “objects stacked on shelves.” The system is exactly as it sounds : objects placed together on shelves that are locked away in closets, or placed in rows inside filing cabinets.
“This is not an ideal storage system—it’s crowded, which is the case for most museums. You only see a fraction of what’s on display; the rest is continually in storage,” says Aja.
He hopes that by switching to a modular system—that is, labeled boxes that hold sets of related artifacts—he can make better use of the little space the museum has and facilitate efficient display changes upstairs.
Aja unlocks a filing cabinet and asks, “Got clean hands?”
Sure.
“Want to hold something a couple thousand years old?”
He pulls out a drawer filled with rows of clay tablets marked with cuneiform symbols. Eventually, he picks out one the size of an iPhone, placing it on the table and letting me handle it. As Aja tells me about the history of these tablets—they’re ancient receipts and records—as well as methods of preserving and restoring them, it occurs to me that there’s something strangely extraordinary and banal about handling something from the ancient past.
We make our way back to his office and he shows me one last artifact—a brand new acquisition, actually. Aja opens a small box and gestures for me to take a look. It’s a desiccated hand—a mummy hand.
A confession: As I leaned my head over to take a closer look, I also took a quick sniff. Nothing.
According to Aja, the hand had been passed down within a woman’s family; one day, she decided to come into the museum with the hand in a bag. The museum took it without hesitation.
The mummy hand concludes my tour, and Aja shows me the backdoor exit through the basement. Right before I step out, he stops and says, “Oh, here’s a giant stone capital,” lifting up a tarp to reveal the pillar head.
“There’s something everywhere you look around here.”
The Semitic Museum is located at 6 Divinity Avenue. Its hours are 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. on Sunday. The museum is free of charge and open to the public. Donations are welcome.
Sections
I went down to the pawn shop the other day. Casa de empeños, it said. Can I have the belt buckle back, I said? It used to be my father’s, and I never told him I pawned it. I didn’t tell them that. No, they said, and I put the 10 dollars back in my pocket. But we have nice loafers if you want to buy something.
The next time I went down it was with a watch that had been my mother’s. Had been—she’s still alive—I took it from her bedroom. She remembers less and less, and she never liked jewelry. We have enough watches, the owner of the pawn shop said. Take it back. The basketball court next to the pawn shop was full of people playing after work, unless they were unemployed, in which case they could have been there all day. I stayed and watched with one hand’s fingers clutched in the fence.
Wednesday I went to the pawn shop because I had a date that night, and I needed the loafers. I had a stack of baseball cards that once belonged to my brother. He’d put the shiny ones in plastic sheaths to save them. These aren’t worth anything, the pawn shop owner said to me. We only take rookie cards. I remember when we were kids my brother used to explain to me carefully what he was doing, that he only put the cards in sheaths if the player hit over .300, or played for the Dodgers or Mets. Don’t touch them, he said. I’ll know. He didn’t. Maybe he doesn’t remember. I didn’t buy the loafers.
Sections
Hometown: Belle Mead/Princeton, N.J.
Dorm/Assigned House: Thayer/Leverett
Concentration: Government
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Making frenemies with BU girls, howbeit more “en” than “fren”
What you look for in a girl/guy: Not looking
Guilty pleasure: Voices in the Yard
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: I know my way around.
Describe yourself in three words: Tender Loving Care
In 15 minutes you are: Off to practice
In 15 years you are: A cool mom
Sections
Hometown: Danville, Pa.
Dorm/Assigned House: Canaday/Pforzheimer
Concentration: Government
What you look for in a girl/guy: An awesome/deadpan sense of humor
Ideal date: Chilling in the Boston Public Garden and then dinner at an awesome hole-in-the-wall kind of place
Worst Harvard trend: Ending every word in “-itas”
Finish this phrase (“Hot men, adj. noun”): “Hot men, gay men?”
Favorite childhood activity: Manning my Easy-Bake Oven like it’s my job
Bourgeois construct: Good band name!
Sections
Hometown: Cambridge, this side of the pond :)
Dorm/Assigned House: Canaday/Winthrop
Concentration: History of Art and Architecture
What you look for in a girl/guy: Someone who doesn’t take Lady Samurai/find the need to tell me about it...I’m not Japanese. #racistwhiteboys #i’mjustplaying
Finish this phrase (“hot men, adj. noun”): Hot men, enormous ego
Worst Harvard trend: The House wars email
Ideal date: Arnold Palmer + fried dumplings + watching “Planet Earth” + cuddling
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: And the plot thickens....
Describe yourself in three words: Ball so hard
Sections
Hometown: Guatemala City, Guatemala
 Dorm/Assigned House: Holworthy/Adams
Concentration: Chemistry
Relationship status: Independent
Where to find you on a Saturday night: In good company
What you look for in a girl/guy: Spontaneity and sincerity
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: I’m on my way!
Most embarrassing Harvard moment: When someone asked me, “Are you from Guantanamo Bay?”
Bourgeois construct: Crema’s quiche
Sections
Hometown: Sarasota, Fla.
Dorm/Assigned House: Canaday/Quincy
Concentration: Unsure. Probably OEB. I’m a pre-med kid.
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Either frantically studying for an LS1b midterm or blasting dubstep/house music and dancing with my girls
What you look for in a girl/guy: Just make me laugh.
Favorite thing about Harvard: My free DAPA water bottle
Finish this phrase (“Hot men, adj. noun”): “Johnny. Depp.”
Guilty pleasure: “Jersey Shore”
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: Pocahontas is my great-great grandmother.
Sections
Hometown: Dallas, Texas
Dorm/Assigned House: Wigglesworth/Pforzheimer
Concentration: Probably Sociology
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Street-roaming
What you look for in a girl/guy: Personality, good sense of humor, good taste in music, beauty
Ideal date: Jazz club, dinner, something completely random
Finish this phrase (“Hot men, adj. noun”): “Hot men, big hair”
In 15 minutes you are: Probably eating in Annenberg
In 15 years you are: Probably eating filet mignon
Neckwear by General Knot & Co.
Sections
Hometown: Newcastle, Wash.
Dorm/Assigned House: Wigglesworth/Winthrop
Concentration: Human Evolutionary Biology
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: Sweet tat’ bro
Most embarrassing Harvard moment: http://edububble.com/dpp/?p=2365 (1:10-1:25)
Describe yourself in three words: Charming, stubborn, charming
Sexiest trait: My pronounced cleft chin
 Favorite thing about Harvard: Rugby
 Bourgeois construct: Huh?
Neckwear provided by General Knot & Co.
Sections
Hometown: Tucson, Ariz.
Dorm/Assigned House: Canaday/Pforzheimer
Concentration: Chemical & Physical Biology and maybe a secondary in VES (If I end up somehow fulfilling the requirements over the years. If not, no worries. I just secretly want to be an architect when I grow up.)
What you look for in a girl/guy: The belief that the “supreme happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved”—Victor Hugo
Ideal date: Nerf gun war
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: I will always think the best of you. Always.
Most embarrassing Harvard moment: Getting kicked out of Annenberg because the kitchen staff thought I was a tourist
In 15 minutes you are: Doing LS1b homework
In 15 years you are: Doing what I love
Neckwear by General Knot & Co.
Sections
Hometown: Lincoln, Mass.
Dorm/Assigned House: Thayer/Leverett
Concentration: History of Science
Worst Harvard trend: Girls wearing shorts when it’s below 60 degrees
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: “Sry who’s this? new phone”
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: AXE is not a substitute for deodorant.
Describe yourself in three words: Sassy, goofy, hardworking
In 15 minutes you are: Napping
In 15 years you are: Cashin’ checks, breakin’ necks
Sections
Hometown: Rockville, Md.
Dorm/Assigned House: Grays/Lowell
Concentration: If I remember my pills
Ideal date: We go weightlifting. She benches 215.
Finish this phrase (“Hot men, adj. noun”): “Hot men, morning wood”
Guilty pleasure: I’d tell you, but my mom’s going to read this.
Favorite childhood activity: See “guilty pleasure.”
Bourgeois construct: “Bore-g-oze” is how I would construct it.
Describe yourself in three words: A mama’s boy
Neckwear by General Knot & Co.
Sections
Hometown: New York, N.Y.
Dorm/Assigned House: Greenough/Quincy
Concentration: Undecided
What you look for in a girl/guy: Love of literature
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Lamont/the stacks
Worst Harvard trend: Weather...trends
Finish this phrase (“Hot men, adj. noun”): “Hot men, study hard”
Guilty pleasure: Staying up too late
Favorite childhood activity: Reading James Joyce
Neckwear by General Knot & Co.
Sections
Hometown: Long Island, N.Y.
Dorm/Assigned House: Canaday/Dunster
 Concentration: Social Studies/Economics
Relationship status: Facebook says single.
What you look for in a girl/guy: Humble personality, nice smile...you’re welcome, Mom.  Finish this phrase (“Hot men, adj. noun”): “Hot men, tough question”
Guilty pleasure: I’ve watched every episode of “Dance Moms.”
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: I am a terrible liar.
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: It’s not you. It’s your Boston accent.
Neckwear by General Knot & Co.
Sections
Hometown: Tampa, Fla. (born in Cuba)
Dorm/Assigned House: Matthews/Kirkland
Concentration: Undecided
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Here, always surrounded by charismatic people; when I’m back home, playing dominoes, musical chairs, or belly dancing to Shakira with my grandma
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: Castro, to let my people free.
Most embarrassing Harvard moment: I was walking past this guy and I didn’t notice he had his Bluetooth on, so he was like, “Hey, how are you?” and I was like, “Good and you?!”
Favorite childhood activity: Pretending I was the little mermaid
Bourgeois construct: No comprende.
Describe yourself in three words: Sweet, driven, loving
Sections
Hometown: Gothenburg, Sweden
Dorm/Assigned House: No-Ho/Mather
Concentration: Economics, possibly with a secondary in VES
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Dancing and stomping on tables
Worst Harvard trend: Flip flops year-round
Guilty pleasure: Licorice and YouTube clips of people hurting themselves
Most embarrassing Harvard moment: I managed to get my computer stolen, break my toes, lose my key and swipe—all of this only in one day—and then had to scooter around the Yard to get to class the following week.
Bourgeois construct: C’est pour la petite bourgeoisie qui boit du champagne.
Describe yourself in three words: Olugn dynggo svenska
Sections
Hometown: Gold Coast, Australia
Dorm/Assigned House: Canaday/Lowell
Concentration: Engineering/Applied Math
What you look for in a girl/guy: Banter-producing capabilities, can’t be too sensitive
Worst Harvard trend: Harvard goggles
Favorite thing about Harvard: Venturing into the outside world with Harvard goggles on
Guilty pleasure: Tiramisu...gets me every time
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: Well, that was quicker than usual.
Describe yourself in three words: Cheeky, honest, loyal
Neckwear by General Knot & Co. 
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright discussed her long-unknown Jewish heritage and her new book, Prague Winter: A Personal Story of Remembrance and War, 1937-1984, on Friday afternoon at Upstairs on the Square.
Prague Winter explores the history of the former Czechoslovakia, the country where Albright was born and raised, from the Nazi invasion during World War II up until the onset of the Cold War through the eyes of her family and their contemporaries.
Albright said that she believes that many of the lessons her family learned during that time are worth remembering.
“These people were all thrown back upon their primal instincts, and compelled to make very pragmatic, moral judgments from a very short menu of options,” she said.
Raised Catholic, Albright learned about her Jewish heritage, and that members of her family had died during the Holocaust, during her vetting process to serve under President Bill Clinton.
“I thought I needed to explore the story more, and not just explore it for my own sake, but also to pay homage to those who died and put it into a historical context,” Albright said.
Albright, who called herself “a child of war,” said that she was 12 years old when Germany invaded Czechoslovakia. She lived in England with her family throughout World War II.
The experience of living through a war shaped her life course, and inspired her to work for international peace and diplomacy, she said.
“My friends often ask whether I am a pessimist or an optimist,” she said. “I am an optimist who worries a lot.”
Albright also noted that her career has had a ripple effect in her birth country as well as in the United States.
“There’s a whole generation of girls in [the former] Czechoslovakia with the first name Madeleine, and I’m very proud of that,” she said.
Audience members noted that they were struck by Albright’s perseverance throughout her experiences.
“She was asked to be president of Czechoslovakia, but said it was not for her,” said Aparajita Tripathi ’13, recalling a joke that Albright shared. “Taking in all those new experiences, nothing phased her.”
“She tells such a rich history that appreciates many viewpoints,” said S. Logan Gibson, a student at the Kennedy School. “She wears many hats and it was delightful to hear her speak about all of those perspectives.”
—Staff writer Sabrina A. Mohamed can be reached at smohamed@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Negotiations are underway between the Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers and the University, according to HUCTW Director Bill Jaeger. The new contract is scheduled to go into effect July 1.
Negotiating teams from both sides began to meet for seven to eight hours each week starting about three weeks ago, and will continue to do so until an agreement is reached, Jaeger said.
“We’re trying to build a negotiating process that can really build on those tough issues effectively,” Jaeger said.
A letter from HUCTW leadership to its members on Apr. 20 detailed the “four critical subjects” for negotiations to cover, including a salary increase program, health care, a bargaining unit to clarify questions about which jobs are included in HUCTW, and issues surrounding policy and language that have arisen since the last contract was ratified.
The union’s negotiating team includes five representatives and four officers elected from the membership, in addition to a number of the union’s professional staff who are experienced negotiators. The University is represented by labor relations staff and several associate deans from the different schools, Jaeger said.
Jaeger declined to comment on how far the two sides are from an agreement, but said that he did not anticipate a quick resolution due to “tough issues.”
“We want the whole community to see the process and understand what’s happening and what the Union and the University are trying to do together, but we’re also at a preliminary juncture,” Jaeger said. “The Union and the University share a commitment to protect the process.”
Harvard’s Director of News and Media Relations Kevin Galvin wrote in an email to the Crimson that the University’s labor relations team is working effectively with HUCTW leadership.
“We are confident that an agreement will be reached that benefits both the HUCTW and the rest of the Harvard community,” Galvin wrote. Galvin declined to comment further on the negotiations.
Library assistant and HUCTW member Jeffrey W. Booth said that job security is an important topic that has been overlooked in the negotiation process.
“I personally think it’s [negotiation] a great opportunity to make improvements for us,” Booth said. “But it has to start with job security. We need to be a lot more organized and a lot more aggressive than we have been.”
The question of job security has been especially salient for library workers after Harvard University Library Executive Director Helen Shenton’s Jan. 19 announcement that the library’s reorganization would include staff reductions. Joint Councils between the University and HUCTW were formed in February to discuss the reorganization, but Booth said that these councils cannot do the job of contract negotiations.
“They talk a lot and nothing ever really happens,” Booth said.
Booth said that there was “irritation and anger” among the library workers who knew that potential layoffs were not part of the contract negotiations. For most Harvard workers, layoffs are the chief concern, Booth said.
However, according to Jaeger, the focus of the negotiations was determined primarily based on input from HUCTW membership gathered from an online survey and “lunchtime meetings” with union leadership.
“There is a deep, long-standing commitment to listen to each other through networks of conversations,” Jaeger said. “The hopes and concerns of our members are really the only input into our negotiating agenda.”
According to HUCTW’s letter, about 500 union members participated in lunchtime meetings prior to the start of negotiations, and over 2,000 have taken the union’s online survey.
Jaeger reiterated that layoffs and job security continue to be a priority for HUCTW leadership, especially with respect to library workers. Jaeger pointed to the discussions in the three Joint Councils as an example.
“We’ve got a great record of negotiating to reorganize without layoffs and an even better record of taking people who do get laid off and putting them into Harvard jobs so that they don’t lose any income,” Jaeger said. “I think we are winning the fight against [library] layoffs in those conversations and we are going to keep fighting until it is clear that they are not going to happen.”
—Staff writer Dan Dou can be reached at ddou@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Sam Y. Weinstock can be reached at sweinstock@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Columbia Law Professor Patricia J. Williams connected the mistreatment of Rodney King with that of Trayvon Martin in the keynote address of a  conference entitled, “LA Riots: Twenty Years Later,” on Saturday.
Williams described the police brutality in the beating of Rodney King and the shooting of unarmed teenager Trayvon Martin as examples of the volatile history of American racial relations.
“We need to examine the limits of state force and also the proper applications of police investigation which is at the heart of the Trayvon Martin case,” Williams said.
The event—sponsored by the Department of African and African American Studies, the Anthropology Department, and five other university institutes—involved discussions with hip-hop artists, scholars, and activists about social justice and racial inequality in the aftermath of the Los Angeles riots in 1992.
“We wanted to get not only academics, but artists and activists together to have a conversation looking back on the event 20 years ago and updating it for the present times,” said African and African American studies and anthropology assistant professor Laurence A. Ralph.
A screening of the documentary film, “Sa-I-Gu,” which examines the Los Angeles riots from the perspective of Korean-American women, kicked off the two-day conference on Friday evening. A question and answer session with director Dai Sil Kim-Gibson followed the movie screening.
Hip-hop artist David Banner, who has worked on Hurricane Katrina relief projects and on raising awareness of the Trayvon Martin shooting, highlighted the importance of social activism in a presentation on Saturday morning.
“We wanted to get his take on how hip-hop connects to these broader notions of uprising and social unrest,” Ralph said.
Student presentations on socioeconomic inequality and racial protests followed panel discussions on collective memory and action on Saturday afternoon.
Performances by poets from the group Hoop Suite Project, which encourages inner-city youth to engage in creative expression, concluded the commemoration event.
Ralph explained that the collaborative efforts of intellectuals and performers exceeded the program’s goals.
“I just wanted to get a conversation going about what the riots meant 20 years ago and also how they reflect on forms of social inequity today,” Ralph said.
—Staff writer James D. McCaffrey can be reached at jmccaffrey@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In an effort to more rigorously teach students about the proper use of external sources, the Harvard College Writing Program now requires freshmen to submit not only a bibliography but full PDFs or photocopies of all materials cited in their final papers for Expository Writing 20.
Writing Program Director Thomas R. Jehn said that the policy, which takes effect for freshmen enrolled in the mandatory writing class this spring, aims to help preceptors evaluate their students’ use of sources.
“Our concern is not to set up paper writing as a series of hoops to jump through,” Jehn said. “The conversation about source use needs to be more than just a checkmark. This is really an important part of writing at Harvard.”
James P. Herron, an Expos preceptor and director of the Harvard Writing Project, echoed these sentiments, adding that it can be difficult for preceptors to work with sources to which they have no access.
“In most of our essays, we supply the sources,” Herron said. “If you don’t have the sources, it’s difficult to give the students feedback.”
Jehn said the new policy would enable more comprehensive evaluation. “It sends an important message: We take sources seriously,” he said.
Though he noted that some preceptors expressed concerns that the process of submitting sources could add a new layer of work to Expos, he said that most preceptors felt that the benefits outweighed the cost. Senior preceptor Karen L. Heath, who required students in her Expos sections to submit sources even before the policy was enacted, said that the process was not a significant burden.
Some students, however, complained about the extra work of compiling their sources for their preceptors to see.
“I was just generally annoyed that I had to take the time to actually do that rather than working on my paper,” Rebecca C. Rosen ’15 said.
Zoe E. Michas ’15 agreed that the process was time-consuming, adding that photocopying large sections of books is also expensive for students. Michas, who copied about 65 pages for her research paper, decided against using several more print sources in her paper because of the time and cost of copying. She noted, however, that her preceptor was able to give her better feedback as a result of the new policy.
“I think the idea of it is great, but it’s kind of asking a lot of the students,” Michas said. “I think it hasn’t been fully thought through yet.”
—Staff writer Gina K. Hackett can be reached at ghackett@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Petey E. Menz can be reached at menz@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Construction on Tata Hall, a facility that will be devoted to the Harvard Business School’s mid-career Executive Education program, is ahead of schedule, according Andrew F. O’Brien, chief of operations at the Business School.
O’Brien, who is overseeing the project, cited the “unseasonably mild winter” as one of the causes of the quicker than expected progress and said that he anticipates “that work will continue along at a steady pace in the coming months.”
Though construction is ahead of schedule, the expected finish date, Dec. 2013, will remain the same, according to O'Brien.
The building will be seven or eight stories tall with about 150,000 gross square feet. It will house approximately 180 bedrooms in addition to academic and multi-purpose spaces.
According to the Business School’s website, the purpose of Tata Hall will be to “enrich the learning experience of managers and leaders who come to HBS.”
The Business School broke ground on Tata Hall on Dec. 5, 2011 after receiving a $50 million dollar gift from the philanthropic arm of the Indian industrial conglomerate Tata Group. Ratan N. Tata, Tata Group chairman, attended the  School of Advanced Management Program, an executive education program, in 1975.
At the ground-breaking ceremony for the project, Harvard Business School Dean Nitin Nohria said that “Tata Hall marks the shift to a new global century of business, and is a special marker as we look forward to a renewed, more interconnected world.”
The project is one of several of Harvard’s developments in Allston. But many of Harvard’s other plans have not progressed as smoothly as the construction of Tata Hall. In Dec. 2009, the University indefinitely halted construction on the $1 billion Allston Science Complex, due to financial constraints. The University resumed planning for development in Allston in 2011.
In addition to the construction of Tata Hall, the Business School has also torn down the wall that previously stood along East Drive in order to make the northeast section of its campus, where Tata Hall is located, more accessible, according to Zeenat Potia, the Business School’s associate director of communications.
—Staff writer Mercer R. Cook can be reached at mcook@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the morning cold biting his feet, Akandwanaho trekked more than seven miles each day to his primary school in Uganda. Other days, he fought bouts of malaria to show up to class.
Akandwanaho, who does not have a last name and is known to friends and mentors by the Western name “Dominic,” is the son of illiterate farmers. He believed that his life would closely resemble his parents’. But now, he has the chance to matriculate at Harvard next fall as a member of the class of 2016.
“When I was young, I dreamt of an education,” Dominic writes in an email.
In 2006, he was offered a chance to fulfill those dreams. After excelling in his primary school examinations, Dominic was named a Kasiisi scholar by the eponymous Kasiisi Project, founded by Currier House Co-Master Elizabeth A. Ross.
Ross began traveling to Uganda in 1987 with her husband, fellow Currier House Master Richard W. Wrangham, who studies chimpanzees in the Kibale National Park. A friend who worked at a local school introduced Ross to the serious problems facing the education system.
Since 1997, Ross has worked to provide education and conservation information to community members in the Kibale National Park area of Uganda.
When the government introduced free, universal primary education for every student in 1997, it also stretched the resources of existing schools, Ross said.
“That meant that the number of kids in schools ballooned overnight, but there were no extra resources.” Ross said that she identified a need for a program that worked with schools to improve the quality of care and education the students in the Kibale Park area.
“We started in one school that was pretty much condemned, the buildings were very derelict,” she says. “We came back [to the United States] and people got interested, and it grew from there.”
BUILDING A FOUNDATION
When Ross started the non-profit Kasiisi Project, she noticed that many Kibale schools were in disrepair and lacked basic infrastructure.
“There were no floors, there was no furniture, and whenever it rained, the wind, it just washed through,” said Ross. “If we can make the schools better, then we will give the kids an opportunity that doesn’t require going into the forest and poaching and cutting down trees.”
The Kasiisi Project built classrooms and latrines for the girls, Ross said, and began distributing sanitary napkins to female students who would otherwise miss school without them.
In 2006, the Kasiisi project began to provide porridge lunches to every student in the Kasiisi and Kanyawara schools.
“They’ve made huge improvements in the schools,” says Brennan A. Vail ’12, who conducted thesis research on child nutrition and energy in Uganda with the Kasiisi Project schools. “At the schools that don’t have the porridge, 20 percent of kids aren’t eating anything for lunch. At the schools that do, only 2 percent of the kids aren’t eating anything for lunch,” Vail added.
According to Ross, the porridge is essential to creating an effective learning environment and improving academic performance.
In 2007, the Project added a literacy initiative by opening lending libraries in their primary schools.
“You can tell a difference in between the kids who have been reading and have had access to these libraries,” said Michelle A. Sirois ’12.
Sirois worked with the literacy initiative in Uganda, where she helped students write down, translate, and construct books out of Ugandan stories they heard from their parents.
Equally important to Ross’s mission in the Kasiisi Project is the conservation of the Kibale National Park, which is home to many endangered species of monkeys, chimpanzees, and elephants. A rising local population and increased demand for resources has contributed to increased deforestation and hunting in the Park.
The Kasiisi Project works to educate students in waste and water management and sustainable living in order to help local families survive while keeping the forest alive. “The major threat to the forest is the people that live around it,” she said.
HEALTHY FUTURES
Although many Kasiisi Project programs are aimed at children who will remain in the Kibali Park area and grow up to be farmers, the Project also operates a scholarship program for exceptional rural students who would otherwise be unable to attain a good secondary school education, according to Ross.
Everyone who has gone through the scholar program was able to find a job, Ross said.
“It can be hard for them to get above and beyond if they have goals that are big dreams because you don’t make a lot of money in subsistence farming and education is expensive,” says Abigail F. Schoenberg ’12, who worked with the Kasiisi Project to create a ninety-second educational video for the students to promote hand-washing and health.
“The scholarship program has a huge impact. It really gives them a future that would be really difficult for them to get otherwise,” she added.
It was through this scholarship program that Dominic was able to enroll in a private boarding school. And for Dominic, that matriculation meant he no longer had to walk seven miles in the cold to get an education.
“It also provided us with mosquito nets, meaning that I no longer suffer from malaria due to mosquito bites,” he writes. “I have never suffered from Malaria since then.”
Dominic is the first scholar from the program to be accepted into an American university. When at Harvard, Dominic, who is interested in biological and medical research, plans to study neurobiology. He wants to use his education to contribute to scientific advancement in Uganda. Aside from his hard work, Dominic attributes much of his success to the Kasiisi project.
“If I had not become a Kasiisi Scholar, I would have probably dropped out of school in my early secondary school education,” he wrote. “Where I am going right now, Harvard, is due to the Kasiisi Project.”
—Staff writer D. Simone Kovacs can be reached at dkovacs@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Every April, Rwandan students peform the cathartic ritual of commemorating the victims of the Rwandan genocide, bringing to life the memories of those who were affected by the tragedy in 1994.
“We can’t forget them. We’re humans. We can’t just move on and forget them,” says Pauline Mutumwinka ’12. “They do not deserve to be forgotten.”
After a plane carrying Rwandan president Juvénal Habyarimana was shot down on April 6, 1994, violence erupted between the minority Tutsi and majority Hutu populations, resulting in the death of over 800,000 men, women, and children.
Thousands of miles and eight years removed from the tragedy, Rwandan students at Harvard continue to grapple with the pain of the dark moment in their country’s history, commemorating and raising awareness about the genocide each April at Harvard.
“I think that the country has many challenges that we have to face,” Mutumwinka says. “We need to constantly engage with our memory and see what it means for us.”
UNDERSTANDING CONFLICT
“I was in Kenya when the genocide happened. I was a young child,” Mutumwinka recalls. Her neighbors told her that there had been waves of ethnic violence in Rwanda. She asked her parents if it was true, and they told her it was. But they were reluctant to talk about what was going on.
“I heard horror stories, but it was never really clear to me,” Mutumwinka says. The first day she returned to Rwanda she saw a congregation that was displaying the skulls of victims. “That was the first time I had actually encountered death. The death of so many people.”
Mutumwinka says she was terrified and wanted to return to Kenya.
As she grew older, Mutumwinka says that she came to accept and understand the tragedy, and that it has shaped her views on the nature of conflict and violence.
“It has really built my interest in conflict in general. I think it makes me very sensitive to attitudes that could lead to conflicts—I’m very wary,” Mutumwinka says.
A COMMEMORATION FAR FROM HOME
For some Rwandan students, commemoration is a responsibility, as well as a ritual embedded with meaning.
“Commemorating is something that as a Rwandan, I have to do,” Juliet Musabeyezu ’15 says.
Musabeyezu helped to organize a commemoration in Holden Chapel for the victims of the Rwandan genocide earlier this month. The ceremony opened with a video that explained the history of the genocide. Afterward, a panel of students answered questions and facilitated a conversation about the genocide.
Samuel M. Galler ’12 says that the event was intended both to commemorate the victims of the genocide and to begin a dialogue on campus about Rwanda. The organizers want to encourage students to explore the country’s culture and rich history in addition to the darker moments, Galler says.
“Juliet told me a lot of misconceptions about genocide,” says Shunella G. Lumas ’15, who is also a Crimson photo editor. “I think other people should also know the true story.”
Both Musabeyezu and Mutumwinka felt that the event gave students a glimpse of the reality of Rwanda and the country’s recent progress.
“I feel like it was a great platform to discuss many of the issues and misgivings that Harvard students have about Rwanda, a chance to inform everyone of the reality, or in this case, the actuality of our past, as well as the reality of our present, which contrary to popular belief is very incredible,” Musabeyezu says.
BEING RWANDAN
At a College with students from over eighty countries, Musabeyezu says that she feels a responsibility to represent Rwanda when she is far from home.
“Being Rwandan at Harvard involves reminding people about the presence of this country that many of them have never heard about,” Musabeyezu says.
For most of the year, Mutumwinka identifies primarily as African. But when it comes to the annual April commemoration of the genocide, she becomes Rwandan.
“Around times like April, I feel Rwandan because I feel sort of what my country is going through,” Mutumwinka says.
Both Musabeyezu and Mutumwinka said that April is not just a moment reflect on the horror faced by Rwanda, but also a time to look forward.
“Being a Rwandan at this point in time also involves deliberating what my role in country building is, and how to accomplish that effectively,” Musabeyezu says.
Mutumwinka says she is optimistic about Rwanda’s future.
“I see my country going places,” Mutumwinka says. “The young people are also very energetic and interested in making the country better. It’s the kind of country I want to go back and live in. I see a lot of potential.”
—Staff writer Laya Anasu can be reached at layaanasu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was a disappointing end to a season of unfulfilled aspirations for the Harvard men’s lacrosse team.
The Crimson traveled to No. 19/20 Yale on Saturday afternoon, entering its final regular season game in need of a win to guarantee a spot in the Ivy League Tournament. But in a contest in which neither team ever led by more than two goals, the Bulldogs pulled out a narrow win, dropping Harvard, 10-8, and sending the Crimson home until next spring.
Brown, which Harvard defeated earlier this season, earned the fourth and final spot to the postseason field with a win over Dartmouth on Saturday. Because Harvard held the tiebreaker over the Bears, a Brown loss would have given the Crimson the fourth-place spot even with its loss at Yale. But Harvard enjoyed no such fortune.
The Crimson (6-8, 2-4 Ivy) led by as many as two goals midway through the second quarter, but consecutive scores from the Bulldogs (9-4, 4-2) sent the teams into the half knotted at five.
Harvard gained its only lead of the second half on a third-quarter goal from senior attackman Jeff Cohen to put his team ahead 7-6 with just under five minutes to play in the frame.
But Yale responded swiftly. Midfielder Colin Flaherty scored an unassisted goal with just under three minutes to play in the frame, and the two teams entered the fourth quarter tied at seven.
Yale reeled off two quick scores early in the final frame to put the Crimson in a 9-7 hole. The Bulldogs’ Deron Dempster scored an unassisted goal 30 seconds into the quarter, and teammate Greg Mahony did the same less than one minute later.
Trailing by two, the Crimson got a boost from a familiar face in Cohen, who pulled his team within one goal on a score with over 11 minutes to play.
But that was as close as Harvard came.
Despite outshooting Yale, 9-8, in the final period, Harvard was unable to find a second, equalizing goal. Yale goalkeeper Jack Meyer didn’t help the Crimson cause, making three saves in the frame. As time wound down, Flaherty added a 10th goal for the Bulldogs, all but sealing Harvard’s fate with just over one minute to play.
“Our level of effort was very good. We played well,” Crimson coach Chris Wojcik ’96 said. “[Yale] is a very good team.”
Harvard was paced by a hat trick from Cohen and two goals apiece from senior tri-captain Kevin Vaughan and freshman attackman Will Walker. Cohen, who holds the Crimson mark for most career goals, registered the seventh-best single season in that department in Harvard history with 48 goals.
Harvard, which began its Ivy League season with consecutive wins over Brown and Dartmouth, had the opportunity to solidify a spot in the four-team Ivy League Tournament field in each of its final three games. But each time, first at Pennsylvania, then home against Princeton, and finally at Yale on Saturday, the Crimson could not find the decisive win.
2012 marks the second time in three years Harvard has failed to reach the Ivy League Tournament, which was first established in 2007. The Crimson has never won but reached the finals in 2011, when it lost to Cornell.
In Saturday’s season-ending contest against Yale, Vaughan opened the scoring for Harvard, putting the Crimson ahead 1-0 midway through the first quarter. Yale’s Brandon Mangan answered with two goals of his own in the remainder of quarter to put the Bulldogs ahead by one.
But Harvard went back on top early in the second frame, stringing together three early goals. Vaughan tallied his second goal, Will Walker scored on a pass from sophomore attackman Daniel Eipp, and freshman midfielder Keegan Michel scored to make it 4-2 with 12:40 to play in the quarter.
After a man-up goal from Yale, Will Walker added his second score to keep the Crimson lead at two with five minutes remaining in the half. But consecutive goals from the Bulldogs erased that lead, sending the teams tied into the second half tied at five.
It was, by almost all measures, a closely fought battle. The Bulldogs outshot Harvard, 35-32, Yale’s Meyer made 12 saves as compared to nine saves for Crimson goalkeeper junior Harry Krieger, and Yale handed over 15 turnovers while Harvard only made 11. But the Bulldogs were dominant on faceoffs, winning 17 of 22 on the day.
“We’re obviously not satisfied with the final record,” Wojcik said. “But the amount of work and effort from these guys has been tremendous, and it’s something to be proud of.”
—Staff writer James M. Acer can be reached at jacer@college.harvard.edu.
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Crimson faced a tall task going into the weekend—sweep Dartmouth in a four-game home-and-home series or miss out on the Ivy League Championship Series for the sixth straight year.
Unfortunately for Harvard (12-30, 8-12 Ivy), the visitors’ bats proved to be too much to handle on Saturday afternoon at O’Donnell Field as the Big Green (22-16, 14-6) took down the Crimson, 11-3 and 12-3. With the two losses, Harvard was knocked out of playoff contention, while Dartmouth rode the wins to the league’s Rolfe Division title.
“We knew it was definitely going to be an uphill challenge,” senior pitcher Brent Sutter said. “But all of us thought we had a serious chance to make something special happen given that they’d be the ones with something to lose and we’d be coming out aggressively. They came out ready to play, and they just put balls in play and made us make plays that just didn’t work out for us.”
The Crimson entered the weekend’s matchups after grabbing three wins against Brown in its most recent series, but the Big Green was riding a 10-game winning streak that included commanding victories over the Bears and several non-conference opponents.
Dartmouth was also reluctant to give up its place as the four-time defending Rolfe Division champion—a run that hadn’t been completed since Harvard did it before the turn of the century.
“Obviously we were disappointed on Saturday,” junior Rob Wineski said. “We went into the weekend really fired up, especially needing to get the four wins, but it was just one of those times where we fought hard but things just really didn’t go our way.”
DARTMOUTH 12, HARVARD 3
After a confidence-shaking first game against the Big Green, the Crimson failed to rebound in the nightcap, and Dartmouth capitalized on its momentum to jump out to a 5-0 advantage in the first frame.
Harvard senior pitcher Conner Hulse only allowed three hits in the first, but a series of errors and wild pitches allowed the Big Green’s runners to advance and build up the early lead.
Dartmouth showed no signs of relenting, as the Big Green third baseman Nick Lombardi hit a grand slam in the top of the fourth to open up the margin even further.
By the seventh inning, Harvard was facing an 11-run deficit.
“When you’re down by that much, especially in the first few innings, it’s hard to come back at all, so I think we showed a lot of heart just sticking in there,” Wineski said.
Senior Jeff Reynolds, last week’s Ivy Player of the Week, seemed to agree and refused to let the Crimson go down without a fight.
Reynolds stepped up to the plate in the bottom of the seventh and sent a three-run homer sailing over the right-center-field fence to put the Crimson on the board.
The veteran’s homerun brought out more energy from the Harvard dugout and crowd than had been seen for most of the day, but it proved to be too little, too late.
“At that point we were down quite a bit, but [the homer] definitely jolted us back into the game,” Wineski said. “Obviously we were all pumped to see Jeff get that home run—especially with him being a senior and everything.”
But Dartmouth’s early advantage proved to be too much to overcome, and the Big Green took the game, 12-3.
DARTMOUTH 11, HARVARD 3
In the day’s opener, the Crimson struggled with mistakes, particularly in the second inning in which the Big Green racked up four runs resulting from two hit batsmen and a balk called on Suter.
After keeping the Big Green off the scoreboard for three straight innnigs, Suter allowed Dartmouth to load the bases in the top of the sixth. Sophomore Baron Davis came on relief, but the Crimson was unable to get out of the jam. Before the end of the inning, the Big Green put up seven runs,
“There were a couple infield hits just where we couldn’t get guys out,” Sutter said. “I came back and responded, put up some zeroes. But in [the sixth] I had a couple good battles and walks, and then I just had a mistake and the inning kind of blew up after I left. It was disappointing and really emotional for me and my catcher. It’s a team game, but it’s hard not to put the blame on myself.”
In the sixth frame, Harvard’s hitters tallied five singles, one walk, and all three of its runs.
But the Crimson left three more runners on base, eventually totaling 10 runners stranded over the course of the game. The Big Green went on to win, 11-3.
“We got down early, and against a team like Dartmouth, it’s really hard to come back from down seven or eight runs,” Wineski said. “We battle back…and we just needed those few big hits in those situations, and we just didn’t end up coming through.”
—Staff writer Madeleine Smith can be reached at smith21@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the Dartmouth players on one side of the court and the Harvard players on the other, freshman Denis Nguyen adjusted his cap, looked up for a moment, and bounced the ball seven times. He paused, dribbled again, and served. After a rally of only four hits, Nguyen’s Dartmouth counterpart hit the ball into the left side of the net.
Game. Set. Championship.
With that point, the Crimson (22-2, 6-1 Ivy) not only defeated the Big Green (18-4, 4-3), but also earned sole possession of the Ivy League title on Saturday afternoon at the Baren Tennis Center.
It was a come-from-behind victory for Harvard, and it happened after four and a half hours of match play. And, for the final 30 minutes, all eyes were on rookie Nguyen and his senior opponent, Michael Laser.
“It really all came down to [Nguyen],” senior Jonathan Pearlman said. “He had an incredible match. We are all really proud of him for doing that. It was amazing. It was the deciding match.”
This wasn’t the first time that the freshman has pulled through for the Crimson. Events late in Saturday’s match proved strongly reminiscent of Nguyen’s match-winning heroics against Vanderbilt on Feb 3, when he also pulled out the victory to break a 3-3 tie.
Against Dartmouth, though, the stakes were higher. After seeing his teammates fall, and the score drop to dead even at 3-3, Nguyen realized that he would have to step up in order for his team to earn the title.
“It was definitely a high pressure situation, but once I saw the board was 3 all in the match, I knew it was my job to get the win,” Nguyen explained. “I wasn’t thinking too much about the outcome. I was concentrating on one point at a time. I didn’t get too far ahead of myself, I was staying in the moment.”
That he did. After coming back from an initial 5-7 loss in the first set and winning the second, 6-0, Nguyen was once again in an early deficit at 1-2. But, thanks to four aces in a matter of minutes, he was able to take the match and the conference title, 5-7, 6-1, 6-4.
But Harvard’s day did not start off in the same fashion, as it lost the doubles point after two breakers. While Nguyen and junior Andy Nguyen were victorious, 8-1, partners Pearlman and sophomore Christo Schultz as well as co-captain Alistair Felton and sophomore Casey MacMaster, fell, 8-9.
“I think the team was disappointed,” Pearlman said. “Especially given that they were so close. It was slightly demoralizing since it really came down to the breakers.”
Denis Nguyen expressed a similar sentiment, stating that he believed the team was “playing nervous” early on.
At the start of singles play, though, the Crimson was able to shake off its initial jitters and earn two quick wins thanks to Pearlman and freshman Shaun Chaudhuri who won, 6-1, 6-0, and 6-2, 6-3, respectively.
But Chaudhuri’s victory marked the end of the quick one-two victories, and from then on the matches were grinds to the finish. Freshman Henry Steer lost his fight, 5-7, 4-6, shortly before Schultz followed suit, 6-3, 3-6, 3-6. After more than two hours of straight individual play, freshman Alex Steinroeder tied up the match for Harvard with his 1-6, 6-4, 6-3 defeat over the Big Green.
At that point, Nguyen stepped up. And, thanks to his aces, his slides, and his precision, the outcome was as good as history.
For the Crimson, the win had additional meaning, as it gave the team’s seniors their first Ivy title on their last day of league play.
“I really wanted to win this for the seniors mostly,” Nguyen said. “They haven’t won an Ivy League championship all four years here, so winning it for them was unbelievable. It was a really great feeling.”
Pearlman expressed the seniors’ excitement, citing the long hours the team has put in as adding extra significance to the victory.
“It was a really amazing feeling,” Pearlman said. “To win it in my last year, especially given the strength of the Ivies this year, was really phenomenal. It’s just a tribute to all the hard work we’ve put in. This squad has worked in a tremendous way, more so than in my other years in the League. It’s a good feeling when that pays off.”
Four and a half hours after the first serve was completed, it all came down to that willingness to battle. And, for Harvard, the battle was the most important part.
“We were able to fight for the championship,” Nguyen concluded. “Rather than let it come to us, we went out and got it.”
—Staff writer Juliet Spies-Gans can be reached at jspiesgans@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard senior left tackle Kevin Murphy hasn’t graduated yet, but he’s already headed back home.
The San Clemente, Calif. native signed a free agent contract with the San Francisco 49ers Saturday night after not being selected in this weekend’s NFL draft.
“It’s the perfect place for me, the perfect opportunity,” Murphy said. “I’m so blessed to represent my family and my teammates and my friends in a place like that. Right now I’m just living off the high, just being excited about it and celebrating with my family.”
Though he said he also had offers from the Philadelphia Eagles, Indianapolis Colts, Minnesota Vikings, and New York Jets, the 2011 first-team All-Ivy standout said he chose the 49ers because his agent, Joe Linta, felt Murphy would have the best shot to make the roster there.
“My agent’s an offensive-line-oriented guy,” Murphy said. “He told me the O-Line coach for the 49ers really, really loved me and thought I could contribute to the program. He told me I was going to have the best opportunity to compete in San Francisco.”
“Also, this wasn’t a main factor, but I’m happy I get to come back to California,” he added.
Of course, making the 49ers will be no easy task, as San Francisco spent two draft picks this weekend on offensive linemen—Wake Forest’s Joe Looney in the fourth round and Western Oregon’s Jason Slowey in the sixth. As of Saturday night, the 49ers had also added Northwestern undrafted guard Al Netter to a roster that already contained 11 linemen.
But Linta—who also represents Ravens center Matt Birk ’98—has insisted to Murphy that he is an NFL player from the moment the two met on the field at the Yale Bowl following Harvard’s 45-7 win in The Game.
The left tackle, who started all 20 games for Harvard over the past two seasons, had worked out for the Patriots and Falcons before the draft, but it was San Francisco who showed the most interest after it.
“When I got a call from the 49ers coach, I just decided and committed,” explained Murphy, this past year’s Joseph E. Wolf Award winner as Harvard’s top interior lineman.
The engineering concentrator said he would begin mini-camp with the 49ers on May 10 or May 11. But though he’s focused on his professional career, Murphy hasn’t forgotten about his studies just yet.
“It actually works out perfectly for me,” he said. “My last final is the morning of May 10, and they fly me out after.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Senior pitcher Rachel Brown took her first loss in her last 12 appearances at the hands of Dartmouth Saturday, as the Big Green upset the Harvard softball team, 4-2, before the home Crimson registered a come-from-behind, 2-1 win in game two.
“I was disappointed in how we came out,” Harvard coach Jenny Allard said. “I thought Dartmouth came out strong against us, and I don’t think we came out with a strong, focused effort.”
HARVARD 2, DARTMOUTH 1
Through five innings, sophomore hurler Laura Ricciardone was getting exactly what she wanted on her birthday. She had given up just three hits on the day, and two fifth-inning runs had given her home team its first lead of the game. But things soured for the birthday girl in the sixth. With two outs, Ricciardone gathered a comebacker and flipped it to first for the final out of the inning, but then grimaced and took all of the weight off of her right leg.
A week after watching junior Stephanie Regan suffer a knee injury that kept her out Saturday, the crowd went silent as Ricciardone was helped off the field. Senior Rachel Brown came in to seal the 2-1 win in the seventh, and then the team got more good news; Ricciardone’s injury turned out to be an ankle sprain that prevented her from pitching Sunday but should not keep her out of next week’s championship series.
“It is a little swollen and sore,” Ricciardone said. “But it will be good to go for the championship.”
Ricciardone gave up all three hits in the fourth inning, leading to a Big Green (14-25, 7-13 Ivy) run that put the visitors up, 1-0. But in the fifth inning, the Crimson (31-13, 17-3 Ivy) gained its first lead of the day.
Poor baserunning turned out for the best when a pickle involving the runner on second allowed freshman Adrienne Hume to come home, giving Harvard its first run of the day. The next batter grounded out but also brought a runner home. Those two runs were all the Crimson would need to garner a split on the day. In the win, the Harvard offense only managed to get three hits.
DARTMOUTH 4, HARVARD 2
Harvard entered Saturday’s twinbill riding an eight-game winning streak over Dartmouth and playing its best ball of the year.
The club had won nine of its last 10 contests, was undefeated in home Ivy play, and was coming off a 10-0 drubbing of Holy Cross two days prior. The Crimson pitching staff, led by Brown and Ricciardone, had not surrendered more than three runs in a game since March, and the offense, led by senior leadoff hitter Jane Alexander, appeared to be clicking.
On the other side, the Big Green was 2-8 in its last 10 games and was recovering from a 7-0 loss to Boston College on Wednesday. It was the third time the Dartmouth offense—which ranked last in the league in batting average—had been shut out and the third time during the period that the Big Green pitching staff had surrendered seven or more runs.
But none of that mattered Saturday. History seemed to go out the window, and the Big Green made a statement.
The visitors gained a 1-0 advantage in the second inning when senior Kat Hicks scored from first base on a Hillary Hubert double. The Big Green tacked on another run in the fourth on a Noelle Ramirez single that scored one.
Through four innings, the Crimson had a number of chances to put a tally on the scoreboard but each time came away empty, stranding five runners in the process. In the fifth, Harvard finally scored as a single by sophomore Kasey Lange scored junior Ashley Heritage, who had just stolen second after getting on with an infield single.
Heritage’s score began a back-and-forth between the two offenses with each side posting a run in its half of the sixth, leaving Harvard down one entering the final inning. Before the bats could get a chance to even up the match, though, Dartmouth gained an insurance run in the top of the seventh due to a lack of control from Brown.
The ace walked the leadoff hitter before allowing her to advance to second on a wild pitch. She then gave up an RBI double to Kara Curosh. Brown eventually loaded the bases by giving up a single and another walk but then got out of the inning, leaving her team down two with three outs left.
Those three outs were exhausted quickly as the No. 9, 1, and 2 hitters went down in succession to end the game in a 4-2 Crimson loss. The second out of the inning, senior Jane Alexander, went 0-for-4 on the day, snapping her eight game hitting streak two days after coming up a triple shy of the cycle against Holy Cross.
In the loss, Brown tied her season high by giving up nine hits while surrendering more runs than she had in her previous 43 innings pitched combined.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacobfeldman@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In her stump speech, Harvard Law School professor Elizabeth Warren likes to tell voters how she rose from the "ragged edge of the middle class" to become a "fancy-pants" law professor. Not included in the speech? Any mention of Warren's Native American ancestry.
Despite any mention whatsoever of her connections to the Native American community in the speech, Warren has recently taken a beating in the press for allegedly allowing the Law School to tout her Native American ancestry more than a decade ago in demonstrating the diversity of its faculty. An article in the Boston Herald on Friday, which called attention to the controversy, sent Warren's campaign scrambling to find documentation proving her heritage, and prompted her opponent, Senator Scott Brown, to demand an apology from Warren.
The Herald's story relied heavily on archived Crimson articles about the Law School from the mid-1990s, a time when HLS weathered much criticism about its lack of diversity.
"Of 71 current Law School professors and assistant professors, 11 are women, five are black, one is Native American and one is Hispanic," then-Law School spokesman Mike Chmura told The Crimson in 1996, with Elizabeth Warren being that one Native American.
A Crimson editorial from 1998 refers to Warren as the Law School's "one tenured minority woman."
In response to these allegations, Warren asserted on Friday that she never knew the Law School had used her heritage as an example of the diversity in existence at HLS. She told reporters she had never formally made the school aware of her background and was unaware that it had information about her ancestry.
There was no mention of Warren's heritage in a Crimson article published when she received tenure in 1995. Instead, the article notes that Warren would become the tenth tenured female on the law faculty. Articles written when Warren was first offered a tenured position as a visiting professor from the University of Pennsylvania also do not mention her heritage. Regardless of how the controversy is resolved, it looks like Warren won't be adding the words "Native American" to her stump speech anytime soon.
Sections
University President Drew G. Faust addressed the Great House War publicly for the first time since the conflict began weeks ago.
"As a Civil War historian, it interests me very much to watch what civil war is like in the 21st century," Faust told The Crimson.
Faust did not express support for either side, but said that she enjoyed hearing Former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger '50 share his history with Adams House. Kissinger declared his support for Adams when he spoke at Harvard earlier this month.
But as Faust, always the historian, pointed out, "Currier wasn't here when [Kissinger] was here."
Sections
On Saturday, President Barack H. Obama spoke at the White House Correspondents' Dinner. Flyby has the roundup of Obama's five best jokes of the evening—including a quip about how his and Mitt Romney's Harvard experiences differed, and why this might be relevant in November.
1.  Congress and I have certainly had our differences; yet, I've tried to be civil, to not take any cheap shots. And that's why I want to especially thank all the members who took a break from their exhausting schedule of not passing any laws to be here tonight.
2.  Despite many obstacles, much has changed during my time in office. Four years ago, I was locked in a brutal primary battle with Hillary Clinton. Four years later, she won't stop drunk-texting me from Cartagena.
3. I'd be remiss if I didn't congratulate the Huffington Post on their Pulitzer Prize. You deserve it, Arianna. There's no one else out there linking to the kinds of hard-hitting journalism that HuffPo is linking to every single day.
4. Take Mitt Romney—he and I actually have a lot in common. We both think of our wives as our better halves, and polls show, to an alarmingly insulting extent, the American people agree. We also both have degrees from Harvard; I have one, he has two. What a snob.
5. I really do enjoy attending these dinners. In fact, I had a lot more material prepared, but I have to get the Secret Service home in time for their new curfew.
