Sections
Cleaning out my bedroom at home has ranked high on my list of J-term goals. As I prepare to leave home for school, the following is a sampling of the items leaving my room for the bin:
- 27 dried out pens
- The collected (home)works of yours truly, collected over four years of high school  
- Stratego
- Nine half-empty bottles of shampoo
Still, I find myself waiting for the sense of accomplishment I had expected to kick in and make the hours of sorting, cleaning, and tossing worthwhile.
In a pile of paper excavated from my high school backpack, I came across a bright orange pamphlet from Whole Foods featuring a close-up photograph of a grinning bald man surrounded by five tips on how to live the best life you can. The pamphlet's designers seemed to be going for a see-how-easy-this-is-you-can-do-it-with-our-products aesthetic—simplicity was implied from the slim sans-serif font to the man's crisp white shirt and unassuming, toothy smile. For the most part, the crinkled list boosted my self-satisfaction: I do try to sleep, exercise, and get sunlight whenever possible. Deeming the pamphlet's recommendations successfully completed, I moved toward the recycling bin. And yet the list's final bullet point caught my attention and made me pause before tossing it: "purpose."
Questioning purpose, or lack thereof, is a somewhat trite J-term occupation. The pamphlet's final bullet point brought me back to my current project—maybe my determination to get rid of the bouncy balls [1] I had unwittingly amassed has been an attempt to create "purpose" in my inter-semester life. Maybe I was missing the day-to-day urgency of my campus routine. But doing nothing is nice, and I had hardly spent the last few weeks in an existential daze.
Upon finding the list, however, I put on my best Carrie Bradshaw voice as I wondered just how right Whole Foods was—was relaxing this break, living without the purpose ascribed to classes, meetings, and deadlines, actually making my life less meaningful? Was I creating new purpose during my time off? Was my concern about lacking concerns a sign that I was taking Whole Foods' advice a little too seriously?
I think so. It's been a lovely few weeks of sleeping in, seeing friends, reading for pleasure, and walking around my neighborhood enough to feel like a real New Yorker again. And I know it will be even lovelier to return to campus this weekend and see my college friends as I frantically shop Gen Ed's while gearing up for another semester too full of purpose for its own good. Because while achieving ever-higher Temple Run scores is certainly satisfying, I like my iPhone even better when its calendar is full.
[1] the #1 birthday party favor of the late 90s.
Sections
As J-Term comes to a close, take a look at the journals, essays and galleries published this break by Flyby and Fifteen Minutes.

Bullfighting in Costa Rica by Jorge A. Araya
It's All in the Hips by Reina A.E. Gattuso
Taiwan President Re-elected by Kane Hsieh
No Spit Left Behind by Vivian B. Ling
On Purpose by Amy L. Weiss-Meyer
Vignettes from a News Home by Angie Peng
Coming and Going by Alexander J.B. Wells
