Sections
MUMBAI, India—Finally, it’s 6 p.m. and the workday ends. I pack away my laptop, pluck up my backpack, and leave the fan-blown office. As I step out into the street I almost get run over by a handcart stacked high with steel rods. Begging children, speeding taxis, incense, and cows have all invaded my perception by the time I reach the end of the block. Crowded, sweaty, throbbing streets.
So I do what people have done for centuries: gravitate towards the beach. Humans love the beach. We are attracted to the magnetic sea like turtle hatchlings who follow the moon’s reflection in the ocean to locate their mother’s nest. Chowpatty Beach on Mumbai’s southern side is the most noteworthy of the nine main beaches that surround India’s island city. Spanning the distance between the financial district at Nariman Point and the  working-class industrial areas near Charni Road station, Chowpatty Beach belongs to everyone: the people’s beach, their escape.
At 6 p.m., workers spill out of brimming office buildings throughout the city onto Chowpatty Beach. Chowpatty is freedom. It’s the only place where city traffic thins enough that cabs can drive at a respectable pace for a full ten seconds without tapping the brakes. On Chowpatty youngsters can sit with members of the opposite sex and let their hands graze each other’s knees during conversation—bold behavior in an arranged-marriage society. Chowpatty is the only place in the city where filthy tall buildings cannot impede sight lines. On the beach families buy corn on the cob, grilled fresh and rubbed down with masala salt and lime juice. If they’re lucky, kids might get to indulge in kulfi—creamy, airless Indian ice-cream, sliced and served on banana leaves.
The city expands before me on both sides, a court of neighborhoods converging with Colaba on my left and Malabar Hill on my right. A brash breeze fresh off the ocean swipes the city grime from my face, allowing me to breathe. As trash swirls in the water and crows pick at discarded clothing left by families on the shore, I am the queen of the city basking on the Queen’s Necklace. Nothing but the sea, me, and thousands upon thousands of other city dwellers, snatching a brief gasp of air and sanity before returning to city life.
Sections
BEIJING, China—I never would have expected that the seemingly simple act of buying bananas would make me want to burst into tears. At the age of seven, I proclaimed them my favorite fruit; now they’re a staple of my diet. So as I spend my summer half way across the world, I expected to continue eating bananas.
One afternoon, I went to the nearby Happiness Market. When I got to the fruit section, I did what any person accustomed to grocery shopping for a household of one would do—I broke off the desired number of bananas from a larger stalk and proceeded with my shopping. The abrupt snap of the bananas’ necks breaking rang out through the fruit section; trouble was coming. After a month in Beijing, I mistakenly assumed that I was starting to adjust to China’s striking cultural differences. I could squat over non-Western toilets like a pro, and a hint of blue in a sky that normally brimmed grey with pollution was enough to give me pause, but nothing had prepared me for the ensuing reproach.
“Bu bai, bu bai!” The stalk I had put aside was thrust in my face and I looked up to an irate fruit vendor who seemed to loom over me, despite her petite stature. “Bu bai!” she repeated, inflecting the two-syllable imperative with more disdain than I had thought possible. I waved my hands in what I thought was a universal gesture for “no, thanks,” but she continued to push the bananas at me. This was only met with another repetition of “Bu bai!” This inane exchange continued for a few more beats and then ended with me slinking away, banana-less and trailed by the largest stink eye I’ve ever received.
As anyone who spends a long period of time in a foreign country will tell you, experiences akin to my attempted banana purchase are a dime a dozen. Overcoming cultural differences is difficult enough without the added pressure of communicating in a non-native language, not to mention a tonal language like Chinese. My summer in Beijing has certainly not been an exception; on a weekly basis, I encounter moments where I, to quote a popular Chinese expression, “shou bu liao!” (can’t bear it). Aside from my banana experience, I’ve mispronounced numbers at crucial moments, initiated a business meeting between my computer and a mug of steaming Chinese soymilk, and (literally) fallen into trouble with a squat toilet that has made me avoid a particular pair of shoes.
Sometimes, it’s all too easy to dwell on the negative aspects of living in China. This is when I remind myself that in addition to the aforementioned mishaps, I’ve climbed mountains overlooking the Shaolin Temple, developed an (incomplete) understanding of Chinese soap operas, and, most importantly, crossed Beijing’s terrifying streets without incident. As for the banana lady, I eventually found a friendly neighborhood fruit store—the only thing they criticize me for there is my pronunciation.
Sections
DEBRE LIBANOS, Ethiopia—Injera is a traditional Ethiopian food like a tortilla. It is porous, made from a grain called teff, and I eat it with every meal here. I got used to the sour flavor in the first two days, and now the challenge is getting used to eating it for every meal, like a native Ethiopian.
There are other things to get used to, like seeing more cows than cars on the roads and encountering monkeys as often as one meets squirrels in Massachusetts. I have learned many new words, mostly nouns because the language here, Amharic, is constructed quite differently than English.
I came to Ethiopia with Building Active Literacy, and along with eight other volunteers from the U.S. and Ethiopia, we brought books and supplies to set up a library here at an orphanage in Debre Libanos. We spend all day teaching English or math, and in between we play games like “Simon Says” or “Geography.”
The students here are so eager to learn anything they can and quick to giggle. We show them how to use a computer, and they show us what their lives are like here. They have two hours of spiritual lessons after our classes every day, and the girls are given constant chores, such as washing clothes and sweeping bedrooms.
It’s cold here since we are in the mountains, but the scenery is breathtaking. We cannot soak up enough of the deep valley and rolling clouds below us. Every so often, a cloud is presumptuous enough to roll up the side of our mountain and swallow the orphanage, enveloping our world in a dense fog.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The second day of the 2012 London Olympic Games proved more fruitful for the cadre of competing Harvard students and alums than the first. The lone highlight of day one was rower Brodie Buckland’s ’06 (Australia) qualification for the semifinals in the pair. After rowers Will Newell ’11 (USA) and Malcolm Howard ’05 (Canada) failed to qualify for the semifinals of the lightweight four and men’s eight, respectively, and British basketball player Temi Fagbenle ’15 put up just four points in a disappointing opening game loss to Australia, things were looking bleak for the Crimson.
But two impressive rows by American crews propelled three Harvard Olympians onto the next stage. Newell, rowing in the repechage, and his three boat-mates won their race, narrowly edging out Italy by less than a second to advance to the semifinals on Tuesday.
Meanwhile, Caryn Davies ’05 and Esther Lofgren ’09 extended the dominance of the United States in the women’s eight, advancing to the finals with a healthy six-second victory over second place Australia. The women will look to defend their Olympic title in the final on Thursday. Also advancing to the final is Canada, considered the biggest threat to the Americans' title defense.
Former and current Crimson athletes continue to compete tomorrow, with Howard taking part in the men’s eight repechage and Henrik Rummel ’09 (USA) starting his first Olympics with the heats of the mean’s four. Fagbenle returns to the court to take on Canada.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
