News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite the intricacies involved, military and humanitarian interventions have become a tool of choice for the international community to solve problems of human security and disaster relief. In light of recent failures, the rationale behind the use and implementation of intervention deserves to be refined and rethought. The relief efforts in Haiti and nation-building efforts in Afghanistan have been of questionable success, while recklessly endangering civilian lives and fostering distrust among local populations. This is because policy-makers have lost the sense of humility that comes with an in-depth knowledge of a foreign environment. In order for any future interventions to be more successful than those in Haiti and Afghanistan, planning for development projects and military incursions must involve a much more careful study of local history and anthropology, and a focus on engaging with residents in genuine partnership.
New York Times reporter Deborah Sontag recently published an article detailing how the United Nations failed to accept responsibility for being the source of the cholera epidemic in Haiti, and how the ensuing relief efforts have only nurtured popular distrust of authorities. Lawyers bemoan that, in a country whose history includes numerous occasions where the rule of law has broken down, the United Nations’ refusal to accept responsibility will only “demonstrate that once again in Haiti, ‘might makes right.’” Now an international relief effort has been launched in response to the epidemic, and some health policy officials do not want to distribute vaccines, out of worries that such a measure could give Haitians “a false sense of security and become lax about hygiene.” This notion is not substantiated by anything other than idle speculation. The United Nations’ refusal to take responsibility for the epidemic, and the unwillingness of health officials to distribute vaccines, is grounded in a willful ignorance of Haitian history and anthropology. Sontag describes the overall relief effort as an “often awkward collaboration” in which “international health officials deferred to the Haitians—“our partners”—but in reality held the purse strings and know-how.” One wonders what the true value of the international community’s “know-how” is, when it does not stem from localized knowledge and engagement with Haitians.
Nation-building efforts in Afghanistan are failing because they are similarly uninformed by engagement with Afghan communities and localized knowledge. President Obama stated the goal of the military intervention as being to prevent the Afghan people from having to face a return to “brutal governance…and the denial of basic human rights.” However, a lack of knowledge and engagement with local communities may be causing some interveners to dehumanize the very population whose rights they seek to protect. The recent failure of the U.S. military to prevent the burning of Korans and a soldier’s killings of 16 Afghan civilians should prompt a careful inspection of the experiential gap that lies between military interveners and those who reside in local communities. Defense Policy Board Advisor Sarah B. Sewall ‘83 describes such events as being just a few of many instances where intervening forces “do an extremely poor job of putting themselves in other people's moccasins,” describing how “the extent to which we’ve expected Afghans to tolerate civilian deaths” is evidence that, in the mind of the interveners, “Afghans have become somewhat inured to civilian harm.” Like the Haitian humanitarian intervention, a lack of engagement with residents has prompted these nation-building efforts to become detached from the reality they seek to change.
In order to prevent future interventions from becoming botched in the manner seen in Haiti and Afghanistan, the international community will have to overhaul its approach to training policy-makers and development officials. In a recent essay entitled “The Plane To Kabul,” former diplomat and senior coalition officer Rory Stewart attempts to distill the root causes behind why intervention efforts pursue goals that are not grounded in the reality of the populations they seek to aid. His key insight is that much of the failure of interventions does “not lie simply in poor preparation, planning, decisions, resource deployment, or even the absence of a specialized cadre of interveners” but rather is “predetermined by modern Western culture,” in particular “a materialist worldview whose gods were technology and progress, which denied the reality of cultural difference and which was driven by a bizarre optimism.” This combination of over-confidence and lack of cultural awareness is clear in the rhetoric of world health officials in Haiti and in the dehumanization of Afghan civilians. Stewart is completely correct in recommending that the only way to escape such delusion is to engage in “an ever more detailed study of the history, the geography, and the anthropology of a particular place, on the one hand, and of the limitations and manias of the West, on the other,” prior to staging an intervention. Before we endeavor to aid other nations in any manner, we will have to change our own culture of intervention.
Nikhil R. Mulani ’14, a Crimson editorial writer, is a classics concentrator in Eliot House. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the United States, 53 percent of Protestants can’t identify Martin Luther. Less than half of America knows that the Dalai Lama is Buddhist. While 82 percent of the country knows that Mother Teresa was Catholic, almost half of all Catholics in the United States are unaware of their church’s doctrine of transubstantiation.
This is just a sample of the findings of an infamous Pew Research poll published in September 2010. The results indicate that we are a deeply religious country suffering a pandemic of religious illiteracy—including, shockingly, about the very religions that we practice. In an increasingly globalized society, and especially post-9/11, this sort of ignorance about world religions is unacceptable. A comparative religion curriculum should be as mandatory in American high schools as curricula in biology or American history
Hesitancy towards such a proposal is understandable. Critics, of course, correctly insist that there exists a separation of church and state in this country and that the American government is secular even if the American people aren’t. Allowing the government to facilitate religious learning, even for a secular purpose, one might argue, is counterproductive to the aim of keeping religion and politics in America scrupulously separate.
But separation of church and state is exactly why we ought to have a high school curriculum on religion. The purpose of the Establishment Clause is to prevent federal endorsement of one particular religion—respecting “an” established religion, in the amendment’s language. But teaching all religions together, without any emphasis on a particular religion, leads to pluralism, not sectarianism. Reading excerpts of the Bhagavad-Gita or the Koran, while qualifying their study with phrases like “Hindus believe” or “Muslims believe,” imposes neither religion on students but increases tolerance of both. With cultural diffusion as prevalent as ever in the modern era, understanding the religion of a society different than your own is as important—if not more—as understanding the language that society speaks.
Furthermore, a high school curriculum in comparative religion is entirely constitutional. Although it is illegal for a high school instructor in America to lead the class in prayer, for example, it is perfectly legal for a teacher to read from religious texts as examples of world literature. This is a fact even acknowledged by Americans United for Separation of Church and State. As they state on their website, “the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution requires the government to be neutral with respect to religion,” but “because the Bible has considerable significance in Western literature and history, it may be incorporated into a public-school curriculum.” Ironically, the Pew poll revealed that 77 percent of the country does not know this, most likely because of civil liberties groups that cry foul at even the slightest endorsement of religious content in public schools.
Curing religious illiteracy in the U.S. is also essential to ensuring informed political discussion. Consider, for example, Mitt Romney’s Mormonism. Over the course of his campaign, Romney has been the victim of numerous smears because of his faith. In publications as mainstream as the New York Times, Romney’s detractors have falsely accused the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints of seeking to take over the government in order to establish a theocracy in this country. And with Rick Santorum out of the running for the general election, an evangelical leader close to the Romney campaign has predicted that Romney’s critics will start turning up the heat on his faith, in hopes of “turn[ing] off independents who say ‘I don’t want to vote for a guy that believes that.’” Having a basic understanding of what a religious institution does and does not believe, in other words, has become crucial to being a knowledgeable citizen in this country, and American political discourse would look very different if students were taught this subject in school.
 
Critics may still claim that teachers would co-opt a curriculum in world religion to impose their own religious ideologies on their students. But this criticism could be leveled at almost every academic discipline. A teacher’s Marxism might influence how he teaches the economics of labor—should we refrain from teaching students economics? An anarchist instructor might attempt to convince her pupils that the American governmental system is inherently unjust—should we abolish civics? American education should be judged on the material it teaches, not on outlying cases in which instructors are unfit to teach it.
At a recent TED Conference, Daniel C. Dennett ’63 made an impassioned plea for a mandated religious curriculum in U.S. schools. A comparative religious education leads to “maximal tolerance for religious freedom,” he argued, and “democracy depends on an informed citizenship.” Dennett is far from a religious enthusiast—in 2006, he penned a book in which he argued that all religions are man-made phenomena. And Dennett’s support is the best proof that one can offer that there is little religious proselytizing in a religious education for high school students. Due to its role in fostering pluralism, informed political decisions, and tolerance, a comparative religion course does far more to preserve the fundamental tenets of the United States than undermine them.
Avishai D. Don ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Adams House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
According to its website and a recent op-ed by the conference’s organizers, the upcoming Israel Conference at Harvard is meant to showcase Israel’s innovation in a way that is palatable to all parties involved in activism around the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The assumption is that by talking about the wonders of Israeli technology and corporate aptitude, and by bringing to campus the inventors of advanced technology and the creators of everyday tools, the organizers are opening discussion on a new and uncontroversial area of the Israel-Palestine debate.
Student engagement to bring new perspectives to campus is always welcome, and the success of last fall’s Tree of Life Conference and last month’s One State Conference attests to the receptiveness of the Harvard community to the important debate on peace and human rights in the Middle East. Unfortunately, the Israel Conference will likely mislead its attendees on its broader subject and will bring to campus individuals whose disregard for international law makes their presence one of dubious educational quality.
The conference agenda suggests that it will expound the miracles and marvels of Israeli industry, while spending few words on the economic arrangements that make such a thriving environment possible. According to a Congressional Research Services report, the United States has given Israel over $115 billion from World War II to today; more than half of this aid has been military. No other country in the world enjoys such extensive foreign subsidies. How can Israeli innovation be considered sustainable if it is accomplished through dependence on U.S. tax dollars?
Within Israel and the Palestinian Territories (the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, and East Jerusalem) themselves, a second arrangement provides Israeli companies with an unfair advantage: the Occupation, or the ongoing military control by Israeli forces of Palestinian territories captured during the 1967 war, in blatant contradiction of international law and numerous United Nations Security Council Resolutions.
The Occupation gives Israeli businesses an unfair advantage in two main ways. First, it makes economic investment in Palestine a great risk. Foreign donors have built and rebuilt schools, hospitals, flour mills, and other facilities which cyclically get destroyed in Israel’s military operations, such as the 2008-2009 Operation Cast Lead. Other foreign investments, such as solar and wind power installations in the West Bank, are also under unending threat of Israeli demolition. The unstated charges? Those of increasing Palestinian energy independence and fostering development in local communities.
Second, as a U.N. Conference on Trade and Development report indicates, the deterioration of living standards and economic development in the Palestinian territories is largely due to Israeli government policies. These policies include the illegal seizure of Palestinian land for Israeli settlements and businesses and the movement restrictions that hamper Palestinians from conducting trade internationally. This vacuum is then filled by Israeli companies, which force their goods on a market that has virtually no other alternative. Israeli economic innovation really lies in creating hostage markets for its goods, using cheap dependent labor, and illegally exploiting occupied land. And this is really no innovation at all, since it is the same form of exploitation that has long been identified as colonization by the international community.
Finally, it is necessary to question the background of some of the speakers of the conference. Asaf Bar Ilan, for instance, has been involved in settlement activities that have been called out as illegal. He owns a farm in the occupied Golan Heights, territory that belongs to Syria and has been occupied by Israel since 1967. This occupation is a direct affront to the Geneva Conventions, which explicitly forbid the expropriation and settlement of occupied land by citizens of the hostile state, in this case, Israel. Sustainable innovation that deserves praise does not stem from illegal activities. The involvement of any panelists who violate international law in their daily lives proves to us the conference's lack of credibility and "civility," and reflects quite clearly the inextricability of Israeli "innovation" from the occupation of Palestinian land and violation of Palestinian rights.
The “vibrant, innovative, and optimistic” Israel the organizers envisage exists on foundations of illegal activities and 64 fyears of lack of accountability. While it is undeniable that medical and civil technology benefit society on a large scale, the contextual ethical costs cannot be ignored. Hopefully, we can maintain these positive achievements while redressing the human rights and international law violations they emerge in, because only then will these innovations truly be to the benefit of all. Unfortunately, by inviting speakers who directly contravene international law and by obscuring the roots of the Israeli "miracle," the Israel Conference sidelines the potential for innovation in favor of the criminal potential of Occupation.
Giacomo Bagarella '13 is a government concentrator in Currier House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
President Drew G. Faust’s recent nomination to the Staples Board of Directors—a position for which she would likely earn something like $300,000 annually—represents an unsavory relationship with the corporate world that is perhaps best avoided. While Faust’s membership of the board does not pose an immediate threat to the integrity of her post at Harvard, her acceptance of a position that bears little relevance to her work as an academic and university administrator calls into question her professional priorities. We encourage Faust to tread cautiously as she enters a realm that is decidedly dissimilar to, and often at odds with, academia.
Admittedly, Harvard Business School Professor Jay W. Lorsch’s assertion that university presidents’ affiliation with corporations is a definite “no-no” is a bit overblown. But Faust’s entry into a field that is wholly separate from academia creates an uncomfortable impression of impropriety that ought to be regarded with utmost seriousness. It is not inconceivable that a conflict of interests might arise during her tenure on the Staples Board of Directors, as is not uncommon in collaborations between academics and corporations. Between 2006 and 2008, for example, a number of Harvard professors worked for the Monitor Group, a consulting firm commissioned by the Libyan government to “enhance international appreciation for Libya,” and in part specifically the reputation of its now-deposed dictator Muammar Qaddafi and his family.
We expect that Faust will disclose and appropriately manage any such potential conflicts of interests. Above all else, Faust’s commitment to the Harvard community must not be compromised as she serves on the board of Staples.
It is difficult to imagine that Faust, as the president of a large and prominent university, would have the time to take on another major commitment at an outside organization. To the contrary, it seems that Faust, who holds just two office hours per semester, would do better to spend more of her time speaking with and addressing the concerns of students than working for an organization whose mission is unrelated to that of a university.
Ultimately, Faust’s nomination to Staples’ Board of Directors carries the potential to be somewhat incongruous with her responsibilities as the president of Harvard. While President Faust might well be able to fill both positions effectively, there is something to be said for being mindful of the image that she projects as one of the world’s premier representatives of academia.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Here are some things that I take to be true:
1. The fastest aerial route from New York to London inscribes a surprisingly deep arc on a two-dimensional Mercator projection map on the seatback TV on a 747, such that it looks like a waste of time;
2. If you leave 110th and Broadway by 7:22 a.m. on a weekday you can get to 83rd and East End in under 25 minutes, but you’re unlikely to arrive by 8:10 if you leave after 7:25;
3. Walking from The Crimson to the Sackler, you’re best-off taking a straight shot up Plympton, between Widener and Houghton, and then bearing right for a diagonal cut through the square formed by Robinson, Sever, Emerson, and Quincy St.
I never set out on a journey without obsessing about whether I am taking the most efficient path possible. I don’t do this because I love math; I once loved math, but we parted amicably after our final few rocky months together in my freshman fall. No, I think my obsession with path-related efficiency has different origins.
I am a total sucker for maps—maps of cities, continents, campuses, department stores, and (be still my heart) art galleries. I have nine in my bedroom, one in my bathroom, and at least 50 more in a hoarder’s paradise under my bed. Coming to know where my daily paths sit on a map is, for me, like coming to know how the muscular repertoire of a loved one’s face indicates her various passing moods.
Yet my attraction to cartography cannot alone explain my obsession with efficiency. I also think about my own death a lot. I realize, over and over, just before I’m about to lose myself to sleep, that one day I will cease to be conscious. There will exist nothing that knows, judges, loves, or feels that can be called “me.” And, worst of all, there will never be a moment when I am conscious that I am not conscious.
The healthy reaction to such thoughts is certainly to stop having them, or at least to soothe oneself back to a restful place. But, as for me, I plan. I plan obsessively, neurotically, foolishly, each route that I take—to say nothing of the other areas of my life—so that I will spend the least amount of time possible in transit. I can’t shake the feeling that time spent going somewhere is not real time but time wasted. The goal is the destination; the transportation nothing but a temporary means; it matters how I get there only insofar as I get there fast.
Apart from saving me a few minutes per day, this neurosis can’t be doing me much good. I find it nearly impossible to think about anything else on a trip between two points in a new city, and thus I am a pretty terrible tourist. Choice of route became a point of great contention and awkwardness on one particular trip abroad with three friends a few years ago. I even find myself cutting off perfectly enjoyable conversations on campus in order to cut corners and make it to class that much earlier. And it certainly makes rides with New York City drivers vastly more stressful, as my need for efficiency does vicious battle with my deep-rooted fear of death when I find myself—mostly on late nights and early mornings—on deserted city streets hurtling at breakneck speeds down avenues with coordinated stoplights.
But, even over and above all that, I think I am less creative and less curious due to my drive to streamline every journey I take. It limits the role of chance and serendipity in my thoughts and stifles productive passivity.
I realized this the other day when I noticed, tucked in next to Gnomon Copy on the block of Mass. Ave. between Linden and Holyoke, an unassuming wooden door I had never before considered. That door has never been significant to me and probably never will be, but when I thought of the number of times I had walked down that block and never even looked in its direction—never even realized it existed, my head down and my gaze fixed on the angles and curves of the street I had chosen to take—I felt a little ashamed. Ashamed, that is, but also a little excited that I had finally taken in this silly little door.
I wish I were more okay with wandering sometimes.
—Antonia M.R. Peacocke ’12, former Arts Chair, is a Philosophy concentrator in Adams. She advises that you take hills and sharp inclines into consideration when planning your route.
Sections
“What should I write?” my best friend, Raisa, asked me. We each held pens and pieces of scrap paper, illuminated by two flickering Virgin of Guadalupe votive candles. La Parroquia, the parish church of San Miguel de Allende, shone bright in the distance, a giant electric cross blinking from its topmost tower.
It was our final night in Mexico—the last night we would be spending together before she headed to Swarthmore and I to Harvard to begin our freshman years of college. Although neither of us is particularly religious, there was something about the overwhelming terror and excitement of starting anew in a different place that made us crave ritual.
And so we found ourselves on the roof of my parents’ rental home in Mexico, taking swigs from a bottle of off-brand coffee liqueur and dripping candle wax onto the brand new white plastic table set from Supermercado Mega.
“Make better decisions,” I said, and Raisa nodded. In unison, we wrote those words on our pieces of paper and ripped them off in strips. Then, one by one, we set our scraps alight.
“Think things through,” Raisa suggested, and we repeated the process: scribble, tear, incinerate.
It had been my idea to sneak up onto the roof as my parents slept and burn wishes on scraps of paper. It was an unabashedly corny idea, straight out of, “The Craft”, that classic movie of ninties high camp. Raisa and I were eager to do something—anything—that might assuage the anxiety that had been a constant presence for both of us during the past months.
This was my second summer in San Miguel with Raisa, but my ninth visit altogether. The year I turned 12, my parents decided to visit the city over spring break, and we haven’t stopped going back since.
San Miguel tends to have that effect on people. It wields a strange kind of power that enraptures even the casual tourist. Its year-round population may be overwhelmingly Mexican, but San Miguel has the sort of cosmopolitan atmosphere that you might expect to find in places like San Francisco or Chicago, not in a small colonial city nestled in the mountains of central Mexico. Still, a visitor to San Miguel can buy novels in both Spanish and English, listen to chamber music and Mexican rancheras, eat tacos al pastor and spring rolls.
San Miguel wasn’t always the magical place for me that it has become, a place where ordinary candles take on preternatural properties in the glow of the Mexican moon. Before our first visit, my parents were threatening to pack up and move from our New York apartment to what I was sure would be a dusty, scorpion-infested hovel in San Miguel. Over the years, though, the ornate Baroque stonework of the Casa del Inquisidor became as familiar as the stainless steel of New York subway cars. I learned the local legend that a Spanish Crown-appointed inquisitor once hung the heads of heretics on spikes outside that building, and filed it away next to stories of John Lennon in The Dakota.
I made rituals for myself in San Miguel, my favorite of which was my Tuesday night drawing class. From my teacher, Henry, a native Texan who has hosted said classes for over 15 years, I learned the history of the city in colorful stories. And it was in his candle-lit living room that I learned more about art than in my many weekend visits to the Metropolitan Museum as a child. After each drawing session, Henry would flip through my pages and make his comments: “Weak line. Keep it confident.” I would nod solemnly, return the following week—my work getting just a bit better each time.
When we broke from drawing to sip mezcal and snack on popcorn, I would survey the many paintings that lined the walls floor to ceiling. Henry and Britt, his wife, decorate their living room with a continuously fluctuating assortment of their own works, paintings by artist friends, photographs of their favorite bullfighter El Juli, and Aztec masks that Henry buys at the Tuesday mercado.
Two years ago, Raisa started accompanying me to San Miguel and to Henry’s. We would sketch together, argue about politics with the other drawing students, and, sometimes, when the festivities ran late, fall asleep curled up on the couch beneath a genuine stuffed bull’s head that Britt had acquired “to draw from.”
When we were done feeding our wishes to the flames that last night in Mexico, Raisa and I retired to our separate beds. Alone in the inky darkness, I lay awake for hours, worrying about college. I laughed soundlessly to myself, realizing my thought—the prospect of leaving everyone I loved most for Harvard—seemed as mythically horrifying as coming to San Miguel once had, all those years ago.
Sections
At a party in the Eliot Cockpit, The Cataracs (TC) are hanging out with 3LAU (3). Das Racist (DR) is at an unknown location trying to find them.
3: I’ve been watching you.
TC: I see you looking, but you trying to act cool, right? That ass is epic, though.
3: Boy, you’ve got it bad, but I’ve got something good.
TC: Well, I don’t mean to come across too sexual.
3: Boy, you make my heart pound. Give me everything tonight?
TC: Man, this bottle got me saying things. Fill my cup?
3: Seems everybody wants something from me….
(stalks off to bar)
(The Cataracs’ phone rings. It’s Das Racist.)
TC: Holla back if you my homie?
DR: Where you at?
TC: Me and my best friends gettin’ shitty. If you’re not, then get to know me.
DR: Chug it, cut it, print it!! You puff herb?
TC: Boy, you get me high.
DR: Yo…me too? Dawg, I smoke weed too.
TC: Your daddy must have been a drug dealer ’cause you DOPE. We burning up?
DR: Well, I’m at the Pizza Hut! I’m at the Taco Bell! I’m at the combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell!
TC: Ain’t fuckin’, then what the fuck you for?
DR: Relax, relax, relax, relax!!
TC: Go man, hop on my bike, can you see it?
DR: No, no, no, no. We in Manhattan! Yo, that’s where I’m at.
TC: We are here for one reason…and you know we gettin’ drunk.
(hangs up)
(3LAU returns with two drinks in hand)
TC: Bottles up, you and me. You got it goin’ on…. And on and on and on.
3: You keep tellin’ me, tellin’ me that you’ll be sweet.
TC: Won’t you take me for a ride?
3: Do you wanna kick it in the backseat?
TC: I’ll be your “Ride and Die.”
3: We outta here, jump in my vehicle!!
(Later that night...)
TC: I just did a car bomb…in the backseat of a car.
Sections
1) What motivated you to take action against stereotypes of beauty in the fashion industry?
The best compliment that a friend can tell you is, “Oh, you lost so much weight, you look so great.”  What does it mean? Why do we all have this mentality that you look so gorgeous if you’re skinny?  This is the compliment that everybody makes to other persons to make them happy. But you know, when they tell me, “Oh you look so skinny,” I think that this means that I look so old.When I made the website, I thought that there are different kinds of categories that are never included in a website. And one of the categories is curvy because the curvy women have different problems in dress[ing] up because after certain sizes you don’t find [clothes] in the main designers. In the shoulders, everything has to be made on purpose for people who are curvy, so it’s completely different. I thought it was very nice to hire bloggers who are curvy and to tell stories of women that are very satisfied with what they physically are.
2) Why does this trope exist in fashion?
It’s easier. They are one size. When it was Naomi—big shoulders and small hips. And Linda, she has larger hips and smaller shoulders, and everyone has a different shape. Cindy, she has boobs, and Claudia Schiffer, she has another kind of shape. At this time, every one of them was trying to find themselves, to find their own way. And today, they all look similar. I feel much better than them in a way. I have my own personality. I think that I made the best that I could make for myself at my age, but I don’t like to be ridiculous with miniskirts or something that doesn’t fit to my age. When you are young, you think that you can do anything and to be a model must be to go around like a zombie in the street. That’s not the point. The supermodels were beautiful women. We have to go back to this moment.
3) What’s the role of the fashion industry in promoting positive body images?
They wanted to make a limit of age, of weight—that is not the point. The point is to drive people to be ready to have the right nutrition without getting fat, without changing their shape, but to be healthy. It’s about education that you have behind you and traditions that you have behind you and you have to be supported when you are so young by your family because it’s very easy to get lost. So your family could support you and say, “You are too skinny,” or “You take too much drugs” or “You do something wrong.” Sometimes it’s true that these girls come from the East side [of Europe] and they all look alike, and they are really skinny, and they keep skinny because they think—they believe—that it’s the only way to please the designer. Because they are scared. They are more than scared. They think that getting skinny, they get what we want. We don’t want that. Don’t think that there is only one prototype of beauty. This is the mistake in this fashion world.Many of your projects have been considered controversial.
4) Do you worry about that when you think of what to do next?
Everything that I do is controversial. So I don’t care. I really do not care. There is always somebody that will say something against you. I did it. I was very happy that I did it. I think they were absolutely sexy and sensual and attractive.
5) What inspires an issue of the magazine?
Anything. When I did the black issue, I did it because I was looking at the shows and I was asking my assistant, “Who is this girl?” Svetlana B. “Who is this girl?” Svetlana C. Svetlana D. Svetlana V. The only girl that I liked was Liya Kebede. So I stopped and said, “We are really making a mistake because we are following a trend.” Nobody wanted to do it because they were scared that we would be accused of racism. [When I decided to do it] it was the famous Tuesday in which Obama and Hilary were decided for the Democratic [nomination] and I was in New York. And I said, “This is a sign, I have to do this issue.” And the issue came out on the day that Obama came out against Hilary. And people found time to write that I did [it] on purpose. How can I know if Obama was the winner? So everything that you do is controversial. Don’t worry about it.
Sections
Pictures of eighth grade me do not need to be one click away. However, like a living record of shame, Facebook timeline allows anyone to see those crooked braces and outfits gone wrong in an instant.
My Facebook has always been like that spare drawer in the bottom of my desk. It’s a place where I store odds and ends that I might need to dig out of obscurity later on. With timeline, my Facebook profile is a perfectly chronological scrapbook; pages exposed for all my friends to see. Now that they can browse through my life like it’s a girly magazine, I’ll need to put effort into curating my aesthetic project. It’s a type of social engineering one would expect from a fascist dictator who roots out anything that deviates from convention. Goodness gracious.
Finding one profile picture can be trouble enough. I need a photo where I have two eyes open, a pseudo-symmetrical smile, and an acceptable friend to stand next to (three things that rarely occur at once). And now, with Timeline, I need to do that twice because of the whole “cover photo” innovation. The only other option is a hokey landscape shot of rolling hills or the beach or something, but I don’t even have time to venture outside because my Facebook now requires constant attention. What a bummer.
We all know that Facebook timeline is inevitable and changes to Facebook are almost always poorly received. But this time, it’s too much too soon. I’m not ready. And so, as F. Scott Fitzgerald would say, we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past. But don’t worry, now you can see all of mine with just a few easy clicks.
Sections
I’m getting the overwhelming feeling that people generally resent the Facebook Timeline. Take this comment made by an acquaintance of mine from high school about the Timeline: “Such a disaster, the world is ending, the sky is falling.”
Maybe it’s the contrarian in me, but I’m damn glad everyone is forced to participate in Facebook’s newest facelift. I like the Timeline, and I’m proud of it.
There are countless ways Timeline is superior to the old, outdated layout. I’ll start with the design: the ads are less invasive, there is much more space for virtual social contact, and the cover photo is a decided aesthetic improvement. One can highlight one’s own posts, and watch YouTube videos in high resolution. And those rectangular segments—I could go on about how beautiful that shape is. But I only have 300 words and I believe in expanding on my ideas—which, by the way, is why I hate Twitter. One hundred forty characters are never enough.
The concept I really want to focus on is time. Facebook has become the emblem of procrastination for many college students. But in changing to the Timeline format, we are reminded of our own existence in time—in a finite space, after all. Can we afford to procrastinate? We remember our birth, gazing at the right column that declares us “Born: 1990.” We scroll back effortlessly to 2006, and in coming to terms with our limits, as imposed by the form of time, we remember death. We remember thereby our obligation to live, while we still can. We can watch those YouTube videos in high resolution, but maybe we should refrain from spending all night doing so.
Sections
Peter Beinart is the author of three books and a senior political writer for The Daily Beast, as well as the editor-in-chief of “Open Zion,” its new blog about Israel, Palestine, and the Jewish Future. In 2010, he published an essay titled “The Failure of the American Jewish Establishment,” where he made the case that the Establishment’s uncritical stance toward Israel was pushing many young liberal Jews away from Zionism.
Beinart’s most recent book, “The Crisis of Zionism,” argues that the Israeli occupation of the West Bank threatens the democratic ideals upon which Israel was founded. His book and March 18 op-ed in The New York Times—both of which call for a boycott of goods produced in the occupied territories—have provoked much conversation and debate within the Jewish community.
On April 4, Beinart joined Barry Shrage, who leads Boston’s Combined Jewish Philanthropies, in Emerson Hall, at an event entitled “Can Israel Survive the Next Generation of American Jews?” The audience was composed of students and community members alike, representing a broad spectrum of political beliefs.
FM spoke with the author about his recent book and his efforts to reconcile contemporary liberalism and Zionism.
1. Fifteen Minutes: You’re a journalist and a writer by craft. What got you started in this career path?
Peter Beinart: I didn’t have the temperament to be an academic. [I’m] not patient enough to spend years in the archives. I liked the fact that journalism allows you to write quickly for a larger audience. I’ve always enjoyed reading good writing, and that’s what inspired my writing.
2. FM: What inspired you to write “The Crisis of Zionism”?
PB: I wrote about this a bit in the introduction. I had a mounting sense of unease with regards to the direction of Israeli politics and toward the threat the occupation gives to Israel, to the Jewish state. I also began to worry that my own children would be forced to choose between embracing a Jewish state that didn’t cling to the democratic ideas of its founders or turning away from a Jewish state altogether, which would be a tragedy.
3. FM: What, in your own words, is the crisis of Jewish youth? What burden will they be shouldering in the years to come?
PB: For American Jews, you have an Orthodox population, which is very connected to Israel and Judaism…what they value about Israel is not necessarily Israel’s democratic ideals, but a Zionism of the  land without guaranteeing rights and dignities of those on the lands, particularly non-Jews. Outside of the Orthodox community you have a large young population of Jews who have a weak connection to Israel and Judaism, because America has done a terrible job of establishing a joy in and fascination with Judaism.
4. FM: What sort of pressure do you think that the U.S. government should put on Israel?
PB: I think the U.S. government should always guarantee Israeli military advantage, and we should have a security relationship with Israel which is rock solid. America should also be willing to pressure the Palestinians to make difficult compromises. However, it should help Israel to confront the subsidies [that promote the occupation of the West Bank] which are a grave danger to Israel as a democratic Jewish state.
5. FM: I know you’ve had some thoughts and input regarding the occupation. Have you had the opportunity to talk with politicians or diplomats about your ideas?
PB: No, I haven’t talked to many politicians and diplomats about it. Several Jewish authors inspired me with their own personal boycotts of the occupation of Ariel, and I thought that we as American Jews needed to find a way of supporting the actions of these authors while reaffirming Israel. It isn’t an issue with politicians so much as citizens throughout the Diaspora and our commitment to Israeli democracy and to oppose those who would oppose the two-state solution and thus destroy the future of an Israeli state.
6. FM: Where do you fall on the spectrum that you have set between Zionism and liberalism?
PB: I’m interested in reconciling the two as much as possible, in trying to find ways in which a Jewish state can offer as close to full equality as possible to its non-Jewish citizens. That places me in between the people on the left who think the two are incompatible and the people on the right who aren’t concerned with whether or not Zionism has a democratic ethos.
7. FM: Your books and articles have been quite polarizing, provoking staunch supporters and vitriolic critics alike. Is that to be expected?
PB: I didn’t exactly know what to expect. I don’t take any pleasure in being polarizing or controversial. I think my arguments were actually quite moderate. I am a very strong believer in Jewish schooling, and generally a firm supporter of Judaism. But I actually think that if people think that I’m radical, then they really don’t understand that virtually every time I give a speech on a college campus, I end up trying to sell the idea of Zionism to a liberal Jewish college student. My position of supporting the Zionist enterprise has opposition on both the left and the right.
8. FM: What was your ideal takeaway for your talk at Harvard?
PB: Judaism itself is implicated in what happens in Israel because it’s a test of Jewish power, a test of whether the ethical tradition we forged when we were weak functions now that we are in power over others. As Jews, we fight for the survival of democracy.
9. FM: What is your favorite place in Israel?
PB: Wow, difficult question. I love the beaches of Tel Aviv, walking down the promenade. I love the old city and the Kotel [Western Wall]. I have kind of lovely memories from when I was a kid of having gone to the Dead Sea. I even have powerful memories of having traveled through the West Bank. In different points of my life, I have had a whole range of experiences, many of which have been memorable and meaningful for me.
10. FM: Do think that this experience has given some emotional weight to your writing it otherwise might not have?
PB: Of course. Israel has had a presence in my life and this is an issue that is very close to my heart.
Sections
George C. Ko ’15, aware of his luck and holding tightly to it, is an entrepreneur—a businessman, a dreamer, a musician of sorts. But standing outside of Lamont on a Sunday evening, he does not look much different from the other students who hurry past. He wears a black zip-up hoodie with a Harvard crest on the right sleeve, a heavy backpack hanging dutifully from his shoulders. It’s 5:20 p.m. on the dot, and he’s looking at the shuttle schedule on his phone.
The bus that runs between Soldiers Field and the Yard usually comes by Lamont at this time every week, he says, but when he calls the shuttle service he learns it won’t today: It’s Easter. Ko has some work to do at the Innovation Lab—he’s designing the beta site and functionalities for a multi-platform app, and he has a meeting to prepare for by Friday—so today it looks like he’ll walk.
Ko tries to go to the iLab weekly, but this term, with an even busier course load, it’s been difficult. Last semester he was pulling around three all-nighters a week, and ended up at Starbucks so many times that he accumulated a Gold Card that now earns him free drinks.
Besides serving as director of business development for Politoscape, the start-up that he co-founded, Ko is also part of the Harvard College Piano Society, where he is working to start a program that will bring professional artists to the Harvard community and the greater Boston area. His goal is to graduate from Harvard with an education that extends beyond the library. “I think it’s better to go this way,” he says, crossing the Weeks footbridge, and turning left on Soldiers Field Road.
Past the Business School’s iconic campus—brick buildings and white trim, green lawns and flowering trees—and closer to Allston, Harvard’s nearly six-month-old Innovation Lab sits on the edge of a large, industrial parking lot. Ko swipes in at the front door, entering into the same lobby Mark Zuckerberg toured in November.
“I can totally understand why people like Bill Gates and Zuck dropped out,” Ko admits, citing the around-the-clock time commitment required to build a company. But the mentors Ko has found among teachers, iLab connections, and other professionals have been trying to the myth of the entrepreneur dropout: the romantic idea that a student must forgo a formal education to become a successful entrepreneur.
The iLab is one of many recent University efforts to encourage and foster student innovation on campus. Five years ago, Fortune Magazine reported that 3,000 colleges and universities had already provided their students with course offerings in entrepreneurship. Most recently, Faust’s inaugural President’s Challenge demonstrated the University’s increased emphasis on student innovation coupled with an undergraduate degree, and hints at the evolving definition of a modern liberal arts education.
I. RELEARNING THE BASICS
A week before Ko crosses the river toward the iLab, Professor Joseph B. Lassiter shuffles through a pile of papers in his large-windowed office at the Arthur Rock Center for Entrepreneurship. The papers detail the basic information of the teams that have submitted applications to the President’s Challenge; he’s trying to organize the teams according to the schools from which members of each applicant group come. The sheer number of applications and resources provided by collaboration between schools within the University, he explains, “gives you”—he means students—“a special burden to do ambitious things and pursue them with vigor.”
The contest has attracted over 170 submissions—so many that announcement of the final contestants has been pushed back by over a week to allow for more review. There are more students, it seems, wishing to alleviate one of five social issues proposed, more groups committed to securing the $100,000 award and support offered with the prize, than the application committee was originally prepared to handle. (As of press time the results had not yet been disclosed.)
White-haired and wearing thin-rimmed glasses, Lassiter specializes in entrepreneurial management at the Business School and serves as the Faculty Chair of the iLab (“You’re supposed to rise when you say that,” he jokes).
“Entrepreneurship is not a new thought at Harvard Business School,” he states. After World War II, interest in the study of entrepreneurship intensified as Business School professors debated how to best teach it within a classroom setting. It’s HBS Professor Howard H. Stevenson’s definition of the term that is quoted high on one of the walls at the iLab in greeting: “Entrepreneurship is the pursuit of opportunity beyond resources currently controlled.”
For Lassiter, entrepreneurship is an intrinsic component of how we’ve been taught to think. Energetically rolling his desk chair between the table where he sits and his computer, Lassiter recalls having stumbled upon an interesting slide in his third-grade daughter’s eReader. While discussing what she had done at school, he saw a diagram of the scientific method. “It hit me that all I’d seen in [my research] is the scientific process in business application,” he says. “It was this experimental view—this idea of how you design quick experiments so you can adapt and change and discover the nature of a problem—and in the end, that’s what entrepreneurship tries to do.”
What constitute  a real change in entrepreneurship’s significance, however, are the shifting prices and risks associated with “starting up” a new project today, especially those in consumer internet-based sectors. Lassiter cites globalization, shifting global politics, and the opening of different markets as contributing factors to the greater feasibility of innovation in business.
“It’s become much, much less costly to start a business,” he explains. “You can find out very quickly that an idea isn’t worth pursuing.”
It’s exactly these changes that have created a new niche of students on campus who are fascinated by entrepreneurship. This fall, Lassiter aimed to address the needs of this group by offering a new General Education course, United States in the World 36: “Innovation & Entrepreneurship” American Experience in Comparative Perspective,” which he taught with HBS professor and course head Mihir A. Desai. The popular course enrolled two students below its 95-person limit.
II. CHANGES IN TRADITION
Marc F. Atiyeh ’14 thinks USW36 is the best class he will ever take at Harvard, and stresses the need for more classes that focus on the case-method approach associated with the B-School. Atiyeh’s views on learning entrepreneurial skills in the classroom are grounded in a country far from Cambridge. “I’m going to talk quickly about myself,” he blurts out apologetically. In Lebanon, his home, it’s hard to make a living if you’re not an established doctor, lawyer, or engineer.
That’s why Atiyeh had originally wanted to go to MIT—to learn the practical, technical engineering skills he expected he would need in the future. But Atiyeh decided on Harvard because he thought it would provide him with a better network. “Everyone always says, ‘It doesn’t matter what you know, but who you know,’” Atiyeh explains.
At home, simply saying that he studies at Harvard earns Atiyeh headlines and attracts public attention. In February, it gave him the opportunity to present his international SAT-tutoring company, Help Me Get In, on “Min El-Ekhir,” a talk show on MTV Lebanon. “So I am leveraging my education at Harvard to help these students [through my start-up],” Atiyeh says.
The app created by Vladimir Bok ’14, who also took USW36, performs some of the same basic functions as HeyTell, he admits. “But have you seen HeyTell? What does it look like? It looks like garbage, right?” Visibly proud, he takes out his smart phone to demonstrate Coco Voice’s capabilities—it is better, you have to admit—scrolling through different conversations, sending voice messages to his most recent contact as an example.
Bok enthusiastically relates the University’s cultivation of students with entrepreneurial potential; he himself is an example. “The story goes that people go to Harvard wanting to change the world, but leave going into I-banking or consulting and wanting to make money,” Bok laughs. “In my case, it’s the opposite.” Bok was interested in a financial track, but meandered from that path after his freshman year. Taking Computer Science 50 last year sparked his interest. Through a networking event at the iLab in November, Bok met his business partner, a statistics Ph.D. student at Harvard who had developed the original prototype for Coco Voice.
In an entrepreneurial setting, changing paths, taking risks—the possibility of failure—all are associated only with experience. Having such opportunity in the absence of other obligations is particular to being a student, and “it’s a tremendous time to do it,” says Lassiter.
Atiyeh echoes Lassiter’s emphasis on the university’s risk-free environment and the ease with which such projects can succeed. He references the “Draw Something” iPhone application; the company didn’t spend any money advertising and was just sold for nearly $200 million, he says. He’s sure that it’s time and interest, of which he seems to have infinite supply, that matters. “Why not work on two different things?” he asks, hinting at other projects he wants to pursue. “Something like one in 10 start-ups end up being good, so maybe I want to do 10 to succeed in one.”
His grin breaks the solemn earnestness with which he usually speaks, and you believe that it’s almost possible, that he probably could.
III. A FULL-TIME VENTURE
The enthusiasm of students like Atiyeh and Bok reflects an attitude that, according to School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Lecturer Beth Altringer, stems from an increasingly accessible cultural narrative that traces young adults, even teenagers, starting successful businesses of their own. It’s the extreme underdog story, the screenplay of “The Social Network,” in which a savvy dropout still makes it big.
But Altringer cautions that we overestimate the frequency with which that story actually plays out. “This is kind of a promise,” she describes. “You used to have to work for decades for someone else to create [something of your own], but now at least it seems really possible that you could do it yourself.” She pauses. “How could that not be immensely attractive, compared to other options?”
Attractive, maybe, but W. Hugo Van Vuuren ’07, points out that “start-ups are perhaps the hardest thing that you can do with your life.” He continues, “It’s lonely, it’s painful, you run out of money, your family doubts you, you doubt yourself. It’s the hardest thing you can do.” Facebook, as the go-to example, “is a once in a decade start-up.”
Recognizing that entrepreneurial students would benefit from institutional support, Van Vuuren and venture capitalist Patrick S. Chung ’96, along with their faculty adviser, SEAS professor David A. Edwards, launched the Experiment Fund this past January. The seed investment fund aims to offer financial support to projects created on college campuses like Harvard’s, and to incentivize continued connection to Cambridge as a hub of technology and innovation.
Listing a slew of Harvard innovators throughout history—from John Adams to Sheryl K. Sandberg ’91—Van Vuuren appreciates how Harvard “champions” the liberal arts, “creat[ing] men at first—now young men and women—who know how to think.” Yet, the Experiment Fund does not extend to students who intend to simultaneously balance the leap into such a venture with their academics. Van Vuuren does not believe this is possible: “A start-up is a full-time adventure.”
IV. SEXIER THAN GOLDMAN
Sujay Tyle, only 18 years old but formerly of the Class of 2013, takes off his glasses when he answers questions, dragging them back and forth across the table. Tyle started his first company when he was nine—it was called “Sprited Sweets,” and sold custom-wrapped candy bars. Even in sweatpants he has the air of an experienced professional, but when he spots a friend from across the dining hall, Tyle just as easily molds into the attitude of a college student: “Hey, dude, what brings you to Mather?”
During his occasional visits back to Harvard, Tyle has discerned a larger emphasis on entrepreneurship on campus: “Maybe it’s more sexy,” he laughs, his eyes squinting, “because I-banking has become less sexy. Google and Facebook are hotter than Goldman and Morgan Stanley.”
Although he loves Harvard, Tyle hopes that he won’t need to return for more than the occasional weekend: “I didn’t leave out of any disrespect for Harvard,” he says. “I left more because I personally thought I would never have this chance in my life again, and I’m a pretty risky guy.”
The Thiel Fellowship that Tyle won last June mandates that he take at least two years off of school, but the $100,000 award and network of successful entrepreneurs at his fingertips might be even rarer than a Harvard degree. A quote by Mark Twain on the homepage of the Thiel Fellowship website reads, “I have never let my schooling interfere with my education.”
Now working for a growing tech company, Tyle likely won’t need a Harvard diploma to move onward and upward: “At the end of the day it’s about a story you’re creating, more than about the classes you’re taking,” he explains. Tyle’s story seems to fall into the myth Altringer describes of the young and instantly successful entrepreneur.
“In the classroom,” Altringer says, “you can fail safely in a way that the real world doesn’t provide. In that way I don’t see it as really different from training a scholar or someone in the humanities or in engineering.”
Unlike Altringer, Tyle does not believe a formal education is essential to entrepreneurial success. “The only way to learn about entrepreneurship is to actually do it,” he says. “It can’t come from a book, it can’t be taught.” And, although Tyle attributes much of his maturity to his experiences here as a student, he says that he has learned more in the past five months away from Cambridge than he has in his life.
Like Tyle, Max D. Novendstern ’12 decided it was necessary to take time off to devote all his energy to the internet start-up he co-founded, CommonPlace, which is dedicated to building up a local community network.
“For the first 20 years of our lives, we’re locked in a system that teaches us to think about ourselves every second of the day,” he says confidently. “But entrepreneurship forces you to abandon yourself and focus entirely on a product that might matter for someone else.”
Novendstern chose to leave because he doesn’t believe that you can experience this change in focus as a student. “The challenge of Harvard—of impressing TFs in section and reading through class syllabi—became much less interesting” he laughs. But he “100 percent plans” to come back and graduate, citing figures like Paul Farmer and Lawrence Lessig as the “archetypes for the 21st century activist,” the perfect combinations of entrepreneurship and Harvard: people who study the effects of the actions they propose.
Academia, he says, forces us to consider the serious questions students must solve: “If you can’t point to a book that addresses the problem you’re working on, then there’s a good chance the problem’s not worth your time,” he says.
V. THE RIGHT TIMING
After starting a type of turbo-tax program for student loans for a CS50 project last year, Zach M. Hamed ’14 was determined to pursue this work, initially through the HackHarvard incubator program, of which he is now on the Board, and later throughout the summer. The project, however, ended up merging with another start-up that was working on a similar idea. When Hamed was offered a position on the condition that he take time off from school, he turned it down.
He felt as though the project wasn’t his own anymore, he says, and wasn’t willing to take the risk. Hamed slows a bit, pausing: “Of the people I know that are into entrepreneurship, this is one of the more pessimistic views,” he warns. “But until there’s a class [in which] I can work on a start-up and get credit for it to ease my workload, people are going to continue to take time off, because that’s the only way they’re going to get the company and the business they want. I have yet to see a legitimate start-up run out of the college.”
A proponent of all the ways in which the University has been moving toward a focus on innovation—the iLab he frequents, the classes he takes, the resources to which he often turns—Hamed still thinks the University could do more. Harvard does not provide enough funding, or academic support, to allow students to comfortably pursue these options while still remaining students. “Give me a way to work on a start-up, so that I don’t have to drop out of school,” he says.
There are the outliers, of course, the students who seem to find their way into entrepreneurial paths out of instinct and who can balance it all. When Annemarie E. Ryu ’13 arrives at Quincy dining hall, she is enthusiastic and well-put-together—straight brown hair, a white button-down shirt, a comfortable smile—but she’s a bit tired, you can tell. “It’s been a long day,” she confesses. She’s just returned from New York, where she attended an official reception as one of Glamour Magazine’s Top 10 College Women of the year.
Ryu’s most recent project is called Global Village Fruits, a company that aims to import jackfruit to U.S. grocery stores, providing more income for local farmers in India. Although Ryu calls herself a social entrepreneur (“My main motivator is the benefit of others”), this venture is what she pegs as a more “profit-oriented enterprise,” sparked when she tried jackfruit in a market in India last summer and was shocked at its surprising flavor. Ryu’s pitch was strong enough to get Whole Foods on board; jackfruits will be sold in this franchise and other stores within the next few months.
Ryu laughs—there’s hesitance, a pause—when prompted for the number of projects like this one on which she has worked: “Oh, that’s so broad, though. What counts as a project?” Then, more seriously: “A lot—I don’t even know off the top of my head.”
Success in extra-curricular projects aside, Ryu still places a strong emphasis on her academics. A social anthropology concentrator who is also pre-med, she sees schoolwork as an integral part of her college experience. “I’m here to take classes,” she says, “it’s never a burden for me to do my coursework.”
There’s a myth, she says, that you can’t possibly be doing well in school if you’re doing entrepreneurship, but that’s not necessarily true, and it doesn’t mean that college is not the right time to take that leap. “I feel like if you put off following your dreams until some later time, there comes a time when you forget that they’re dreams and you never get to following any of them.”
VI. ONGOING EXPERIMENTS
Ko, who has by this time made his way to the iLab, has experienced greater intersection between his academics and his projects than Ryu. In fact, the idea for his start-up was developed in a class he took last fall: Altringer’s Engineering Sciences 21: “The Innovator’s Practice.”
“Can you teach someone to be a successful entrepreneur?” Altringer asks. “I don’t know if that’s a useful question. The goal of education is not generally to turn someone into a specific thing, it’s to give them development opportunities so that they can decide what they become.”
Ko’s start-up, Politoscape, grew out of a last-minute change of heart he experienced while developing his final project for Altringer’s class. Weeks before the class’s deadline for a prototype for the final project, Ko’s group developed a new idea: to counteract the political echo chamber that characterizes the 2012 elections by helping people broaden the scope of sources they access for political news. Months after the final proposal, as this Sunday afternoon comes to a close, Ko is still working on the project.
The project born inside the classroom now often keeps him outside of it, but Ko remains optimistic. He knows the lingo of the trade—those same upbeat, inspiring and sometimes absurd quotations that are written in colorful whiteboard markers around pillars in the iLab: “Welcome to the IDEATION ZONE,” or, “In times of rapid change, experience could be your worst enemy.” When Ko talks about his business plans, he sounds older than he looks, but there are moments when the novelty shines through. “I’m just a freshman, but I wish it would never end,” he glows. “The passion for knowledge here is really vivid, it’s really wonderful.”
Gordon S. Jones, director of the iLab, thinks this enthusiasm is something to be harnessed: “We as a University have an opportunity that has not been addressed to create a university-wide resource. When I think about the trend, I think that within Harvard, this is a realization that the University wants to be institutionally resourcing this.”
Ko walks into the iLab and through the space—past circular conference rooms, the “student-venture pods,” the multi-purpose classroom where desks can be rearranged into different formations for group activities. The sun is just beginning to set over the arches of Harvard stadium, visible from the horizontal windows at the end of the building. The motion-sensing lights in another section of the room flicker off, and a few others in one of the conference room are all that remain. The iLab is emptying, but Ko is just setting up for the evening. He opens his computer, takes out his phone to place a call (“I’m at the iLab now, do you want to stop by later?”), and pops open a Coke. Next is concentration. The following day, he’ll find out that he has won a Gov 2.0 Grant from the Institute of Politics, allowing his team to further develop Politoscape in even less time than was previously planned. For now, the cleared work tables, the rows of white boards covered with diagrams and equations, the momentarily unoccupied chairs—all stare back in anticipation.
—Alexander J.B. Wells contributed to the reporting of this feature.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Elizabeth S. Felts ’14 arrived at Harvard, she was certain she wanted to concentrate in mathematics. But during her first semester, taking classes in both the math and earth and planetary sciences department, she quickly decided that the latter would be a better fit.
Instead of waiting until the Nov. 16 deadline, Felts filled out her plan of study and officially declared her concentration in EPS as soon as she arrived on campus for her sophomore year.
“All it took was me saying yes and then the next day I met with the head tutors and filled out my plan of study and sent it into the registrar,” Felts says. “It’s a really quick process if you are organized and willing.”
Felts is part of the small group of Harvard students who declare their concentrations early. Though the College requires all undergraduates to pick a field of study by the middle of their third semester, a few choose to declare their concentrations before that deadline, either during their freshman year or earlier on as sophomores.
In the Class of 2014, 2.5 percent of students turned in their concentration paperwork to the Registrar’s Office before their third semester.  According to Faculty of Arts and Sciences Registrar Michael P. Burke, only one member of the Class of 2015 has already declared a concentration.
Though they constitute a small minority, students who have taken this route say that, as long as a student has made the right decision on an academic field, declaring early provides distinct and unique benefits.
AT A LATER DATE
Several years ago, Felts’ September declaration would have come months after, not before, the College’s deadline to choose a concentration. Until 2006, students were required to enter a department during the spring of their freshman year.
Following a multi-year process of curricular review, the College opted to push the date to declare to sophomore year, beginning with the Class of 2010.
According to computer science professor Harry R. Lewis ’68, who served as Dean of the College from 1995 to 2003, this decision was partially based on concerns that students frequently changed concentrations during their time at Harvard. Though fewer students now change their concentrations, Lewis says he does not think this is a sign of progress.
“It was never clear to me why choosing a concentration and then discovering it wasn’t right for you was necessarily a terrible thing, as opposed to not making any decision and then getting far enough along in your program that you no longer have time to change your concentration,” Lewis says.
The administration pushed the concentration timeline back with indecisive students in mind. But some undergrads say that even as freshmen, they are sure of their choice.
EARLY BIRDS
For this small group, declaring a concentration earlier offers both peace of mind and academic boons.
Before she became an official member of the EPS department, Felts says that as a mere name on a list of prospective concentrators, she felt on the outside of the academic community.
“The minute that you declare, you become a member of the department officially, and this means that you can access all of the resources that are available to a member of the department,” Felts says.
She names the ability to easily approach professors and, in particular, the appointment of her academic adviser as the major advantages of declaring as soon as she was sure.
“As a freshman, your adviser is anyone,” Felts says. “Often they have very little knowledge about subjects that you’re interested in or even just Harvard College in general.”
Professor Sarah T. Stewart-Mukhopadhyay, the co-director of undergraduate studies of the EPS department, agrees that this could be a key advantage of declaring early.
“To me, the one-on-one advising with someone in your area is the most important thing you gain,” Stewart-Mukhopadhyay said. “There are all sorts of events geared towards exploration and pre-concentration advising, and those can all still happen, but you do that in conjunction with advising about optimal course selection.”
Such benefits have attracted the attention of Dylan S. Freedman ’15. Freedman took Computer Science 61: “Systems Programming and Machine Organization” in the fall and says he plans to declare a concentration in computer science before the end of the year.
“I heard that the instant you declare, you’re assigned an academic adviser,” Freedman said.  “Since I’m pretty set, it makes sense to declare as early as possible.”
BUSY BEES
In addition to the personal attention, students may be tempted to declare early in order to better take advantage of the structures of their chosen department.
For example, Felts’ chosen concentration of EPS is notable for offering several features that make it especially appealing to freshmen looking to declare early. According to Stewart-Mukhopadhyay, the concentration features a rotating sequence of field trips that any primary or secondary concentrator is eligible to go on.
“Because we do our trips at the end of summer, if you aren’t declared until the middle of your first semester sophomore year, you’re not going to be eligible to go,” Stewart-Mukhopadhyay said.
According to Stewart-Mukhopadhyay, the scheduling of these trips was decided before the date to declare was pushed back to sophomore fall. It is not expressly designed to encourage freshman to declare early, though it does attract some signups.
“Our concentration is modest in size. We have single digits that sign up at the end of freshman year knowing that this is part of our concentration offerings,” Stewart-Mukhopadhyay said.
Six current sophomores declared an EPS concentration during their freshman years, a significant portion of the 41 current department affiliates—including primary, secondary, and joint concentrators—according to EPS co-director of undergraduate studies Chenoweth Moffatt.
In addition, students in math and science fields, where upper-level classes have multiple prerequisites, may find that entering a department as soon as possible opens up academic opportunities later on.
“It’s an advantage from our perspective when students take their foundation courses and math and physics courses earlier in their career,” Stewart-Mukhopadhyay said. “When someone joins our concentration a little later, they can’t take courses in the right sequence because they’re every-other-year courses, for instance. And we don’t want seniors sitting in our intro courses, because it’s not a good match.”
According to Lewis, this sequencing issue makes early declarations in the sciences, particularly engineering fields, much easier on students.
“If you decided you want to be a computer scientist in your junior year, it’s very hard to take four computer science courses your first term and get them all in that way, whereas if you decide to be an English major, you probably can decide to do it starting from ground zero in your junior year,” he says.
Though many humanities classes have fewer prerequisites, a few students in these fields still make the choice to declare early each year. Professor Stephen L. Burt, the director of undergraduate studies in the English department, wrote in an email, “English concentrators declare before the deadline all the time; sometimes freshman year.”
EAGER BEAVERS
The number of students who declare early is small, and students and professors alike acknowledge that this choice is not for everyone.
Although Felts, who is a Peer Advising Fellow, says she has talked to a few of her advisees about declaring a concentration early, she maintains that a student who is ready to declare must have several distinct characteristics.
“They have to be very self-aware and very proactive with regards to their academics,” Felts said. “They have to have shown that they’ve deeply considered their options and that they know for certain themselves that’s what their interests lie in.”
That certainty may be what keeps more students from declaring early. Though Freedman, for instance, has decided on computer science, he said that none of his friends are completely set on a concentration.
In Lewis’ view, that indecision is not necessarily intrinsic to the process of declaring but rather a result of the declaration deadline’s current placement during sophomore fall.
“There is a piece of me that thinks that Harvard students will make a decision when they have to make a decision, whether that’s freshman year, sophomore year, junior year, or senior year,” Lewis says.
—Staff writer Petey E. Menz can be reached at menz@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard presented its most detailed plan yet for the Barry’s Corner Retail and Housing Commons in Allston at the Harvard-Allston Task Force meeting on Wednesday evening.
Allston residents expressed support for several of the goals laid out by the University but said they were skeptical of Harvard’s ability to implement that vision within the “limited” space the University has proposed for the Barry’s Corner complex.
At the meeting, Gerald Autler, a senior project manager for the Boston Redevelopment Authority, listed many of the projects the University has said it will consider undertaking as it proceeds with development: expanding sidewalks, increasing vehicle and foot traffic flow, decreasing speed limits, constructing buildings with ground floors meant to engage passersby, and concentrating retail properties in a small, walkable area.
Autler compared Harvard’s vision for Barry’s Corner to several nearby urban centers, including Davis Square and Coolidge Corner.
According to Autler, the University will select a real estate development partner in June and create a planning document for Barry’s Corner by September “at the earliest.”
“The goal of this meeting was not to lay out solutions but to ask the question: ‘How do we make Barry’s Corner the place we want it to be?’” Autler said.
Autler also tried to clarify the meaning of the “institutional use” for which Harvard officials have said that several plots adjacent to Barry’s Corner will be reserved.
The vague designation caused confusion and incited criticism from several Allston residents at previous meetings.
Autler said that institutional uses can include, but are not limited to, laboratories, classrooms, departmental support spaces, and cultural spaces. He added that he thinks these uses can support the retail development of the Barry’s Corner area.
The University’s development of Barry’s Corner, which sits at the corner of Western Avenue and North Harvard Street in Allston, aligns with Harvard’s long-touted goal of creating a “main street” environment along Western Avenue.
The University first proposed this vision in 2005, but the project was delayed in 2009 when Harvard, compelled by financial constraints, put its plans for Allston on ice.
Matt Poe, a consultant from Ayer Saint Gross, the group that Harvard has contracted to help with Allston development, emphasized the University’s commitment to creating an environment that balances Harvard’s needs with those of the community.
“We need to find out a lot about the University, and we need to understand just as much about Allston,” Poe said. “We’re dedicated to preserving and strengthening the unique character of this place.”
Several Harvard-Allston Task Force members and Allston residents repeated concerns they have voiced earlier about the feasibility of the University’s vision for Barry’s Corner within the amount of space the University has currently allotted for the project.
Task Force member Brent C. Whelan ’73 said that he thinks that the University needs to dedicate more space in order to transform Barry’s Corner into a thriving “main street” environment.
“If we’re ever going to have any kind of a livable square, the parcels the University has reserved for ‘institutional use’ are going to have to be for citizens of that square—and not just portions of the University that happened to find their way across the [Charles] River,” Whelan said.
Allston resident Tim McHale said he thought that the University should consider devoting more land to the Barry’s Corner Commons.
“I’m hearing the area shrink, but I want it to be expanded out,” McHale said. “I think that there is a lot of potential to move beyond these current boundaries for Barry’s Corner. I think it would really contribute to the creation of the vibrant and lively space that we’re talking about.”
—Staff writer Mercer R. Cook can be reached at mcook@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 12, 2012, at 4:31 p.m.
Lamont Library will remain open 24/7 during reading period and final exams this semester, according to a press release issued by the Harvard College Library on Wednesday.
Interim Librarian of Harvard College Susan M. Fliss said this pilot program will determine whether or not the undergraduate library will open nonstop during exams in future semesters.
Christopher A. Devine ’13 and Seth A. Riddley ’12, Undergraduate Council representatives, began discussing the idea of 24/7 Lamont access in November, when Riddley, who works at Lamont Library, noticed an increasing number of students still in the library when it closed at 10 p.m. on Friday nights.
“When Seth told me how many students he would have to turn away and how they asked him where else they could study, I knew this was a problem,” said Devine, who heads the UC’s Student Life Committee. “People should have a place where they can study comfortably on the weekends without distractions.”
In February, the UC sent out a survey to gauge whether there was enough student interest to extend Lamont library’s hours. About 1,800 undergraduates filled it out.
UC Secretary Michael C. George, who is also a Crimson news editor, said that the survey showed that “during reading and finals period, all regular users of Lamont, including upperclassmen, wanted to extend hours.”
Council representatives then presented their findings to library staff.
“When we said that we were interested in seeing if we could run a pilot of these extended hours, everyone said that they thought this was a great idea,” Fliss said. “This shows how much the staff really cares for the students.”
She noted that the extended hours will require extra expenditures on the part of the library for costs like security personnel and utility usage.
After the pilot program, Fliss will determine in conjunction with Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds whether the program should be continued in the future. Staff will conduct hourly head counts and keep detailed reports on how students use the building. Library officials also plan to open normally inaccessible rooms in Lamont for student use.
Lamont’s hours have undergone drastic change since the 1950s, when students fought for the library to be open on Sundays. It was only in 2005 that the UC spearheaded a push that led to Lamont’s current 24/5 system.
When asked about the possibility of opening Lamont 24/7 for the entire school year, Fliss said that the library staff could consider that after the trial run.
“We’re going to see how Lamont is used during the upcoming reading period and evaluate that first,” she said. “We’ll learn from that and go from there for next year.”
—Staff writer Michelle Denise L. Ferreol can be reached at mferreol@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Practicing yoga instead of taking a traditional physical education class can be an effective way for improving the mental health of high school students, according to a recent study published in the April Journal of Developmental & Behavioral Pediatrics and co-led by a Harvard Medical School professor.
The study randomly divided 11th and 12th grade students in a suburban Massachusetts high school into yoga or regular physical education classes. At the beginning and the end of the semester, students completed questionnaires examining their levels of stress, resilience, anxiety, and anger management. The study found that these measures of emotional state tended to worsen among students taking a traditional physical education class, while the levels of those in the yoga group remained the same or improved slightly.
“If you’re looking at that comparison, between the control kids and the yoga kids, it would suggest yoga is preventative,” said Jessica J. Noggle, the study’s principal investigator and a research fellow at Brigham and Women’s Hospital.
The ability to moderate levels of stress and emotional responses is critical for students to learn at a young age, said Sat Bir S. Khalsa, one of the study’s researchers and an assistant professor at the Medical School
“Just like we need skills of English and skills of mathematics, we need skills of emotional regulation” Khalsa said. “I like to call this mind-body hygiene.”
Nicole J. Steiner, a researcher on the project, said that yoga can help students feel they have control, even when facing extreme stress and trauma,
“It’s really hard to focus on math, when you’re not sure how you’re going to get through the next day,” Steiner said.
After hearing the results of the study, students said that they were not surprised about the positive effects of practicing yoga.
“I’ve heard anecdotally from people who do yoga that it’s very helpful,” Justin K. Banerdt ’13 said. “Any sort of physical or meditative exercise is probably a good thing.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a whole week devoted to frank discussions of sex just two weeks ago, one might think that Harvard students had exhausted the subject. But an intimate gathering of fewer than ten students in Leverett Private Dining Room proved otherwise on Wednesday, as students discussed topics ranging from group sex to transgender sex to whether one prefers the word “cock” or “dick.”
The free-wheeling question and answer session led by sex educators Lyndon Cudlitz and Shana F. Natelson was part of Queer Students and Allies’ “Take Back The Night” programming, a series of events that aims to shed light on sexual assault as well as encourage healthy sexual behavior.
“We’re here to create a safe space to have a conversation about sex, about queer sex, about bringing in toys, about partners, about alcohol, about consent,” Natelson said.
The two speakers emphasized the importance of communication about sexuality, before and during the act itself. Cudlitz described her first relationship with a transgender partner, which she said taught her about how to discuss bodies when navigating sexuality and gender identity.
“Suddenly I was with this trans guy, and I needed to reform how to talk about his body,” Cudlitz said. “This was his chest, and that was not his cunt. That was something else.”
In an another anecdote, Cudlitz said she was caught off guard by the use of latex gloves when she first had no-fluid-contact sex with another woman.
“Gloves—oh, she wants me to put on a glove and fuck her. And that was not part of my experience at all,” Cudlitz said.
The sex educators distributed lubricant and latex and non-latex gloves for the students to inspect during the conversation.
They also spoke about active rather than passive consent to sexual acts.
“So much of consent is the ‘yes’ side of it and not the lack of a ‘no,’” Natelson said. “If you want someone to grab your breast or to get a bottle of lube or to play around with butt-play—feel comfortable asking for that.”
Students at the event could ask questions anonymously by texting their inquiries to Natelson’s phone number. “It was a way to get substantive questions out of the way without note cards,” said Kenneth Mai ’15. “It made it much less obvious and much more discreet.”
Student questions ranged from the appropriate time for broaching the subject of group sex in a monogamous relationship to the correct amount of lubrication to use while having sex.
Though the discussion focused on queer sex, Mai said that he thought the event’s topics was relevant for everyone.
“Even if this information isn’t applicable to yourself or your life, it’s applicable to someone else that you will know,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
What started as one House’s lighthearted prank to meddle with the mascot selection of another House has escalated into a College-wide fray—The Great House War of 2012.
Prompted by Adams’ initial declaration of war against Currier Monday night, several other Houses have entered alliances. No casualties have yet been reported.
House Committee members scurried throughout Wednesday to organize emergency meetings to prepare their Houses for the imminent combat. While some upperclassmen are gearing up for battle, many freshman, who are not yet integrated into House life, said the launch of The Great House War of 2012 seems rather juvenile.
Zachary P. Fletcher ’15, an incoming Adams sophomore, said he is slightly annoyed by all the emails that have been flooding his inbox.
“It’s fun—but also immature,” Fletcher said. “This is something that would happen in middle school.”
Emmanuel Figueroa ’15, a future Matherite, said, “It was the hot topic of the night [among my freshmen friends], and we all thought it was really silly.”
But when he discussed the details of The Great House War of 2012 with his mother last night, she did not understand what was so funny.
Despite the contentious nature of any war, both Figueroa and Fletcher said that the conflict could bring students together.
“At the moment, I feel distant from the House because I’m an incoming sophomore,” Fletcher said. “But if it’s done well, I guess it is a good way to create community.”
On Tuesday night, Cabot announced its solidarity with the other Quad Houses, officially entering the war against Adams alongside Pforzheimer, which had already announced its support for the threatened Currierites.
Calling the actions of Adams “ruthless and unacceptable,” the Cabot declaration extolled “the strength of the Tree, the ferocity of the Pfolar Bear, and the nimbleness of the Fish” in the fight for justice.
Samuel Q. Singer ’13, who helped draft Cabot’s declaration, said that Cabot is a willing ally of Currier, since Adams “often assumes an elitist attitude.”
“Adams overreacted to the prank that Currier played,” Singer said. “The behavior of [Adams] overall is sometimes unreasonable.”
Winthrop followed Wednesday by announcing a separate engagement against Lowell for denying Winthrop residents access to the Lowell back gate, waking them up with its “cacophonous bells every Sunday,” and assaulting the eyes of visitors with its yellow-painted dining hall, according to the statement.
The declaration demanded that Lowell open its back gate to Winthrop, Eliot, and Leverett students and limit its bell ringing to 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. on Sundays.
Winthrop implicitly sided with Adams in the conflict between Adams and Currier, announcing its alliance to “other River Houses seeking to end this injustice and foster a community that unites all Houses regardless of gate configurations.”
In response to Winthrop’s attack, Lowell House co-Masters Dorothy A. Austin and Diana L. Eck sent an email to the residents of Lowell declaring theirs a peaceful House.
“Lowell Love will not respond to words of aggression and needless distractions from the beauty of the season,” Austin and Eck wrote. “In the spirit of Gandhi, we respond: ‘Nonviolence is the first article of my faith. It is also the last article of my creed.’”
The email stated Lowell’s refusal to yield and “open the gate to such threats of war.”
—Staff writer Jane Seo can be reached at janeseo@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger ’50 returned to his alma mater Wednesday to tell stories of negotiating with China’s Mao Tse-tung and of secretly harboring a cocker spaniel, Smoky, in his Claverly dorm room. Kissinger’s speech in Sanders Theatre was part of Harvard’s year-long 375th anniversary celebration.
University President Drew G. Faust introduced Kissinger as one of “Harvard’s most legendary graduates.”
Kissinger—who served as National Security adviser and Secretary of State during the Richard M. Nixon and Gerald Ford administrations and received the 1973 Nobel Peace Prize—recalled his first two weeks at Harvard, when he slept in bunk beds in a gymnasium provided for students of the over-enrolled Class of 1950 whom the dorms could not accommodate. Kissinger was later a member of Adams House.
Kissinger established a close relationship with a tutor, William Y. Elliott, who sparked his ardent interest in Kantian ethics, a background he said was influential in his later thinking.
“In philosophy class, you deal with morality,” he said. “In statesmanship, you deal with nuances.”
Kissinger, who also received a Masters, Ph.D., and law degree from Harvard and taught at the University for 15 years, said Wednesday that although academics and political actors may examine the same issues, they do so from different vantage points.
He explained that writers and professors have a perspective informed by their ability to choose topics at their discretion and change their opinions over time.
In contrast, statesmen must act quickly and irrevocably.
Looking back on his actions as Secretary of State, Kissinger, now 89 years old, said he wonders whether he would now be a better Secretary of State.
“I don’t have a satisfactory answer,” he said.
While he believes that he now has a more balanced view of the world, he said he has lost some of the self-confidence that is necessary for the job.
“You don’t get rewarded for your doubts,” he said.
Despite Faust’s warm introduction, not all attendees were pleased that Kissinger had been invited to speak.
As Kissinger began his remarks, an audience member yelled “war criminal” and “shame on Harvard” before he was escorted out by Harvard University Police Department officers.
Outside of Sanders Theatre, several people protested Kissinger’s appearance.
Joseph F. Kebartas, a member of the nonprofit organization Veterans for Peace, said that he was protesting in an attempt to make the Harvard community aware of numerous crimes that Kissinger has committed.
“It’s hard to believe Harvard would put him up to such high esteem and invite him to speak,” Kebartas said.
However, other attendees said that they did not object to the event.
“I don’t think that there is a moral problem in inviting him to speak or that Harvard did anything wrong by doing so,” said Elvira A. M. Sihvola ’14.
—Staff writer Alyza J. Sebenius can be reached at asebenius@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
MEDFORD, Mass.—Court proceedings in the case against Bradley J. Spencer, a former Harvard teaching fellow who has pleaded not guilty to the charge of sexually assaulting a woman on an MBTA train in December, will resume in June.
Spencer appeared in Cambridge District Court on Wednesday morning.
His lawyer, Charles Rankin, asked for a continuance on the grounds that he would like Spencer to receive as much psychological treatment as possible before going to trial. The judge granted Rankin’s request.
At the compliance hearing on Wednesday, Rankin told the judge that his client has been in “sexual treatment” since shortly after his arrest. According to Rankin, Spencer has seen a doctor once a week in a one-on-one setting and once a week in a group setting.
Rankin declined The Crimson’s request for comment.
The alleged assault was reported by a 32-year-old Cambridge resident in December. According to reports of the victim’s statement, a man who was later identified as Spencer was standing unusually close to her on the MBTA when she felt something push against her crotch. She then saw Spencer’s hand close to her crotch.
The victim snapped a picture of the offender with her cell phone and reported the incident to the police after she exited the T.
After his arraignment in December, Spencer was briefly incarcerated and then released on bail, which was first set at $1,000 but then raised to $5,000.
His bail came with the condition that he wear an electronic monitor bracelet and refrain from using the MBTA and other forms of public transportation.
After the incident was reported last winter, Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Jeff Neal reported that Spencer, a graduate student in Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, would not take classes or work as a teaching fellow during the spring semester.
“Generally speaking, in cases where a student has been accused of a serious crime, that student is often asked to leave campus during the course of the investigation and legal proceedings, pending their outcome,” Neal wrote in an email following the December hearing.
Spencer is scheduled to appear in court again for a motion hearing on June 20.
—Julia K. Dean contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Amy Q. Friedman can be reached at afriedman@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith has convened an advisory committee to begin the search for a new permanent dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.
Since Allan M. Brandt’s decision in February to step down from the position due to health concerns, the advisory committee—which includes faculty from both FAS and the professional schools who have been involved in graduate education—has already met several times, according to FAS spokesperson Paul B. Massari.
Still, those with knowledge of the proceedings have remained tight-lipped about the search process. And many faculty members—including a number of directors of graduate studies—said they do not know who is on the committee, nor how many times it has met.
“In terms of progress reports, the committee is still very much in the information gathering stage,” Massari wrote in an email.
But he added that the committee has also begun to consider nominations submitted by Administrative Dean of GSAS Margot Gill, the FAS academic deans, the deans of Harvard’s professional schools, and other members of the community.
“We’re going to try to get this done as quickly as possible,” Smith said, although he added that no deadline has been set for announcing the new appointment.
Armed with input from across the University, Smith said that FAS has chosen not to hire an external search firm to assist in finding a new dean. Instead, Smith said, the committee is relying mostly on internal expertise to appoint Brandt’s successor from within Harvard’s own ranks.
“We’re looking for someone who recognizes that our Ph.D. program is broader than just at the graduate school,” Smith said. “And we’re looking for someone who looks out for the graduate students and what their needs are.”
Brandt announced that he would step down almost two months ago in an email addressed to his colleagues in GSAS. While he does plan to return to teaching as soon as possible, he will not resume his role as dean, according to Smith.
“We miss Allan Brandt terribly and we wish him the best. He did an incredible job as the Dean of GSAS and he’s a model of the person who we would like to come to GSAS,” Smith said.
—Staff writer Radhika Jain can be reached at radhikajain@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Kevin J. Wu can be reached at kwu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Researchers at Harvard Medical School have developed a new web-based diagnostic procedure to identify autism more quickly, an advance that they hope will allow clinicians to provide better care to their patients.
Dennis P. Wall, the lead researcher on the project, said that previous approaches to diagnosing autism were often flawed and took hours to perform. Wall said he sought to develop a new method that would be more efficient and easier for families.
“Clinical observation requires a clinical setting and the room can be artificial, which affects the behavior of the child,” Wall said.
Wall’s method requires parents to answer seven targeted questions and to record a home video of the child that is then examined by an analyst. According to Wall, the home environment is a more natural setting for the child, and videotaping enables families who live in rural areas or may not have easy access to clinical facilities to receive a diagnosis more quickly.
Wall said that many of his colleagues agree that the stress placed on families during the diagnostic process is unnecessary and harmful to the child.
“Some people have to wait months for diagnosis and their children miss the chance for better treatment,” Wall said. “Also it is not until after diagnosis that the families receive compensation for the care which can amount to thousands of dollars.”
Wall used the Autism Genetic Resource Exchange’s database, one of the largest data sets of autism-related behaviors and genetic information, to generate his questionnaire.
Using the database allowed Wall to craft questions based on thousands of previous cases, reducing the possibility of bias and variability between clinicians, he said.
While the project has received some criticism from others in the field, Wall emphasized that the test is not meant for parents to self-diagnose their child. The test is intended to be used to support clinicians in their practice, and should not be used by non-professionals.
“It would be a dangerous idea to put something online as a definite diagnostic test,” Wall said. “It is meant to be a clinical tool and not [strictly] diagnostic.”
The next phase of the project includes making the test widely available, which will require further testing and additional funding.
“We want to work with clinical colleagues to validate it and help design a better mobilized framework,” said Wall. “We hope it will give valuable information to clinicians.”
—Staff writer Armaghan N. Behlum can be reached at behlum@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If you’re a sports fan, you loved last week’s Harvard Sports Trivia Challenge.  But looking back at the Challenge, we here at The Back Page decided we went a little too easy on you. Here are some trivia questions for the most ardent Crimson supporters.
Check back tomorrow for the answers.
1. What two countries’ national teams will the Harvard men’s soccer team be playing this month?
2. When was the last time Harvard men's hockey team won the Beanpot and who was its opponent in the finals?
3. When the Harvard women’s basketball team made history this year by becoming the first team in the Ivy League to record a win in the WNIT, who was its opponent?
4. When was the last time the Harvard men’s volleyball team had as many wins as it currently has and how many is that?
5. Which three schools among all NCAA Div. I men’s swimming and diving programs ranked above the Crimson for combined GPA?
6. Who is the only quarterback from Harvard to ever go on to play in the NFL, and what team does he currently play for?
7. Who was the last Crimson skier (before Rebecca Nadler) to win a college Carnival? (Nadler was the first alpine skier but a nordic skier beat her to it).
8. In which sport was women's hockey coach Katey Stone named an All American in college?
9. Which Harvard basketball player was selected in the forth round of the 1973 NBA Draft?
10. Which female Harvard athlete was the first Ivy Leaguer in history to win an NCAA individual title and in which sport?
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For those fans anxiously anticipating Jeremy Lin ’10’s return to the hardwood, the wait just got a little longer.
According to an interview that Lin gave on Sunday night, the second-year NBA guard now expects to remain on the inactive list at least through the first round of the playoffs—if the Knicks make it that far.
"I think unless something goes really well I wouldn't get there," Lin said. "All the doctors are saying this is normal.... [It’s only a]fter about 1.5 to two weeks is when you can see how well you're doing."
Lin hopes to begin running by early next week, a standard step on the way to recovery from the knee surgery he underwent last week. One thing the Knicks and Lin are definitely not doing, though, is rushing through the recuperation process.
"I want to get to 100 percent and then come back [and] hopefully see what I can do,” Lin explained.
So to all those Lin-thusiasts out there, all there’s left to do is sit tight and root for the Knicks to make it through the opening stages of the postseason. Only then, as we have just learned, would it be possible for a potential revival of February’s Linsanity.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s lacrosse team took control of its midweek contest right from the get-go, starting the game with five unanswered goals on the way to a commanding victory over Holy Cross, 10-4, Wednesday night at Harvard Stadium. Co-captain Melanie Baskind led a balanced offensive effort for the Crimson, tallying her fourth hattrick of the season and 12th of her career.
Harvard entered Wednesday night’s game on the tail of its best offensive mark of the season—16 goals in a win over Brown on Saturday. But despite six different players getting on the scoreboard, the Harvard team saw a lot of room for improvement.
“This wasn’t our best performance,” said junior attacker Jennifer VanderMeulen, who scored two goals for the Crimson. “We didn’t capitalize on the little things. We had some turnovers and weren’t finishing our shots. Holy Cross is a good team. We really wanted to come out with a strong win but ended up beating ourselves in a lot of aspects.”
With the win over the Crusaders (6-7, 2-2 Patriot League), Harvard (6-6, 2-2 Ivy) improved to .500 on the season and gained momentum as it heads into its final stretch of conference games.
Harvard outshot Holy Cross, 19-4, in the first half.
Baskind put the Crimson on the board first when she slid a shot past Holy Cross goalie Sarah Weber just over three minutes into the contest.
Harvard then proceeded to work the ball around but failed to finish off a number of attacks with shots bouncing wide of the net.
“We have been focusing a lot this year on possession,” VanderMeulen said. “When we have the ball, the other team obviously can’t score. We have been working on having the ball, possessing the ball, and taking quality shots. We did get off quality shots; we just weren’t able to finish them.”
Crimson sophomore Chelsey Newman was able to break the scoring drought with 18:45 remaining in the first half. After Newman’s defender fell down, she crossed in front of the net and fired a shot past Weber’s left shoulder, giving Harvard a 2-0 advantage.
Junior Danielle Tetreault scored the next goal, finishing off a free position opportunity. Tetreault cut in between multiple defenders as she attacked the net and put one away on the top right side of the goal.
Freshman Jamie Potter was also able to capitalize on a free position with a score before Baskind added her second goal of the game. The latter gave Harvard a 5-0 lead with 8:17 left in the half.
Junior Maddie Carrellas broke the Crusaders shutout when she was able to cut in front of her defender from the right side of the field. The junior then ripped a shot past Crimson goalie Kelly Weis to close out halftime with Harvard up by four. But according to VanderMuelen, Harvard was not satisfied with its play in the first half.
“We were up, and you think you would be pleased with that, but we weren’t really playing our game,” VanderMeulen said. “We felt like we needed to step up on both sides of the field [in the second half].”
VanderMuelen and the Crimson did pick up their game after halftime. The junior attacker scored two goals in the first 4:30 of the frame.
“For me, I wasn’t shooting well [in the first half], and I knew it wasn’t helping my team at all,” VanderMeulen said. “I felt like I had to step up. I’m an attacker, and that’s what I do. I had to put the ball away.”
Harvard was able to stretch its lead to 9-1 before giving up three goals to the Crusaders in the final 10 minutes of the game.
“We are still trying to put 60 minutes together,” Baskind said. “We are shooting a lot more which is a good thing and is something we have been looking to do. But our shot placement is not there yet. We need to put these games away a lot earlier instead of making it interesting in the second half.”
The Crimson will get a chance to build on its two decisive victories when it takes on a strong Princeton team on Saturday at home.
“The focus is on Princeton now,” Baskind said. “Princeton is a great team. We are going to see their best, and we hope to give them ours.”
—Staff writer Cameron Dowd can be reached at camerondowd14@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite a strong start by sophomore righthander Baron Davis, the Harvard baseball team fell to Northeastern, 9-4, on Wednesday at Friedman Diamond in Brookline, Mass., as the bullpen was unable to contain the Huskies’ hitters in the late stages of the game.
Paced by seven strong innings from freshman Nick Berger, Northeastern (13-15, 3-9 CAA) limited Harvard (6-23, 2-6 Ivy) hitters for much of the contest. But after what looked to be a pitchers’ duel early on, the Huskies’ offense took advantage of shaky performances by Crimson relievers, scoring eight runs in the final three innings.
Berger kept the Crimson bats quiet through the first two frames, allowing just a second-inning double to freshman first baseman Nick Saathoff. But leading off in the third, fellow rookie centerfielder Mike Martin lofted a solo home run to left center for the first run of the game, giving Harvard the early advantage.
Davis similarly shut down Northeastern in the early going, as the Huskies’ batters didn’t hit a ball out of the infield in the first three innings.
“I was just trying to throw strikes and hit my spots,” Davis said.
In the fourth, a two-out rally by the home team tied the game at one, as shortstop Oliver Hart followed Jason Vosler’s double with an opposite field RBI single.
The Crimson nearly regained the lead in the top of the sixth, when senior second baseman Jeff Reynolds led off the inning by lacing a double to the gap in left center. Following a strikeout by sophomore left fielder Jack Colton, sophomore catcher Steven Dill grounded a single up the middle, and Reynolds was waved around third. But a strong, one-hop throw from Northeastern centerfielder Connor Lyons beat Reynolds to the plate, and catcher John Puttress managed to hang on to the ball in the ensuing collision, preserving the tie for the Huskies.
“It was a close game,” Martin said. “You pretty much have to send him and make the defense make a good play.”
But Northeastern’s offense woke up in the bottom half of the inning. Harvard freshman righthander Jacob Kremers relieved Davis but was unable to find the strike zone, walking the first two batters he faced before Vosler hit an RBI single just under Saathoff’s glove to give the Huskies the lead, 2-1.
The Crimson then went back to the bullpen, bringing in junior Danny Moskovits to face sophomore Oliver Hart, but the Northeastern shortstop cleared the bases with a three-run home run down the left field line, padding the Huskies’ advantage.
Leading off the bottom of the seventh, Northeastern right fielder Dylan Barbosa extended the lead, sending a solo home run just over the fence in right center, one of his four hits on the day.
“[Our relievers] couldn’t throw strikes,” Davis said. “They looked nervous. They haven’t had a whole bunch of innings, and they’re good players, but they just didn’t have their stuff today. [Northeastern] started hitting the ball better, but the walks opened the floodgates.”
Harvard mustered some offense of its own in the eighth, leading off the inning with a single and two doubles, the last of which, a Colton double to left center, plated two runners and ended Berger’s day. With two outs, sophomore Jake McGuiggan drove Colton home with a soft single to center off of reliever Dylan Maki to narrow the deficit to two runs.
“We felt like we were hitting their pitcher a lot better and squaring up his fastball,” Martin said. “We all thought we were going to come back and win the game.”
But the Huskies responded immediately with another big inning, tallying three more runs off the Crimson bullpen after a flurry of singles.
“They flat out just outhit us,” Martin said. “It’s not like we beat ourselves. They just kept piling on the hits. We scored runs, but we just didn’t compound them like they did.”
Northeastern’s late offensive outburst spoiled Davis’ solid outing, in which he scattered four hits and walked one batter in his five innings of work, recording four strikeouts. His fastball, clocked in the low 90s during the game, kept the Wildcats’ hitters off balance.
“[Davis] got ahead of almost every hitter,” Martin said. “He wasn’t missing up, only missing down. He was just throwing strikes, and they weren’t catching up to his fastball. When runners got on base, he minimized the damage.”
Berger allowed four earned runs, nine hits, and struck out seven in his seven innings. But three of those runs came in the seventh inning, when Northeastern had already built a five-run lead that ultimately proved to be insurmountable.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Four weeks after the Harvard men’s basketball team’s loss to Vanderbilt in its NCAA tournament opener, many Crimson fans are already looking ahead to Harvard’s follow-up performance this coming March.
With Crimson coach Tommy Amaker still at the helm and another solid crop of recruits coming in, Harvard should coast to its second straight NCAA tournament berth, right? Well, not exactly.
Here are three reasons why Crimson fans should hold off on booking hotel reservations for the 2013 NCAA tournament:
1. THE LOSSES OF OLIVER MCNALLY AND KEITH WRIGHT
Oliver McNally put up modest numbers as a senior (7.3 ppg, 3.1 apg) but the senior’s impact is not something that can be easily quantified. Harvard’s unquestioned vocal leader for the past two seasons, McNally also played an important role on the Crimson’s offense as its second point guard. As a senior, McNally finished second in the Ivy League in assist-turnover ratio and was a reliable ball handler and free-throw shooter in late-game situations. With freshman point guard Corbin Miller also leaving the Crimson for his mission for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Harvard will need another ball handler to emerge to aid junior point guard Brandyn Curry.
Keith Wright’s numbers were down this past season compared to his junior campaign (10.7 ppg and 8.1 rpg versus 14.8 and 6.3), but the forward’s importance to the Crimson remained paramount. As Amaker often remarked over the past two seasons, Harvard has been a team that likes to play inside-out. On offense, the Crimson looked to dump the ball into the paint and let Wright either go to work or kick it out to one of Harvard’s shooters. So even when the 6’8” forward wasn’t putting up big numbers, he remained the focal point of the team’s offense. It goes without saying, but it was Wright’s ability to score with his back to the basket that made the Crimson’s offense functional.
With Wright gone, Harvard will not only miss his 10.7 points per game, but it will also miss its only legitimate low-post, back-to-the-basket threat. So unless freshman Steve Moundou-Missi or one of the Crimson’s newcomers emerges to fill that role, Harvard will likely need to adjust its offense, something easier said than done.
That being said, the Crimson has had success altering its offensive strategy in the recent past. After the graduation of Jeremy Lin ’10, Harvard slowed down its offense (the Crimson averaged 68.8 possessions per 40 minutes during the 2009-10 season versus 64.4 possessions per 40 minutes during the 2010-11 campaign), but the Crimson’s efficiency barely took a dip. It remains to be seen whether another seamless transition will take place this time around.
2. THE DEPTH OF THE IVY LEAGUE
If there’s one thing that Harvard fans should have learned this past season, it’s that the Ivy League is no cakewalk. Even with the Ivy League’s most talented roster, the Crimson struggled to come away with wins in conference play, falling to Penn and Princeton and besting Cornell and Columbia by just four and five points, respectively.
With All-Ivy honorable mention Johnathan Gray and 2012 Ivy League Rookie of the Year Shonn Miller returning, Cornell will pose a threat, as will Brown, which returns second-team All-Ivy guard Sean McGonagill and former All-Ivy honorable mention Tucker Halpern.
As the Crimson saw this past season, just a pair of Ivy slip-ups could put the team’s NCAA tournament chances in serious jeopardy.
3. PRINCETON
Just like Will Ferrell’s character in “The Spy Who Shagged Me,” Princeton just never seems to die. Even after graduating Kareem Maddox—the Ivy League’s best defender—and Dan Mavraides—the guard with a sweet jumper who Harvard fans loved to hate—in 2011, the Tigers still managed to finish 10-4 in the Ivy League and to knock off the Crimson at Jadwin Gymnasium for the 23rd straight season.
And with Ivy League Player of the Year frontrunner Ian Hummer returning, Princeton is in a great position to not only extend that streak to 24 but also to pick up its 27th Ancient Eight crown.
The Tigers will need to replace the scoring of senior shooting guard Doug Davis and the minutes of senior forward Patrick Saunders, but, compared to Penn and Harvard, Princeton loses significantly less.
That’s scary news for the Quakers and Crimson, both of whom fell to the third-place Tigers this past season. Until Harvard can prove it can best Princeton on the road, Crimson fans shouldn’t pencil their team into the bracket quite yet.
—Staff writer Martin Kessler can be reached at martin.kessler@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Pink flamingos are not just yard decorations anymore.
That's first thing that you notice, perched on top of a lamp, when you walk into the dorm room of Felipe A. S. Da Cruz '15, Ryan P. Furey '15, Raja F. Ghawi '15, James P. Hogan '15, and Kevin S. Hu '15. This adornment is not the only unique item to be found in this fifth floor Weld quint.
"Our room is eclectic," Hogan said. With strands of lights, a funky boom box in the corner, an oriental rug, and a lobster trap box as a table, the common room holds an assortment of objects, each of which tells a story. For example, you may notice the life vest hanging off of a lamp in the corner of the common room. According to Ghawi, it just happened to get "mixed-up" with his luggage during a flight on Air Egypt.
When asked to describe their room, Ghawi simply said, "It's somewhat as random as we are."
The spacious common room acts purely as a living room area with no beds or desks. "We wanted to create an atmosphere where people feel comfortable just coming in here, doing work, and hanging out," Hogan said. The roommates even put up sections of whiteboard on which people can write messages and do homework. To further make the room an inviting social space, they take advantage of Weld's hallways and leave their door propped open.
In addition to the eclectic décor, what further distinguishes this room apart is that it was once home to Ben S. Bernanke '75. In reference to the room's diverse furnishings Hogan said, "We hope that Ben would be proud."
Inspired? The residents shared some advice on room styling. While your room might not have acclaimed past residents, it never hurts to leave behind an interior design legacy. Maybe, someday, you'll be famous.
Tips:
1. "Don't let your living room become a science experiment," Da Cruz noted about the room's attempt to make a table-trash can out of a cardboard box, which turned into a rotting mess.
2. And on that note, "Try to take the trash out at least once every other week," Ghawi said.
Sections
A fifth House has joined the Adams-Currier Conflict: in a signed statement, Cabot House announced its alliance with Currier.
In the statement, Cabot asserted that "We, the people of Cabot, will not stand for such injustices and must act to impede this infringement upon our Faust given and unalienable Rights, among these being Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness."
In what is so far the harshest retribution yet taken by the alliance, Cabot imposed strict dining restrictions on Adams House residents, prohibiting them from eating on Tuesdays between 1:30 and 2 p.m.
"Let it be known to the Harvard body that Cabot House, the Heart of the Quad, will not stand for Houses that act dishonorably. Quarter will not be provided to those who wish harm against our brothers and our sisters."
Cabot's entry into the alliance is not altogether unprecedented; Cabot memorably placed dead fish on the doors of many Kirkland residents after allying itself with Mather House in defense of Adams House during the 2004 war.
Stay tuned to Flyby for updates as they happen.
Sections
More than a month since the last "From the Tip Box" article, a great deal has happened in the world of Flyby's email account. This past month saw Housing Day and the rankings leading up to Housing Day, which inspired a number of Tip Box comments. Still, some continued to unknowingly use the tool as a search engine and others tried to search only to realize seconds later the error of their ways (see March 28.) All in all, we saw a good balance of innocent searches, Flyby-directed comments, and useful, if not strange, animal-related tips. Below, a selection.
March 5: z
March 5: abc
March 5: drew faust love child
March 6: you want something to put in you "tipbox" column? How about FUCK YOU? -love, the quad
March 7: post ze kirkland house review!!!! do it nowww
March 14: no more articles about pants. makes no sense. not news
March 17: please could you post some pictures of SNAKES
March 22: manners
March 27: tip
March 28 (3:42 p.m.): liquor
March 28 (3:42 p.m.): ah fuck.
March 30: Luck of the Irish
April 4: Check out that huge clam, and dozens of amazing never before displayed shells, newly on display at Harvard Museum of Natural History!  It's even free to Harvard ID holders and a friend!
April 12: 1
Sections
At 12:01 a.m. on Thursday, following Adams House's failure to rescind its Declaration against Currier House, Mather House's mysterious leader, know only by the alias "General Mistie," released a formal Declaration of War against Adams House.
"In accord with the Decree to Save the Tree, Mather House hereby declares war on Adams to protect the security and rights of Currier and its other Quad allies, and the Harvard housing system," the Declaration read.
It is currently unclear how Mather plans to defend Currier, which is more than a mile away from Mather.  The two are the most distant Houses on campus.
Mather issued seven demands to Adams, including reparations in the form of Brain Break, forfeit of intramural athletics, swipe access to Adams dining hall for Mather and its allies, and requiring "Call Me Mather" be played in the Adams dining hall at least once every dinner.
"We enter this war with a heavy heart.  It has been 8 years since Mather has taken up arms," the Declaration read, "but sometimes we must take drastic measures to ensure lasting peace."
"Mather currently has no comment on the Winthrop-Lowell conflict," according to the Declaration.
Stay tuned to Flyby for updates as they happen.
