News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At some point during your childhood, you were taught this rhyme. Almost every American knows the story of Christopher Columbus, the man who (sort of) discovered America. It is a fun story to teach children: A dashing Italian explorer wanted to prove that the world was round and bumped into the West Indies when he was looking for a route to India. More than 500 years later, his journey still graces our everyday lives with the annual Columbus Day holiday that is observed at Harvard.
But there is a lot more to the Christopher Columbus story than the PG version that American children are routinely taught in school. Although a three day weekend at the beginning of October is a well-timed holiday for many students struggling to cope with work, Christopher Columbus has left a negative legacy for many Americans. If we are to have a holiday, it should not be set aside to “celebrate” the actions of Christopher Columbus. Harvard, along with other universities, should consider re-naming the holiday “Indigenous Peoples Day.”
Although Columbus can be credited for generating European interest in establishing settlements in the Americas, he committed multiple atrocities after landing in and taking up the governorship of Hispaniola, the island today made up by the Dominican Republic and Haiti. Columbus and his men used the indigenous Taino people as sex slaves, and Columbus commonly rewarded his men by giving them young local women to rape. Columbus also sold the Taino as slaves to other parts of the world, and the Spanish arrival on the island quickly was quickly followed by the decimation of the Taino population. Whether this was the result of imported disease, famine, or the direct consequences of Spanish oppression remains a matter of historical debate. Suffice it to say, many Americans feel aggrieved that a man who was responsible for beginning a process of tremendous suffering and death for an indigenous population of the Americas is still accorded the honor of a federal holiday.
Columbus Day, as has been pointed out in The Atlantic, began as an effort to emphasize the diversity of American society. In the late 19th century, when newly arrived Italian immigrants suffered from discrimination on account of their dark skin and Catholicism, Columbus—Cristoforo Colombo as he is known in his country of birth—came to be celebrated as a symbol for a blossoming Italian-American heritage. He quickly became pitted against Leif Erikson, the 11th century Viking explorer who landed in Newfoundland and favored choice of Gilded Age America’s WASP ruling class. Columbus Day hence became a tool for new European immigrants to the U.S. to demand acceptance and recognition. As we can observe today, Cristoforo beat Leif in claiming the prime spot in our national imagination.
In 2012, however, the original purpose of this holiday is clearly outdated. Continuing to honor Columbus seems something of an insult to the many atrocities committed against Native Americans across North America since 1498. What’s more, the holiday’s current name will always help to sustain the insidious suggestion that Europeans discovered America. Harvard should follow the footsteps of Berkeley, Calif., and re-name the holiday “Indigenous Peoples Day.” We applaud the vigil hosted by Native Americans at Harvard to commemorate indigenous cultures on this year’s Columbus Day, and encourage Harvard itself to begin hosting an annual campus-wide vigil in 2013. This would not just help raise awareness of the historical abuse of Native Americans and make clear that we do not consider Columbus to have discovered America. By showing appreciation for Harvard’s diverse student body, this rename would also better serve the original goals of Columbus Day itself.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I was in a collared shirt and khaki shorts, but I was woefully underdressed compared to everyone else. No, I had not been transported to Downton Abbey, but as I arrived at the Harvard Hillel for Shabbos dinner during Visitas, I felt like I had stepped into a time machine. Orthodox and Ultra-Orthodox Jews in severe three-piece suits and sideburns dominated. I cast about for a minute, looking for a place to sit, glancing to find another member of my endangered species: a Reform or Conservative Jew.
My experience speaks to an unsettling truth about contemporary Judaism in the United States: While more and more secular Jews abandon any form of religious observance, the Orthodox population is exploding, leading to the marginalization of the once-robust Reform and Conservative movements and the upending of traditional notions of Jewish identity.
Nowhere is this more apparent than in New York where the results of a new study of the tri-state area’s Jewish population portend a sea change. According to the survey, conducted by the United Jewish Appeal, the Jewish population in New York rose to 1.5 million, the first increase in decades. This rise was driven by a spike in the numbers of the fecund Orthodox community, which now comprise 40 percent of New York Jews and 74 percent of the under-18 demographic.
Our faith is about the only thing Reform and Conservative Jews share with the Orthodox, and what the Orthodox stand for is anathema to us. For secular Jews, Jewishness has long been centered on culture, bagels, Yiddishisms, loud arguments, and impassioned liberalism taking precedence over the synagogue. The Orthodox are obviously more devout. However, the most crucial difference between the three streams of Judaism is that the Orthodox, particularly the ultra-Orthodox, tend to see themselves as American Jews while their Reform and Conservative counterparts view themselves as Jewish Americans. This dissonance can be traced back to Reform’s founding document, The Pittsburgh Platform, which in 1885 famously declared, “We consider ourselves no longer a nation, but a religious community.” Consequently, the Orthodox busy themselves more with medieval concepts like mesirah—a prohibition on ratting out Jews to secular authorities—than with tikkun olam—the Jewish idea of social justice.
When the Ultra-Orthodox engage in the electoral process, they are rarely concerned with the welfare of the body politic; in fact, in their parochial zeal, they often hurt the communities in which they hold office. Witness the case of the East Ramapo Central School District in Rockland County, New York, where seven of the nine board members are Orthodox Jews, although the public school population is 85 percent Hispanic or black. As recently documented in The New York Times, the Orthodox board members, none of whom have children enrolled in the East Ramapo system, have drawn the ire of public school parents, who sent a letter to the state education department requesting five of the board members’ removal after the board members attempted to sell off public school property to yeshivas at below-market prices.
Some have tried to draw sharp distinctions between the East Ramapo and Williamsburg crowd and the “Modern Orthodox.” Those differences are cosmetic, not ideological—the Grover Norquist snarl to the Paul Ryan smile. There’s nothing modern about keeping men and women separated at prayer services, or preventing women from singing Torah. There’s nothing modern about embracing strict interpretations of Jewish law. There’s nothing modern about having an all-Hebrew prayer book; the Vatican, one of progress’ most prominent bogeymen, long ago abandoned the Tridentine Mass.
Reform, meanwhile, has drifted away from the Pittsburgh Platform, which, in a Lutheran spirit, de-emphasized ritual and elevated faith. One 90-year-old cousin of mine, when he feels so inclined, relates tales of his synagogue days. He wasn’t bar mitzvahed; he was confirmed. He didn’t wear a yarmulke. His temple’s prayer service had more English in it than mine does, and at congregational luncheons shellfish and pork were on the menu.
Today, the revolutionary spark is gone, and previously junked practices like keeping kosher and observing the Sabbath are coming back into vogue. Undoubtedly, this is due in part to the Holocaust and the establishment of the state of Israel. But embracing anachronisms won’t stanch the bleeding, and it certainly won’t get more secular Jews into Hillel.
Daniel J. Solomon ’16, a Crimson editorial comper, lives in Matthews Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When I arrived at Harvard, I did not appreciate the need for a group known as True Love Revolution. Yet, I did not know what it represented or the important role it served on campus by endorsing premarital abstinence and sexual integrity, upholding the institution of marriage and the family, and advocating true feminism. The group, which was formed in 2006, introduced a view regarding sex-related issues that often goes unheard. While these topics are incredibly salient in college, I was amazed by how often they are presented in a way that ignored the moral dimension of human sexuality.  This concern stimulated my interest in the group and motivates my involvement today.
This semester, the True Love Revolution seeks to continue the conversation, but we have renamed ourselves The Harvard College Anscombe Society. We have named ourselves after Elizabeth Anscombe, a Cambridge professor and celebrated British philosopher of the 20th century. In her work, Anscombe defended many principles shared by our organization, including chastity and the importance of marriage and the family. Inspired by her intellectually rigorous support for the group’s beliefs and by her witness to those values as a wife and mother, our group has renamed itself in her honor. The Anscombe Society joins other universities such as Princeton, Providence College, University of Texas, University of Pittsburgh, and Stanford in honoring Anscombe’s legacy. Although our group’s platform remains unchanged, our new name highlights the philosophical foundation and intellectual mission of our group.
Over the past six years, we have noticed that too often, “consent” is upheld as the only standard for determining what behavior is acceptable.  There is very little discussion of whether or not any choices are morally good or right, depriving students of an important lens by which to judge their own behavior. Thus the rejection of the notion that our sexual choices have a significant moral component seriously harms our peers. We believe that the views we espouse are not only morally true in the abstract, but also better choices for a health and fulfilling life. Thus, we have taken our role in presenting our views seriously, through such means as guest speakers, editorials, and debates. We have also found creative ways to spread our message, such as the Valentine’s Day campaign in which the True Love Revolution distributed chocolate kisses to freshmen with a note that said, “Why wait? Because you’re worth it.”  This semester, we have invited Karin Agness, the president and founder of the Network of Enlightened Women and the director of academic programs at the American Enterprise Institute, to discuss true feminism.
The Anscombe Society remains a secular organization that looks to what sociology, psychology, medicine, philosophy, and human experience suggest are the best ways to acheive the good of the person and the common good in the realm of sexuality. We seek to continue a tradition of stimulating campus and national discourse on a conscientious view of sexuality that strengthens marriages, fortifies civil society, and contests the merits of a hyper-sexualized culture.  We are excited to find support among national leaders, our faculty, and students, and we urge our classmates to think deeply about these issues and to subject the prevailing orthodoxies of our society to real scrutiny.
Luciana E. Milano ’14 is a government concentrator living in Pforzheimer House. She is President of The Harvard College Anscombe Society. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, both the The Harvard Crimson and The Harvard Gazette published stories about the Harvard’s library transition. Although both articles quoted some of Harvard Library’s administrators applauding the achievement of the “completed” reorganization, the Crimson’s article discussed an important side of the library transition story that was notably lacking in Harvard’s official account: the stories of the workers in Harvard’s libraries.
What exactly “transitioned” in Harvard’s libraries in the past eight months? Most apparently, the library now has a new centralized website, which allows students to more easily find the hours and locations of libraries. But if we want to see the real changes that have occurred in Harvard Library, we need to look beyond its shiny new website and examine the values underlying the reorganization. Indeed, Harvard has rearranged the library workforce—in order to make the Harvard Library more “efficient.”
Last March, I wrote in an article in Perspective Magazine that Harvard administrators’ discourse around the library transition focused on efficiency, cost-cutting, and profit margins. Indeed, concern about costs seems to have dominated the library reorganization. Robert M. Angilly, a library worker, told me that as part of the transition, consultants came into his workplace, the Frances Loeb Library at the Graduate School of Design, where he has been working for over 30 years. The consultants searched for ways to make the library work more efficiently. According to Angilly, “They had the idea of pulling a structure they had used elsewhere kind of out of the hat and applying it to this problem.” He told me, “I just get the feeling they’re applying a corporate model on an academic environment, and it is not entirely applicable.”
One such corporate structure is “shared services,” an organizational model that centralizes work previously done by smaller cohorts. Last year, the State University of New York attempted to implement a shared services model to centralize university administration between its various campuses in an effort to save costs, sparking protests from students. Over the past few years, Yale has moved clerical workers and administrative staff into Shared Services in an attempt to “improve resource allocation,” but Yale faculty say that this reorganization has simply resulted in down-skilling and overlooking departmental needs. The trend has spread through higher education: Cornell University and the University of California, Berkeley have recently followed suit.
Consulting firms are known to help businesses cut costs by improving efficiency through shared services models. Indeed, Harvard workers whose jobs are now classified as “shared services” may be shuffled from library to library, doing different jobs and reporting to different managers, as seems most cost-efficient for Harvard Library.
But this efficiency comes at another price: workers become dispensable, interchangeable, and alienated from their work. Karen L. O’Brien, a Library Assistant who currently works on acquisitions of Western European language books, told me, “I’m slowly starting to feel that they don’t believe any one of us has any special skills to do anything we do. They think anyone can do this work. [They think] if you have someone who doesn’t know the language, that’s fine.” O’Brien notes that staff cuts and reshuffling have also negatively affected services for patrons: students, faculty, and researchers may have trouble even accessing material from the collections when rooms are understaffed and cataloguing is incomplete.
James Cernosky wr­ote in “In These Times” about UC Berkeley’s recent implementation of shared services, noting that “by centralizing their control over the academy’s legworkers, administrators erode allegiances between academic and non-academic employees.” Indeed, Harvard’s experiment in shared services has already demonstrated that treating workers as interchangeable and moving them around like chess pieces results not only in confusion, but also in loss of knowledge. Meanwhile, the libraries have hired more student workers and one-year term workers to replace some of the 65 workers who accepted an early retirement package last spring, compounding the library’s loss of institutional memory and experience.
Of course, there are some areas in which centralization makes sense: for example, it’s logical for the Harvard Library to purchase only one online subscription to an academic journal instead of multiple copies. However, launching a new website and digitizing popular collections cannot make up for a library ethos that values profit over people. In the past eight months, Harvard has demonstrated that it values efficiency over its collections, over its employees, and over the quality of its library.
In the end, it is possible that the Harvard Library will now cost less to run in the long term. But is that really what we want? After all, a Library is not a corporation, and the largest academic library in the world has responsibilities beyond digitizing its most popular collections. Based on its rhetoric and its actions, Harvard seems determined to make its library profitable at the risk of losing some of what’s best about Harvard—its history and its people.
Sandra Y. L. Korn ’14, a Crimson editorial executive, is a joint history of science and studies of women, gender, and sexuality concentrator in Eliot House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
A note to our interns: Hey guys, you’re doing great work as interns for The Harvard Crimson’s Crimson Weatherboard. That being said, it would really be helpful if you guys could have studied last week’s last week’s weather before we started reporting on last week this week. A written report on next week’s last week’s weather will be required, with the intention that I can print it here and hopefully won’t have to do any work. Extra credit: Check out some weather forecasts from other, more “reputable” stations, and see how they compare. Credit will be given based on whether or not you like me more than them.
Signed,
Weathermen
 
Anyway, this week in last week’s weather we talk about the weather from this week:
We had a full moon recently, but luckily there were no wolf attacks among afflicted were-students. Unless of course one escaped from the zoo again—like the one that mauled my sister’s face when she was still an infant.
Mother had to spend all of my college savings on my sister’s reconstructive surgery, which didn’t do much for my sister but made mother feel a lot better about her boobs and nose. She managed to save up again by getting a second job working as a stripper. I’d stay home and babysit my sister while mother would go off and sweat on sad middle-aged men who weren’t my father. The sweat would bead like rain drops on a car window.
Speaking of which, it rained this past week. At least that’s what I figured after hearing a guy in Lamont say, “Hey, damn, it’s raining guys,” before checking out a limited edition copy of “Made to be Seen: Perspectives on the History of Visual Anthropology.” He said it was a “good read” and recommended I read it sometime. I said “I will.” I won’t.
As the water drops down, the umbrellas rise up, shrouding the visages of their human caretakers and shielding them from nature’s might with their artificial flesh. Only the wind can stop them now, blowing so hard it snaps their fragile spines like a helmetless motorcyclist, as it seems no other person on earth is willing to cast them down from their position of power. One day their time will come. Until then, I wait.
We never did fix my sister’s face.
Aggregate Score: “Threeve” out of 10.
Interesting weather fact of the day: Did you know Disney Channel star Raven-Symoné was once featured in the Crimson Weatherboard’s Weekly Weather Review? Tune in next week to find out whether or not this is even true!
Sections
Mister Chairperson, Distinguished Time Keeper, and Members of the Opposition: Our nation—nay, our world—has been suffering from a lack of disagreement. From “Fifty Shades of Grey” to “Gangnam Style,” people have been complacent, too willing to agree with the majority. Times are changing, however. All of the cool kids, from Mitt Romney to Barack Obama, are debating again. Those with fewer athletic gifts, now armed with deep voices, speech outlines, and business attire, are cool again—they even have Lincoln-Douglas, Parliamentary, and extemp on their side.
You see, I might not be strong, but I’m better than everyone else: I’m more intelligent and I have charisma. I know that. But how are others supposed to know that? “Well, I guess you could be charming to them?” you say in a sheepish mumble.
Rebuttal: You’re wrong (and I’m not surprised). They learn it by debating with me.
Every moment is a chance to brush up on my debate skills. When my mom says that she’s cooking lasagna for dinner, that’s an opportunity to say, “Mom, carbohydrates are ruining society. Subpoint: Let’s have a make-your-own-taco night.” When my friend asks me to be nicer, that’s a chance to say, “Look, Jim, nice is ruining society. Subpoint: Can you give me a ride home?” Looking in the mirror in the morning I can say, “Mirror, be shinier so that I can see myself clearer. Subpoint: Stop doing things wrong.”
The way to get ahead isn’t by agreeing with people. Your voice doesn’t just exist to talk and sing. It also exists to belittle and intimidate, to persuade and dominate, especially when unsolicited. Sure, you could let slide your friend’s comment that he is “feeling pretty good today.” Or, alternatively, you could have a good long talk about how this life is actually terrible.
Sure, everyone in the world could “agree to disagree” or, even worse, “agree to agree,” but what if we could “disagree to disagree”? That’s the world I want…until I decide I want to disagree with it.
Sections
As an experienced two-time high school debater (Death penalty? I think not!), I can speak on behalf of everyone when I say that arguing gets you nowhere.
Don’t agree? Not important. Just hold in your objections and channel your anger into performance art while I gently and non-aggressively outline my point.
In fact, I think it would be best if you listened to some soothing ocean noises while you read this.
[Note: My argument is only technically a debate if I acknowledge the other point of view—which, of course, I would never do.]
Opening Statement
“Everything you need to know."
Debates are pointless.
Argument
“I’m just going to talk for a couple of minutes.”
First of all, no one listens.  Debaters are always too busy thinking about what they are going to say to pay any attention to what anyone else is saying.
Also, half the time nothing anyone says makes any sense. Not that anyone notices because, like I said, everyone is too busy not listening or, in the case of the Presidential debates, talking over the moderator (in my opinion Jim Lehrer is the real winner for never blinking).
Rebuttal
“What’s that over there?”
I will concede that all of the hand gestures used in debates are incredibly entertaining. But they are just another method of evading the questions posed. Other methods: cute anniversary antidotes and taking a moment with a Twix (my high school debates were always inconveniently scheduled during lunch).
Conclusion
“Finally. Who wants to go get drinks after this?”
In short, we end up where we started, just standing around in a room for a couple hours listening to ourselves talk. Or in my case, cry.
Sections
At the beginning of this academic year, every Harvard freshman received a flyer under his door inviting him to participate in the planning of this year’s “Sex Week.” The average freshman, newly-arrived to college–a place and time self-consciously associated with the sexual–can be excused, perhaps, for not knowing what an event entitled “Sex Week” entails.
And, to be fair to the freshmen, the answer is a complicated one: An explanation of what Sex Week is and where it comes from involves not only engaging in a discussion about sexual behavior on college campuses, but also in a larger debate about the importance of having those discussions in the first place.
Samantha A. Meier ’12 and Abby P. Sun ’13 first hatched the idea of Sex Week while eating lunch during the summer of 2011. A big idea crafted over a small meal, it would lead to a media frenzy (Meier and Sun landed on the front page of The New York Times) and an event that would attract over 2,000 Harvard students and the sponsorship of over 21 student groups and administrative offices.
Meier and Sun strove to create an event that would showcase a wide range of speakers and include a diversity of opinions. Students would listen to sexologists discuss BDSM, hear a student speaker consider the ethics of porn, and engage in a discussion with the Harvard Chaplains about sex. They would learn from a speaker about asexuality or head to the ubiquitous Female Orgasm Seminar, a previously stand-alone event that the two had helped plan.
Sexologist and author Logan Levkoff, who delivered last year’s Female Orgasm Seminar, characterizes her experience speaking at Harvard as “everything I could have hoped for and more.... I was delighted by the enthusiasm and participation.”
“It’s not how to give a great blow job,” Levkoff says. “This stuff forces us to consider who we are, how we were raised, how we perceive messages we’ve received or challenge them.”
Humbi Song ’13, the former president of the Radcliffe Union of Students, says that the organizers “did an incredible job last year.”
“The female orgasm seminar really pushed for an open, healthy discussion about people’s sexuality that sometimes can be lacking on college campuses,” Song says.
DISSENTING OPINIONS
Although Sex Week was an overwhelmingly popular event on campus (one third of the undergraduate population attended at least one event) there are some who believe it is an inappropriate allocation of Harvard’s resources. The Harvard Society (formerly True Love Revolution), a student group dedicated to promoting abstinence before marriage, remains strongly opposed to Sex Week. The
Anscombe Society, which also promotes abstinence, chose not to participate in Sex Week both this year and last year despite repeated efforts to engage them in the events. Anscombe Society Vice-President for Events Jim P. McGlone ’15 defends the group’s decision not to participate in Sex Week.
“It’s an active promotion of an ‘anything goes’ mentality of sexual license and that is a message we are very concerned about. We think this has the power to do a great amount of damage to our classmates.”
McGlone went to the first event of Sex Week last year entitled “Spring Fever: Exploring Your Sexuality,” given by sexologist Megan Andelloux concerning sexual experimentation and “getting frisky.” McGlone says that he was “horrified, just horrified” by the discussion.
“I don’t think Sex Week provided a meaningful environment to talk about sex.... That has no place on my campus. I don’t want that on my campus. I don’t think that’s good for anybody,” says McGlone.
In response to such comments by the Anscombe Society Martha R. Farlow ’13, one of the co-presidents of Sexual Health Education and Advocacy throughout Harvard College (SHEATH), the group that Meier and Sun founded to put on Sex Week, says:
“The Anscombe Society has a very sex-negative point of view, where their take on sexuality is to discourage. We try to have a sex-positive point of view, where we don’t want anyone to feel excluded whatever your gender is, whatever your sexuality, whatever decisions you make with your life...we want you to be educated, we want you to be informed, we want you to be supported.”
Both Sun and Meier stress that abstinence is a part of the conversation about sex, and point to an abstinence event and the asexuality event held during last year’s Sex Week as examples of their efforts to engage students in constructive dialogue about abstinence.
The Anscombe Society only counts about 20 active members, and Sex Week organizers and participants argue that overwhelmingly positive student surveys and the large student participation are indicators that the event is needed and desired on campus.
“Sex Week was never and is still not designed to promote one view of sexuality as the right view,” says Meier. Acknowledging the diversity of opinions about sex, Meier states that it is “crucial” to have conversations about sex because “whatever your sexuality is, you will have some sort of experience with it in your lifetime.”
While organizers stress that they have reached out to The Anscombe Society multiple times, Meier concedes, “Look, it would be incredibly hypocritical for a group that preaches consent to force someone to come to our event.... If they don’t want to participate that’s their choice.”
McGlone, for his part, finds the Sex Week emphasis on consent misleading–for him, sex is about more than that. He characterizes all sex before marriage, including consensual sex, as “fundamentally empty” and “fundamentally a lie...an act that by its nature reduces that person to just a mass of body parts.”
While continually emphasizing the importance of incorporating different ways of thinking about abstinence in one’s own life, Sun concedes that “these kinds of issues just speak more broadly to the national debate that’s happening right now on social issues, on how sexual education should be handled, and on what kinds of conversations we should be having.”
SERVING AS A MODEL
The Anscombe Society speaks for a small but vocal minority on campus, and it represents a larger demographic in other, more conservative areas of the country. Given the controversy generated by the topic of sexual education in the classroom and appropriate sexual behavior outside of it, Levkoff stresses the need for events similar to Sex Week at colleges nationwide.In response to criticisms such as those posed by The Anscombe Society, she says that “the message has to always be that sex and sexuality are part of us as human beings. Higher education is supposed to expose us and educate us to everything we encounter in our lives. Sex and sexuality are part of our lives and it’s important to tackle these things.”
Hazel A. Lever ’13, who also serves as a Peer Contraceptive Counselor, says that students would be surprised by the lack of basic sexual knowledge on campus.
“I would get questions about things you think Harvard students would just know...like ‘How can I get pregnant?’ and ‘What kinds of birth control are there?’”
One of the most important pieces of feedback received last year from administrators, especially doctors at UHS, was that “your events are awesome but we need to go more basic...We’re talking about sex as if everyone knows what a condom is and sometimes they don’t,” says Farlow. In response to such feedback, SHEATH has included a more basic sex ed. 101 event this year entitled “Take Control of Your Body!: A Sex Education Workshop.”
“Adults’ perception of college campuses is wrong,” says Levkoff. “We do a lot of talking and implying and our pop culture is chock full of sex and sexuality, but people would be surprised that, at the end of the day, we’re still really uncomfortable, anxious, and sometimes insecure when it comes to sex because of all these messages.”
Colleges holding Sex Weeks include Brown, Northeastern, Yale, Indiana University, Kentucky University, and Washington University in St. Louis, and Farlow supports the spread of Sex Weeks to yet more universities.
“It’s something I would love to see every college have. I don’t know if it’s necessarily right for every college,” says Farlow. “But I can’t imagine a campus in which there’s such a sex-positive vibe, people are so educated, and there’s no sexual assault, that they couldn’t benefit from a Sex Week.”
Sun hopes that the publicity generated from Harvard’s Sex Week will “serve as a model to other schools.” Any student at a school in any region of the country can “read about us in The New York Times...and be able to say, ‘Look, they’re doing it too.’”
THIS YEAR
While it is impossible to predict if and when programs similar to Sex Week will be adopted at other college campuses, Harvard Sex Week and SHEATH are here to stay.
This year’s Sex Week will be held from Oct. 21 to Oct. 27, and will not feature any repeat speakers from last year.
This year’s Female Orgasm Seminar will be lead by sexologist Jill McDevitt, the founder of Feminique Boutique, a self described “sex-positive sex shop.” Lever says the week will conclude with “an overview kink fetish event” on the Saturday before Halloween.
Sex Week will also feature a few events aimed at freshmen, one of which is entitled “Unsupervised” and aims to address how to navigate relationships and sexual feelings without one’s parents in the picture.
Farlow says that they hope to reach out to populations that aren’t always present in large numbers at events like Sex Week, such as straight men. “Girls are more comfortable talking about sexuality than guys,” she says, “which is an interesting part of our culture...that guys are supposed to know everything, that they’re not supposed to have questions.”
Sun, who serves on the SHEATH board as chair of corporate sponsorship, says she has high hopes for this year’s events.
“What’s extraordinary about Sex Week is that it proved that college students are interested in having these conversations and that we’re capable of having them in an intelligent way, in a thoughtful way, in a way that’s inclusive.”
Meier, who currently works at the political news website PolicyMic, is glad to be able to step back from the project.
“It’s kind of freeing in a way to say I invested a lot of energy into this, but it was ultimately in a project that’s bigger than I am,” she says.
Sex Week will continue to embody the “values we’ve instilled in it, values of sensitivity to different communities, diversity of opinion, and introspective discussion,” says Meyer. “As for content, that’s up to future Harvard students.... I’m interested to see what happens.”
Sections
Like so many birds of paradise, Boston’s pretty young things and cultured grand dames flocked to the Institute of Contemporary Art for its First Fridays: Fashion Forward event.
I arrive with my friends and we beeline to the café for complimentary cocktails, weaving our way around clusters of stiletto-shod women and their dapper beaus, nudging past arms adorned in heavy, glinting jewelry, and ducking beneath dramatically balanced hats. Finally, we find our way, dazed and distracted, to the end of an idly-lounging line.
People are here to see and be seen and the mood is high. We exchange smiles and compliments with total strangers, the conversation flowing as freely as the drinks. At a fashion presentation, models strut—or hobble, knock-kneed—along the makeshift catwalk, showcasing looks inspired by the museum’s featured artists, Os Gemeos.
Afterwards, we join a guided tour of Os Gemeos’ exhibition. Balletic in both movement and speech, curator Pedro Alonzo gesticulates enthusiastically, referencing Aldous Huxley and MacGyver to explain the artists’ improvisational process and vision of expanding the realms of reality. Photographers who have buzzed and clicked their way through the museum gather downstairs among the mingling melée.
One photographer pulls us aside to take our picture in front of an intricate wall installation. Peeking at her notebook, I make out that we are titled respectively: Fish Dress, Beaded Dress, and Pink Shirt. We wonder if she has also taken photos of Slinky Knit Dress, Blue Steel, Python Print Pants, or George Michael After Bleach Job.
Cocktails melt into ice and water as chatter turns to murmur and, one by one, patrons flit away into the glittering Boston night.
On the waterfront steps outside the ICA, my friends and I sit for a while, trying to capture a sliver of frozen time to hold us together as we are in that moment. But the moment has already started slipping away—smudges of color, echoes of conversations, already a blur of memory.
I am reminded, this Friday night, of the opening lines of a Frank O’Hara poem:
Have you forgotten what we were like then/when we were still first rate/and the day came fat with an apple in its mouth
However, the next day, it is the closing lines that I repeat to myself, over and over again:
I wouldn’t want to be faster/or greener than now if you were with me O you/were the best of all my days
Sections
Q: Do you ever feel it's limiting to feel sexy because you're not sexual?
A: "At the beginning of the night, you look like everyone else. As the night progresses and people start hooking up I feel like my attractiveness starts going down, because it's not going to happen. So it's like, 'Oh she's so hot, but she won't sleep with me. She's not so hot anymore.' People aren't going to want to be with you because they know they're not going to get everything that they want from you. I guess so—I guess I feel less sexy."
“I think it’d be easy. I don’t think it’d be hard at all to lose my virginity to someone.”
Ann R. Winston* buries her chin in her scarf, hiding her grin. “I don’t know if that sounds conceited,” she says. “It probably sounds conceited but that’s not how it’s supposed to sound.” She readjusts herself on the wooden bench next to the Weld Boathouse, crossing her knees and pulling her back upright. She refuses to break eye contact with the river.
It would be easy to write off Winston’s abstinence as a consequence of her upbringing—raised in the South, she grew up in what she aptly calls a “Christian household.” Winston came to the Northeast for college while many of her high school friends stayed local. Though she still teaches Sunday school each week, Winston believes that being at Harvard has changed her views—now her faith actually has little to do with her decision to abstain. “It’s not necessarily abstinence until marriage,” she explains. “It’s about waiting for a stable relationship with someone I trust.”
“People don’t expect it at all because I’ve ‘hooked up’—‘hooked up’ being a relative term—with different people and they see me making out on the dance floor,” she laughs. Winston joined Kappa Alpha Theta sorority in the spring of her freshman year, where, she admits, she is one of few members who do not drink and choose to remain a virgin. In conjunction, she says, these decisions come as less of a shock. “It makes me innocent already, so then the innocence all kind of goes together,” Winston explains.
Winston’s virginity is not something that she shares with many people. She has told some of her friends and sorority sisters, but for the most part the subject doesn’t come up unless prompted, which, Winston believes, is common. While Harvard students tend not to showcase their sex lives, Harvard has a sexually active undergraduate body. In The Crimson’s 2012 senior survey, 68.3 percent of graduating senior women reported that they had had sex while 75.3 percent of graduating senior men reported the same, which is comparable to the national average.
Virginity, with all of its outdated tropes of purity and innocence, seems almost antithetical to the liberal culture of Harvard—a culture where actively partaking in premarital sexcapades is the statistical standard. That said, be it for reasons of God, love, choice, or bad luck, there are still those, like Winston, who remain chaste. At Harvard, virginity exists.
Going to New Mexico
“I have a friend who describes it as going to New Mexico,” says Eleanor A. Hunt*, squinting as sunbeams from the Science Center courtyard slide in through the window. “Some people are like, ‘I go to New Mexico all the time. It’s not a big deal.’ Other people want to save up their entire lives, and want their trip to New Mexico to be the best trip they’ve ever been on. And then some people are like, ‘Whatever, I’ll get there when the flights are right.’”
Before coming to Harvard, Hunt learned most of what she now knows about sex from watching television shows targeted at an older audience; her small private school in Missouri neither taught sexual education nor provided sexual counseling to students. “It wasn’t a condoms-in-the-bathroom, go-ask-the-nurse situation,” she says. Like Winston, Hunt’s conservative Christian upbringing informed her initial decision to remain abstinent, but coming to college has made her reason more personal. “It’s not because it’s important to God, it’s important to me,” she says. “Someday I’ll want to go to New Mexico, and I’ll trust it’s going to happen."
For Winston and Hunt, New Mexico is an auspicious state that they’ll reach eventually—no need to rush. “People get way too focused on the sexual part of the relationship and the rest gets neglected,” says Winston. “Virginity’s not something I’m willing to just hand over to anyone.”
Beth A. Owen*, on the other hand, has regularly made the trip to New Mexico in her time at Harvard. “Why not test drive the car before you buy it?” she chuckles, her shoulders rolling back. For Owen, virginity has always been unnecessarily over-romanticized. “I’m not one to make sex seem like a big momentous thing like, ‘Oh, my flower,’” she snickers.
Before she arrived at Harvard, Owen perceived virginity as shrouded by mystique. The daughter of Baptist parents, Owen grew up in Brooklyn, N.Y., and attended Catholic schools where sex education consisted of watching birthing videos every year and never mentioning the existence of contraception. Since leaving for college, Owen has embraced Harvard’s more liberal and liberating environment. “I’m more chill and relaxed now that I live in a hook-up culture. Now I’m down to try everything once.”
Marcus T. Quinn* has been just as involved in the hook-up culture as Owen, but he frames his sexual encounters less cynically. “If it’s meaningful—even if it’s not meaningful, at the first level it feels good—but I think it makes you closer to people,” he says. “You have to let your guard down a lot to have sex with somebody. And letting your guard down is how you get close to someone, and I think sex is the most extreme version of that. I think that in trying to craft a meaningful connection with someone it’s good to have sex.” Despite these sentiments, Quinn also reveals that in some social scenes at Harvard sex manifests itself in a less ginger and gentle context.
 Virgins at the Party
Quinn lost his virginity as a freshman and joined a final club as a sophomore. He wears a half-zip pullover that is half-zipped down, leaning far over the table as he talks. “Again, I speak for my club, and I speak for my impression of other clubs,” he says. “They all have different personalities.” As a senior member, Quinn has been part of one of Harvard’s most sexualized social scenes for a while now. He laughs at the hypothetical flirting situations presented to him—the same ones presented to Winston—noting that some are, perhaps, too realistic.
Hypothetical #1: A guy is flirting with a girl and he finds out she’s a virgin.
Quinn: “If this was someone I was interested in, that wouldn’t be a turnoff. It would probably make them more appealing. It’s kind of like—you want to, I guess ‘conquer’ is the right word, but it’s probably a bad word. And I’m being very honest with myself and with you about that. I’m not proud about that. But that’s how I feel.”
Winston: “Usually when I’m hooking up with a guy, first they’ll find out that I’m sober so then his expectations for the night already change.... I think they catch on and they’re not very surprised at that point to find out that I’m a virgin. They’re probably not usually very pleased, though that usually depends on the guy. If someone just found out point-blank they would be shocked, but as someone gets to know me they see the progression and it’s not as shocking.”
Hypothetical #2: A guy finds out that the girl he’s flirting with won’t have sex with him because she’s abstinent.
Quinn: “If I’m hitting on a girl at a party, and I find out she’s a hard-line virgin, I don’t think I’d stop talking to her, but I think I would stop hitting on her. I think it’d transition to a more friendly-type conversation, you know?”
Winston: “If it’s a good guy and he’s expecting more than a one-night kind of thing then usually he’s like, ‘Okay, I can work with that. It’s cool, maybe I’ll change it’. If it’s not a good guy—I feel like I’ve been put in a few awkward situations, but then again because I’m sober I’ve been able to take control of the situation and make it be what I want it to be rather than what they would want it to be. I’m sure there’s been quite a few disappointed guys that I’ve hooked up with, but that’s their problem, not mine. Maybe that’s insensitive."
Hypothetical #3: A guy takes a girl’s virginity.
 Quinn: “I think I’d feel relieved, because it’s like, ‘Man, I can’t screw this up.’ They don’t know what it’s supposed to be like. My impression is for most girls it’s not great the first time anyway. Except for when I lost my virginity, I’ve never slept with another virgin. I don’t know. I always thought that would be a less intimidating experience, because she’s putting all this confidence into me and she’s got nothing to compare me against. I’m the new standard.”Winston: “I feel like that’s a lot of pressure on a guy: taking someone’s virginity. Like, you are the standard they are going to measure sex with. And if they’ve been building it up in their heads for 20 years, that better be fucking good sex because they waited this long. You better do a good job [laughs]. If you’re both virgins, I bet it’s just awkward.”
These hypotheticals are certainly limiting, maybe even unfairly skewed in reinforcing certain stereotypes: girls are more likely to abstain yet more often victimized in doing so. Nevertheless, these situations do highlight a telling side of the issue. Professor of Psychology Steven Pinker argues, “With women, more often sex is tied to knowing the guy and having some longer term emotional connection—not all the time. Nor is it true that men seek anonymous, no-strings sex all the time, but there’s a big statistical difference between the sexes. With men it often just has to be bodies and there’s no particular curiosity about that person behind the body when it comes to sheer sexual gratification.”
Miranda J. Shugars ’14, who has identified as a lesbian since high school, has been frustrated by Harvard parties where many of the guys she meets seem too eager for sex. “People at parties don’t believe me when I say I don’t want to go home with you because I’m gay,” she says. ‘They’re like ‘No! My penis will convince you otherwise!’ I cannot tell you how many times I’ve gotten that. I’m not joking. I’ve gotten that several times, which is why I stopped going to parties.”
But not all male students seek sex at parties. Aaron C. Gyde ’14 openly expresses his desire to abstain. For him, it’s a matter of religion. “I think abstinence is an opportunity for me to demonstrate my faith in the fact that ultimately, in the same way I’m waiting for my wife or my spouse, I’m waiting here on this earth for the marriage of Christ and the Church as well,” he says with conviction.
Unlike most students interviewed for this article, Gyde said he did not want to be anonymous. “This is what I believe. Why would I want to hide it? I’d be hiding who I am.”
Gyde believes that his viewpoint is respected among his friends. “I feel like the people who would have a stigma I’m not incredibly good friends with,” he says. “The community I’m in is actually very supportive of this lifestyle. I think they all share the same view that this is important.” Like most people interviewed for this article, Gyde is comfortable with the choices he’s made regarding sex. That said, a significant stigma surrounds the concept of virginity, a stigma that affects females and males alike.
“Prudish, Uptight, Inhibited, and Puritanical”
Saturday at midnight: A group of pony-tailed club athletes gathered in an Eliot dorm room, kneeling on the floor with fingers primed and ready to play “Never Have I Ever.” It was the first team party of the year; with four months of summer to atone for and a crop of new freshman teammates to interrogate, the game got heated.
Within minutes “Never Have I Ever” divulged into gasps and secrets—summer hookups, onenight stands. “We were drinking and then stuff surfaced; I was just appalled,” Jane Xu* remembers. “I was so stunned that people started talking about it casually."
Xu is a new freshman on the squad, an international student from a large public school that started offering sex education in the fourth grade. She reclines on her bedspread in her Yard dorm room, babbling stream-of-consciousness about her expectations for the Harvard social scene. Xu had watched movies that showcase the sex culture of American colleges, but she never expected to find that sort of environment at Harvard. “I think I may have even been a little bit naïve because,  coming into Harvard, I was like, ‘Everything will be different. They’re not really like that stuff we see in movies. They’re not going party hard every night—not, like, hook up intensely.’ But yeah. I was wrong.”
A few weeks earlier, Xu was speaking with another friend in the freshman class about some of his previous relationships, relationships he claimed “never got that far.” When Xu asked if he ever had sex with his high school girlfriend, her friend responded,  “No, she was a bit of a prude. We were together for five months and we didn’t have sex.” Xu was shocked at his language and judgment. “So that’s definitely not my viewpoint,” she declares. Five months still seems like a very short period of time.“
Whether you are a virgin or not, for women especially, it’s a double-edged sword,” says Lena Chen ’09-’10, who authored the blog “Sex and the Ivy” and whose senior thesis in Sociology focused on virginity in post-industrial America. “If you are having sex, you’re a slut, and if you’re not having sex and your friends are, then they may think you’re a total prude,” she says.
Quinn confirms that these classifications are still very much alive in some Harvard social scenes: “These terms do get thrown around all the time in final clubs, like prude and sometimes slut. I’ve heard women described that way before,” he explains. “It becomes deterministic to label someone as a prude or a slut. I think you do get treated differently.”
Quinn remembers being at a party freshman year with a girl who was speculating about the virginity of all the other people in the room, “as if there are two types of people in your life at that point: virgins and non-virgins,” he recalls. “It occupies so much of our psyche. I remember it being a thing freshman year, like going to a party and there being a sign at the door with ‘name, dorm, and virginity.’ Just like a joke, but it was something that was on people’s minds. I mean everyone was laughing about it, but it was one of those jokes that was real.”
Hunt concurs, “There is so much judgment. I have friends who are virgins who dress up and go out and they’re not like virgins, they’re not doing sewing and shit in their rooms, but they’re not like ‘Hey! I’m a virgin!’ It’s just that they haven’t had sex yet.”  Hunt feels that these terms are problematic: “There are all sorts of things where as much as we’re like ‘Women, claim your bodies,’ I don’t feel like really we’re allowed to do that in any way that we want.”
Not Getting Any
Early in his sophomore year, Quinn wandered into the Delphic courtyard for one of his first punch events. After an hour of shmoozing and drinking, the punch masters and president of the Delphic delivered welcome speeches to their neophyte guests.  As per custom, the most inebriated member of the club was charged with giving the concluding speech as he teetered to balance atop a table and raised his drink. “To paraphrase,” says Quinn, “the speech was something like ‘We’re happy you’re all here, we just wanted to let you know that at the Delphic we only look for two kinds of members: legends and savages.’” Quinn doesn’t recall which was which. “It was something like a legend is someone who pounds beer all day long, and a savage is a guy who gets pussy.”
Winston acknowledges a double standard, saying, “Sex is a way to prove your manliness. I would say if a guy were a virgin it would be much, much more shocking than a girl being a virgin. Especially if a guy in a final club or something were a virgin, I’d feel like that’d be impossible.”
But male virgins in final clubs do exist and the stigma surrounding their sexual status is intense, since these men are often expected to be able to “flex their sort of Harvard machismo,” according to Quinn. As Quinn explains, “Being a Harvard male is an appealing position in society. I mean Harvard is supposed to be like the symbol of American power. I think that guys—especially guys in final clubs who place an emphasis on being social—feel empowered in a way. For some people who are final club virgins, they almost feel embarrassed that despite having a real tangible symbol of masculinity, they’re still unable to exercise it—and get laid.”
Thus, for many males at Harvard, virginity is something to be dispatched and done away with as quickly as possible. Quinn offers one specific example of a friend—“a virgin member of a final club”—who was “doing the normal guy thing, which was scheming and trying to figure out how to lose his virginity, and saying, ‘I just need to get really drunk, hook up with some girl, and just get it over with.’” The pressure for males to have sex in college is immeasurable, Quinn says, “And especially in a group of what is ostensibly supposed to be more socially-skilled guys, you can feel self-conscious about your virginity and want desperately to get rid of it. They feel like the only way to do that is in some sort of drunken whirlwind. And I always think that’s kind of funny, and possibly misguided, but I also don’t think that’s specific to final clubs—that’s just a party phenomenon.”
 Beyond the Physical
According to ‘De Secretis Mulierum’, a medieval textbook on women’s health and reproduction, “The signs of chastity are as follows: shame, modesty, fear, a faultless gait and speech, casting eyes down before men.” The textbook even references some biological evidence of virginity, explaining that “the urine of virgins is clear and lucid, sometimes white, sometimes sparkling. Corrupted women have a muddy urine because of the rupture of the aforementioned skin, and male sperm appear on the bottom.”  Her walk is uptight: thighs rubbing against each other with each stride, too much tiptoe in her step—there’s no way she’s a virgin.
We still cling to virginity, as a construct and a concept, but today’s understanding of virginity is less apparent than its technicalities. “For me virginity is this kind of abstract concept,” says Chandler C. Riggs* as he leans back in his chair in the midst of a busy Greenhouse Café lunch hour. He then rocks forward and leans in, lowering his voice to a whisper lest anyone else is trying to overhear, “I’m technically not a virgin, but I still consider myself a virgin. I’m on the cusp.” The night of his first BGLTQ hotspot dance last year, Chandler met up with an older guy, walked him to his room, and closed the door. “I’d still consider myself a virgin for many reasons, though,” he says. “Like for instance, I haven’t orgasmed from that kind of sex, and also I haven’t been comfortable with it. I wouldn’t be comfortable saying, like, you know, I’ve had sex.”
Shugars, the lesbian student, also believes that the concept of virginity should transcend strictly physical terms—the technical definitions that some students interviewed for this article described as “when something enters a vagina,” “penetration,” or “a motion of your body into someone else’s body.” Shugars argues that many women who identify as virgins don’t have their hymens intact, and some women who identify as non-virgins have never been penetrated. “If you say a dick is necessary to no longer be a virgin then that’s really unfortunate for most guys because then they would also be virgins, having never been penetrated by a dick, right?” she says. Shugars gets frustrated when people consider her to be a virgin “just because I’ve never fucked a guy.”
Even though both Riggs and Shugars reject what they see as somewhat arbitrary heteronormative standards of virginity, they don’t repudiate its existence. Be it a physical phenomenon or an emotional one, virginity means something for most Harvard students.
 So When’s The Right Time?
As Winston treks back down the Charles toward John Weeks Bridge, she keeps herself close to the thistles and tall grasses along the edge of the bank. The wind presses her untied brown hair across her eyes, making it difficult for her to see where she’s going. She steps to the side.“
It wouldn’t be hard to lose my virginity at all,” she says again. “But I know that the consequences of it at this point in my life would be emotionally difficult for me, and I have enough shit going on—I don’t need to be dealing with that.” She worries about the emotional attachment, the added intimacy involved in physical connection.
Winston says she’s unsure of whether or not she’ll remain a virgin in her time at Harvard. It really comes down to the guy and the length of the relationship, she says. “It won’t be casual, though. I put too much meaning and emphasis on it for it to be, you know, with someone who isn’t especially significant to me.”
The pedestrian light flashes orange, and the wind picks up again, pressing a crease into Winston’s sweater. The color of the sweater is striking: not white, but a more lovely pale blue.
*A number of individuals interviewd for this Scrutiny—marked by an asterisk—have been granted anonymity by The Crimson in order to maintain the privacy of their sexual choices.
Sections
Midterms
 Best when covers material
Belongs in a classroom
Starts halfway through the semester
Gets you a grade
The more time you spend at the library, the better you do.
Shows your smarts
Midriffs
Best when covered by material
Belongs on the beach
Starts halfway down your torso
Gets you into a party
The more time you spend at the gym, the better you look.
Shows some skin
Both
The shorter, the easier
Belong in the 90s
Anxiety-inducing
Something most people can’t pull off.
Just shouldn’t happen after college.
Wish you could switch bodies to score well.
Sections
The sillies are uncontrollable. No matter the trigger, they induce tearful fits of laughter lasting anywhere from 30 seconds to over an hour.The sillies and I knew each other very well when I was little. As I thrashed around on the carpet squealing and snorting, my mom would exclaim, “Somebody’s got the sillies!” It was usually me.
In elementary school, my best friend and I often fell into the sillies together. Thinking about the name of the basketball team we created, The Weasel Kings, our gigglescreams would damn us to separation. The administration was in conspiracy against us. In fourth grade, I attempted to switch into her class and they switched her out. When I switched back into my original class, they moved her back into hers. After that, we were never allowed to be in the same class, to be partners in P.E., or to sit next to each other at lunch.
The sillies were serious. For the latter half of my gold-starred career at Indian Paintbrush Elementary School, we were forced to sit in assigned seats during lunch and condemned the entire class with us. When we were in the fourth grade, fifth and sixth graders could choose their seats. When we entered fifth, that privilege applied to fourth and sixth. And when we were finally sixth graders—kings of the castle, finally we could choose—the fourth and fifth graders were given that luxury. Conspiracy.
And maybe it was for good reason. Even then, despite our best intentions—we would often sit back-to-back while drinking and eating, avoiding eye contact—there wasn’t a lunch where food didn’t get spit across the table or milk didn’t spray out of our noses.
In first grade, on the one hundredth day of school, that same best friend and I weren’t allowed to participate in the festivities because we kept interrupting the “100 Days of School” song with fits of laughter. Instead of celebrating, we served our punishment, sitting in the back of the classroom with our heads down on desks. Meanwhile our classmates sang and danced around us. They also made those awesome “100” glasses where you could see through the zeros. It ended up being okay, though, because the only treat they got was candy corn, and I’m pretty sure everyone hates candy corn.
What causes the sillies? It could be anything. The most memorable thing about the sillies is how unmemorable the cause is. It just happens. There’s no thought behind it, no judgments, no witty observations, and definitely no puns.
It starts in the corners of the lips. You breathe in and the feeling overwhelms your chest—you’ve gotten in trouble for this so many times. Your lips squish together trying to keep it inside. Your exhale carries a strained high-pitched whimper to the edge of your teeth, but you suck it back in before it can escape. There’s a bubble in your throat, it’s growing bigger, it’s going to burst, you need to breath, it needs to burst.
The sillies brought me down on my back, left me crying endlessly, and strangled away my breath. They gave me a silent laugh and killer abs. But my laugh is getting louder and my stomach is getting paunchy.
I’m starting to outgrow the sillies, but it’s not me, it’s definitely them. There comes a time, and I feel like a real grownup saying this, when it’s no longer appropriate to spit yogurt out onto your friend’s face. My laughter, once a garbled mess of unprovoked shakes and tears, is becoming refined. It can still be uncontrollable, but now it’s appreciative. It says, “What happened just now, I enjoyed it. Let’s do it again.”
I feel childish even saying the word “sillies” now—it would be even more childish to still have them. People tell me that I’m almost 22 years old. I guess that means it’s nearly time for me to lose the glow-in-the-dark onesie, settle down, buy a pantsuit, and get really into holiday decorating.
I’ll miss the sillies. I’ll miss that having the sillies is so much different than being ridiculous or being absurd.
This summer I made a short list of the things that help bring back some of those feelings:
Dogs sitting in the driver’s seat in parked cars
Little boys in suits
Extreme dance fighting
Animals in people clothes
Babies in animal clothes
Bowl cuts
Dressage
While I don’t always remember how they started—childhood memories are starting to blur—I do remember that after all my fits, I would get extremely tired. My mom would scoop me up from wherever I happened to pass out and lay me in my bed. She would stay there until the sillies completely passed, rubbing my back until I fell asleep.
On occasion, after sleepless nights, the sillies and I meet up again. At 4:00 a.m. in my common room, I make my Macy Gray impression, and my roommate, Francis, and I squeal. Knowing it’s a mistake, though—an accidental run-in—the sillies and I part ways. I get up to finish yet another problem set. And when they finally leave for good, I’ll keep telling myself it’s not me, it’s them.
 —Parul Agarwal ’13 is a government concentrator in Adams House. She hasn't had milk come out of her nose in over 10 years.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was an eclectic crowd—political junkies, fantasy baseball aficionados, and statistics wonks—that jammed the Kirkland junior common room Wednesday night. But Nate R. Silver, prominent statistician and political blogger for The New York Times, is an eclectic guy.
Silver, who began blogging on politics after writing on sabermetrics in baseball, cautioned against the extant “noise” in current polling information about the U.S. elections, quick volatilities that can often distract voters and media pundits, at an event co-hosted Wednesday by the Institute of Politics and Conversations with Kirkland.
During his talk, Silver said that the current presidential election has been trickier to track than the 2008 race. “If you were a non-idiot, then you should have gotten 47 out of the 50 states right [in 2008],” said Silver, who accurately predicted 49 of 50 himself. “It wasn’t that close of an election at the end of the day, and it turned out that most of the swing states went with Obama. And the others you could have tossed a coin, and you hoped to get lucky.”
But in this year’s go-round, Silver said it will be harder to predict the results. “It’s both an art and a science,” he said.
According to Silver, recent polls that have shown Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney very close behind Democratic incumbent Barack Obama are too close to make any conclusions. But when polls tilt 3 or 4 points toward one side in the race, Silver said, pundits and voters might misconstrue the shift as a signal that the candidate is pulling ahead. “The polls are often very noisy,” Silver cautioned.
Moderators Michael Shayan ’14 and Sonal Shah, former director of the White House Office of Social Innovation, shifted the topic to baseball at the end of Silver’s discussion, asking for his predictions on the Washington Nationals and Baltimore Orioles for this season.
Silver said he was going to stick to his original pick of the Nationals winning but admitted he has not been following them too religiously. “Because of this stupid election, I haven’t been able to watch much,” Silver said.
But Shayan was not disappointed. “Silver is the godfather of political statistics, and we were very fortunate to bring him to speak to the Harvard community, especially considering all that’s going on right now in the field,” he said.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Oct. 11
Due to an editing error, the byline on an earlier version of this article was incorrect. The article was written by contributing writer Zohra D. Yaqhubi, not Marco J. Barber Grossi.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: Oct. 11, 2012, at 1:31 p.m.
A Harvard professor’s study, which has come under fire amid accusations that he inadequately informed participants that the testing could put them in danger, led the Journal of the American Medical Association to issue an “expression of concern” for the first time ever.
The note, published online last week by editor-in-chief Howard C. Bauchner and executive deputy editor Phil B. Fontanarosa, concerned a study by Harvard Medical School gerontologist Douglas P. Kiel on the effectiveness of padded underwear in preventing hip fractures among the elderly.
Since the journal published the study in 2007, the U.S. Office of Human Research Protection has issued a report accusing Kiel of failing to properly tell participants about the potential risks associated with the study.
“We concur with the OHRP determination that the failure to notify research participants about potential risks they may have experienced by participating in the study represents serious concerns regarding their protection as research participants in this study,” Bauchner and Fontanarosa wrote in their editorial.
As a member of the research staff at Hebrew SeniorLife, an affiliate of Harvard Medical School that focuses on geriatrics, Kiel concluding that padded underwear was not effective at preventing hip fractures during falls. Participants in his study wore underwear with pads on one side only.
During the experiment, called HIP PRO, researchers found that these seniors may be more likely to fall on the padded side than the unpadded side, a pattern that they suspected developed because the uneven padding caused them to walk with an unbalanced gait. The OHRP found that participants were not informed of this potential risk when they signed up for the study, violating Department of Health and Human Services regulations regarding ethical research.
Kiel declined to comment on the recent editorial.
Despite the suspected problems with the research, JAMA re-affirmed the results of the study.
“There was no evidence provided that raised concerns about the scientific integrity of the data and the veracity of the study conclusions; therefore, we are taking no further action at this time,” Bauchner and Fontanarosa wrote in the editorial.
Hebrew SeniorLife is not aware of any participant who was harmed because of a fall due to the hip pad, according to Rachel J. Whitehouse, a spokesperson for Hebrew SeniorLife.
“We appreciate that the JAMA editors upheld the data integrity and veracity of the study conclusions,” she said.
Edward L. Goodwin, the founder and president of HipSaver, a company which produces padded underwear, said that the “expression of concern” did not go far enough in addressing potential flaws in the study. “The latest editorial is whitewash,” said Goodwin, who sued Kiel in 2008 for commercial disparagement, arguing that Kiel’s study improperly cast aspersions on all padded underwear.
“Numerous data sets reveal that there is a flaw in this study and they failed to disclose it to whom they should. JAMA has just sidestepped this issue,” said Goodwin, who first raised the issue of the suspected risks of the study to the government in 2009.
In July 2011, the OHRP approached Hebrew SeniorLife with their accusations, prompting a corrective action plan that was approved by the government a year later.
“Protecting the people who participate in our studies is our ultimate concern, so we used the HIP PRO matter as an opportunity to examine and improve all of Hebrew SeniorLife’s systems for human subject protection,” Whitehouse said. “We have now strengthened our Institutional Review Board, the training of our researchers, and our other human subject protection processes.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Soaring numbers of applications and plummeting admissions rates at top-ranked U.S. universities leave many applicants searching anxiously for a spot at a premier institution. When former Harvard lecturer and visiting assistant professor Mark J. Zimny told Gerald and Lily Chow he knew how to assure that their two sons would gain admission to these elite colleges, they bought it.
The Chows, residents of Hong Kong, contend now that Zimny, of IvyAdmit Consulting Associates, LLC, owes them more than $2 million. They filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Massachusetts in April 2010 claiming that Zimny misled them as he took that exorbitant sum from them while claiming to help their sons.
The complaint states that Zimny first met the Chows in 2007. At that time, it says, he introduced himself as a Harvard professor, though he was in fact no longer affiliated with the University. Zimny taught in the sociology department and at the Graduate School of Education from 2001 to 2005.
Zimny claimed that making major donations to Ivy League universities would be crucial in positioning the Chows’ sons for admission, the suit claims. But he told the Chows that making a donation directly would not be beneficial. Instead, he offered to serve as a middleman who could make a donation on their behalf.
The Chows gave Zimny more than $2 million to cover both his services and the contributions to universities, though Zimny did not specify to which institutions he would be making the donations. During this time, IvyAdmit drew up a plan for the admissions process for the Chows’ sons. They set their sights on Harvard.
Zimny was not accredited by the Independent Educational Consultants Association, the governing body that vets private college counselors. Requirements for accreditation include having an advanced degree, going through a training process, and visiting many secondary school and college campuses.
Don McMillan, president of an educational consulting firm in Boston, said he was astounded at the news of the case. “There is a small slice of the industry that is really exploiting the flow of money from [Asia],” he said.
“It just made me sad to see that exploitation.”
McMillan said his consulting group encounters many international families looking for guidance obtaining admission to top colleges. He said his group focuses on helping students target, identify, and gain entrance to schools that are the best fit for them.
A Harvard spokesperson said that assistance from a private counselor is not necessarily helpful in gaining admission to the College.
“While it is certainly possible that in individual cases an admissions consultant can be helpful to an applicant, we have encountered no evidence to indicate that is the case generally.  More importantly, our process—and the very wide range of information we collect about applicants—is designed to give us the broadest possible view of their qualifications, regardless of whether they used a consultant or not,” the spokesperson, Jeff Neal, wrote in a statement to The Crimson.
The Zimny suit brings to light the great lengths wealthy international students and their parents will go to gain admissions to top U.S. colleges. Private counselors can be a great boon to these families, who know little about the intricacies of the U.S. college admissions process, but the price tag on these advisers can be astronomical.
Michael Goran, director of IvySelect College Consulting, has worked with students from China in the college admissions process.
“It is definitely more hand-holding with international students,” he said. The millions that the Chows said they paid sounded unusual to Goran, though. He said that a comprehensive package for private educational consultants typically costs $5,000 to $6,000. Prices above $15,000, he said, are very rare. Zimny and his attorney John Fitzpatrick could not be reached for comment.
—Staff writer Elizabeth S. Auritt can be reached at eauritt@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Every town and city does routine upkeep of roads and civil infrastructure. However, raising the necessary cash is often easier for the Cambridge government since the city is one of 27 municipalities nationwide to earn AAA ratings—the highest ranking possible—from all three major U.S. creditors.
For example, when Harvard students returned to campus this fall, they found the expanse of cement and grass between Harvard Yard and the Science Center had been reduced to a walkway lined with wire fencing and jersey barriers. The city is reinforcing the underpass on which the walkway sits while Harvard digs up the footpath to design a new common space.
For expensive construction projects like this one, cities are often unable to fund the improvements in a lump sum out of the city’s coffers. Governments therefore sell municipal bonds.
In February, Cambridge sold $40.5 million in general obligations bonds, a type of municipality bond, to fund capital projects, such as the Science Center underpass project and open space improvements.
Cambridge’s other bond-supported ventures this year include sewer reconstructions and street and sidewalks improvements.
The city of Cambridge issues bonds to the Depository Trust Company in New York, one of the world’s largest securities depositories. Purchasers are willing to buy bonds at a lower interest rate from cities more likely to pay the bonds off on time and in full, and Cambridge’s AAA rating indicates that it is such a city.
Three credit agencies—Fitch Ratings, Moody’s Investors Service, and Standard & Poor’s—rank municipalities on a scale from D (in default) to AAA (prime).
Since 1999, Cambridge has scored top marks from all three agencies, according to city officials.
All three agencies noted the presence of higher education institutions in Cambridge in explaining their ratings.
Standard & Poor’s cited the “strong and dynamic local economy, anchored by Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology” as a reason for Cambridge’s rating.
The University acknowledged that a strong Harvard supports a strong Cambridge, and vice versa.
“Harvard is a stabilizing influence on the local economy. That influence is enhanced and realized by steadfast Cambridge management and leaders, helping to stretch municipal dollars in a challenging economic climate,” wrote Harvard Public Affairs and Communications Vice President Christine M. Heenan in an email.
Harvard and MIT are the largest employers in Cambridge, helping ensure stable employment as well as supporting investment projects.
“The fact that they’re the largest taxpayers and the largest employers gives the city a lot of stability,” said Assistant City Manager for Fiscal Affairs Louis Depasquale.
Credit agencies also noted Cambridge’s government as a strong driving force for the city’s financial stability.
Moody’s said that the city management has taken a “consistently conservative” approach to budgeting.
Depasquale echoed this, saying, “Even when times were good, Cambridge never spent a lot.”
City Manager Robert W. Healy said he made financial stability one of his top priorities back when he was promoted to his current office in 1981.
“If you don’t have fiscal stability and fiscal strength, you aren’t able to provide an array of services,” Healy said in an interview with The Crimson in May.
—Staff writer Kerry M. Flynn can be reached at kflynn@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Maya Jonas-Silver can be reached at mayajonas-silver@college.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard School of Public Health researchers found that heart attack patients treated in hospitals in states with mandatory public reporting are less likely to receive angioplasties to fix heart blockages than those treated in states without public reporting.
Advocates of public reporting of hospital performance say that the practice gives patients more information to help them choose the best hospitals. Reporting may also give physicians incentives to improve their performance.
“Transparency is a good thing,” said Karyn E. Joynt, lead author of the study. “As a consumer, we all want to see what’s happening at our hospitals.
”The researchers analyzed data from Medicare patients older than 65 years of age who had suffered heart attacks in Massachusetts, New York, and Pennsylvania, three public reporting states, and compared them to those in seven non-reporting states.
The study, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, is the first of its kind to look at public reporting for these procedures on a national scale.
Researchers were concerned, however, that public reporting might spur hospitals to change their practices. If hospitals are concerned about publishing negative data in reports, they may be less inclined to offer these interventions to very sick patients.
“We maybe need to think about ways to improve the policy so that we don’t have any unintended consequences,” said Joynt, an instructor in the Department of Health Policy and Management at the School of Public Health and a physician at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and VA Boston Healthcare System.
“My hope is that [this study] stimulates people to think about better ways to select patients for these procedures...and that it spurs a conversation about both overuse and underuse,” Joynt said.
Joynt said she hopes that states that are contemplating adopting reporting practices think through risk adjustment and exceptions for the sickest patients to make sure that their practices are as accurate and fair as possible.
“That’s a really hard decision to make,” she said. “It’s important to help the doctors in the future with the most research-driven data possible.”
—Staff writer Cynthia W. Shih can be reached at cshih@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
SPRINGFIELD, Mass.—Making the clearest distinction yet between two divergent political visions, U.S. Senator Scott Brown and Harvard Law School professor Elizabeth Warren disagreed about the federal deficit, rising healthcare costs, and education policy Wednesday night in the third debate in the Massachusetts race for U.S. Senate.
The hour-long debate at Springfield’s Symphony Hall hinged on the candidates’ ideological differences over job creation and the federal government’s role in it.
Both candidates’ views fell along party lines. Brown, the incumbent Republican, said the only way to promote a healthy economy is to rein in federal spending and keep tax rates low. Warren, the Democratic nominee, described a responsible federal partner that invests in infrastructure and education to promote job growth.
“The one thing we can’t be doing right now in the middle of this three-and-a-half-year recession is taking more money out of people’s hardworking pocketbooks,” Brown said, later referring to the federal government as “pigs in a trough that will just take and take and take.”
Specifically, Brown called for a balanced budget amendment and the repeal of the Affordable Care Act. He pointed to his work on healthcare reform and financial reform while in the Massachusetts legislature, pledging to find a better way to govern than tax hikes.
“The first thing every single time is ‘Let’s raise taxes,’” Brown said. “I am not going to be putting our businesses’ and individual’s lives and jobs in jeopardy.”
Warren argued for a “serious” approach to the deficit that would lay the foundation for a responsible federal government that can assist with local issues like education and health care. Unlike Brown, she said she would uphold the Affordable Care Act and promote increased federal spending on infrastructure.
“I am willing to make cuts. I am willing to make substantial cuts,” Warren said. “But I believe we are going to have to raise revenues. That is what is going to take to get serious about our budget deficit.”
Everyone, she said, needs to pay their fair share when it comes to taxes. She favors raising taxes on the nation’s highest earners. Asked about what she would cut from the federal budget, Warren said she would slash farm subsidies and defense spending, using savings to invest in education, infrastructure, and research.
“We need to take this opportunity to think about the military we need going forth in the 21st century,” Warren said.
A colonel in the National Guard, Brown said he would not consider cutting military budgets and would pursue an aggressive foreign policy in the Middle East. He argued the federal government needs to let states solve issues like healthcare reform and education policy as they see fit.
Notably absent from the debate was any substantial discussion of Warren’s claims to Native American ancestry or her record as a corporate counsel, topics that dominated the first two meetings between the candidates.
The debate was not without personal attacks, however. Brown called Warren a part of an “army of lawyers” corrupting Washington. For her part, Warren tried to tie Brown, a self-described independent, to the Republican Party. She pointed out Brown’s votes against three jobs bills, a bill to end oil subsidies, and unemployment extensions, as well as votes he cast against various bills dealing with women’s issues, all as evidence that he is more loyal to his party than the people of Massachusetts.
“You can cherry-pick votes and try to distort things, but the bottom line is I’m proud of what we’ve done,” Brown retorted, adding later, “I’m one of those vanishing breed of senators in the middle working together trying to get things done.”
With only 27 days before the election, Brown and Warren remain close in statewide polls. They will have more than two weeks of campaigning before debating one final time in Boston on Oct. 30, just one week before Election Day.
—Staff writer Nicholas P. Fandos can be reached at nicholasfandos@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: Oct. 11, 2012, at 11:39 p.m.
On the heels of a record-breaking basketball season and in the midst of a dominant run for Crimson football, Harvard will replace its undersized basketball stadium and renovate the nation’s oldest football stadium.
Jeremy L. Gibson, senior associate director of Harvard Athletics, said at a Harvard-Allston Task Force meeting Thursday night that the new basketball arena, which will be built between 2017 and 2022, will provide more seats for a program which has received increasing attention over the past few years, peaking in Harvard’s first appearance in the NCAA tournament in 66 years last spring.
Since coming to Harvard in 2007, men’s basketball head coach Tommy Amaker has led the Crimson to a 92-56 record, including back-to-back Ivy League championships. The Harvard basketball program stepped into the national spotlight more than ever before in 2012. The Crimson won the Battle 4 Atlantis, a pre-season tournament in the Bahamas, last November before winning the first outright conference championship in program history and spending time ranked in the Top 25 en route to its first March Madness berth since 1946. Meanwhile, alumnus Jeremy Lin ’10 garnered international headlines for his play with the New York Knicks, further expanding Harvard basketball’s profile.
Harvard sold out every home Ivy League game last season in Lavietes Pavilion, which has been the home of Harvard basketball since 1982. With a seating capacity of 2,195, Lavietes is currently the second-smallest basketball arena in the Ivy League, just 95 seats larger than Dartmouth’s Leede Arena.
Despite less positive headlines lately—co-captains Brandyn Curry ’13 and Kyle Casey ’13 voluntarily withdrew from the College this fall after being implicated in the much-publicized Government 1310 cheating scandal—Harvard is still considered a favorite to win the Ivy League this coming season, which kicks off on November 9 against MIT.
Gibson also emphasized the importance of renovating Harvard Stadium in order to preserve Harvard’s historic football center, home to a team whose current 13-game winning streak is the longest in Division I. This season the Crimson has handily defeated Cornell, 45-13; Holy Cross, 52-3; Brown, 45-31; and San Diego, 28-13.
“Harvard Stadium has served as the home of Harvard football for 109 years, and we want to make sure it’s the home of Harvard football for another 109 years,” Gibson said.
The athletic investments were announced along with other components of Harvard’s long-awaited Institutional Master Plan for development in Allston. Other components of the plan include a new building for executive education, renovations to several Business School buildings, the creation of a hotel and conference center, and a renovation of the Soldier’s Field Housing Project.
—Staff writer Mercer R. Cook can be reached at mcook@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Alexander Koenig can be reached at akoenig@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following corrections:
CORRECTIONS: Oct. 11
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that basketball coach Tommy Amaker came to Harvard in 2008. In fact, he was hired in 2007.
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Harvard has sold out every home basketball game in Lavietes Pavilion for the past two seasons. In fact, the Crimson sold out every home Ivy League game last season.
CORRECTION: Oct. 12
An earlier version of this article misquoted Senior Associate Director of Harvard Athletics Jeremy L. Gibson. He said that Harvard Stadium, which was built in 1903, had served as the home of Harvard football for 109 years, not 130 years.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While most Americans were sitting on their couches this summer watching the London Olympics, Harvard men’s swimming coach Tim Murphy had a different perspective of the Games as the head coach of the United States open water swimming team.
In his 14 years at the helm of the Crimson, Murphy has a long list of accomplishments. He has led the Crimson to six league championships. He turned Harvard alum Alex Meyer ’10 from a struggling collegiate athlete into an Olympian.
A baseball and football star in high school, a three-time club boxing national champion in college, Murphy ultimately chose to pursue a career as a swimming coach, a decision that would take him from West Chester, Pa., to Harvard and ultimately to London.
A LATE START
Growing up in a household of seven kids in Willingboro, N.J., Murphy always needed an outlet for excess energy.
“I was a pretty hyper kid, so it was probably good for me to be [playing sports],” Murphy says.
Throughout his time at Holy Cross High School, Murphy played baseball and football, forgoing the dry-land sports only in the summer to swim at the neighborhood pool in the inter-park swimming league.
Because Holy Cross lacked a swim team, Murphy focused on his other sports—to this day, he still considers his former football and baseball coach Frank Paris one of his top mentors.
“[Murphy] was of course a well-liked and popular student-athlete…. He was an outstanding athlete in both [football and baseball],” Paris recalls.  “I think the things that set him apart from others was that he was very aggressive and tough, physically and mentally, and I think those were the qualities, along with being disciplined, that allowed him to make the most of his abilities.”
Looking back at Murphy’s time at Holy Cross, Paris says that he is not surprised at Murphy’s current achievements.
“Most of what he’s accomplished is the direct result of the way he works and goes after his pursuits,” Paris says. “I saw it at the bat as a young man, so I’m sure that’s why he’s successful. I couldn’t be more proud of him.”
Since he only swam during his summers in high school, Murphy did not even consider going out for the swim team when he first enrolled at what was then West Chester State College.
However, after Murphy got cut from the West Chester baseball team, his summer league coach encouraged him to try out for the swim team. Murphy listened.
“I ended up swimming for all four years [of college], and while I was there, I was a re-introduced to the swimming world,” Murphy says. “There was a local national-caliber club, world-class coach there.”
Murphy dabbled in a medley of sports during college, trying out rugby, lacrosse, and boxing, winning three collegiate national titles at the club level. Thought he was not the fastest swimmer, Murphy stuck with the sport, eventually becoming the captain his senior year.
“I was not one of the top athletes on the team, in part because I didn’t swim year-round when I went to high school,” Murphy says. “But I was very proud that I was the captain my senior year, so… I absolutely had a successful career.”
PATH TO CAMBRIDGE
Coaching was a natural progression for Murphy after he received his degree in 1979 in health and physical education. Though he had played several sports in college, Murphy chose to pursue a career in swimming.
“I loved some of the other sports I had the opportunity to play,” Murphy says. “I think what kept me in the swimming mode was the opportunity to coach on the national and international level.”
After graduation, Murphy coached at Ursinus College before returning to West Chester to work with his former coach. While there, Murphy realized that he would have to alter his path to achieve his ultimate career goals.
“I really sort of made a decision that if I was going to coach swimming, I wanted to do it on a national level, so I sort of felt like I needed to go back and do the club route to get the experience and get the exposure,” Murphy says.
Murphy did just that, heading to the West Chester swimming club, where coach Jack Simon, whom Murphy also cites as a long-time mentor, hired Murphy as an assistant coach next, having known him from his collegiate swimming.
Although Murphy had only coached for a short period of time, it was clear to Simon that the West Chester grad had an unusual knack for coaching.
“[Murphy was] the best assistant coach I have ever had in my 54-year career,” Simon wrote in an email. “[He was] very passionate and very intense, but also knew how to keep things light!”
Murphy tried his hand at being a head coach next, working at the Wilton YMCA in Connecticut for the next 13 years. In that time, Murphy won a number of coaching accolades, including YMCA National Coach of the Year in 1989, and led the Wahoos to seven national championships before receiving the call from Harvard in 1998.
“Like the students that come [to Harvard], you don’t decide; Harvard decides,” Murphy says. “I think I was fortunate. I [took] a little bit of a different route to get to this level but I think the values that I coach with aligned with Harvard’s mission statement in education through athletics.”
The New Jersey native arrived at Harvard in 1998, taking the reins from previous head coach Mike Chassom, who had left to coach at Arizona State University.
Murphy found immediate success at Harvard, leading the Crimson to three EISL titles in his first four years at the school.
In his time at Harvard, Murphy has led Crimson swimming to a 113-11 record and six undefeated seasons. Once a kid that never regarded himself as much of a swimmer, Murphy has now guided athletes to national and international-level competitions.
“He cares about his swimmers both as swimmers and people,” says Owen Wurzbacher, co-captain of the Harvard men’s swimming team. “You can see when he walks onto the deck that he enjoys being there, and it makes it that much better for his athletes, how much he cares about what he does.”
Yet Murphy’s influence doesn’t stop at the deck—his coaching extends far past the boundaries of Blodgett Pool.
“He’s very inspiring and passionate to say the least. You can always tell [that] he puts his entire heart and soul into his coaching,” says Greg Roop, co-captain of the Crimson swim team. “He has taught me more than I’d ever imagine I’d know about swimming, but he’s also taught me a whole lot about life outside of swimming through the lessons he teaches in the pool.”
‘A TREMENDOUS HONOR’
In 1988, 10 years before his move to Harvard, Murphy, then with less international experience, sent an athlete to the Olympics, though he was never on staff at the Games. But when Meyer, who stayed in Boston following his graduation in 2010 to continue training with Murphy, became the first athlete named to the USA Swimming Team for London 2012, the long-time Crimson coach finally got his shot.
“Most of the international team selections are based on having an athlete on the team and then your experience on an international level and your relationship with United States swimming,” Murphy said. “Having the confidence from United States swimming to put me in that position was a tremendous honor.”
Murphy coached Meyer tirelessly for 11 months leading up to the Games, boating alongside Meyer in his neon green kayak on Walden Pond day in and day out to train him for the rigorous 10k race. Although Meyer finished in 10th place at the Olympics, Murphy recognized that his experience was beyond anything a medal could accomplish.
“Anytime that you have ‘U.S.A.’ on your back and you’re representing your country in an international competition is very exciting,” Murphy says. “You have the opportunity to work with the best athletes in the world, the best coaches in the world…under the umbrella of the Olympic Games.”
However, Murphy recalls his fondest memories at the Olympics as being surrounded by Crimson supporters.
“There was just a tremendous Harvard community there—my family, obviously, as well as past swimmers I’d coached, [and] Alex’s friends and family. It just made the whole experience so much more special,” Murphy says.
Current Harvard swimmers firmly supported USA Swimming’s decision to place Murphy on the coaching staff.
“I’ve been fortunate to swim for a lot of great coaches, and he’s definitely been one of the best,” Roop says. “I know that it’s very competitive to make it onto the Olympic coaching staff, so in that sense, it was more gratifying [for Murphy] to get the Olympic position than surprising, because I really knew that he deserved it.”
AFTER LONDON
Due to his recent success, Murphy was named to West Chester University’s Hall of Fame last month as part of the class of 2012, which he described as an emotional night.
“It was a very special evening—as most people, I’m extremely fond of where I went to school, for the most part because of the…lifelong relationships I’ve had with the coaches and teachers I had at West Chester,” says Murphy. “Every time I go on deck, I feel like I need to honor those folks, in whatever capacity, in whatever sport they worked in, because they did some really good things for me.”
Some might think Murphy would tire of Harvard going into his 15th year, but not the man himself, who does not appear to be thinking of leaving the Crimson team anytime soon.
“[Harvard] is a special place,” Murphy says. “The value of the opportunity is something that when these guys embrace the history and traditions of swimming and diving, it’s something they’ll be talking about…50 years from now. I don’t guarantee them much more than if they play the game the right way, they’ll have memories that’ll last them a lifetime.”
And when asked if he’d like to coach the Olympics again, the Harvard coach was quick to respond.
“Absolutely,” Murphy said. “I’d certainly enjoy going back, this time to Rio with ‘U.S.A.’ on my back."
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When the Harvard women’s soccer team walks off Stevenson Field at Brown on Saturday evening, the team’s playoff picture will be clearer. The game will prove to be either a pivotal momentum boost or a late obstacle in the Crimson’s quest to remain in contention for the Ivy League title.
The match in Providence marks the midpoint of Ivy play, and for Harvard (5-3-3, 1-1-1 Ivy), this year’s contest with the Bears  (6-5-0, 0-3-0) also marks a critical point in the season—just as it did last year, when a late score helped the Crimson to defeat Brown and remain atop the standings and undefeated against Ancient Eight teams.
But in 2012, the story has been different. With three games of conference play and only one win, Harvard has failed to maintain its dominance of Ancient Eight opponents and sits in fifth place, five points back in the standings behind first-place Princeton (7-3-1, 3-0-0) and Penn (7-4-1, 3-0-0).
With four remaining Ivy games in which to make up ground, the Crimson can reenter the title conversation by winning its next few matchups. To remain in legitimate contention of defending its 2011 Ivy title, Harvard must return to its championship form and begin its comeback with a defeat of last-place Brown.
The contest also has the potential to set the tone for the team’s growth this year, regardless of the ultimate Ivy championship outcome.
“This game is important for our confidence,” sophomore goalkeeper Bethany Kanten said. “It’s about growing and playing the style of soccer we want to play, not worrying about the result, and focusing on improving and developing.”
The Bears, meanwhile, share the cellar position in Ancient Eight standings with Yale (5-6-0, 0-3-0) and are still in search of their first conference win. After posting a 6-1 non-conference record in a strong start to the season, Brown has dropped four straight.
The Bears have struggled offensively, tallying only eleven goals in as many games, and are still looking to snap a scoreless streak that dates to Sept. 23.  Sophomore forwards Chloe Cross and Mika Siegelman have netted nearly half of the team’s goals, and Siegelman has scored her three goals in a total of just nine shots.
Last year’s First-Team All-Ivy junior goalie MC Barrett and classmate Amber Bledsoe have split time in the net for Brown and together have posted an .850 save percentage and five shutouts during the 2012 campaign.
But the Bears still top the league in goals allowed and have consistently had difficulty keeping pressure away from its net. Brown was outshot 21-4 on Tuesday night in a 1-0 loss to Princeton.
The Crimson’s defense, led by Kanten, boasts the second-lowest number of goals allowed in the league. Kanten, who owns two shutouts on the year, has established herself in goal for Harvard this season and become a defensive force, in contrast to the uncertainty and injuries that plagued the position last season.
“Having a consistent goalkeeper like Beth is an asset that you can’t underestimate,” Johnson said.
For the Crimson’s offense, Johnson, sophomore midfielder Meg Casscells-Hamby, and senior defender Taryn Kurcz have led Harvard in points. Freshman forward Emily Mosbacher, who garnered Ivy League Rookie of the Week honors for her game-winning goal at New Hampshire on Oct. 2 and an assist in the tie against Cornell last Saturday, is quickly becoming one of the most productive offensive players on the Crimson roster.
“She has a great attitude about playing soccer, she works hard, and I think everyone saw that this week,” Kanten said of Mosbacher.
At the midpoint of conference play, the Bears’ chances of surging to the top of the standings may be slim, but the game against Harvard remains an important one. A win against the Crimson will bring Brown within two games of a tie for the all-time series, in which Harvard owns a 5-4-1 advantage during the past decade.
Yet a win for the Crimson would carry far more significance, providing the team with a jump up the ladder of the Ivy League standings, placing Harvard in contention for a repeat championship title once more.
But ultimately, the team is choosing to stay focused on the immediate challenge.
“I think we’re trying to take this game as Brown—just Brown,” Johnson said. “On Saturday, all that matters is Harvard versus Brown.”
—Staff writer Keith H. Bender can be reached at keithbender@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Less than a week after finishing up a 0-5 California road trip, the Harvard men’s water polo team (12-11, 4-0 CWPA) is looking to bounce back and return to its winning ways when it takes on Brown Thursday night at Blodgett Pool.
But the task of taking down the No. 12 men’s team in the country will be a tall order for the Crimson.  The Bears enter Thursday night’s contest riding a nine-game winning streak and have gotten off to a hot start this season, going 17-2 overall and a perfect 4-0 in CWPA play.
“[Brown] is very good,” Harvard coach Ted Minnis said.  “They are a very talented and very experienced team.  They’ve played very well all year long.  This is a team that is in a good position to go to NCAAs this year.”
Senior center Svetozar Stefanovic has been a tremendous source of offense thus far for the Bears, netting a team-high 66 goals.  Stefanovic was named the CWPA Northern Division Player of the Week on Sept. 26.
Brown sophomore attacker Henry Fox has added 55 goals and has twice earned CWPA Northern Division Player of the Week honors this season, while freshman utility Will Klein, who has tallied 14 goals and 10 assists, was named the Northern Division Rookie of the Week last week.
But the Crimson hopes to end the Bears’ hot streak Thursday night at home.  Despite its current six-game skid, Harvard has had a successful season thus far.  A nine-game winning streak, the team’s first since 2002, catapulted the Crimson to a 12-6 record in September.
“I’m really happy with our season thus far,” Minnis said.  “The 0-5 record in California obviously on paper looks bad, but the level of competition we were playing was really high.  I think we are definitely playing better than when we left for California.”
Harvard played three teams ranked in the top 10 in the country on their California road trip.  The experience of playing against elite squads will only serve to help the young Crimson squad as it prepares to take on its conference foes.
“The west coast teams tend to have a little bit of a different attack,” junior goalie Jimmy Field said.  “[It’s] potentially a little bit more similar to what Brown does, so that gives us some experience.”
The highly touted freshmen class has been a source of offensive firepower for Harvard this season.  Freshman two-meter Ben Zepfel leads the team with 43 goals thus far.  Fellow first-year attacker Blake Lee has netted 37 goals while also posting a team-high 28 assists and 35 steals.  In total, the freshman class has scored 149 of the team’s 242 goals this season.
Minnis is quick to stress that the team’s youth does not affect their mentality when they hit the water.
“At some point you have to get over that we are a very young team,” Minnis said.  “We are halfway through our season.  You can’t be making the same mistakes as you were making at the beginning.  You have to grow and learn from your mistakes. If not, you’re not doing your job.”
“We are kind of moving away from that ‘being young’ thing, and we have to just be accountable for what we are doing,” Minnis added.
Brown bested the Crimson both times the teams met last season.  In their first match-up of last season, the Bears topped Harvard 11-4 at Blodgett Pool.  At the Ivy League Championships, Brown once again claimed a decisive victory, cruising to a 15-5 win.
Keys to a successful outcome for the Crimson in Thursday night’s competition will be sticking to the game plan and learning from its own recent string of games against highly ranked opponents.
“We are just trying to make sure we are all on the same page,” Field said.  “We want to make sure we come in with intensity coming off our trip in California having played some really good teams, learning from that and using that against Brown.”
“If we are going to have success against [the Bears] in the pool on Thursday we have to definitely play Harvard water polo,” Minnis said.  “We can’t try to play Brown water polo.  If we try to play Brown water polo, they’re going to kill us because that’s what they do.  We have to do what we do and play our style of water polo and hopefully have some success doing that.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Amid distractions like cafés that actually take Board Plus and the cute guy in the carrel across from you, it's easy to forget that the purpose of Harvard's many libraries is to house books...lots of books. Harvard is home to the largest academic library system in the nation, consisting of over 15.8 million volumes.
The Association of American Publishers and Google recently solidified a deal allowing publishers to determine whether their works can be included in Google's Library Project. Out of 15 million potential works to be scanned and uploaded for public use, nearly one million will be from Harvard's own collections. Digital books are a relatively recent phenomenon that have publishers up in arms and some bookstores going out of business. Flyby weighs the pros and cons of having such easily accessible texts.
 
PROS:
Convenience. Why go check a book out of the library if it's a Google search away?
Accessibility. Many rare and out-of-print books will now be made accessible to the public.
Reliability. Because Wikipedia might not always have the right facts, but a published book probably will.
Affordability. Books are expensive, and shiny e-readers are even pricier; much of the Google Library Project is free. (Certain books can be sold or borrowed in their entirety for a small fee.)
CONS:
It's Google. This isn't a con for us so much as for other booksellers. Companies such as Amazon are concerned that with so many publishers complying, Google's overwhelming ubiquity will bring them to bankruptcy. As we saw with the recent Apple Maps debacle, Google just does it better.
We like libraries. After all, one of the three obligatory Harvard acts takes places in a library. Amiright?
Will publishers even be necessary? If the concept of a "book" is transformed from bound paper to a PDF, then what becomes of Penguin Group and Random House? According to the "Wall Street Journal," book sales are steadily decreasing as e-book sales rise. We're no economists, the fact that e-books are far cheaper than printed books means this can't be good for the print industry as a whole.
Validity and Quality. If publishers are no longer needed to print books, then can't anyone theoretically print their book and upload it online? This could potentially challenge the validity of legitimate sources, not to mention spur an influx of thousands of people with an internet connection who think they're the next J.K. Rowling.
Sections
The Harvard bubble can often be claustrophobic, especially when the College is in the thick of midterms. This Thursday, head down to Cafe Gato Rojo and let the Balkan tones and rhythms of Boston-based band Klezwoods take you away.
 
Klezwoods, an amalgam of strings, horns, and percussion, fuses traditional Eastern-European klezmer music with modern sounds and improvisational jazz. The group's unique style is a result of different musical training: some members play in a reggae style, others are influenced by jazz, and yet others stay very true to classic klezmer sounds. The result is new music with traces of old world melodies.
 
Though usually a 10-piece band, Klezwoods will be scaling down to an acoustic quintet for this Thursday's show to give an unplugged performance of songs from their most recent album, "The 30th Meridian: From Cairo to St. Petersburg with Love." 
 
The management and staff of Gato Rojo say that they hope to continue hosting bands and small gigs throughout the year. The Cafe has organized similar events in the past, such as open-mic nights and poetry readings, but this semester they plan to make concerts much more regular occurrences.
 
The event will take place tonight at 8:00 p.m. Cafe Gato Rojo is located in the basement of Lehman Hall in Harvard Yard.
Sections
What if you walked into Felipe's for your casual 1:00 a.m. burrito and found Mitt Romney and Barack Obama each polishing off a bowl of guac?
As Obama and Romney duke it out in the battleground states, it's easy to feel ignored in the decidedly blue state of Massachusetts. Hoping to keep political enthusiasm high on campus, the undergraduate organization Election Central has turned to some unconventional means—namely, cardboard cutouts of Romney and Obama and a Tumblr page following their adventures in Cambridge.
Under the tutelage of Election Central members, Romney and Obama's 2-D counterparts seem to have mastered the art of the "common touch." Photos on the "Where Are Barack and Mitt?" Tumblr page show the cutouts earnestly grinning in front of student hubs like HSA Cleaners, Dunkin' Donuts, and Felipe's. The real-life candidates may be multi-millionaires, but their cardboard equivalents are certainly men of the people.
Medha B. Gargeya '14, who started the Tumblr page, said she envisioned the blog as a whimsical way of advertising about political events at the IOP and around campus. Along with photos of the cutouts' late-night escapades in Harvard Square, "Where Are Barack and Mitt?" also provides information about real-life political events.
As for who's allowed to walk the dogs, Election Central has created a schedule detailing where to take the cutouts, who is taking them, and at what time, Gargeya said. Currently, only people who have voiced interest at Election Central meetings can access and edit the schedule, but Election Central might open it to the public if the cutouts become popular, according to Gargeya.
"A lot of times we get bogged down by the issues and ideological battles, but elections are also fun," Gargeya said. "With the cutouts, we're trying to emphasize the more light-hearted side of [the elections]."
