News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
H. E. Tawakkol Karman, co-recipient of the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize and the first Arab woman to win a Nobel, said that she was effective in fighting for women’s rights in Yemen by focusing on human rights for all.
Karman, a Yemini activist and journalist, spoke at the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum on Thursday evening. Karman’s keynote speech kicked off a conference at the Kennedy School entitled “Culture Identity and Change in the Middle East: Insights for Conflict and Negotiation.”
At 33, Karman is the youngest winner of the Nobel Peace Prize and the second Muslim woman so honored. She is also the first Yemenite laureate.  Karman and two other women received the 2011 prize “for their non-violent struggle for the safety of women and for women’s rights to full participation in peace-building work,” according to the Nobel Prize website.
Karman spoke of the daily contradictions faced by peaceful protestors in violent countries. “I continue to smell the fragrance of hope and fortune that will better our society. However, I still see the blood of my friends…as well as the blood of our brother Arabs who were murdered and wounded in the Arab Spring Revolution,” said Karman, who spoke mainly in Arabic through a translator. “Their only crime was to demand a better future in their homeland for all people and their desire for equality of all citizens.”
Karman co-founded Women Journalists Without Chains,­ a human rights organization, in 2005. Beginning in 2007, she orchestrated weekly protests to call for reform in Yemen and later advocated the dismissal of President Ali Abdullah Saleh in 2011.
Although she was arrested and detained more than once, Karman remains a strong advocate for freedom of expression. She continues to peacefully protest and call for justice from her tent in Yemen’s Change Square, according to a website for the Nobel Women’s Initiative.
Karman said that nepotism and corruption are driving forces that lead to torture, arbitrary detention, forced abduction, unemployment, and the confiscation of the rights and freedoms of the people.
Karman said that the Arab Spring revolutions are a response to corrupt dictatorships for which other parts of the world share responsibility.  Such regimes stem from general hatred “between nations, between people, between West and East.”
According to Karman, Yemen’s youth began a “broad social partnership” by choosing to protest. She said that this partnership can continue to aid development and increase political stability.
Karman said that the fight against dictatoship goes hand in hand with the fight against terrorism.
“The fear or terrorism is misplaced,” she said. “Terrorism and tyranny are two sides of a similar coin. Terrorists and tyrants share… strategic interests and…feed off of each others’ strengths,”
“She has been dubbed the Yemeni Joan of Ark but at home she is known as the mother of the revolution,” Kennedy School Associate Professor Hannah Riley Bowles, who moderated the event, told the audience. “She is credited with lighting the spark of the Arab Spring in Yemen and leading the transformational demonstrations in what she calls ‘Change Square.’”
Karman emphasized the importance of taking action in the interest of humanity and justice. “I didn’t ask anyone to give me my rights. We decided to take our rights by going to the street, doing demonstrations, sitting, sacrificing, leading the men,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Every week, The Crimson publishes a selection of articles that were printed in our pages in years past.
June 6, 1919: Many Universities Adopt Sweeping Changes in Entrance Requirements
"Citizenship first; scholarship and culture second" appears to be the new slogan of most American colleges and universities in their post war reconstruction. Broad and sweeping changes in the entrance requirements and in the curricula is the form which this new movement has taken. In some cases both Greek and Latin have been abolished as entrance requirements.
June 4, 1930: Crimson's Liquor Report Used To Refute Polling
The complete report on The Crimson's recent intercollegiate prohibition poll has been introduced into the Congressional Record by Mrs. Mary T. Norton, New Jersey representative, as refutation of evidence recently presented before the House Judiciary Committee by Dr. Polling of the Penny Foundation and Christian Endeavor of New York. Dr. Polling cited figures to show that drinking in the colleges is neither general nor on the increase.
The Crimson's report, including polls taken at 22 colleges, analyses the figures and gives evidence to show that more than 60 percent of American undergraduates drink at one time or another.
June 5, 1939: Committee Looks for Better Grammar in Written Exams
In a detailed 27-page report to the Faculty, the Committee on the Uses of English, headed by J. D. M. Ford, Smith Professor of French and Spanish, urges greater effort on the part of instructors to curb the use of poor English on examinations which the Committee feels in very prevalent.
June 3, 1968: Miss Helen Keller '04, Age 87, Dies in Sleep
Helen Keller '04, perhaps Radcliffe's most renowned alumna, died in her sleep Saturday afternoon at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 87.
Blind and deaf after a sudden illness at the age of 19 months, she later became, with the help of her childhood teacher and longtime companion Anne Sullivan, the first person with these handicaps to acquire normal living and language skills.
June 4, 1971: Harvard Gambler Attacks Belmont Stakes
Lawrence All-unit Darby of Poolesvilie, Md., announced last night when contacted by The Crimson, "Canonero II will have great difficulty winning the Triple Crown, if he wins at all." His opinion is of some interest.
Mr. Darby, formerly of Eliot House and a member of the Class of 1968, is currently enrolled in his last year at Harvard Business School. He will not, however, be looking forward to a conventional business career. His business will be betting on horse races, a pursuit that has become increasingly more profitable for him over the last several years.
—Compiled by Julie M. Zauzmer
Sections
Former University president Larry H. Summers stirred up controversy earlier this week after his statements on a morning talk show seemed to contradict U.S. president Barack Obama's position on Bush-era tax cuts.
Speaking on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" television program Wednesday morning, Summers, who is currently an economic adviser to Obama, seemed to imply that the tax cuts should be extended beyond their current Jan. 1, 2013 expiration date.
"The real risk to this economy is on the side of slowdown, certainly not on the side of overheating, and that means we’ve got to make sure we don’t take gasoline out of the tank at the end of this year," Summers said. "That’s got to be the top priority.”
Summers was responding to questions about comments from former U.S. president Bill Clinton, who the day before seemed to suggest that the expiration of the Bush tax cuts should be postponed to allow for economic recovery.
Clinton quickly retracted his comments after push-back from the Obama campaign, but Republicans have since jumped on both his Summers' statements as evidence of bipartisan disapproval of tax increases.
Summers, in a written statement to the Crimson, clarified his statement on "Morning Joe" and said he thought Bush-era tax cuts should not be extended.
"People look for excitement and conflict but there should be none here," Summers wrote in a statement to The Crimson. "I have been thinking and saying the same thing for months. I am strongly for doing more to promote demand and economic growth. I am very concerned about upcoming fiscal cliff and expect that if congress does not act, the economy will go into recession. When congress acts, the actions should include infrastructure investment, relief for states, continuing middle class tax relief, tax reform to broaden the base and lower rates, and further steps to address entitlements. The actions should not include extending the [B]ush high income tax cuts."
