News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Artur G. Davis ’90 graduated from Harvard as a government concentrator, he says he never imagined that 13 years later he would be an Alabama congressman.
“I never really expected to be a politician,” Davis says. “When I was [at Harvard], I wanted to be a journalist.”
Yet in his junior year, he realized that, without having worked on any of the campus papers, it was unlikely that he could pursue a career in journalism.
“I finally did what all the other people who are undecided in Harvard elected to do,” Davis says, “and that’s go to law school.”
Of the seven fellows at the Institute of Politics this semester, three graduated from one of the schools at Harvard University: Davis, Farai N. Chideya ’90, and Steven P. Schrage, who graduated from Harvard Business School in 2004.
The at-times unpredictable career trajectories of these individuals—from Harvard students to Harvard IOP fellows—reveal a common theme: being flexible and embracing unexpected opportunities can open many doors.
UNDERGRADUATE UNCERTAINTIES
Davis first became interested in politics in elementary school, when he moved on from comic book super heroes to historical figures.
“When I was first interested in history, I saw historical figures as these kinds of heroic individuals who had done in real life the things people did in Greek mythology and comic books,” he says with a smile. “I was always fascinated by the fact that the people who matter...faced a lot of setbacks and were people who had to evolve and become the personalities and personas that we attach to them now.”
Yet while Davis studied government and history at the College, he was uncertain about his future career path.
“The Harvard tradition is if you don’t quite know what you want to do senior year, you go to law school to keep your options open,” he said.
Davis saw a law degree as very applicable to a range of disciplines. He notes that many of his friends ultimately practiced law even after pursuing medical or business degrees.
Chideya, a professional journalist and author, says that she agrees it is not unusual or problematic to go through several careers in a lifetime.
“It’s not a bad idea to do something then jump into something else,” she said. “I have many friends who have law degrees who don’t practice—some are in tech, some in journalism, some in marketing.”
Chideya says she knew she wanted to be a fiction writer, but she was less certain about journalism.
“I was not entirely sure that I wanted to be a journalist—so it was a really great process of being organically introduced to the business, learning from great people who have often been in the business for 20 to 40 years.”
Chideya concentrated in English at the College, studying Shakespeare and the modern novel, an education that she says shaped the way she looked at politics.
She also wrote for The Harvard Independent but says she was not “a hardcore journalism person.” Her turning point was a summer internship with Newsweek, which evolved into a job during the semester.
At Newsweek, her boss let her take interesting assignments, including reporting at a women’s prison and covering a same-sex custody battle.
“I got to do some really interesting work, and that’s what got me into doing [journalism],” Chideya says.
Citing shifts in interest like Chideya’s, Davis notes that students’ most challenging choice is not deciding what to do decades down the road but rather organizing the first five years of their post-undergraduate life.
“It’s the first time for a lot of Harvard students to not have an obvious next step, because for many students the next step after high school was Harvard,” Davis explains.
FIRST STEPS, FIRST JOBS
When Schrage graduated from Duke University, he knew he wanted to travel the world before moving on with his career goals.
After attending bartending school and managing a restaurant to save money, Schrage embarked on a series of global adventures. He talked with students in the wake of the Tiananmen Square incident, rode camels alongside smugglers on the India-Pakistan border, motorcycled in the Golden Triangle area in Southeast Asia, slept on rooftops in Old Jerusalem, and traveled on third-class trains across Indonesia.
“It really gave me a way to experience the world...and see how people lived, how they dealt with issues, so that really sparked my curiosity in terms of the international dimension,” he says.
After graduating from the University of Michigan Law School, Schrage began work at the State Department Legal Adviser’s Office, which inspired his political career.
“This was at the time when the control of Congress switched for the first time in 40 years,” he says. “I saw it as an opportunity to get involved, make a difference in changing some of the institutions, taking policies into a new direction—young people could make a difference in that.”
CAREERS IN TRANSITION
For Davis, the move towards a career in political office began with a lost election.
“The core question you need to ask is: Do you really want to do the job, and would you do a good job?” he says. “I felt quite frankly that I could be a good congressman.”
Dissatisfied with the incumbent’s abilities, Davis set up a campaign for a position in the House of Representatives as an unknown with no history in politics, no connections, and no donors or campaign workers.
“I put together about as much of a shoe-string campaign as one could conceive,” Davis says. “And I learned that $1.4 million goes way further than $70,000.”
Despite losing the election, Davis decided that politics was a route through which he could make a tangible difference, and he ran for the same position again two years later in 2002.
“I felt that I had done well enough and made enough connections to do it again,” Davis says. “And there was nothing else I wanted to do more, no other path that struck me as a more fulfilling one.”
He won and went on to be a four-term congressman.
Chideya’s career also reached a memorable turning point. After publishing “Don’t Believe the Hype: Fighting Cultural Misinformation About African Americans” in 1995, she received an offer from CNN to be a political analyst. She soon shifted to radio and pioneering in online websites.
She says that having control over her own work was an appealing aspect of writing, which helps explain why she did not choose a more “traditional,” structured job.
“If you write a book, you ultimately are responsible for what’s on the page, and I like that,” she says.
Schrage says he feels the risks and sacrifices involved in transitioning out of previous jobs have ultimately been rewarding.
When he was Scholl Chair in International Business at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a bipartisan think tank, he received an offer from Senator Scott Brown to be his chief of staff. “It was a tough decision, because I had a job I loved very much,” Schrage said. “But I felt that Scott Brown had a very unique opportunity in policy during his first year to bridge the gaps in Washington.”
MANY WAYS TO GET INVOLVED
Davis feels that learning about the history behind political decision is crucial for anyone interested in pursuing a career in politics.
“A lot of people who walk into politics have no real sense of history—they don’t have a real sense of the continuity of problems and arguments we are currently having,” he says.
Davis also believes many students underestimate the influence they can have through politics.
“Handing out signs in New Hampshire is not for everyone...working at phone banks is not for everyone,” he says. “If you’re not going to do it well or with enthusiasm, you’re better off not doing it.”
However, he emphasizes that there are many ways to get involved in politics beyond these traditional activities.
“I feel that Harvard students are reluctant to get involved in politics unless it’s electing the next president of the United States, but there’s a lot of [local] opportunities out there,” he said. “If you get involved in campaigns at a local level, it’s a wonderful opportunity to learn more of politics and see how it plays out on a day in and day out basis. Don’t be afraid to help out.”
For the many students who are uncertain about their future paths, Chideya emphasizes the importance of simply making decisions and taking risks.
“If you don’t know what you want to do, experiment,” she says. “Get a job you think you’ll like...make decisions, and realize they won’t always be perfect. It’s a hard thing for Harvard students to hear, but it’s okay to be not perfect.”
—Staff writer David Song can be reached at davidsong@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Though I found it entertaining to answer questions about David J. Malan ’99 and YouTube memes, meeting someone—the alleged purpose of Datamatch—proved tedious and demoralizing. And I wasn’t looking for “the one,” just someone to share a cup of coffee with and say "hi" to in the Yard.
After three hours of texting, emailing, calling, Facebook friending, and haranguing every single one of my 11 matches, I finally made a connection. We set a date. We set a time. Yet, when I arrived upstairs at Starbucks, I realized that, unlike the guys I’d met online, I had no idea which boy in the Harvard hoodie was my 90.45 percent.
Luckily, he found me. I turned to meet Jeremy in his Crimson sweatshirt and felt a tingle of hope when I shook his hand. Maybe this was the best friend I’d been looking for—the man to share Brain Break with in between visits from my long-distance boyfriend. You see, I wasn’t using Datamatch for love, I simply wanted friendship.
I offered to buy him a drink, but Jeremy doesn’t drink coffee. Jeremy just likes the atmosphere. A freshman from my math class was playing guitar in the corner with her pink running shoes kicked off her feet. Middle-aged tourists and students with laptops occupied all of the tables. We sat awkwardly on cushions while beginning to get to know each other, and attempted to understand our respective journeys to this fateful Friday night.
Through a series of interrogation-style questioning, I learned that Jeremy studies "normal pre-med stuff," although he’s not sure why. He comes from a private school in New Jersey, where he ran track. Despite my intimidating conversational style, he seemed to be charming and sociable, the type of guy I’d happily chat with while drinking vodka and diet-coke at an illicit freshman party.
Like most of his entryway in Holworthy, however, Jeremy only took Datamatch "for shits and giggles." He enjoyed it, but the subtle eroticism of computer-aided dating eluded him. Thus far, none of his friends have contacted, hooked up with, or married their matches.
Though many of the Datamatch questions were undeniably amusing, I expected a high match rating to predict a profound connection. I knew from my experiences on OkCupid that a 70 percent match got annoying after 15 minutes, that an 80 percent match meant less talking and more making out, and that my Mr. 99 percent actually rounded up to "the one."
I’m sure Jeremy and I had a lot in common—he was my 90.45 percent after all—but as the conversation progressed, I couldn’t see why. For every sentence we exchanged, there were two awkward silences. We had nothing to talk about. Maybe I should have Google stalked him first. I can only make so much small talk about Holworthy and his email address. And the Datamatch survey had vanished from the internet, leaving me with no way to ask him which Charlie Sheen quote describes his sex life.
Perhaps this highlights the biggest fault of Datamatch as a love engine—when two matches meet, neither knows what the other wants. For all of the problems of online dating, the clarity of knowing that a coffee date is a date-date is refreshing. The hassle of looking for love or  friendship in a list of email addresses, at least for Jeremy and me, wasn’t worth it. It looks like more solo Brain Breaks for some of us until next Feb. 14.
Sections
Tired yellow tufts of eyebrow spray out over wire-rimmed glasses. Ken A. O’Brien is sitting where he always sits, on the stoop in front of the Harvard Shirt Shop, lifting a cigarette to his lips. The cardboard sign in front of him reads, “Please help with any change toward life expenses for my wife, dog, and cat or even just to help keep the free books going! Thanks for reading, Ken.”
For the past five and a half years, Ken has been running the $2 Bookstore in front of 1324 Mass. Ave. The bookstore has been somewhat of a Harvard Square staple, attracting students, residents, and tourists alike because of its low prices and perhaps more importantly, its quirky charm.
“People always come up to me and say they found a book here that they had always been looking for,” Ken says. Many of the texts are science fiction. One box holds travel guides to places like Dubai. There is an art book here and there. One was published in 1920 and is titled “Select Extracts Illustrating Sports and Pastimes in the Middle Ages.”
However, as of a few weeks ago, the bookstore has been shut down. The books are still there, and so is Ken. He’s just giving them away now for free: five books per person per day, donations welcome but certainly not required. Although Ken has run into legal problems with his bookstore in the past, this change has nothing to do with the City of Cambridge. Rather, it’s the latest component of a lifestyle transformation. “I refuse to allow any kind of pressure of the day,” Ken says. He takes a sip of coffee from Au Bon Pain (Morning Blend, 8 sugars, no milk).
Managing a business is stressful—there are schedules to be kept, transactions to be managed, and workers to be hired. All of this takes away from time Ken would otherwise be spending with his family: his cat, dog, and wife, Frenchie. And, Ken being a self-described “very successful bum on the corner,” the lost revenue isn’t too much of a concern.
Ken is very upfront about himself. He has four vices: caffeine, nicotine, THC, and white sugar. He is 58 in chronological years, although he also counts his age in terms of the number of lifetimes he’s lived, the people he’s met, and the times he should have died. He was born at 11 Athens St., just off Harvard’s campus, and in school he was one of those kids. The ones who put tacks on teachers’ chairs (the teacher actually sat on it) and goof off in all the easy classes. Ken’s eyes crinkle up behind his foggy eyeglasses, and he taps a dirty finger against his cardboard box of cigarettes.
Since school he’s been here (in Cambridge), and there (around the country). “I spent close to 40 years hitchhiking,” Ken recalls. “That was my school for what I have now.”
For the time being, he is content with staying put. As of three weeks ago, Ken and his wife, who both used to live under the blue tarp behind the bookstand, are no longer homeless. The couple is renting a room in Lexington, and Frenchie made lasagna for dinner the other night. This—his home, his family—is more than enough. “I can sit here and travel through other people’s eyes,” explains Ken as he traces the movement of passersby. “There’s enough empathy there.”
A man in a worn black jacket and crimson hoodie drops two dollar bills into Ken’s Tupperware container. Ken reaches forward and slips them into the pocket of his ash-stained blue sweatshirt. In the background, a few kids in Oxfords and loafers wander out of the Porcellian Club, backpacks slung over their shoulders.
When Ken was starting out, he bought 500 books a week from a friend, at 50 cents a piece. He wasn’t picky about titles, although many fell into the science fiction or fantasy genres, Ken’s personal favorites. The early days were marked by conflicts with police, the City of Cambridge, and the Harvard Square Business Association.
Ken was arrested twice after establishing his bookstore on Mass. Ave. However, after 85 days, 9 judges, and 3 cases, a judge ruled that there was “no probable cause for arrest conducting constitutionally protected activities.” After this incident, Ken bought a permit for 50 cents per annum from the City Solicitor that would allow him to legally set up shop. Cambridge police never bothered him again.
By ceasing to sell his books, Ken is leaving behind the world of legal technicalities. “I tried to be a citizen and, collectively, the world didn’t want me to be. They preferred me as a bum on the corner,” Ken says. And that was alright with him.
The bookstore’s legacies include the 30,000 books Ken now has in storage. He hopes that what is beginning as a free giveaway will develop into Ken’s Free Book Exchange, where readers donate a volume or two in exchange for titles they are interested in reading.
“It’s not quite like Solomon giving away all of his things and getting wealthy. But it’s almost like that.” He chuckles—a throaty, hacking kind of thing—and takes a drag on his cigarette. “The free books are just so strange. I end up getting what I want, but it doesn’t always come in the form of money.”
Although there is no fixed schedule, Ken has a Facebook and announces each morning around 8 a.m. whether he’ll be opening. Ken grinds the butt of his cigarette into the street as he says, “I can do the best for myself, my family, and, it would seem, the world this way.”
Sections
In 2004, William V. Bergstrom ’13 wrote a creative essay for an English class which he later published as a picture book. His grandmother, Anne-Marit “Mumsel” Bergstrom illustrated the book, called “The Magic Telescope.” Mumsel is an established artist from Devil’s Lake, N.D. William is an English concentrator living in Winthrop House and an Editorial Chair of The Harvard Crimson. FM sat down and spoke with them about their illustrator-writer relationship. The interview has been edited for concision.
WILLIAM
“Jingleheimer is an elf who, in competing for Santa’s Toy of the Year Award, comes up with the idea of creating a magical telescope, and when the kids look at the magical telescope, they can see Santa doing whatever he’s doing all year round. Jingleheimer, for this incredible invention, wins the award and gets to deliver presents with Santa that night.
In my eighth grade class, I wrote this story, and when I finished, I had my mom proofread it, because I had my mom proofread everything in the eighth grade, and she took a look at it and was like, ‘Will, this is really good, you should get it published!’ and I was like, ‘Oh, shut up, you’re my mom. Don’t be ridiculous.’
So I turn it in, and my teacher actually calls me aside after class like, three days later, and says, ‘Will, I really like this, you should try and get it published!’ At which point, I really started thinking about this because it wasn’t my mom. So we looked into it, and we found a company in New Jersey that published it for us. Two years later, in tenth grade, the book was finally published.
I thought the idea of Santa Claus in a bathing suit was hilarious, and I thought we should have a picture of that. Especially for these ones, I was like, ‘Well, I would need to show one where he’s working hard, so can you give me one of those?’ And Mumsel was like, ‘How does this look?’ and I was like, ‘That’s fantastic. I loved that one.’
There was a lot of correcting her work, and that was why I was glad that I had my grandmother there doing it with me, ’cause there are certain things that you’d be comfortable saying to your grandmother about her paintings that you wouldn’t be comfortable saying to a different artist.
This one of Santa flying and toys falling out the back...when she drew this the first time, there was a Raggedy Ann doll falling out the back that was just a little too large, so it looked a lot like there was a little girl falling off the back of Santa’s sleigh. I was like, ‘Hey Mumsel, I think that kid’s too big. It looks like Santa’s pulling off a hit here.’
And then there’s another one in here somewhere where Santa and all of his elves are working. Mumsel was painting them all with different colored suits on in each picture. In this one, they were all wearing little orange suits, but they looked like a bunch of inmates who were doing their community service building toys for Santa. I was like, ‘Okay, Mumsel, we can’t do that, it looks like we’re in the North Pole Correctional Facility right now.’
How would I describe her? Positive would be a good word. Just overwhelmingly positive, which I think helped when you have an eighth grader who’s very staunch about what he wants in his book and bossing you around. I think you gotta be pretty positive to deal with that, even if he is your grandson.”
MUMSEL
“It was such a special experience, to collaborate with my grandchild. He came to me and he said, ‘If I were to publish this book, would you do the illustrations?’ and, of course, I was honored. And so I said yes.
He’s always been a good storyteller. Ever since he was very young, he loved words, and he always had a big vocabulary, and just amazing perception.
He would come each day after school to see what I had done that day, and maybe it would meet his approval and maybe not. He would critique! I’ll just tell you that it was wonderful to work with him because he had such a clear concept of the characters in the story. It was marvelous, because here he was, this young man, and yet he was able to guide me.
It’s 7000, population-wise, Devil’s Lake. Adults in the community think of the book as a keepsake. I had a lady call me recently, and she said, ‘You know I have a new grandchild, I need another book, can you get him to sign it?’ The baby was a couple of months old at that time, but she knew it was something the child should have.
There’s just a nice feeling. It’s a good community. A supportive, nurturing environment, I guess. It’s something that happens in a small town, maybe. Maybe it happens everywhere. There’s just so many people that care. And the teachers are so supportive. Now, if she had just treated that like every other paper she got, it wouldn’t have happened. She recognized his imagination and his ability to find the right words. I don’t know, I’m glad she saw what she saw! And I saw what I saw.
He’s very dependable, too. You can depend on him—I can’t explain it. How do you explain somebody you love? What is it Browning said? ‘If you can put it into words, fear to call it loving.’ You know, the love that a grandmother has for her grandchild is something so special, you can’t put it into words.
He’s an inspiration to me. You’re just all so inspiring to me, I can’t explain it, and to know that this is our future, then I think the world is in good hands.
I’m an artist—words aren’t my vocabulary. If I could paint a picture for you, it’d be easier. He’s better at words than I am.”
Sections
11:35 a.m. Mihir J. Chaudhary ’12 arrives at the Harvard Square T stop en route to a protest rally in Boston. Chaudhary is a member of the Environmental Action Committee (EAC), a sub-organization of the Phillips Brooks House Association that does exactly what the name suggests: student campaigns for environmental awareness and protection.
Once on the train, he mentions that he’s from a small suburban town that lacked outlets for substantial social activism. Instead, he was involved primarily with direct service—tutoring and mentoring middle school students—rather than protest. As it turns out, he will be the only Harvard student attending this rally, which is organized by 350.org and Occupy Boston to protest Senator Scott Brown’s support for the proposed Keystone XL Pipeline. Chaudhary has come straight from class to attend this rally, and feels that students at Harvard don’t necessarily find time in their lives for activism.
“Harvard is very self-selecting; students aren’t so passionate about activism because they’re given a formula for success in high school that doesn’t necessarily include activism,” he says.
Even within activist organizations like the EAC, convincing students to get out and protest isn’t easy. “A lot of people show up to meetings and not to events. Others go to one or two rallies but don’t sustainably involve themselves,” he explains.
12:03 p.m. Stepping out of the Park Street station, Chaudhary joins about 25 people who are gathered for the rally. Most are well out of college, but there are a few other students from Brandeis and Tufts as well.
12:25 p.m. The crowd has swollen to about 50 to 60 people practicing protest chants before a scattered audience of onlookers. There are more graying heads than expected. The sky is an electric shade of blue, and a police officer stands at a distance. He looks vaguely amused. During a lull in the pre-rally rehearsal, a man swaggering by in a sweatshirt and baggy pants scolds a suited passerby: “You are an arch-criminal, sir, with your briefcase and tie.” The alleged arch-criminal isn’t fazed, and scurries into the T Station without looking back.
 THE YOUNG RADICALS
The weekly Student Labor Action Movement (SLAM) meeting takes place in the parlor room of the PBHA house. A massive dark fireplace dominates one of the room’s wainscotted walls. Three crystal chandeliers hang down from the 20-foot ceiling. Red leather couches and armchairs are scattered around the edges of a maroon oriental rug.
Tonight, SLAM members discuss the upcoming protest against potential layoffs within Harvard University Library. They’re worried about numbers. “Let’s go with the five friends rule, okay everyone?” one student says.
It feels like any other undergraduate organization’s meeting. A freshman is asked to record minutes. Members toss out ideas and solutions. The contrarian in the group picks a proposal apart until the person who suggested it regrets having spoken in the first place.
These student activists are not wearing billowy blouses or military-issue jackets. They are wearing sweatshirts and North Face fleeces, jeans and khakis. The Harvard activist, it seems, resists easy categorization.
For Jonas Q. Wang ’12, former Queer Students and Allies co-chair and co-founder of Harvard Students for Queer Liberation, activism is more a mindset than an aesthetic. “It’s demoralizing to see students on their way—tourists, too—like nothing is wrong. The activist attitude is: There is something wrong,” Wang sighs.
The difference between an activist and a radical is not necessarily clear, but there is a sense that the term “radical” carries some unwanted baggage, which might have an effect on whether students feel compelled or disinclined to self-identify with the term.
“Radical? That’s not me,” Wang says. “I’m fine with the label being attached to me, but it’s not my identity.” Still, Wang does not mind the term’s associations. “Just because a term has been repeatedly smeared by the other side so as to gain negative connotations is not a good enough reason to reject it.”
Although radicalism is generally associated with more extreme modes of protest, some would argue that there is a technical distinction to be made. Todd A. Gitlin ’63, who was president of the Students for a Democratic Society in ’63-4, is careful to note the original meaning of the term “radical.”
“‘Radical’ literally means going to the root; it’s not properly applied to tactics,” he says, noting that organizations that employ militant or “radical” tactics but do not seek systemic, root-level change are not really “radical.”
Sabrina G. Lee ’12, who organized an anti-final club campaign last year, thinks of radicalism as a response that extends beyond the intellectual. “I think a litmus test is: Do you feel outraged on a daily basis?” Lee says. “My answer is yes,” she adds, a smile dancing at the corner of her mouth.
“In a social and political sense, of course.” she recovers. She laughs, and then becomes serious again. “If you feel that dominant discourses are conveying messages that you largely disagree with and viscerally respond to in a negative way, I’d say you are a radical.”
 THE CHARGE OF APATHY
When outgoing EAC Chair Serena Y. Zhao ’12 first arrived at Harvard, she was disappointed. “I thought Harvard was the most narcissistic place in the world,” she says.
Part of Zhao’s frustration resulted from what she perceives as the “self-importance” of student organizations on campus that seem to function as social clubs without any central unifying goal. To her, it seemed that these organizations seemed to put the personal social interests of the students ahead of any broader goals that would contribute to the Harvard community.
“It’s valuable to be in a social group,” she says, noting that she does not want to disparage social organizations, “but I’ve found my experience with the EAC to be more valuable because we all do share a common goal.”
Like Chaudhary, Zhao felt limited in high school by the outlets available for promoting causes like environmentalism. She joined the EAC but wanted to extend the scope of the organization, pushing for greater off-campus involvement, such as the committee’s participation in a two-week rally in Washington D.C. last August to protest the XL Pipeline.
During the rally—and after being arrested, along with other protesters—Zhao noticed that many of her fellow activists were not necessarily young and aimless radical stereotypes. “These were normal people, not fringe hippies,” she says.
Lately Zhao has been thinking that it is important for the EAC to have a more active campus presence and to engage with students. “These [Harvard students] are people who are going to go out into society, and this is going to be a part of what they remember from their formative years,” she says.
Dr. Timothy P. McCarthy ’93, who was involved with activist causes while a student at the College and has taught on the history of American activist movements at both Harvard and Columbia, has been thinking about issues of student activism for a long time. Sitting in his office, flanked by an overflowing floor-to-ceiling bookcase, McCarthy explains his concerns. As he talks, his eyes widen and the breaks between sentences grow scarce; there is urgency in his words.
“I worry students are more concerned about those things and about themselves than they are about the broader world we live in,” he says. He feels that students’ willingness to participate in activism is threatened by a “pervasive pre-professionalism” that exists not only on Harvard’s campus, but on the campuses of universities elsewhere across America.
As president of PBHA, Carolyn W. Chou ’13 has insight into both protest activism and institutionalized service at Harvard. She speaks in no uncertain terms about how she feels Harvard students approach social activism.
“It’s hard to mobilize students to even talk about issues not directly related to our own lives,” she says. “Students can be apathetic, although some of it is because as Harvard students we’re implicated in the dominant power system.”
Chou adds: “It’s uncomfortable to acknowledge one’s own privilege and position—­it can feel like a personal attack.”
Some observers ascribe the perceived decline of activism at Harvard to student preferences for institutionalized means of social activism. Former Queer Students and Allies Co-Chair Samuel J. Bakkila ’12 finds that most Harvard undergraduates have a great deal of faith in “working through and with the system.”
“I think Harvard is a very technocratic place where people really believe in research solutions, policy solutions, economic solutions, bureaucratic solutions to all problems rather than any type of social movement,” says Bakkila, whose preference for the latter tactic landed him in jail last October when police raided the Occupy Boston encampment at Dewey Square.
 THE TASK AT HAND
Max D. Novendstern ’12, a self-identified radical activist, calls himself a “voracious critic” of protests. Novendstern, the former editor of the Harvard Political Review, believes that many activists resort to such tactics because they find protests “glamorous.”
“I’m on all these listservs, and it’s unbelievable how many calls to rally there are. Like, I mean, these wonderfully smart and righteous kids should stop fucking rallying and go build something. Go build something that helps people—that’s the task at hand,” says Novendstern, who has taken the semester off to work on his internet start-up, OurCommonPlace.com, at the Harvard Business School’s Innovation Lab.
“If you say to a bunch of bright young people, ‘Forget all your ideas and analytical skills: let’s get some vuvuzelas and shout for 45 minutes, because that’s all it takes to effect social change,’ you’ll find that it comes back to bite you. You’re underestimating your power, for one—and, more than that, you’re making them believe that change is easy,” says Novendstern, who believes activists put too much faith in protest tactics.
By contrast, Sandra Y.L. Korn ’14, who helped organize the Harvard offshoot of the Occupy movement, believes that undergraduates can still be moved by radical action, even if they steer clear of it themselves.
"There are a lot of students who say, ‘Fuck that I’m going to Wall Street,’ but there are also a lot of students who might not go to a protest themselves but are glad that someone’s doing it and might take to heart the message of the protest even though they won’t be carrying the sign themselves,” says Korn, a Crimson associate editorial editor.
Institute of Politics vice president Julia B. Konrad ’13 believes there is room for all types of activism, but is wary of methods that might unnecessarily alienate portions of the community. “I don’t think activism should ever be confrontational—when it isolates people, then you run into a roadblock,” she says.
Konrad believes in the power of activism to spread awareness of social issues. “Whether or not I’m participating, I’m learning. It raises awareness that leads to something becoming a national issue over time,” she says. “Although I didn’t sleep in a tent, I appreciated the fact that someone did.”
 DISRUPTING THE EVERYDAY
James R. Sares ’12 disagrees. “The student body is very lazy. The student body isn’t going to put effort into hearing about the things Occupy Harvard has done,” he says.
Sares, a student activist who was directly responsible for several anti-ROTC protests in recent semesters, believes that the overall student response to Occupy Harvard is indicative of how students approach activist causes. Casually scruffy in the midst of thesis-writing, he looks a bit more like an activist, but he has also been elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and he is confident in his commentary on student activism.
Sares believes that Harvard students are generally disinclined to take up social causes. With regard to activist methods, Sares feels that a certain degree of unwillingness to compromise is necessary to make a point not only heard, but also felt.
“I’m totally for disrupting the everyday,” Sares says with a smirk. He cites the Westboro Church protests as an instance in which a small group of people were able to provoke a community-wide response through their willingness to protest in ways intended to incite as much provocation as possible.
“It’s clearly disgusting and terrible what the Westboro Church protesters did,” says Sares, referring to the protest of the funerals of several deceased soldiers from overseas. “But, there’s something to be said about the visibility they were able to achieve in their own sick way.” (Sares notes that he does not condone tactics like protesting at funerals. “Not all publicity is good publicity,” he adds.)
Sares is not convinced that service and other conventional means of opening up discussion are sufficient to move community members to act towards social change.
“People who are ‘moderate,’ those people, historically speaking, aren’t concerned with these issues anyway,” he says. “If you water down your cause to the point of being palatable, then maybe you stand a chance of persuading them.”
Sares also expresses skepticism toward the institutional politeness that can constrain productive dialogue on social issues. “The IOP provides discussion spaces,” he says, “but it’s so mediated and sterile—it doesn’t elicit any emotion! When was the last time anybody was emotional about the IOP?”
Kate Sim ’14 founded the International Women’s Rights Collective and is often described as a “radical feminist” but points out that a middle ground does exist between extremist tactics and what might be considered more “conservative” approaches to social activism.
“If you work with the system, you feel like you’re not going far enough. If you just say, ‘Down with the system,’ you ask, ‘How realistic is this?’ So you’re always in this dichotomy of ideology versus reality. I think you need both of that,” she says.
 TRADE-OFF
Wang is mid-sentence. A housemate pokes his head in between two mahogany pocket doors, which close off the Dudley Co-op’s cozy living room from the rest of the rambling three-story Victorian house.
“Jonas, do you go by ‘Qing’?” the housemate asks Wang, sitting on a beat-up piano bench and resting his elbows on his lap.
“Yes,” Wang says, hesitantly, wondering why his housemate has asked about his legal given name.
His housemate slides the door back and hands him a package—an information packet from a prestigious law school to which Wang has just been admitted. He modestly acknowledges his acceptance then returns to what he was saying before the interruption.
Wang’s decision to go to law school follows a politically active time on campus. During his tenure as the QSA’s political chair, Wang, who identifies as transmasculine, organized a demonstration to protest the lack of resources for queer students at Harvard. “There was a dearth of resources, I felt, for LGBT students on campus,” Wang says. “I was in a course on organizing. I was fresh and eager.”
On an overcast November day in 2010, Wang and other students squeezed into roughly 380 square feet of taped-off lawn in front of the Science Center. (380 square feet is the total square footage of the Queer Resource Center in Thayer’s basement.) As protesters bumped elbows, they chanted, “One, two, three, four, the other colleges all have more! Five, six, seven, eight, we’re standing here to change our fate.” Later that year, Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds established a new BGLTQ center in the basement of Boylston.
Wang found organizing to be emotionally draining. For him, politics are a personal matter: he found it hard to hear detractors dismiss the issue he was raising. “When you’re an activist type, to generalize, you have a stake that’s ideological—but it’s also emotional since LGBTQ issues, for me, are not this abstract political idea,” he says.
There was also a negative backlash from some members of the QSA, who felt the organization’s sole purpose should be to provide a safe social environment on campus for LGBTQ students. After a pause and small sigh, Wang explains the emotional toll of infighting and criticism: “That feeling of burnout stemmed from—it wasn’t the amount of work at all—the reactions or fear of reactions that you’d get or I would get.”
He has since shied away from organizing, only briefly attending last March’s anti-ROTC protest, the most prominent rally for queer rights since Wang’s own demonstration.
Later, Wang admits that he has yet to share the good news with his faculty mentor—a lecturer at the Kennedy School and famous grassroots organizer. “He tried to convince me not to apply,” says Wang, with a hint of guilt in his voice.
Wang feels that a firm understanding of the law is crucial to his future work as an activist. He rattles off a list of laws that codified discrimination against communities to which he belongs. But Wang is still uncomfortable about his post-graduate plans.
“Law is but one aspect affecting people’s lived experiences,” Wang says, “and a singular approach to addressing social problems. You’re buying into the system. You are working within the system.”
Zhao has similar concerns about how to bring about social change while wedded to the system—specifically, about how to balance her position as a university student and her interest in promoting environmentalist causes. “There’s that trade-off between investing in yourself, and your growth, and trying to use the resources that you have now,” she says.
“This was the big question I had earlier this year,” she says. “Do I drop my thesis to spend more time organizing, or do I do this really awesome educational experience for myself so that, hopefully, I’ll be able to translate it into more effective activism later?”
Sares recalls a meeting with his thesis adviser in which he was told it would be in his interest not to sleep at the Occupy Harvard tents every night. He ultimately took the advice.
Zhao decided to see through her academic plans, at the end of the day. “I’m still writing my thesis after some talks with very good advisers,” she says, laughing.
 ON TREMONT
12:45 p.m. The crowd is as big as it’s going to get. Chaudhary and the protesters start walking northeast along Tremont St. towards the JFK Federal Building.
12:55 p.m. In front of the building, a semi circle of protesters gathers around a cardboard effigy of Senator Scott Brown. Two cardboard cats—bloated, clutching bags of money—accompany Brown as the protesters chant. This continues for about 30 minutes, but no audience forms from the passersby. Towards the end, an elderly lady turns to her husband. “It’s pretty cold here,” she says. “I wouldn’t mind leaving early.” They leave, then, discreetly.
A man in a suit passes by and takes a quick picture of Scott Brown with the fat cats. He smiles and saves the picture to his phone, and then he leaves.
1:25 p.m. Chaudhary has strapped on a make shift drum—an inverted orange plastic bucket—and is beating out chant-friendly rhythms while repeating the protest messages with the crowd. He chants along with all of the standards, all except for one of them, the one that goes: “We are the 99 percent! We are the 99 percent!”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Feb. 23
An earlier version of this article referred to the website that Max D. Novendstern ’12 works on as OurCommunityPlace.com. In fact, it is OurCommonPlace.com.
Sections
Fifteen Minutes sat down with Baratunde R. Thurston ’99, author of How To Be Black, and a former news and photography editor of The Crimson. He is the digital director of The Onion and co-founder of “Jack and Jill Politics”. The following interview took place in the Middlesex Lounge in Cambridge, one stop of many on his national book tour.
1. Fifteen Minutes: What house were you in? What was your concentration?
Baratunde R. Thurston: I lived in Lowell House, though I never lived in Lowell proper; I lived in Claverly Hall the entire time. It just was like an apartment, it was a little cooler, it had the janky elevator. I love Clav. I was a philosophy concentrator.
2. FM: What activities did you participate in as an undergraduate at Harvard?
BT: In terms of major activities I did, [The] Crimson was very high on the list, [also] Harvard Computer Society. I was a big nerd, and a geek. I was a very active member of [the] Black Students Association, and the Black Men’s Forum...and the Signet—that was later in my career.
3. FM: Your recent book is part satire, part autobiography, part self-help. How much of each would you describe this book as?
BT: Anything you thought was hilarious was actually very true and painful, anything you thought was true and painful I just made it up for dramatic effect. No—it’s anchored in an autobiographical memoir and even those pieces are funny, but they’re true, that’s all very true. And then the how-to satire was meant to basically accentuate the story, and bring out a little more color, no pun intended. And just to mess with people. I really like messing with people. And I wanted to go over the top. It’s an absurd concept, that there’s a way to be black. There is none, and so I embraced that absurdity, and used the satire to get away with it.
4. FM: Why did you write the book?
BT: Because publishing is very lucrative! You can just become a billionaire by putting words on dead trees and hoping people buy them…. And I think because we’re in a good time, like we’re in this sort of post-civil rights moment. We have a bi-racial slash black president in America, and we have this moment of identity where things are more interesting and flexible and people can kind of be more of who they are and be the multiple aspects of who they are, and present that, and have the world accept that in a way that wasn’t quite the case in the past.
5. FM: You wrote that you rejected the tentative title, “Thoughts On Post-Racial America.” What would a post-racial America look like?
BT: To borrow some of the thoughts from the people I interviewed, it would be an America full of unicorns and leprechauns, and other non-existent creatures. I don’t think a post-racial America is worth pursuing, because it kind of doesn’t have meaning. I think the way people think about it is very idealized, but not helpful, which is, ‘Oh, we just ignore race,’ but ignoring its existence doesn’t help us deal with some of the outcomes that are still heavily correlated to or dependent on it. So I think a better America, rather than seeking for a post-racial America—we should be seeking that more perfect union and I think we can do that.
6. FM: Are white people and black people supposed to have different experiences reading the book?
BT: Yeah, so when white people read the book, it’s supposed to burn their fingertips a little bit. And their soul actually flees into the body of a black person. It’s kind of a race-swap program.
7. FM: How does one get a job writing for The Onion?
BT: One does not get a job at The Onion. One murders a current Onion employee and assumes their identity. So I am actually technically Mike DiCenzo, who left The Onion a few years ago to write for Jimmy Fallon, and I’ve been filling in for him ever since. So skin’s a little tight, but it works out well.
8. FM: Is satire the highest form of comedy?
BT: Satire is like the highest form of living. It’s just the best way to be. I don’t know if it’s the highest form of comedy. It is a very important art. And it has the ability to communicate truth and insight in a way that really messes with people, that kind of challenges the line between joke and statement but leans toward joke most of the time. And can, when done very well, attract people and reach people who wouldn’t be open to being reached by that message.
9. FM: Is “funny” about exposing what’s already there, or creating new situations people haven’t envisioned before?
BT: That’s an amazing question. That’s a very good question, because you’re sort of also getting at: does art reflect society or drive it? I think humor faces that same, probably unanswerable question. At the best, you don’t quite know…. I think much more often than not, humor, and specifically art in general, reflects what’s actually the case. But the best of it, and I’m not saying I do this…but at its best, the humorist is so actively and accurately in touch with the zeitgeist, with the actual state of the world, that what they say feels like influence, and feels like prediction, when it’s just really, really, good listening and reframing of something that’s already true.
10. FM: What’s the funniest show on TV right now?
BT: I really like “Bob’s Burgers.” I think it’s not on [the] air technically right now. “Community” is really high on my list, it’s funny, funny stuff…. “Louis” is one of my favorite shows. But it’s almost because it’s not always funny, but it’s still always good, that I really like.
11. FM: How long did it take to write How To Be Black?
BT: It took me about a year.
12. FM: How would you describe your experience on your book tour?
BT: The book tour has been great. I feel like I’m running for president…. What’s been cool is just sort of seeing people’s excitement, seeing people like give folks weird looks for having the book, because the title, it just it jumps out at you. So there are all these photos people posted around the country, like they saw somebody with the book on the subway, like “Why are you...? Is there a manual for that? Why are you reading that, what’s going on?”
13. FM: Has President Obama read your book? You have a whole chapter on him.
BT: Oh man, I want him to. I’m sure he could not be caught in public holding a book called How To Be Black, like all the conspiracy people would be like, “I knew it! I knew it!” So sadly, he probably can’t read it in public, but he could take the cover off, he could put something [on] like, “How To Lead All People.” You know, like something neutral and positive sounding. I would love if he read this book. It’s written in the spirit of the era that he is president of.
14. FM: What’s the most important conversation you’d like people to start after reading this book?
BT: I would like them to contemplate how many more books they should buy.
15. FM: What do you hope the reader will learn?
BT: So, there’s a couple of things I’d like people to get. One, I want them to laugh. I really do want them to enjoy it. I want them to walk at least a few miles in some of my shoes because I’ve had this weird and pretty amazing life…and I want people to find some connection to themselves…. The book is how to be. And so I hope people take from it to just be yourself. It’s cheekily like, “Oh, I want to be black. Maybe I’ll buy this book.” Maybe you buy it with that weird intention of becoming black, but you just end up being more yourself.
Sections
COLLEGE SENIOR
Stays up all night working on thesis:
Ten more pages and then I will shower!
Looks for a job at Goldman Sachs:
I’m just doing finance for two years. Then I’ll work for a nonprofit. I promise. 
BOTH
Fall asleep at some point, and wake up not knowing where they are:
Hi, I'm Charles. Nice to meet you. Umm, where did we put my pants? Also, is this Lowell or Quincy?
Grandpa, you can't keep walking away like that. I know, I know. That building used to be a forest, but you can't urinate on it.
Worry about the hereafter: hell at age 22 or after 80-something years?
Umm, I’m still exploring my options. I might just work as an elf and chill for a year.
Honey, I’m probably going to hell. I’ve done a lot of missed up stuff. Remember that time with the puppies...?
SENIOR CITIZEN
Stays up all night watching “The Price Is Right”:
These fools always overbid. There’s no way an Oreck vacuum would cost that much.
Looks for a tube of Gold Bond ointment:
That damn rash is back again, honey. Where’s the cream?
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
During the Sunday afternoon tilt between Jeremy Lin’s New York Knicks and the defending champion Dallas Mavericks, Spike Lee wore Lin’s Harvard No. 4 jersey in support of the team’s newest star. Lee wasn’t only repping Lin though when he donned the Crimson No. 4, he was also representing a number of other past and present Harvard athletes to do the number proud. Here are four Harvard athletes not named Lin to make a mark while wearing the number.
4. Brogan Berry ’12 – Women’s Basketball
Berry was the first Crimson player to start during her freshman year since 2001, and she quickly proved her worth by pulling down 10 rebounds in her debut, an impressive feat for a point guard. Since then, she has only stepped up her game. As a senior, Berry is currently sixth in Harvard history in points and third in program history in assists. Last weekend, she became the first Ivy League player to record 1,300 points and 500 assists in a career.
3. Andrew Berry ’09 – Football
The high school quarterback committed to playing cornerback full-time in Cambridge and was forced to play extensively his freshman year after a starter succumbed to injury. Berry would never cede the playing time, as he would earn All-Ivy League first team honors three years in a row during a successful collegiate career. Entering his senior season, the defensive back was a pre-season All-America pick, though his stats didn’t reflect it that fall because opponents simply avoided his side of the field.
2. Angela Ruggiero ’04 – Women’s Hockey
Before playing in more Team USA games than any other woman, Ruggiero tore it up at Harvard. The defenseman was a four-time First Team All-America selection as well as a four-time All-ECAC Hockey First Teamer. She was declared the league Player of the Year during her senior campaign and was named the ECAC tournament’s Most Outstanding Player. She helped the Crimson win four Beanpot championships and was tournament MVP in 2004.
1. Bill Cleary ’56 – Men’s Hockey
Bill Cleary was associated with Harvard athletics for 60 years and is still one of the most decorated Crimson athletes. While he lettered in baseball as well, Cleary was best known for setting records on the ice. After the 1954-55 season, Cleary was an All-America selection. That year, he led the Crimson to a Beanpot title and set the record with seven goals during the tournament, including four in one period. That team would go on to make the Frozen Four. Cleary would go on to play on the 1956 Olympic team before leading the 1957 U.S. National Team in scoring and being named the MVP on the 1959 squad.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just as The Back Page wrote last week, Jeremy Lin ’10 is quickly jumping up the list of Harvard’s most notable alumni. But, just as every media outlet reminds its audience, the path hasn’t always been easy for Lin. Therefore, we at TBP had the idea to make Lin’s journey from Crimson bench player to the next NBA human-highlight reel as accessible as possible. So here it is, a Lineage of the point guard’s road from number four to number 17, resident of Harvard Yard to owner of a Trump Tower apartment.
 
Lin’s Game-Winner over William and Mary
Lin’s falling-back, thirty-feet-from-the-basket buzzer-beater lifted the Crimson, in its first home game of the season, to a triple overtime win. The play earned the sixth spot on Sportscenter’s Top 10 Plays. Foreshadowing of his current reign in Sportscenter’s top plays? Perhaps.
Scouted
 
Lin was given the opportunity to play at the Portsmouth Invitational Tournament just weeks after his senior season ended. The tournament was for those prospective NBA players who would be picked, if at all, in the second and final round of the draft. The invitation to play at Portsmouth was considered an honor, as only 64 players are selected each year.
The Waiting Game
 
In preparation for the draft, Lin worked out with eight teams. Interestingly, one of those teams was the New York Knicks. After these workouts, it was just a matter of waiting to see whether or not NBA commissioner David Stern would call out his name, signaling his welcome into the league.
The Result…
 
…was not a good one for the point guard. Lin had his NBA dreams put on hold, as he was not called up to the podium to shake hands with Stern. Luckily, though, un-drafted prospects are still allowed to play in the NBA Summer League.
Some Texan Interest and a Wall to Knock Down
After striking out at the draft, summer league interest proved much more conducive to Lin. Soon, the Dallas Mavericks picked him up to play for their summer team—and play he did. Against the top pick of the draft, the Washington Wizards’ John Wall, Lin shocked all in attendance as he dominated for much of the second half, scoring 11 just in the fourth quarter. Impressed? We were too.
He Made It
 
During his time in the summer league, Lin caught the Golden State Warriors’ eyes and earned himself a spot on the roster. Lin would be the first Crimson player since 1953-54 to play in the NBA, and the first former Ivy-leaguer since 2002-03. In his time with the Warriors, Lin averaged only 2.6 points per game. Nevertheless, he quickly became a fan favorite.
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When the United States Supreme Court heard the first case challenging affirmative action in higher education in 1978, Harvard defended the use of race in admissions decisions.
Now, as the Court takes up the issue again more than 30 years later, Harvard is likely to lobby the Court in favor of affirmative action once again, according to University General Counsel Robert W. Iuliano ’83.
“Harvard has long believed that a diverse class enhances the educational experience for all of our students,” Iuliano wrote in a statement. “I anticipate that the University will seek to express its views to the United States Supreme Court in the Texas case, just as we did in the prior two occasions when the Supreme Court took up this issue of vital importance to higher education.”
In 1978 and again in 2003, the University filed briefs with the Court explaining its holistic approach to college admissions, in which race is one of many factors used to evaluate an applicant.
On both occasions, the Court upheld the consideration of race and touted Harvard’s method as an appropriate “individual” approach.
The Court announced Tuesday that it would hear Fisher v. University of Texas in its next term.
Abigail Fisher, a white student who was denied admission to the University of Texas, filed a lawsuit against the school alleging racial discrimination.
The case will mark the first time the Court has examined the issue of affirmative action in higher education since Grutter v. Bollinger and Gratz v. Bollinger in 2003. In those cases, the Court again upheld the right to consider race as part of a holistic approach to college admissions.
But since then, the composition of the Court has changed dramatically. Most significantly, former Justice Sandra Day O’Connor—the Court’s swing vote and author of the Grutter decision—departed in 2006, leaving Justice Anthony M. Kennedy as the swing vote in close decisions.
“Anthony Kennedy is unpredictable on this. He can be found on both sides of this issue,” said University of Texas law professor Sanford V. Levinson. “One can predict that the briefs and the oral argument in this case will be directed exclusively at Anthony Kennedy.”
Given the conservative bent of the Roberts Court and the decision of left-leaning Justice Elena Kagan, a former dean of Harvard Law School, to recuse herself, many legal experts expect that the justices will rule against the University of Texas.
But even if the Court rules against Texas, the justices may narrow the scope of the decision by limiting its applicability to the specific case at hand, said Harvard Law School professor Mark V. Tushnet ’67.
“Maybe there are some circumstances when the use of race is narrowly tailored, but Texas’ program is not narrowly tailored,” said Tushnet. This suggests, Tushnet said, that a ruling against Texas may eliminate affirmative action in effect, if not explicitly.
Law professors said that given Harvard’s stake in the debate, they expect that the University will file an amicus curiae brief—a formal legal expression of support—in favor of affirmative action.
As an institution that receives federal funding, Harvard must comply with federal laws regarding discrimination under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Levinson, who also served as a visiting professor at Harvard Law School this past fall, said he anticipates that other institutions of higher education will file briefs in support of the University of Texas as well.
Levinson said he will be interested to see if any individual professors file briefs in favor of the plaintiff.
“Quite frankly, I would be surprised,” Levinson said. “It’s an extreme position.”
Tushnet said he believes that Harvard’s decision on whether to file a brief might be influenced by the University’s view of itself as a trendsetter in higher education.
“Harvard sees itself as a leader in higher education policy for the nation,” said Tushnet. “The University regards what it has to say as important to know.”
—Staff writer Justin C. Worland can be reached at jworland@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Rising juniors in Quincy House  will not have the option of taking senior standing in the House’s upcoming rooming lottery, in which sophomores, juniors, and seniors can be assigned to three residential buildings in Harvard Square.
Housing will look very different for Quincy residents next year while Old Quincy, one of the House’s two residential buildings, is renovated—causing 180 students to live in the three alternate buildings called “swing housing.”
The Quincy House Masters detailed some of the changes in an email to residents on Wednesday.
In the past, rising juniors in Quincy could elect to take higher lottery numbers usually reserved for seniors, thereby abdicating their senior standing status the next year. This year, sophomores will not have that choice.
The old option frequently led to confusion when rooming choices came due, Quincy House Committee co-chair Catherine G. Katz ’13 said.
“Senior standing caused more trouble than it’s worth,” Katz said. “I’d say people are fine with [removing] it.”
Scott J. Yim ’13, Katz’s co-chair, said that the drastic renovations to Old Quincy will eventually equalize housing quality, eliminating the need for senior standing.
In the meantime, students living in swing housing will enjoy desirable rooms, the Masters said. “We have personally toured the spaces, and we can assure you that they are quite nice,” Masters Deborah J. and Lee Gehrke wrote, adding that the suites, which contain mostly double bedrooms, all include their own bathrooms and kitchenettes.
Swing housing will be located in Hampden Hall at 8 Plympton St., Fairfax Hall at 1306 Mass. Ave., and Ridgely Hall at 65 Mt. Auburn St.
Some students say the swing spaces’ physical distance from Quincy House’s dining hall and common rooms may make it difficult for students living there to feel integrated into the House community.
“I think it’s inevitable people are going to feel detached, because you are not  near the dining hall and the courtyard,” Yim said. “But in the end, I think it will bring us even closer together as we work hard to meet this challenge.
Last April, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith told The Crimson that the three buildings were chosen based on their proximity to Quincy as well as “the ability of the physical infrastructure of the buildings to recreate a normal House experience.”
Yim said that Quincy HoCo members plan to deliver freshly baked cookies to students in swing housing and allocate more funds for Penguin Pub, Quincy’s Stein Club.
The Gehrkes could not be reached for comment on Wednesday.
Quincy is the first of Harvard’s 12 Houses to undergo construction as part of the College’s House Renewal project. Administrators have said that they intend for Old Quincy to serve as a “test project” for future renovations.
Leverett’s oldest residential building, McKinlock Hall, will be next.
—Staff writer Nathalie R. Miraval can be reached at nmiraval@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Jane Seo can be reached at janeseo@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sex sells. We learned that firsthand when we interviewed the Harvard Hoochies, a group of self-proclaimed “BU biddies, hooching and husband hunting at Harvard Final Clubs,” and our Q&A quickly became one of The Crimson’s most read stories.
But a force even more powerful soon came along to dethrone the Hoochies from the top spot: Jeremy Lin. With the national spread of Linsanity, Lin’s name became gold. For nearly two weeks, any article with the words “Jeremy Lin” got more hits than Pete Rose, the Beatles, and Mike Tyson combined. But why stop there? We’re combining the Hoochies and Linsanity to create one unstoppable combo. Enjoy.
The Harvard Crimson: What’s been going on since we last caught up?
Harvard Hoochies: Still hooching. Still eating anything with zero calories. The only thing that’s changed is now we have a website chronicling past Hoochie obscenities.
THC: Have any new athletes come onto your radar?
HH: Wrestling is looking good. The less neck the better (if you’re into beefcakes in spandex).
THC: The last time we talked, you only mentioned upperclassmen as your favorite athletes. Any freshmen make the cut (or at least count as prospects)?
HH: Our first priority is to look at the Harvard men who are in final clubs and on sports teams. No, The Pudding does not count. Freshmen are an insignificant sub-species.
THC: Our last conversation got close to as many hits as our top Jeremy Lin articles from the past two weeks. How does that make you feel?
HH: Like we’ve won the Nobel Peace Prize for being promiscuous, controversial, and just plain fabulous.
THC: What’s been the response to your new website?
HH: Overwhelmingly positive. Biddies relate to our stories and readers are interested in the trouble we always find ourselves in. None of us ever actually realize how ridiculous some of these moments are until we write them down. The site is charitable if you think about it. We make people laugh and in turn, Jesus loves us.
THC: Thoughts on the basetent [the Delphic’s outdoor party space]?
HH: The basetent is ingenious. Who thinks of that??? It’s the funniest thing to happen to the final club scene in a long time. The Delphic is possibly the most personable final club. It’s made up of several down-to-earth, hilarious men on campus. They are always looking for a good time and don’t mind getting sloppy in the name of fun. Not to mention, the club consists of baseball, wrestling, and rugby bros.
THC: Have you used any of our pickup lines? Do you have any better ones?
HH: Harvard Hoochie pickup lines:
When we get divorced, I’ll let you keep the summer home.
Your bank account is very attractive.
I look forward to Facebook stalking you.
Let’s both be committed to hooking up and then ignoring each other in public.
You pretend you like me for my personality, and I’ll pretend I’m not after you for your legacy sperm.
THC: Jeremy Lin or Mark Zuckerberg?
HH: There are 7 of us…both.
THC: Jeremy Lin, Mark Zuckerberg, or Kyle Casey?
HH: HAHAH
HAHHAHAHAH
All 3.
Don’t act surprised.
THC: Who is more likely to get a date with Jeremy Lin: the Harvard Hoochies or Kim Kardashian?
HH: Considering the fact that Lin at one point wanted to become a priest, he would hands down consider us morally superior to Kim K. Have we made a sex tape? No. Have we posed for Playboy? Not yet. Did any of us get divorced twice? Not yet. Does Kim have a Harvard fetish? Clearly NO considering her stunt with a gigantor, mediocre basketball player who resembles Frankenstein and likes lake parties in Minnesota.
Hopefully that answers your question.
THC: Thoughts on Jeremy Lin’s hair?
HH: That’s like asking if we hate Zucks for being a ginger. Who cares about one’s hair when one’s wallet overshadows everything?
THC: What do you guys think the keys to victory will be for the Harvard men’s basketball team against Princeton this coming weekend?
HH: Harvard has the advantage of this being a home game. Let’s put it this way: if you take a Hoochie out of Harvard, our hooching dynamic is completely thrown off. But when we are in fact hooching in Harvard Square per usual, we’re on our game.
THC: Neither Jeremy Lin nor Mark Zuckerberg were in final clubs, yet they are both, as you would say, “Grade-A man meat.” What does it take for a non-final club member to reach this level, and have sportswriters crossed this threshold?
HH: If you’re from Harvard and have created a name for yourself, we likely want to reproduce with you sans a prenuptial agreement…even if you’re a NARP (a normal average regular person). And no, we can’t think of any sportswriters who have crossed that threshold, but Martin, maybe you’ll be the first. :)
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Another day, another win for Jeremy Lin ’10 and his New York Knicks. This time the victim was the Atlanta Hawks—who stood three and a half games above the Knicks in Eastern Conference standings entering the matchup.
In this game, Lin wasn’t called on for some last-second heroics or even to take over his team’s offense. Instead, the Knicks presented a balanced front, resulting their top three scorers being separated by only two points—Lin, as is now customary, led the group with 17 points, nine assists, and two steals. Accordingly, the final score was anything but close. New York took care of the Hawks, 99-82, enabling Lin to rest for a majority of the fourth quarter.
The most important stat of the game however may have been the Harvard alum’s turnovers. Tallying seven on Sunday night against the Dallas Mavericks, Lin managed to commit only four on Wednesday against the Hawks, a number far better than his season average.
Wednesday’s matchup also marked the second game since Carmelo Anthony returned to the lineup from a groin injury. The question for many Knicks fans surrounding his return was simple: could he and Lin—currently the Knicks’ two highest scorers—work together? On Tuesday night Anthony tweeted his response to this, stating: “Comin together is the beginning; keeping together is progress; working together is success”.  And, after a quick retweet from Lin, it was clear that the two players think alike. Following Wednesday’s game when both Knicks’ stars  played decently individually, but also cohesively, head coach Mike D’Antoni asserted.
“I’ve heard a lot about ‘Melo has to fit in’ or ‘Jeremy has to fit in.’ No you don’t,” D’Antoni said. “You attack and we’ll adjust things. The better players you have on the court, that’s the better it can be. It’s up to us to figure out how they can work cohesively as a unit.
On Thursday night Lin and Co. head south to Miami to take on Lebron James and the Heat. James, no stranger to NBA hype, cited Lin’s play as a reason for Miami fans to tune into the game.
“It could be one of the most watched games we've had in a long time…with what Jeremy Lin is doing."
The stage is set, the Heat is ready, and now, after Wednesday night’s win, Anthony and Lin are finally set to take on a nationally televised game—together.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the fall of 2010 in a tiny kitchen in Shanghai, Alexandra A. Comstock ’10 concocted a batch of chocolate chip cookies. Although she baked them to satisfy a personal craving, the batch marked the launch of an unexpected business enterprise in the blossoming market for home-baked goods in China.
Selling old-time favorites like classic chocolate chip, sweet sugar, and hearty oatmeal raisin cookies, Comstock has built a loyal customer base of Chinese natives and foreigners alike.
Her company, Strictly Cookies, might evoke memories of homemade baked goods for many Americans, but it is a novel business venture in Shanghai.
In August 2010, Comstock landed in Shanghai, where she had lined up a job in marketing. At the time, cookies were the last thing on her mind, she says. Two months into her stay, the absence of quality cookies from the shelves of Chinese stores left Comstock with an empty stomach and a sweet tooth.
According to Comstock, the traditional Chinese mooncake is the dessert that bears the closest resemblance to cookies in China.
“I couldn’t find a cookie that I was excited about, basically,” Comstock says.
Her hankering for home-style cookies led her to start whipping up batches in her apartment to distribute to friends and bring to parties.
“I started doing some research. China has thin, crisp, somewhat flavorless biscuits, but I couldn’t find hearty cookies. That’s when I thought maybe this idea has legs.”
Initially, Strictly Cookies was run out of Comstock’s apartment. Her business was a one-woman show, with Comstock taking orders, baking cookies, and running deliveries.
“She started by almost going door-to-door and asking people, ‘Do you want to try my product,’” says friend Charlotte B. Winthrop ’08. “She built Cookies at the grassroots level.”
Soon after, Comstock quit her job and devoted herself full-time to filling the cookie void in the Chinese market.
An East Asian Studies concentrator at Harvard, Comstock used her passion for China to define her academic path in college. Now, she devotes her time to delivering the highest quality cookies to an international set of customers and to running her burgeoning business abroad.
CHINA CALLING
Raised in suburban Connecticut, Comstock has no apparent connections to China. But in overcoming the challenges of establishing a business, Comstock says that the country has become her home.
Comstock first become enamored with China when she traveled there for the first time with her parents as a child. Since then, “it’s always been China,” she says.
Comstock spent every summer while she was at Harvard in China, immersing herself in the country’s culture through her participation in the Harvard-Beijing Exchange and her work at the 2008 Beijing Summer Olympics.
“That was always Lexie’s academic persona: her passion for China,” says friend Caroline M. Vik ’10.
After graduating from Harvard, Comstock set her sights on Beijing. But job constraints led her to Shanghai, a city that she has grown to love, she says.
“They always say ‘Beijing has lots of culture and...Shanghai is really soulless—you don’t really get a feeling for China by living in Shanghai,’” Comstock says. “But I think it’s a very livable city.”
The population is very westernized and has a sizable expatriate segment—providing a ready market for cookie consumption, she says.
Shanghai is ranked fifth out of 34 Chinese cities in ease of starting a business, according to the World Bank.
“There are many more opportunities in China and a lot more risk,” says Nara Dillon, a lecturer in the East Asian Languages and Civilizations department. “Many businesses fail there. The market is very uneven—some times things fail and other times do well.”
Clifford N. Murray ’10, who took classes with Comstock in East Asian studies, says that he believes Comstock’s ability to take advantage of China’s emerging markets contributes to her success.
“In the U.S., foodie culture has evolved over the last decade, with the popularity of farmers’ markets and specialization in foods, like preserves and specialty salad dressings,” Murray says. “China is not food-obsessed in the same way. Lexie is entering a burgeoning market.”
Dillon says that even though cookies are “something that [seems] so American and foreign,” Comstock’s early success proves that there is a high demand for cookies in China.
GETTING DOWN TO BUSINESS
Comstock starts each morning bright and early at 6 a.m. She checks business emails at the breakfast table, responds to custom orders from clients, and markets Strictly Cookies through social media outlets like Facebook and Twitter.
She then pops over to the headquarters of her operation—the kitchen—to check in with her baker. Comstock rents and shares the kitchen with a sandwich company.
Vik, who visited Comstock last fall, says that Comstock’s two primary employees—a baker and delivery man—have become her “Chinese family.”
The three are “always all working, packaging things up, and joking in Chinese,” Vik says.
Comstock says she has become comfortable handling the unpredictable obstacles that arise on a daily basis in China.
During the course of an interview for this article, Comstock answered a knock on her apartment door from her water provider, who demanded that she pay for a broken water jug. Comstock argued her case and convinced him to continue his rounds in effortless Chinese before resuming the interview.
During the day, Comstock divides her time between the kitchen and her shop, which is called Pantry and is located a ten minute walk away. Aside from Comstock’s popular cookies, the shop boasts a variety of jams, bagels, cupcakes, and sandwiches, sold by four other women who also run gourmet food businesses.
Pantry operates as a cooperative business, according to Comstock. The business owners split the rent and are required to reach a benchmark for sales before they can receive a portion of the profits.
Because of the shop’s proximity to her kitchen, Comstock often finds herself running back and forth between the two locations in an effort to keep tabs on both sides of the business.
“I’m constantly able to go in [to Pantry],” Comstock says. “I talk to the girl who runs the shop and get feedback from customers. Sometimes I’ll stay in the shop for hours, just meeting customers.”
Comstock says that she sometimes receives odd cookie orders.
A customer once requested 21 cookies—three of each of the seven varieties—for him and his girlfriend to sample at piping-hot temperatures.
Comstock had her baker run over from the kitchen with a tray of hot cookies.
“They’re honestly just being like weirdos, and I love it,” she says.
When Comstock first started, news of her cookies spread only by word-of-mouth. Since then, she has launched a website, and her business has been written up in the Wall Street Journal, City Weekend, and Shanghai Talk.
FROM CAMBRIDGE TO CHINA
Comstock says the planning skills that she learned at Harvard did not prepare her for the twists and turns involved in running a small business in a foreign country.
When she was a student, she counted on schedules and routines to manage her time efficiently. “Having this company has totally changed all that,” she says. “It’s good because it’s important to be able to roll with the punches, but it’s a totally different lifestyle.”
Comstock was also not an avid baker during her time at Harvard, according to friends. Back in the day, she found HUDS cookies a simple pleasure.
“Applause to the HUDS staff, because those are awesome cookies,” she says.
Though she has spent a considerable amount of time in China over the years, Comstock says she still occasionally experiences culture clash, often brought on by the nuanced complications of operating a company.
“The biggest thing I hate,” Comstock says, “is this phrase in Chinese, ‘mei ban fa,’ which means ‘no solutions; no way of doing it.’ I’m the sort of person who thinks there is always a solution, and that if there’s a problem, you can always find a way to get it done.”
When it comes to customer service issues, this phrase is “the most annoying thing to hear,” she says.
Cultural differences between the U.S. and China are also often pronounced in day-to-day interactions.
When she travels by bus or subway, Comstock says she often finds herself uncomfortably close to her neighbors.
“You’re like, ‘What is this thing on me?’ And it’s a human,” she says with a laugh. “They’re appalled you won’t be their leaning post.”
Despite the occasional frustrations, Comstock has fully embraced the challenges of living abroad, and her cookies have attracted a devoted following.
From across the globe, Comstock’s friends from home are cheering her on.
Winthrop says that she first perceived Strictly Cookies as a “whimsical idea,” but that, in taking an unconventional approach, Comstock has “gone about building her business in a thoughtful and intelligent way.”
“We’re all living vicariously through her,” says Vik. “She’s starting a business in China, living out everyone’s dream.”
—Staff writer Sabrina A. Mohamed can be reached at smohamed@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The President’s Challenge, a competition meant to encourage social entrepreneurship across the University, kicked off with an introductory meeting attended by almost 250 people at the Harvard Innovation Lab Wednesday night.
The Challenge, announced by University President Drew G. Faust last week, will provide ten groups of students with resources to develop solutions to five global issues—clean air, clean water, education, global health, and personal health.
“We’re unleashing unbelievable talent at Harvard University in a way that has a structure for unbelievable success,” said Harvard Business School professor Allen S. Grossman, who teaches a class on social entrepreneurship. “We’re going to do a lot of good for a lot of people.”
After Grossman’s introductory remarks, students were encouraged to mingle with other attendees, find teammates, and brainstorm innovative project ideas.
Students said the broadness of the topics, announced Wednesday night, made determining a specific project idea difficult.
“I would have liked it if they’d said, ‘Harvard wants you to solve x,’” said Natasha Sunderji, a student at the Harvard Kennedy School. “Having all these great minds working together in one room, you might actually find results.”
Many student said that they had not come to the mixer with a specific project idea in mind. Instead, they came to learn about the challenge, which is in its inaugural year.
Emily M. Kraemer ’15 said she attended the event in hopes of joining a team of students with a creative idea.
“I want to be a part of something where I’m working for a purpose, not just learning for the sake of learning,” Kraemer said.
The President’s Challenge, sponsored by Faust and supported by the I-Lab, will give each of the ten final teams $5,000 to develop their designs.
The University will announce the winner of the competition just before Commencement. That group will then have access to research space in the I-Lab through August 2012 and will split a $100,000 prize with two runner-up teams.
Students affiliated with a Harvard graduate or undergraduate program are eligible to participate in the initiative, which seeks to encourage collaboration across disciplines.
“Bringing together people from different schools and different backgrounds is a great way to solve problems,” said Michael B. Hadley, a student at Harvard Medical School.
I-Lab Director Gordon S. Jones said he hoped the project would encourage people who otherwise might not have had a reason to visit the building to make use of its resources.
“My hope is that there are a lot of people who may not have seen the I-Lab physically but will realize that they want to utilize it,” Gordon said.
Ten students interviewed Wednesday night said the mixer was their first time visiting the I-Lab.
The I-Lab will host another mixer for students next week.
—Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When “Avatar” was released in 2009, both expectations and doubts were high. It was the first major film to be released by director James F. Cameron since his international hit “Titanic” sailed into cinemas in 1997 and became the highest grossing film ever at the time. But at an official budget of $237 million, making it the most expensive movie to date, and a troubled production stemming back as early as 1994, “Avatar” was plagued with rumors of its inevitable failure. But the film proved pessimists wrong; it beat out “Titanic” to become the highest grossing movie of all time, pulling in a total of $2.78 billion and transforming the movie industry with its pioneering use of stereoscopic filmmaking. Its success both critically and financially sparked an upward trend in the release of 3D films. But is the revival of 3D a watershed moment in movie-making history or simply a fad? Hopefully the latter is the case, as many 3D films are visually overrated and are significantly increasing ticket prices, reducing cinema attendance.
Watching “Avatar” was an undeniably breath-taking experience on the basis of its stunning special effects alone. Cameron himself was involved in the creation of a camera designed specifically for the film, a new system for lighting massive areas, and the largest motion-capture stage ever built. The result of his efforts was the most visually astounding piece of film ever created, praised by Richard N. Corliss of Time Magazine as “the most vivid and convincing creation of a fantasy world ever seen in the history of moving pictures.”
However, “Avatar” is the exception and not the rule when it comes to the visual appeal of 3D films. “Avatar” was amazing to watch because it was filmed specifically using stereoscopic cameras, which creates the effect of providing depth to the screen. But when films are converted after having been filmed in 2D or when non-stereoscopic cameras are used, the effects of 3D are limited and almost always result in various bits and bobs poking out of the screen at random points in the film. This is confusing, disorienting, and gimmicky at best while adding nothing to the appeal of the film. Such a visual overreach can be seen in “Clash of the Titans,” a poor quality, visually disgusting critical flop which cost Warner Bros. $4.5 million to convert to 3D.
Walter S. Murch, the most respected film editor and sound designer in modern cinema, who is above all famous for his work on “Apocalypse Now,” recently sent a letter to Robert J. Ebert explaining why 3D films are visually inferior to their 2D counterparts. He cites “convergence/focus” as the biggest problem with 3D. All living things with eyes have always focused and converged on the same point, which, in the case of film, is the plane of the screen. But during a 3D film, the audience’s eyes must converge on something that is much closer than the plane of the screen. As a result, it takes a few milliseconds for the eye to adjust to each shot, which is why people tend to get headaches after 20 minutes of watching a 3D film. To put it succinctly, 3D films are “dark, small, stroby, headache inducing, alienating. And expensive. The question is: how long will it take people to realise and get fed up?”
Apparently, not too long.  Ticket prices for 3D movies have increased across the country by up to 26 percent resulting in a reversal of the surge of support for 3D following Avatar’s release. Support for 2D has begun to increase once again. Although 80 percent of viewers chose to watch “Avatar” in 3D upon its release, the trend is actually moving towards a preference for 2D over 3D. Only 38 percent of the US box office revenue for “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides” came from 3D tickets, the first time more people opted to see a film in 2D rather than 3D. This was followed quickly by “Kung Fu Panda 2” the following week, which grossed very little from 3D screenings earned the nickname "3Disaster" among film critics. But the decline in ticket sales extends to cinema attendance as a whole, not just to 3D films. A quarter of a survey’s respondents said that they are put off going to the cinema because of 3D. It seems that support for 3D is dying, and that studios should be focusing their efforts on increasing the quality of 2D films rather than spending far too much of their budget unnecessarily producing 3D films.
3D is not working at the moment. Its expense and lack of visual allure is diminishing the quality of the movie-watching experience in the cinema, and studios need to focus their resources and attention back to improving 2D movies. But the potential of 3D films in the future, particularly overseas—where 3D ticket sales make up 65 percent or more of the total gross movie income—means that they should not be completely killed off yet. Rather, efforts should be made to lower production costs and increase the quality of 3D films before studios continue to mass produce films of little merit and quality.
Heather L. Pickerell ’15, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Wigglesworth Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last month, the British Israel Communications and Research Centre published a series of essays on “the current state and future prospects of Israel’s democracy.” One week later, the journalist Ben White insisted that BICOM was wasting its time. Israel is an “ethnocracy,” not a democracy, White argued, because its “legal framework as a Jewish state” mandates discrimination against non-Jews.
White’s argument has unfortunately become quite prevalent in recent years. In his book “One Country,” for example, Ali H. Abunimah argues that Israel’s “insistence on maintaining its exclusivist Jewish character…is a chauvinistic appeal to ethnic tribalism.” On his Huffington Post blog, Ahmed Moor recently posited that “Israel cannot be both Jewish and Democratic,” and accused those who insist on the “right of Israel to exist as the Jewish state” of “appalling” racism.
But simply because this argument is pervasive doesn’t mean it’s even remotely accurate. Although there is indeed often tension between its Jewish and democratic nature, Israel is firmly rooted in the realm of international legitimacy. Those who argue against Israel’s right to constitute itself as a Jewish state are effectively denying Jews their fundamental right to self-determination.
The first question, of course, is what is a “Jewish state?” Israelis continue to wrestle with this question, but at an absolute minimum, we can use the definition expounded by Israel’s former chief justice Aharon Barak. “A Jewish state,” Barak explains, is a state that “fosters Jewish culture, Jewish education, and love of the Jewish people,” and one to which Jews possess “a special key to enter” because of the necessity of a Jewish homeland after centuries of persecution. In other words, a Jewish state privileges Jews in its immigration laws and maintains a culture that reflects the beauty of the Jewish tradition.
There is absolutely no reason a state cannot possess both of these attributes and still be a liberal democracy.
Consider Israel’s Law of Return, which grants automatic citizenship to anyone who would be considered Jewish under the Nuremberg Laws. Abunimah claims that this is “an Israeli policy not grounded in any international law.” Clearly, he is unfamiliar with Germany’s law of return, which allows ethnic Germans to “return” to Germany even if they have never set foot in the country. Finland had a similar law until 2010 regarding descendents of ethnic Finns. Ireland, Armenia, Poland, and Bulgaria all currently have similar immigration policies. Indeed, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination explicitly asserts that nothing in the Convention should be interpreted as affecting a state’s laws “concerning nationality...or naturalization,” as long these laws don’t specifically discriminate against a particular ethnicity. Israel’s Law of Return fits this description perfectly.
Now consider Israel’s Jewish national culture. Critics often argue that Israel cannot be both a state of the Jewish people and a state of all its citizens. The scholars Alexander Yakobson and Amnon Rubenstein, however, respond that those critics should look at Slovenia. Slovenia’s constitution insists that it’s “a state of all its citizens,” despite the fact that it emerges from the “right of the Slovene nation to self-determination” and thus maintains a distinct Slovene national culture. The constitution further acknowledges the existence of Slovenian citizens who aren’t Slovenian nationals—such as indigenous Italians and Hungarians—and vows to provide them with equal rights. The European Union admitted Slovenia in 2004, the obvious implication being that the international community firmly believes that a liberal democracy can possess a proud national identity, as long as its minorities are extended full equality.
To be sure, Israel often falls short in this regard. Although Arabs receive equal civil rights to Jews on paper, Israeli Arabs in practice face enormous discrimination in government land allocation, education funds, and infrastructure funding. There is still much work to be done in correcting this, and advocacy on behalf of full equal benefits for Israel’s Arab citizens is a noble goal.
But only by distorting international norms does this mean advocating that Israel forsake its Jewishness. Israel has every right to maintain its Law of Return and its Jewish culture under international law, and the Jewish people have every right to self-determination under the United Nations’ International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Those who seek to promote a “one-state solution” to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict—in which Israel ceases being Jewish—in the name of “rights,” therefore, are actually denying the Jewish people their legal and moral right to foster a Jewish state, something that the Jews have hoped and prayed for throughout the last two thousand years.
Of course, individuals like Ahmed Moor can claim, if they so desire, that Israel is fundamentally a “racist” state. But you have a choice, dear reader. You can either side with the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the European Union, the United Nations, and indisputably liberal democracies like Germany, Finland, Lithuania, Slovenia, Armenia, and Ireland…
Or, you can side with Ahmed Moor.
Avishai D. Don ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Adams House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If the United States is approaching an age of Orwellian surveillance, the New York City Police Department is certainly helping us get there.
A recently leaked report from the department’s intelligence division reveals the existence of a surveillance program targeting college-age Muslims throughout the Northeast, including students at Yale and the University of Pennsylvania.The NYPD has reportedly engaged in activities as remote as email monitoring to those as personal as accompanying a student group on a rafting trip. As an explanation, the NYPD has pointed to a statistically insignificant numberof isolated incidents whose common thread is religious affiliation.
This blatant abuse of power is not only antithetical to the mission of the NYPD, but also undermines the very civil liberties for which terrorists despise us; such unwarranted monitoring has a chilling effect on the intellectual discourse necessary for a college to thrive and the freedom of expression necessary for a nation to survive. The empty defense provided by the NYPD for these reprehensible acts only insults the public’s intelligence.
The fact that these actions go beyond the purview of even the FBI, whose rules the NYPD claims to follow, is especially troubling. That no other agency has the authority to do what the NYPD has done, on what appears to be little more than a whim, speaks volumes about the egregiousness of this “investigation.”
We understand the constraints of institutional security, but any ostensible act of discrimination as overt as this case demands a comprehensive explanation. The NYPD is obligated to provide what information it can, within reason, to show that it was operating with sufficient justification. Presently, the department’s defense for its actions holds no water, and in the absence of arrests or details, coupled with allegations from municipal figures of being misled, we can only take this program for what it appears to be—an indefensible case of religious profiling.
Of course, student organizations should not be off limits when there is just cause to investigate them. We do not ignore the reality that there exist groups dedicated to indoctrinating students to terrorist ideology, and that radicalization is a problem both in the United States and abroad. It goes without saying that the NYPD should be unburdened in their pursuit of credible leads generated by sufficient evidence.
However, being Muslim should never serve as sufficient evidence. If students are aware thatdemonstratinga specific religious affiliation will make them the target of undue surveillance, it casts undeserved aspersions on the legitimacy of Muslim student associations. Such is the nature of discrimination.
Unfortunately, this incident is only one of the several ugly incidents in a troubling post-9/11 trend of implicitly scapegoating the American Muslim community. The rhetoric of fringe pundits and the demagogic theatrics of politicians such as N.Y. Rep. Peter King only aggravate misconceptions and defame what is otherwise a peaceful community. The calls, whether overt or covert, for discriminatory religious profiling must stop; we fear the NYPD’s actions only undercut efforts to stop them.
Over ten years ago, a tragedy was visited on American soil. While its perpetrators shared a common faith, the victims came from all backgrounds, including the Muslim community. They deserve more than religious profiling from those with public trust. By singling out Islamic communities, the New York City Police Department, and those who encourage or defend their actions, do this nation a disservice.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Animal Abuse at Harvard
To the editor:
Kudos to The Crimson for its stance against animal cruelty in Harvard’s laboratories and its call for the University to take the lead in developing non-animal testing methods (“Confronting Cruelty,” Jan. 26).
All animal experiments are inherently cruel, but here are some of the troubling details behind the recent government citations against Harvard’s New England Primate Research Center: one monkey died when an employee failed to remove her from her cage before sending it through scalding hot water in a mechanical cage washer; another was killed after a drug overdose he was given caused liver failure; and yet another died after being roughly handled. Inspectors found monkeys confined to cages too small for their bodies and suffering from various abnormal behaviors that are the result of severe psychological distress.
These cases violated the law, but students, faculty and alumni would likely be dismayed to learn that the legal experimentation that occurs at Harvard and masquerades as “science” is just as horrific. If Harvard treats non-human primates in this fashion, one can only imagine the abuse to which it subjects other species.
Harvard confines many primates—in fact, it has one of the largest primate populations locked in any U.S. university laboratory.  Many of these animals are subjected to painful and distressing experiments, including ones in which they are addicted to cocaine, heroin, nicotine, and alcohol.
The taxpayers and donors who fund these experiments—not to mention the public—would be better served if the millions spent on these experiments were used for clinical studies and treatment for human addicts rather than tormenting monkeys in crude studies that aren’t applicable to human drug addiction and which cause more suffering in the world than they alleviate.
Jessica Sandler ’78
Director, Regulatory Testing Division
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
Norfolk, Va.
Tangible Rights
To the editor:
One thing is for sure—Crimson contributor Derek Bekebrede ’13 must love irony. You can tell because his piece “Life, Liberty, and Birth Control?” is positively littered with it. The crown jewel has to be the part where he denounces the liberal conception of rights as “absurd,” and then—you guessed it—goes on to describe his own conception of rights, which itself is completely…well, that’s the irony of it.
In describing his own conception of rights, Bekebrede tries to draw a distinction between “natural” and “unnatural” rights. He defines “natural” rights as those outlined in the Declaration of Independence: the “inalienable” rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness that “are part of our nature as human beings.”  On the other hand, he blasts progressives for granting “unnatural rights”—like the right to basic health care, for instance.  Bekebrede argues that the duty of government is to “protect the [natural] rights of the people,” not to grant them “unnatural” rights. And yet, what Bekebrede ultimately fails to grasp is that without the extension of what he considers “unnatural” rights, the commitment to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness is an empty one. Consider the Bill of Rights.  The First Amendment provides for freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, petition, and religion.  The Second provides for the right to bear arms. The Third, protection from quartering troops, the Fourth, protection from unreasonable searches and seizures, and of course the list goes on. You might notice that almost none of these are “natural” rights as Bekebrede conceives of them. Human beings are not “endowed by their Creator” with the right to petition government. Nor, I might add, does the natural human condition suggest an inalienable right to wield firearms.
In fact, if we were to apply the “Bekebrede Rule” across the board, you would see your rights rapidly dissolve. Indeed, almost the entire Bill of Rights would get the heave.   Now do you see the irony? Carried out to its logical ends, Bekebrede’s conception of rights looks uniquely “absurd.”  What he ultimately fails to grasp is the fact that what he terms “unnatural rights” are precisely what give tangible meaning to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. They are the practical application of those “natural” rights. Throughout this century and the last, progressives (and others) have fought to give tangible weight to the rights described in the Declaration of Independence. The recent fight to provide every American with basic health care, including access to contraception for women, embodies this same spirit.
Brendan Kopp ’12
Cambridge, Mass.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the Harvard women’s lacrosse team opening its season this Saturday against cross-town rival Boston University, senior goalie Julia Nagle has a lot on her mind—but it’s not all X’s and O’s.  It’s DNA and RNA too.
Nagle, the Crimson’s backup goalkeeper, has become quite the expert on retroviral protein translation and is currently working on her thesis about just that.
Not many students, let alone successful athletes, can boast that they are published authors in one of the most read and well-respected science journals in the world. Then again, Nagle isn’t one to boast, either.  Yet her paper, published in “Nature” last November and co-authored by six other scientists, on a retroviral mRNA switch speaks for itself.
But just two years ago, this kind of success seemed unlikely.
Nagle’s story began in a situation most Harvard students can either relate to or have learned to empathize with.  As a sophomore pre-med concentrating in Molecular and Cellular Biology, Nagle found herself struggling with her newly declared concentration.  She was unhappy and feeling like MCB wasn’t the right fit.
But the summer after sophomore year, a close family friend, Dr. Michele Evans, invited Nagle to intern at the National Institutes of Health. Working as a swim league official, Evans got to know Nagle as a young swimmer, and she certainly didn’t think it would take much to renew Nagle’s childhood interest in science.
“I simply invited her to come visit my lab and the students who were working in the institute for the summer as they presented their work at our annual poster day,” Evans wrote via email. “I think she got a lot out of the visit as she talked to the students from all over the country.  I think that this visit revived her interest.”
And that revival extended throughout Nagle’s entire internship, allowing her to come back to Harvard ready and enthusiastic to pursue MCB.
“I went into [the internship] not knowing what to expect or being really excited,” Nagle remembered. “But I really did love it, and coming back at the start of junior year, I was excited about MCB again. The internship definitely made me fall in love with the subject again.”
With a rekindled passion for biology and a desire to continue research, Nagle quickly found a lab on campus under principle investigator Dr. Victoria D’Souza, and with her training at the NIH, she was able to jump in right away.
But that didn’t mean that balancing schoolwork, working in a lab, and playing lacrosse came easy.  Luckily for Nagle, D’Souza was very understanding.
“[D’Souza] was very chill about me playing lacrosse and was very flexible about my schedule,” Nagle recounted. “She was very flexible about giving me the freedom to take the project myself and get it done on my own time and report to her, so there were a lot of odd hours going in to the lab.”
How was it all possible?
A humble Nagle thinks it’s just a small degree of time management.  But Michael Durney, a collaborating author and post-doc in D’Souza’s lab, attributed it to more than that.
“Julia has an awesome work ethic and is very dedicated.” Durney wrote via email. “She focuses on what’s important, understands what needs to be done, and gets on with the job. She manages her time really well, especially considering how much practice her sport requires.”
That’s not all that Nagle brought to the lab from the field—standing over six feet tall, Nagle impressed Durney with her ability to reach objects at the top of lab’s freezer and she was known around the lab for her “colorful sneakers and jackets”.
But there was a time when Nagle was unsure of whether she could afford the time to continue lacrosse. What she didn’t know as she soon found herself running experiments between classes and practices, was that her decision to stick with lacrosse was invaluable.
“There have been points over the past years where lacrosse has held things together. Struggling to figure things out sophomore year academically, lacrosse was still there day in and day out for me.” Nagle said.  “And it gave me that consistency when I needed it. Coming back junior year, it was tough to figure out whether I really wanted and was able to do both research and lacrosse. But if lacrosse had supported me so much sophomore year, it wasn’t really fair to dip out.”
Her odd hours soon paid off when, in March 2011, a busy lacrosse schedule kept Nagle on campus during spring break.  Whatever time she wasn’t spending on the field, she was spending in the lab. And by the end of the week, Nagle had finally gotten the results that D’Souza was waiting for.
Nagle recalled D’Souza asking, “‘Why didn’t you go home for spring break? Why are you still here? Please tell me it’s not just to finish this project.’ And I had to tell her, ‘No we still have practice every day so I wouldn’t be home anyway.’”
Once her part of the project was finished, Nagle could only wait until the lab’s paper, “An equilibrium-dependent retroviral mRNA switch regulates translational recoding” was published in Nature, with her name listed alongside D’Souza, Durney, and several others as a primary author.
But her performance in the lab and on the field are not mutually exclusive. Nagle explained that she has applied skills and knowledge she’s learned from sports to research and vice versa.
“In research, most of your stuff ends up failing; you get your results back, and it didn’t work,” she said. “But it’s more about how do you look at that, how do you go back and fix it? And that’s something that lacrosse teaches you.  In practice, inevitably you’re going to mess up…. You drop that pass, now go get it back and string a couple of goods together—that’s what our coach always tells us.  If a project doesn’t work, you just keep going and don’t lose sight of your goal.”
Evans agreed that Nagle’s perseverance is paramount to her success in the lab.
“Julia is quiet but a deep thinker,” Evans wrote. “She worked hard and was not afraid for some experiments just not to work.  Understanding that sometimes the best-planned experiments just do not work is critical in science. Her persistence was very important.”
Her success in the lab doesn’t go unnoticed by her teammates, either.  Co-captain—and creator of Nagle’s nickname, “Nagle-Bomb”—Melanie Baskind said that Nagle has become an invaluable role-model for student athletes and young women at Harvard.
“Julia is a great example of someone who’s really committed to her academics outside of sports. And I think it makes it really easy for other girls on the team when they’re younger or going through the recruiting process to see that that can be done,” said Baskind, who also works in a lab.  “Every year there are more and more people asking us how we manage our lab schedules [and] how we’re dealing with lots of problem sets when we’re away.  And I just think it makes it easier when you have role models that have had success doing it in the past. And Julia is the primary example of that.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s volleyball team was able to breeze by cross-town foe Emmanuel College for its second straight 3-0 victory Wednesday night at the Malkin Athletic Center.
The Crimson (8-2, 2-2 EIVA) rode strong play from its outside hitters in the middle of each set to break away from the Saints (4-4, 4-1 GNAC). Co-captain outside hitter Matt Jones dominated with a match-high 14 kills, while freshman DJ White chipped in eight kills to lead Harvard past Emmanuel.
The Crimson used its size advantage as well as excellent service game to put pressure on the Saints early in the contest. The two teams tentatively traded points until sophomore hitter Nick Madden was able to grab a key kill, pushing the score to 10-9 and capturing the momentum for Harvard.
“Going into this match we definitely knew we were a bigger team,” Madden said. “Because of that as well as our serving we were able to attack, which was key in the win.”
The Crimson followed up Madden’s kill with a 10-3 run, which was marred only by an injury to freshmen starter Caleb Zimmick. Zimmick, who is 10th in the nation in blocks per set at 1.23, came down hard on his ankle, but was able to walk off of the court unassisted. Sophomore Will Chambers moved over to replace the injured Zimmick as Harvard kept its focus through the injury and closed out the set, 25-14.
But Emmanuel refused to give up and fought Harvard to a stalemate at 9-9 early on in the second set.
Freshman outside hitter Ashanti Jackson tested Harvard early for the Saints leading his team with high-energy play.
“They played well,” said Harvard co-captian libero Dan Schreff of the Emmanuel lineup. “They are a young team with a ton of potential.”
But with the score even, Jones took over. The senior hitter, who is ranked second nationally with 4.23 kills per set, sparked Harvard with another mid-match run to put the Crimson ahead, 20-11.
“The middle portions of the games are key, and we were able to maintain our focus in both [of] those first two games,” Harvard coach Brian Baise said. “We allowed them to make the errors and did not respond with errors of our own. We got some kills and blocks that really helped too.”
The Crimson’s momentum cooled off as Emmanuel came out of a timeout with a quick 4-0 run, but Harvard was able to overcome some communication errors to finish the set, 25-15.
“When we started getting sloppy our captains would come and light a fire under us and get us playing like we should,” Madden said. “If we were down [on the scoreboard], we were not playing to our full potential.”
In the third set, the Saints took an early 7-4 lead again off of the play of Jackson. The freshman recorded six kills during the match and gave Emmanuel some early momentum until he launched a serve into the net, and the Crimson’s strong servers were able to regain control.
Harvard, which by this point had worked some new players into its lineup, began to gel and tied the score at 13.
The game went back and forth, with long, even rallies until freshman hitter John Manzo was able to get the Crimson back in control.
After starting his service at 17-17, Manzo served his way to three consecutive points in order to give the home team some cushion late in the game with a 20-17 lead.
“It was great to see some new guys out there tonight,” Schreff said. “John [Manzo] played really well and Will [Chambers] did a great job after Caleb got hurt.”
Harvard kept the pressure on the Saints, who refused to give up despite their deficit. Emmanuel looked poised to make a comeback, but Jones put the nail in coffin, recording his 14th kill of the match to seal the 25-22 third-set win as well as the victory for the Crimson.
Harvard recorded 42 kills to 23 for the Saints as well as nine service aces to Emmanuel’s four. Particularly key to the victory was the Crimson’s .366 hitting percentage in comparison with the Saints’ .066, as it allowed the Harvard to dictate the pace of the game.
“This was good outing for us tonight,” said Baise. “We have been working on our serving, ball control, and passing in practice. We did those well and that allowed us to control the game.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
About 51 weeks ago, the Harvard men’s basketball team welcomed Penn and Princeton to Lavietes Pavilion with a share of the Ivy title on the line. The stakes surrounding this weekend’s visits by the Quakers and the Tigers remain the same, but with a few added twists.
Now in first place rather than second, the Crimson (23-3, 9-1 Ivy) will also have the luxury of an additional pair of games to attempt to become sole champions of the league for the first time in school history.
Even if it picks up a sweep this weekend, Harvard will likely need at least one win at Cornell or Columbia during the final weekend of the season in order to avoid another shared title and playoff for the league’s automatic bid to the NCAA tournament.
But first it will have to take care of business in sold-out games against two of the top four Ivy teams on its home hardwood, where it has won 27 consecutive contests, the second-longest streak in the country.
Harvard added to the school-best run this past weekend in two of its most decisive victories in several weeks.
On Friday evening the Crimson took care of Brown (7-20, 1-9), which suited up only nine players due to injury. Overcome by adversity rather than overcoming it, the Bears fell behind by 21 points by halftime and eventually were blown out, 69-42.
The following evening looked to be a far more contentious matchup, as Yale (17-7, 7-3) arrived in Cambridge sitting in second place in the Ancient Eight and hoping to avenge a 65-35 drubbing at the hands of its Ivy rival a month ago. An upset would have helped the Bulldogs make a run at their first league championship since 1962, but Yale found itself down by as much as 20 in the first half and came away with a disappointing 66-51 defeat.
Few expect similar margins of victory this Friday, when fourth-place Princeton (15-10, 6-3) comes to town. Led by junior forward Ian Hummer’s game-high 20 points and nine rebounds, the Tigers handed Harvard its only Ivy loss of the season two weeks ago at Jadwin Gymnasium.
Third in the nation in points allowed per game, the Crimson will look to a renewed defensive effort, especially late in the second half, to help find retribution against last year’s league co-champion.
“[Princeton] spreads the floor, and Hummer is just a very tough matchup. He’s a guy who can put it on the floor, shoot it from the outside, but also post up,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “I thought they got too much on the interior against us, whether it was back cuts or we failed to call out some screening action. Hopefully we can do a much better job defending the Princeton offense.”
After a Friday date with the Crimson’s travel partner Dartmouth, second-place Penn (15-11, 7-2) will arrive in Cambridge on Saturday as the only other Ivy squad that controls its own destiny.
After losing to Harvard two weeks ago in Philadelphia, the Quakers have reeled off three straight victories and are capable of highly complicating the league race with a strong performance in Saturday’s contest, which will be shown on ESPN3.com.
Penn is led by senior guard Zack Rosen, whose role in his squad’s pair of wins last weekend earned him the honor of Ivy Player of the Week.
The first-team all-Ivy veteran scored 13 points in last Friday’s game’s final four minutes to dig the Quakers out of a four-point hole, finishing with 25 points, six assists and five rebounds. And in Saturday’s thrilling overtime victory against Columbia, Rosen had 14 points, six rebounds, and five assists.
With 1.5 seconds left in overtime, Rosen drew a critical double team to free up big man Fran Dougherty, who laid in an inbounds pass to give Penn a 61-59 victory over the Lions.
As always, Rosen will be a point of emphasis for the Harvard defense, which kept him to 6-of-21 shooting from the floor several weeks ago.
“Rosen is the key to that team. We know he’s going to get his numbers,” co-captain Keith Wright said. “We’re just going to have to do a great job, team-wise, defensively helping [junior point guard Brandyn Curry] as much as we can.”
While Quaker sophomore guard Miles Cartwright totaled 30 points in two games over the weekend, Penn coach Jerome Allen may be forced to go without the final member of the team’s formidable backcourt trio against Harvard.
Senior shooter Tyler Bernardini appeared to aggravate a preexisting foot injury on Saturday against the Lions, and his status remains day-to-day.
After limiting Bernardini to two points on 0-of-5 shooting in the teams’ first meeting, the Crimson may need to shift its attention to the Quakers’ sophomore guard Steve Rennard, who has stepped up in the veteran’s absence.
—Staff writer Dennis J. Zheng can be reached at dzheng12@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
He’s a junior. He’s a classics concentrator. Now he might be a political representative.
And his chance of winning his race looks good. Facing a currently uncontested election two weeks from now, Michael E. D. Cowett ’13 is still campaigning to serve as the Republican State Committee member for the Middlesex and Suffolk state senatorial district, which includes sections of Cambridge and Boston.
With current committee member Allan R. Zenowitz deciding not to seek reelection, Cowett said he was motivated to enter the March 6 race, citing the need for new energy and progress in the Cambridge area as driving inspirations.
“In my experience in the past two years, the only really effective member of the State Committee who represented Cambridge was not in the district I lived in,” Cowett said. “My current committee member made the decision not to run again, so it made my decision to run clear.”
The Massachusetts Republican State Committee organizes Republicans in the state by establishing strategies, assisting in local elections, recruiting candidates, raising money, and seeking new party members in the area.
Each district is represented by a male and female committee member.
“As a state committeeman, he will ensure that there will be city and ward committees throughout the district, and he will attend meetings with these committees to provide support and training to the members,” said Barbara T. Bush, who is campaigning to be the female State Committee member for the Middlesex and Suffolk district.
As Cowett’s potential counterpart on the committee, Bush praised his accomplishments as both a full-time student and candidate.
After collecting more than the 60 resident signatures necessary to be placed on the ballot, Cowett also participated in a recent forum for candidates running for other offices in the Cambridge area.
“One of my biggest tasks will be to expand and, in some cases, begin Republican efforts in my four areas,” Cowett said.
He said he plans to strengthen local Republican infrastructure and create effective city-wide political organizations. At a broader level, he said he hopes to shift focus from top-of-the-ticket governor races to State House and municipal offices.
“I have more of an interest in refining and recruiting...local offices that can be stepping stones to higher offices, making sure that the party will focus beyond the governor’s mansion in ways that are likely to broaden its base,” Cowett said.
Cowett has volunteered for Cambridge City Council campaigns, interned for State Representative Nicholas A. Boldyga, and served as an active member of the Cambridge Republican City Committee.
“Michael is a nuts-and-bolts kind of guy with a very good grasp on the details of the process—he seems to live and breathe politics,” Cambridge Republican City Committee Chairman Henry Irving said. “We’ve become much more productive since he’s joined us...and he’s got a lot of energy there, in a quiet way.”
—Staff writer David Song can be reached at davidsong@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Feb. 28
An earlier version of this article stated that Michael E. D. Cowett ’13 and Barbara T. Bush are running for Republican State Committee member positions that represent the Middlesex, Suffolk, and Essex district. In fact, due to redistricting, Cowett and Bush would represent the Middlesex and Suffolk district if elected.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Whoa. I can't believe it's been a whole week since the last time I shared some videos with you. It's been a pretty busy week.

 
Did you see the season finale of "Downton Abbey"?  That show is so great. Bates is obviously the best character because of  how he is the nicest, most awesome dude. I also like Carson, because he  does not take any guff from anyone. And Maggie Smith as the Dowager  Countess is great; just a total one-liner-dispensing ice queen. Plus,  the whole Matthew Crawley and Lady Mary thing? Mazel tov to those two.  So proud of them. I feel so many feelings for them right now.
 
Anyhow,  while I continue to remind myself to be more like Bates in every way,  you should check out these videos I've culled together from the farthest  reaches of cyberspace.
 
 
One Hundred Ridiculous Nic Cage Quotes   
 
It's  pretty easy to criticize Nic Cage for a lot of things: his hair, his  inability to turn down a role, the fact that he straight up named his  son Kal-El. But I also like this quote from Roger Ebert that best explains why I find the Cage Rage so  endearing. Says Ebert, "However improbable his character, he never winks  at the audience. He is committed to the character with every atom and  plays him as if he were him." This is true. Nic Cage plays some crazy  people and he always cranks it up to 11. I respect his commitment.
 
 
A Linsane Homemade Basketball Highlight Reel  
 
I  had a hoop just like this kid's hanging on the door to my bedroom. And I  may or may not have done the exact same things that he does in this  video. I didn't record them though, so I'm sorry about that. This kid  definitely has some skills though. I hope they release this as an And 1  mixtape.
 
 
A Cat That is Way Into Dubstep  
 
Cats and dubstep. So hot on the internet right now.
 
 
President Barack Obama Sings a Song and is Not Terrible At It  
 
This  column isn't meant to be political, and I have no interest in sharing  my political opinions in this space or anywhere, really. I will, however,  totally discuss how Obama is a much better singer than I expected, and  is certainly more vocally proficient than the leader of the most  powerful country in the world needs to be.
 
 
A Bird Feeds Noodles to a Dog  
 
In an environment like Harvard, where literally everyone is a Nobel Laureate or discovered an element on the periodic  table or something, it's tough not to feel alone or dejected. I get  that. But you should always have at least one person you can turn to in  times of need. Like if you are too short to get noodles off the counter.
 
 
Pool Trick Shot Sets Off a Ridiculous Domino Rally And You Will Almost Certainly Never Be The Same Again  
 
I  love domino rallies. There is nothing I love in the world more than I  love domino rallies. They are so cool. Plus, this domino rally is  combined with some pool trick shots which makes it probably definitely  the best thing on the internet bar none.
 
 
A Man Has Goats Walk on His Back And Calls it a Massage  
 
If  they offered this type of massage in Lamont, I would spend way more  time in Lamont. Can whoever plans those free Lamont massages look into  this? Where is the nearest goat farm?
 
 
A Woman Falls While Texting  
 
Technology  is cool. I love technology. I probably use technology too much. But  please be careful when you are walking and texting at the same time, or  else you will end up like this woman. That set of steps totally showed her  who's boss...and then more than 3 million people watched it over and  over again on YouTube.
 
Anyway,  that's all I got for this week. Come back next week when this column  will almost certainly just be clips of Downton Abbey or things that  remind me of Downton Abbey.
Sections
Thanks to Twitter and its half billion users, there are a lot of #s and @s floating around cyberspace these days. How many of them, though, are Harvard-related? Don't even try counting. Since sifting through a bajillion tweets is not ideal, we've narrowed down the list. Here are the top five Harvard-related Twitters that have, in our opinion, mastered the art of 140-character entertainment.
1. @meganamram:
Full of wit and snark, Megan L. Amram '10 is the queen of funny on Twitter. This former writer for the Hasty Pudding Theatricals uses her tweets to poke fun at pop culture, Whole Foods, and how women don't ride their cars sidesaddle nowadays. If you're not impressed, let her 176,660 (and counting) followers convince you otherwise.
2. @harvardhoochies:
The name says it all. These driven Boston University "biddies" like Final Clubs and Harvard men, and they have a lot to say about the two. Want to find them? Just follow their tweets.
3. @fuckimaRUHG
Self-deprecating and hilarious, Random Ugly Harvard Girl (RUHG) has some serious spunk. When not making fun of herself or wishing she were invited to parties, RUHG also often tweets about HUDS. Fun fact: she's a fan of red spice chicken, and wants to get married in the Quincy House Dining Hall.
4. @HarvardAsianGuy:
This self-proclaimed pre-med-economics-and-computer-science concentrator, who also plays piano and is an I-banking intern, has a sense of humor. He embraces Harvard stereotypes, and once tweeted that he makes his ramen with coffee—clearly, time equals money.
5. @GSElevator:
Since Goldman Sachs is always trending at Harvard, this Twitter is a must-read. Truly an account of the one percent, these tweets give you an inside look at what goes on in the Goldman Sachs elevator. As to whether it's real or not: we'll let you decide.
Sections
Gaga over Gaga? Well, put on your Poker Face.
Your chances to see the one and only Fame Monster in person have just gotten better.
Earlier this evening, the Undergraduate Council sent a campus-wide message to students detailing a chance to win a ticket to Lady Gaga's official launch for the Born This Way Foundation on Feb. 29.
While the Graduate School of Education opened its public raffle for the same event just yesterday, administrators decided that the UC TKTS program was the best avenue through which they could raffle off more tickets. This collaboration will give more Starstruck students the opportunity to attend the launch.
Already, this joint UC-HGSE surprise has amassed high amounts of attention.
"Everybody wants one," UC President Danny P. Bicknell '13 said, laughing.
Sign-ups have also been pouring in. Only six hours since the system went live, the UC has already received more than 1,400 responses.
Lucas G. Freitas '15, a Crimson photographer, said that he once spent six hours stalking Lady Gaga in New York. He signed up instantly for the lottery after receiving the UC email.
"I would literally scream out loud if I got in," Freitas said. "Some people just don't understand how amazing [Lady Gaga] is and how much she means to me."
Registration is open until 5 p.m. on Saturday, Feb. 25, after which luck and probability take the reins.
As Bicknell and Vice President Pratyusha Yalamanchi '13 summed up perfectly in their email, "Just Dance because You and I are on The Edge of Glory!"
