News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Halfway through the London Olympic Games and Harvard already has three medals. But, a day after Esther Lofgren ’09 and Caryn Davies ’05 won gold the results for their fellow Crimson athletes were less favorable.
One of just two Harvard oarsmen still on the water at Eton Dorney—the other one, Henrik Rummel ’09, races Saturday in the men’s four final—Brodie Buckland ’06 of Australia raced in the men’s pair A final this morning. The eventual gold medal winners from New Zealand, Eric Murray and Hamish Bond, had dominated the early rounds setting world’s best times along the way. They did not disappoint in the final, coming in nearly five seconds ahead of the second place French boat.
Buckland and his boat-mate James Marburg came in fifth, finishing the Olympics out of the medals.
This afternoon, Temi Fagbenle ’15 and Great Britain take to the court against France in their second-to-last group stage game. Making their first appearance in Olympic competition, the host’s women’s basketball team remains winless, and will likely remain so barring a significant turnaround. Fagbenle, just 19 years of age, has had moments in these Olympics that suggest she will be a force to be reckoned with next season in the Ivy League. After being forced to sit out her freshman year due to a controversial NCAA ruling, Fagbenle will play for Harvard for the first time when they kick off the season, November 20 at Holy Cross.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Every week, The Crimson publishes a selection of articles that were printed in our pages in years past.
July 30, 1943: Navy Wives Run Widener as Services Draft Experienced Peacetime Helpers
Navy wives have taken the place of drafted librarians to relieve the shortage of trained helpers which has afflicted the library at a time when Widener's functions are doubly important to both civilians and servicemen.
August 2, 1956: Students Still Sit in Wrong Places
The Summer School administration, proprietors of entertainment facilities in Boston and Cambridge, and Harvard semanticists all joined yesterday in a common plea to Summer School students: Keep the entries to Yard dormitories clear. In other words, don't sit on the steps.
Semanticists were worried about the social congregations on dormitory steps because, as one of them put it, "the function of entries is to allow people to go in and out—see Webster's International Dictionary, 1946 edition, page 855."
August 4, 1964: Arrests Now Frequent in Greenwood
William W. Hodes '66, a SNCC volunteer working in Greenwood, Miss., was arrested for disorderly conduct Saturday, beaten in a rather offhand manner by the local police, and released later that day on $100 bond.
August 1, 1975: Ad Board Denies Request for Physics Final Waiver
The Administrative Board of the Summer School has denied a request by Paul G. Bamberg '63, associate professor of physics, that the final exam for his course Physics S-1 be waived, because of the discovery last year of several cheating rings in the self-paced course.
The ad board has accepted the petition for the past two summers.
—Compiled by Julie M. Zauzmer
Sections
Winthrop Park in Harvard Square took a trip to mid-nineties Manhattan on Friday, as Seinfeld’s Soup Nazi—his real name is Larry Thomas—and a My Fox38 free soup truck made a stop on the national tour.
Seinfeld fans and free-food enthusiasts alike lined up for the chance to receive free Mulligatawny soup and other Seinfeld-based classics/dishes, from the man himself. Thomas, much like Bob Costas, appeared not to have aged since the episode first aired in November, 1995. But he did not maintain his same rigid code of ordering practices that earned him the infamous moniker.
The character, which is based off of real soup vendor Al Yeganeh, earned Thomas an Emmy nomination and now, 17 years later, Thomas is still riding the wave of Soup Nazi fame. If you missed out on your chance to meet the mid-90s legend, you can still catch the tour as it continues across the United States.
