News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It wasn’t one Houston will brag about, but after 48 minutes Jeremy Lin ’10 and the Rockets came out on top for the fifth straight game, defeating the Minnesota Timberwolves, 87-84.
After playing less than 24 hours before, fatigue might have been a factor for Lin who scored just eight points on three-of-nine shooting, a 42 percent drop in field goal percentage from Tuesday’s performance. Reminiscent of his play after the initial rush of Linsanity last season, Lin also turned the ball over seven times, comprising 44 percent of his squad’s total mistakes. The Harvard alum managed to tally only one dime, which came on a pass to teammate James Harden for a three with 1:21 left in the first half.
With Lin unable to find a flow, Houston turned to Harden to carry the team’s load. Harden scored 17 out of his 30 points in the final quarter, enabling the Rockets to sneak past their opponents.
Lin may have put it best when, following the night’s contest, he tweeted: “Definitely an ugly one and lots to learn from but glad we got the W and 5 in a row!!! ‪#RedNation”
Houston’s schedule only gets tougher in the rest of 2012 as it plays the San Antonio Spurs and Oklahoma City, last season’s number one and two teams in the Western Conference, respectively, on back-to-back nights this weekend. To be able to take down those two elite teams, the Rockets may need more production from their point guard. Otherwise, Lin’s New Years resolution might be to re-garner some of the magic that he exhibited during Linsanity last season.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
After weeks of speculation, President Barack Obama last Friday nominated Massachusetts U.S. Senator John F. Kerry to serve as Secretary of State during his second term. But even before Obama made the big announcement, the possibility that Ben Affleck might run for Kerry's vacated Senate seat has served as a conveniently inclusive discussion topic for readers of Politico and People alike.
We all know by now that Senator Affleck won't be a reality for the foreseeable future. "I love Massachusetts and our political process, but I am not running for office," Affleck wrote on Facebook on Monday afternoon. Though he cited other forms of civic engagement as his current priorities, we at Flyby think there might be another reason Affleck decided to say no this time around.

Until Monday, Affleck's own comments on the matter of a possible Senate run were nothing short of infuriatingly vague and noncommittal. 
  In the midst of all this madness (which, we'd like to point out, is not the first of its kind), Bob Schieffer, host of CBS' Face the Nation, took to the airwaves last Thursday to discuss his recent interview with Affleck. "[Affleck] is a very committed—a very serious person," Schieffer said. "You know, he went to Harvard and majored in Middle Eastern studies."
Unfortunately for all of us, this statement is simply untrue. Affleck never went to Harvard, and Harvard doesn't even have a Middle Eastern studies concentration—unless Schieffer was thinking of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations? And just because Affleck likes Noch's doesn't mean he went here.
Alas, Schieffer's misinformed description of Affleck may have proved too discouraging for the actor as he weighed his political options. As we saw this fall, no one likes a Harvard politician—until Election Day, that is.
Sections
The proverbial first hat has been thrown into the ring, and it doesn't belong to Ben Affleck.
U.S. Representative Ed Markey, the Democrat who leads the Massachusetts congressional delegation, will seek the Senate seat expected to be vacated by Secretary of State nominee John F. Kerry, the Boston Globe reported on Thursday morning.
In last month's election, Markey was reelected to represent the newly drawn 5th Congressional District, which was reshaped to include parts of Cambridge, including Harvard's campus, in the recent statewide redistricting process. During his 36 years in Congress, Markey has chaired committees on environmental policy and global warming.
The first major Democrat to enter the special election triggered by Kerry's nomination, Markey is now poised to face other Democratic challengers in a primary set to occur in late March. Other potential contenders for the Democratic bid include Representative Stephen F. Lynch, who was reelected in November to fill the 8th District seat, and Michael E. Capuano, who was reelected to serve the 7th District, which also includes parts of Cambridge.
The Democratic nominee for the vacant Senate seat is expected to face outgoing Republican Senator Scott Brown in a mid-June special election, though Brown has not yet formally entered the race. In the interim, Governor Deval L. Patrick '78 will appoint a temporary senator.
Sections
Every week, The Crimson publishes a selection of articles that were printed in our pages in years past.
December 24, 1875: Pictures and So Forth.
The ordinary decorations of college rooms are very tiresome. Wherever you go the same faces stare down at you from the walls; the same figures appear in the same more or less proper attitudes; the same white shingles with monstrous red seals, and sometimes the same silver medals, with ribbons chosen by the happy owner's friends and patrons, grow as tiresome as the same bell which has rung the College up to prayers for goodness knows how many years.
Most men appear to think that when they have purchased a print or two, the moral character of which is regulated by the reputation which they desire to maintain; when they have been elected to the St. Paul's, the Chess Club, the Institute, or the Athenaeum, etc., ad infinitum, and have encircled their shingles with gray passe-partouts; when they have carelessly slung any medals that they may possess over the shingles aforesaid, and when they have put photographs of a popular actress or two—probably Rosina Vokes, and some loose character in tights—on their mantelpieces, they have paid attention enough to aesthetics. They appear to regard pictures, and decorations in general, as  convenient inventions to fill bare walls; they appear to decorate their  rooms, if they take the trouble to decorate them at all, with little  more appreciation and intelligence than were used by the wealthy  gentleman who purchased his library by the pound.
The truth is that they do not understand the real value in daily life of  what may be called artistic surroundings. It is by no means necessary  to have every stick of furniture carved on the very nicest plan that the  system of Eastlake has produced; nor to arrange every corner of a room  with a studied attention to the picturesque, which would make it look  like a magnified reproduction of a modern genre picture. But it is, if  not absolutely necessary, at least highly desirable to hang upon your  walls pictures that will suggest ideas; pictures at which you can look  with pleasure for more than a single moment; pictures of which you will  in time grow fond, instead of longing at the end of a couple of months  to pitch them out of the window.
December 29, 1944: Dean Landis Will Return to Law School From Egypt Next Month
Mounting pressure of war and post-war problems facing the University has led to the announcement yesterday that James M. Landis, Dean of Harvard Law School, will return from Cairo, where he has been serving as American Director of Economic Operations in the Middle East, to resume his duties as Dean of the Law School. According to a statement by Acting Dean Edmund M. Morgan '02, Dean Landis is expected to arrive from Africa "within the early part of January," and will take up his former duties immediately afterward.
Of the various wartime problems now confronting the Law School, those which will draw Dean Landis' first attentions on his return include the treatment of returning veterans and the placing of them in their proper place in the program, the imminent consideration of revised and enlarged curricula for the already expanding enrollment at the Law School, and the rebuilding of the greatly depleted faculty of the School.
—Compiled by Rebecca D. Robbins
