Sections
A hallmark of the socially gifted, good follow-up questions keep conversations alive and awkwardness at bay—an essential college survival tactic. Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 has mastered the art.
On the walk from the Freshman Dean’s Office to Annenberg, Dingman, dressed in olive slacks, green and blue Tattersall shirt, and champagne-colored tie, tosses me a couple of these softballs:
“Where are you from?”
“New Jersey.”
“Where in New Jersey?”
“Near Princeton.”
“Oh, so near Hopewell Valley?”
And so forth.
Tasked with helping freshmen transition to college as painlessly as possible, Dingman knows the importance of setting anxious students at ease. Not only students, though—everyone who runs into Dingman seems to loosen up a bit when he says hello. Walking into Annenberg, he takes a moment to hug a fellow administrator and warmly greets a HUPD officer and Francine, who swipes my ID as I enter the dining hall. “Francine, you don’t know these people by name?” Dingman says, jokingly.
“You know the drill,” Dingman says as we walk past the double doors into the serving area. I don’t see anybody I know as I gather my lunch, but Dingman seems to have something to say to everyone he passes. Scooping mushrooms onto his plate, he turns to a HUDS employee who is wiping debris off the tray aisle. “Freshmen: always making a mess,” he says, which is acknowledged by a knowing nod.
As we chat, Dingman works through his modest meal: the aforementioned mushrooms, two pieces of red spiced chicken, three tomato wedges, rice, a coke (diet, I suspect), and two oatmeal cookies. He has a knife on his tray, but cuts his chicken with his fork.
“This job is pretty 24/7,” Dingman says when I ask him what he does for fun (watch hockey, play squash, spend time with his family). We spend most of the conversation talking about his work, and then his own advising experience when he was a Harvard undergraduate in the 60s.
“During my sophomore year, I went to the History Department to get my study card signed. They told me I could leave my card there over the weekend and I could come back to pick up the signed card on Monday, but that wasn’t really why I was there,” Dingman says. “I was looking for a conversation, not a signature.”
He believes that advising has improved since he was an undergraduate, but notes that he and his team will have to keep trying new things to improve students’ experiences.
“You can’t always get it right the first time,” Dingman says, chuckling, and recalls last year’s widely-publicized incident regarding a new opt-in freshman pledge, which received criticism from some students and faculty. This year, the pledge has been replaced by sensitivity training, including staged skits by students.
When I ask him how many freshmen he meets every year, Dingman doesn’t give me a numerical estimate, but mentions that he becomes familiar with many names as a result of reading through college applications. He isn’t immune to forgetfulness, although when he forgets names, he doesn’t have any special method to recall them.
“I’m not very slick,” he says. “I find that by asking them for their name directly, I can solidify it in my memory.”
Although Dingman seems comfortable talking to just about anyone, he admits that he, like many an Annenberg-going freshman, is susceptible to awkwardness. “Sometimes, I sit down at a table with students whom I don’t know and the conversation just stops. I think it’s more awkward for them than it is for me,” he says.
Just then, a tentative freshman approaches and takes a moment to introduce herself to Dingman. Note the follow-ups:
“Tom Dingman, nice to meet you!”
“Nice to meet you! My name’s Margot.”
“Where are you from, Margot?”
“I’m from Atlanta.”
“Oh, do you know Harrison? I think he’s also from Atlanta.”
And so forth.
Although Dingman has worked at the College for decades in other capacities—as a tutor in both Leverett House and Dudley House—he is inexhaustible. After eight years as Freshman Dean and thousands of names later, he’s always game to learn more.
“Every year feels different because there’s a whole new batch of students, but they keep looking younger as I get more ancient,” he says, flashing a wolfish grin.
By the time we leave Annenberg and start on our separate paths, it’s hard not to acknowledge strangers as regularly and warmly as he does. In fact, the only time I see him ignore a passerby seeking his attention is in front of the Science Center: I sheepishly take a flier from a student advertising free salsa lessons, thinking Dingman will, too. He doesn’t; I feel like a freshman. Walking with his right hand in his pocket and with a slight lean to his right, Dingman continues on with his day, which will undoubtedly involve more meeting and greeting. I’m already a bit weary from keeping up with him, but for Dingman, the job never seems to end.
“Still, I wish I knew more people,” he says.
Sections
“Dorm crew!”
John L. Prince ’13 knocks twice, loudly. No response. He knocks again and this time a girl cracks open the door and peers into the hallway. She notices the broom and Swiffer-imitation mop in Prince’s hand and lets him in. He greets the three girls lounging in the common room, and enters the bathroom to start cleaning.
“It’s the beginning of the term, so the bathrooms aren’t too bad,” he says, as he dons a pair of blue nitrile gloves and starts sweeping the floor.
“I know a lot of people think girls are going to be cleaner, but that’s not always true. Girls just have more stuff—makeup in the sink or boxes lying on the floor. Girls have a lot of stuff, where guys will have, like, a toothbrush. Girls shed a lot of hair, and sometimes you can just pull it out of the sink.” He makes a movement like he’s lifting a small mammal by the scruff of the neck. “We call that a squirrel, because you know—it’s big and hairy.”
It’s surprising how much debris the broom’s bristles tease out from the corners and edges of the room.
“When I was a freshman doing Fall Clean-Up, one of the captains told me about someone who had a pet rabbit or something, and then just kept all of its waste in a drawer and just left it in there. I haven’t found anything that bad. It helps to remind people to clean their rooms at the end of the year. We’re not your trash removal service.”
Prince brushes the dirt into a dustpan and flushes it down the toilet. He pulls out a 7-Eleven Big Gulp cup from the caddy that holds the cleaning supplies and fills it with water from the shower.
“These are all disappearing now, since 7-Eleven stopped selling them. They’re getting old and cracked. I don’t know what we’re going to do when they’re all gone.”
He starts scrubbing the shower walls with the rough side of a sponge.
“During my freshman Spring Clean-Up, there was this girl who was in, like, fruit club.” He stresses the name like a foreign language. “And she had giant boxes of fruit delivered to her room. And she never threw them away. I don’t think they used their common room as a common space. It was kind of like their storage room. So they left all their stuff when they left—lots of cardboard, the rotting fruit. We were bummed out because a lot of it was Ramen noodles, and we were like ‘oh that’s good!’ but then we looked and the expiration date was two years ago. They’ve probably had it in storage for like three years now. Other than that, I haven’t really seen too much abnormal. Nothing too rough.”
He turns the shower on for a while to rinse off the walls and then scoops up a small clump of light brown hair from the corner, which he throws out without comment.
“I like to do the shower and the toilet first, because they require all the up-and-down movement. I like to get that stuff out of the way. I save the sink for the end, because you’re standing up and it’s easier.”
He sprays cleaner on the toilet seat and starts wiping it down.
“Some people are kind of turned off by the idea of cleaning bathrooms. But I just treat it like a job. There are bathrooms that need to be cleaned, and someone’s got to do it.”
Prince is wearing a baseball cap backwards and little beads of perspiration become visible in the gap above the adjustable strap. He’s now wiping down the sink.
“There’s the issue of where people feel odd if they know you. Some people think it’s awkward, but I haven’t really felt that. Maybe it’s ’cause I live here, but I actually enjoy cleaning people’s rooms that I know.  It’s less stressful because they’re probably not going to complain—not that I mess up.”
Prince finishes wiping down the sink and puts his supplies back into the caddy.
“I’m not gonna put a Post-It; they know I was here.”
The girls are still sitting in the same places when we leave. They murmur a thank you and a goodbye.
When asked about Dorm Crew lingo, he replies with a straight face, “We have some [words] that are captains-only, so I can’t show you those.”
He muses for a while and then adds, “I guess one is all the stuff we find and can’t put it in the trash, like lighter fluid or wet paint. All the things you shouldn’t have here, but people do. So that’s called zazz. I don’t know why that’s called zazz.”
Prince uses a key to open the supply closet in the basement of Eliot.
“I was once doing fire door inspections in Lowell, and the guy just gave me a key that opens everything. I was like—oh, that’s scary. Yeah, don’t lose that.”
Inside the supply closet, there are shelves that hold various cleaning supplies, towels, mop heads, sponges. The sponges are stacked like the bottom row of a house of cards. Prince explains, “That’s what we call TP-ing. It helps them dry a little faster.”
Prince starts putting away his supplies. “There was this one time I came in here, wanting to tidy it up real quick. And everything is moved away and stuff is missing. And I’m like, what happened? I’m freaking out, I thought someone came in with a key and stole stuff. And I talked to this custodian who was like ‘Oh, we thought we could help you out and rearrange it for you.’ I was like ‘Thank you.’” It is the first time a note of sarcasm creeps into Prince’s voice.
The top shelf holds mysterious bottles of chemicals—cleaning fluids, I soon find out—with names like “Oxivir.”
“We’ve changed the cleaners. New brands of glass cleaner, shower cleaner, toilet cleaner. We have a different kind for swine flu. What we used before was good for the environment, and then we switched to a thing for swine flu, which is really intense but not good for the environment.”
Prince finishes replacing his supplies, and gestures at a nearby container.
“What we use now is completely different from what I used freshman year, which is kind of funny. I feel like I’ve been here forever.”
Sections
 
"I’m not gonna say anything bad. This is Leverett, the best house."
 
I disagree, but bite my tongue. My belltower—my home for the past two years here—is obscured by the mangled edges of New Quincy and Old Lev.
It’s Friday night and I’m nestled on the floor of the Leverett Building Manager’s office. It’s a cubbyhole of about 50 square feet, but the shelving along the sides, along with a desk and chair, makes it feel more cramped. I tell him I’m writing a story about members of the community who aren’t students. People who work here.
Robert Gibson, Sr., a white-haired man who could be a double for Joe Biden, maybe, if he weren’t a decade or two his senior, sits at his desk in the familiar Securitas uniform. He’s the keeper of leftover packages—one that’s waiting for a graduate who can’t get a visa back into the country, a "perishable" stamp, and USPS tape.
Gibson grew up in Somerville, and still lives there. I smile—I can tell, it’s in the accent. Later, he tells me he was born as the stock market burned in 1929, lived through Pearl Harbor, and witnessed the changing attitudes towards Asian Americans. (They’re the nicest people, he tells me, though for a time in his life they were feared.) Despite living through several financial crises and the better part of a century, Gibson has no plans to stop working. If he does, it’ll only be to care for his ailing daughter, Kathleen. "Working keeps you young, walking keeps you young," he says.
Gibson is a Bruins fan. That’s actually how he got into guarding—back when he was working with audio equipment, he made a contact at Security Systems at the Boston Garden before it was torn down. Still, he started freelancing in security, every now and then. Over 14 or so years, he guarded each of the houses, except Pforzheimer and Kirkland.
For the past 11 years, though, he’s been here, at Leverett.
The radio in his security belt is cackling. Something about a student in Currier. Gibson reaches to turn it down, leaning in to hear me better. I ask louder, what his job consists of, day-to-day.
"I sit here and talk to pretty ladies like you," he says.
Actually, Gibson is a caretaker—a kind of guardian angel between the hours of four and twelve, making rounds like clockwork, and helping the lost and confused, those locked out and those in need of toilet paper. He tells students, "Come right here and we’ll take care of you."
Gibson has a grandfatherly charm, which may be fitting. If the House Masters are parents, he’s gramps.
"Anne [the wife of Leverett House Master Howard M. Georgi ’68] is the most pleasant person in the world," he says. "They call him Chief and her, Coach." Why, he doesn’t know. "I don’t think I’ve ever seen a student leave here or graduate who didn’t like them."
He likes them, too, as well as the Building Manager, Paul Hegarty, whom Gibson describes as very level-headed, a characteristic he wishes he possessed. And the students, and the tutors? He likes them, too. He became friendly with some of the latter—a few that had been at Leverett for the better part of a decade—although he never saw them outside the house. The students, though, he chats with, but they never becomes close. Why, he doesn’t know.
Sometimes, Gibson has a little fun with students. He’ll say, "What do you mean you’ve been locked out? Now you’ve gotta stay out all night, what if it rains?"
But really, the office is never closed more than 15 minutes. During that time, Gibson crosses the street, walks through the old Leverett basements and courtyards. He makes sure the locks are working properly, circles the building on the outside. If there are broken streetlights, he makes a note. "And if anyone needs anything along the way," he says, "you stop and take care of them."
These past few evenings, there haven’t been many lockouts. But the first couple of days back, Gibson was constantly on his feet. The sophomores, he says, often forget that they no longer have to call HUPD, that he wants to be there to help.
"I love working here. I never thought I’d be a security guard, I thought it was the lowest part of life," he says. But now, caring for our community is a point of pride. Many of the guards, he says—some of whom got their start with Security Systems just like he did—are impressive co-workers. One of them used to be a police chief. "You’ve got intelligent people now, people who care," he says. "That’s what Harvard wanted."
As we’re talking, a student pops in, her thick eyeliner smeared from, no doubt, Friday night. She’s looking for a package. Gibson tells her it’s still at the depot, but she takes some toilet paper anyway. He smiles, glancing at the boxes that still haven’t been claimed.
Sections
September 7, 7:00 a.m. The sun had just risen from its nighttime slumber, and while most college students were hours away from consciousness, I was traipsing down the banks of the Charles.
I. A noisy silence. Even this early in the morning there is thehum of cars passing tacitly by—it’s too early for honking.
II. Three homeless men sleep on the grass under the shade of a weathered tree. At first glance, they are unnoticeable in their brown blankets, which blend into the earth. Bags sit on the ground next to them.
III. Two boathouses, Newell and Weld, line the shores by JFK Street. A few rowers go out on the water. They seem to glide by asquickly as the passing traffic, saying nothing as they slice the waterwith their oars.
IV. The serenity is disrupted. The construction that seems to perpetually surround Harvard makes its presence known onthe Anderson Memorial Bridge, which connects Cambridge to Allston. Atop the bridge, one construction worker turns to another.“This street is always busy.” “We’re always busy,” replies the other.
V. Dozens of people pass by, kicking up dirt as they exercise before the daily grind. Students, professors, and local residents maneuver through traffic lights as they enjoy the scenery. An old woman stumbles by, the sweat pouring down her face and onto her t-shirt, which reads “Beantown.” She reaches the bridge and cries out in triumph. These small victories of the morning set up the bigger victories of the day.
Sections
It’s Friday morning ,time for the ’Berg and breakfast near bros. As they ate their syrup-soaked French toast, we soaked in what they had to say about school, football, and love.
“No papers, nofinals, no nothing. Allyou have to do is reada book. Eeeeeasy, man.”
“You have to be adifferent type. You haveto be a different type to play football, man.”
“That’s the best position—you just get to whack people [man].”
Bro 1: “Ec 10.”
Bro 2: “Ec 10.”
Bro 3: “Ec 10.”
Bro 4: “Ec 10.“
"I love you, man.”
Sections
I’m not the first person in the classroom, but I’m proud to say I’m not the last. I have dragged myself out of bed at 8:00 a.m. on a Friday morning, inhaled a dining hall chocolate muffin while speed-walking to the Barker Center, and by 9:01 I’m here, taking my seat in Slavic Da: Beginning Polish I.
My classmates sit silently, flipping through the textbook that I don’t have. The seminar table is a strange collection of tired-looking people, six or so, who I have never seen before. Across the table to my diagonal right is probably the only guy at Harvard with both tattoos and a nose ring.
The door swings open and the man it reveals—tall, with a gray oxford, light blue pants, and glasses—must be the instructor. He greets us with a wave that sweeps across the table, but then takes the seat next to me.
My classmates brace themselves, knowing from Wednesday’s class that he is the chatty one in their midst. “So! What does everyone study?” he asks, before answering his own question. “I’m a postdoc in English literature, and I’m teaching a few classes this semester.”
On the other side of the table, the tall guy with the middle part looks around and then speaks. “I am undeclared! I am a freshman!” he says, confirming the obvious.
The postdoc turns to me. “What about you?” he asks.
Before I know it, I’m lying. “Ummm, yeah, me too, I’m thinking about being a History and Literature concentrator,” I squeak out as quickly as possible, relieved when attention turns tothe athletic, unfriendly-looking girl on my left.
Down the table is a Human and Evolutionary Biology concentrator, wearing pearl earrings. She’s learning “survival Polish” because she does her fieldwork in Poland. “I research breast milk,” she says, nodding her head.
The real professor walks in on the hard sound of the “k.” The English postdoc calls out, “How do you say ‘breast milk’ in Polish?”
“Mleko matki is ‘mothers’ milk,’” she says.“But that is too complicated. For now, jzien dobry!”
We jzien dobry the professor back. It means good morning, always the first thing you learn.
She says it again, waits for a beat. “Powtarzaj za mną!” she says into the silence. I sit dumbly as the table begins to speak. Now I’m acquainted with my third Polish phrase. Repeat after me.
Names must be coming soon, I realize. And yes, immediately, here they are—“There is someone new here today! Jak si´ pani nazywa?” The professor looks in my direction. I look back. She asks again, “Jak si´ pani nazywa?”
The first name that comes to my mind actually belongs to my best friend from home. “Molly,” I answer finally. But this is unsatisfactory, for it cannot be said in a Polish accent. Still, the class tries their best. “Nazywa się Mo-lee!” they say enthusiastically, in unison.
After we go over names—Veronique becomes Weronika, Steven becomes Stefan—the professor hands out our sectioning cards. I can’t remember what letter to put in the “Slavic___” blank, so I peek at the English postdoc’s card. It says Da, which I copy down, but can’t help feeling like I’ve cheated.
“Now,” she says, “Lekya pierwza. Lesson one. Powtarzaj za mną!” This time I repeat. I try to crunch the consonants in my mouth, but it’s not working. It doesn’t work for the next halfhour, as I scramble to write down the vocabulary of classroom objects and the differences between masculine and feminine adjectives.
Krzesło, chair. Sala lekcyjna, classroom. Okno jest czyste, the window is clean. Stół jest duży, the table is big.
As soon as these sounds begin to make sense, it’s 9:57. Today’s class is over. “Do widzenia,” the professor tells each of us as we rise from the table. I say goodbye back, and parrot the Polish thank-yous she receives from everyone else.
At 10:01 a.m. lekya pierwza, lesson one, is over, and I’m not a freshman anymore. I head out the door and walk quickly—I have my own Friday morning language class to catch. In Persian, though, I’m Jess-eekah, and we’re starting the alphabet. Derse aval. Ba’ad az man tekrarkon. Lesson one. Repeat after me.
Sections
1. Everyone here has some sort of accent. Most people are foreign, European. Maybe we should start elongating our vowels.
2. A young woman (Italian?) thanks a man (not Italian?) twice her age for lunch, and they saunter off together. At another table near the sidewalk, a man and two women sit. Two of the three are a couple, though it’s hard to tell which.
3. A girl sits with her friend under a red umbrella. She has big frames. A sexagenarian sits across from us, his legs outstretched, his shirt sleeves rolled up, reading a book. He is wearing large, clear plastic frames.
4. Turns out the book he is reading is from the Bernie Gunther thriller series. Weimar Republic, anyone?
5. The ground rumbles below us. The Pamplona Fault is A Thing.
6. Friday: red umbrellas out, open, sunny, outdoor seating. Saturday: red umbrellas absent, sunny, outdoor seating. Sunday: red umbrellas back, tied up, cloudy, no outdoor seating. No clear trends.
7. A pensive man sits by himself. He clutches his knee and orders a salad. Unwinding from a long day? Crap, he sees us staring.
8. Sunday specials: ham, sundried tomato, provolone panini. Beef empanadas and a fruit frappe. We wonder if they eat this in the real Pamplona.
9. We also can’t help but wonder whether you can see inside Adams A when the sun hits the window panes just right.
10. Two members of the Hasty Pudding Theatricals sit, writing, sipping Arnold Palmers. They type out character names: Frankie Doodledandy, Pauly Pocketknife, Amelia Airhead. “Avery femme fatale kind of thing,” says the one wearing a fluorescent pink t-shirt.
11. A lisp marks the fast-paced Spanish of the woman sitting across from us. Her fingers are covered in rings that flash past her face as she gestures animatedly. According to urban legend, the “Castilian lisp” can be traced back to the loyal, lisping subjects of a lisping king.
12. A lanky blond enters the café, peers at the menu, then retreats up the stairs. The monogrammed letters on his violin case—“RZB”—blur as he continues up the street.
13. The tattoo on the waitress’s forearm becomes visible as she brings a couple their check. It’s a two-line poem in Latin by the Roman poet Catullus, she tells us.
14. Two women dressed in all black pick at their salads. One of them smiles and runs her fingers through hair that is slowly transitioning from salt-and-pepper to grey. How is she not melting, we wonder.
15. A student walks by in a white t-shirt and pink Bermuda shorts. His friends, sitting at one of the outdoor tables, call out: “Ethan!” “I have to run,” he hollers back, then smiles. “But not actually run.” “In those shorts?” asks his friend.
Sections
Attracted by the scent of cheap alcohol and Top 40 hits, they stumbled into Currier House. Dressed in white V-necks and Crimson lanyards, they wobbled in the lobby, waiting for some sort of instruction. In response to glares from upperclassmen, and a quick lesson in cartography, “So this isn’t the SOCH?” They vanished back into the night, in search of a “real Harvard party,” or at least an alley in which to shotgun a beer or something. Curious to see how these Rubinoff-loving first-years adapted to Harvard nightlife, FM decided to observe the freshmen prowl (from afar) so that someday, maybe, we can better understand their ways.
Overheard in the Yard: One freshman boy to another: “Dude, I am so going to do 10 shots tonight!”
Seen from the street: Group of 20 taking a selfie in front of DeWolfe. Instagram?
On the shuttle: “We made it! High fives!”
On the MBTA bus: Group of freshmen thinking they were on the shuttle.
On the dance floor at Rush Hour: “Freshman?”
 “No.”
 “I need to go find a freshman.”
In the bathroom to a friend: “Ahhh I kissed him, I am so going to get an STD!”At IHOP, 2 a.m.: Sober.
Sections
Aight bro, it’s game time. T-minus one hour until party o’clock, so just enough time for you to get your head in the game and do some work tonight. Who’s gonna get laid tonight? Huh? I couldn’t hear you. I asked, who’s gonna get laid TONIGHT?? YEAH? YOU, THAT’S RIGHT GETSOMEHUH!
Woah, chill bro, chill. It’s not party o’clock yet, you got plenty of time to unleash the fury. Let’s just get us a brewski, down that shit in one, get another, down that shit in one, and then down the third with some super chill Mario Kart. Good plan, let’s do this.
(Cracks beer, begins chugging.)
*Choke* Okay, down in two is good, happens to the best of bros.
(Drinks.)
*Cough* Down in three, close enough. Alright, where my bros at? Let’s get some beerio kart going already!
Shit wait I should probably shower after lacrosse practice, I reek. Unless...do the ladies like it when I reek? I mean that girl from last weekend, what was her name? Tina? Tiffany? Alexis? Whatever, blondie seemed to like my sweaty sleeveless jersey and flatbrim cap last time, maybe the reek plays. Yeah, totally plays. Know what, I should probably go lift before I head out, just get that extra swoll’ and sweaty sheen before hitting DeWolfe.
Pep talk time, bro. Just remember, you’re awesome. You can’t really dance, but you can fist pump like a boss. You can throw a ping pong ball into a cup from halfway across the room, and you know from Stat 104 that, statistically speaking, the more you do that the more likely it is that some biddie’s gonna be impressed by that some day. Like, guaranteed. You know all the lyrics to “Red Solo Cup” and “Feel So Close.” Girls want you, and nobody knows you haven’t gotten laid since high school, so every night’s a fresh start. You’re the man, my dude, and nobody can tell you that the extra round of shots is a bad idea. Or keg stands. Those are sick too. Chyeah.
Wait, damn, did I call mom back? Okay, new plan, call mom, THEN rage. GET SOME. Peace out.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Andrew Ferreira, who is currently playing in the Minnesota Twins organization after being drafted this summer, had more on his plate last season than just being a sophomore captain of the Harvard baseball team.
After missing a season with an arm injury, the pitcher bounced back well, beginning his year as the designated hitter for the Crimson. The human evolutionary biology concentrator had three strikeouts in Harvard’s victory over Yale this past spring, but the real highlight of Ferreira’s 2012 season has got to be his famous starring role in a music video. If anything could launch a career, “Call Me Maybe” is it. Honestly, who can forget those dance moves?
But even with all the other boys trying to chase him, Ferreira was able to hit a home run with main squeeze Kassy Shiotani, who also has her own spot on the diamond as a senior on the Crimson’s softball team. And if Shiotani isn’t enough of a connection to Harvard athletics, Andrew can just look to home plate to find his younger brother Ethan. Continuing the series, “For Love or the Game”, we asked Andrew some quick questions, and then quizzed Kassy and Ethan on what they thought were the correct answers. But now we have to ask who really knows this pitcher turned youtube phenom better?
Andrew Ferreira, Baseball captain
Favorite Athlete: Tom Brady
Pre-game jam: Eminem
Secret talent: Can eat a lot
Favorite TV Show: Person of Interest
Favorite late-night food: Blue Bunny Big Bopper
Superpower of choice: Super strength
Kassy Shiotani, senior Softball player
Favorite athlete: Ethan! He is so supportive of his brother! (2, points for the emotional effect)
Pre-game jam: Cinderella Man or anything else by Eminem (10)
Secret talent: Dancing... I'm hoping he's still keeping that talent a secret from me and will surprise me one day. That, or holding 7 baseballs in one hand. (0)
Favorite TV show: This week? Revenge (0)
Favorite late-night food: Everything from Tommy’s, especially the Big Bopper Blue Bunny ice creams (10)
Superpower of choice: Well since he tells me he's already the strongest man in the world, the ability to heal people so they live forever. (5, points for acknowledging strength and adding a charming ending)
Total: 27/60 - A fair showing by Shiotani. Will her touching answers and knowledge of convenient store grub be enough to hold off Ethan?
Ethan Ferreira, sophomore Baseball player
Favorite Athlete: Tom Brady (10)
Pre-game Jam: Live Like You're Dying by Tim McGraw (0)
Secret Talent: can hold 7 baseballs in one hand (0)
Favorite TV Show: 24 (0)
Favorite late-night food: cookies and milk (0)
Superpower of choice: Throw 200 mph (0.. though this would take super
strength..)
Total: 10/60 - Barely avoiding a strikeout, it seems that Shiotani was too much for Ethan! Even if Andrew did just meet her and think it was crazy, his gf was able to beat out family in this edition of “For Love or the Game”.
Thanks for playing, guys! If you have any suggestions for other couples/friends/teammates to play “For Love or the Game” leave them below in the comments section!
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Sept. 20
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Andrew Ferreira was heading into his junior season and is the captain of the Harvard baseball team. In fact, Ferreira left the College to play baseball professionally for the Minnesota Twins organization.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In this weekend’s New England Challenge, the Harvard women’s volleyball team dropped each of its three matches in straight sets.
“We had a lot of good moments throughout the weekend, but we just weren’t able to maintain that,” senior setter Beth Kinsella said. “We’d get on a short run, and then the other team would catch up, and then we’d lose control of the game.”
More bad news came when junior middle blocker Teresa Skelly sprained her ankle against Northeastern on Saturday, forcing freshman middle blocker Caroline Holte to step up for the Crimson. But since there was no fracture, Skelly will likely not be sidelined for an extended period.
BOSTON COLLEGE 3, HARVARD 0
Against Boston College (7-6, 1-0 ACC), Harvard (2-7) had a 9-7 lead in the first set, but the Eagles responded with five straight points and never relinquished the lead to win the first set, 25-18, at Northeastern’s Solomon Court.
In the second frame, a service error by Boston College tied the set at 18-18, but the Eagles finished on a 7-1 run to win the set, 25-19.
The first half of the third set was also back-and-forth, with the Crimson holding a 10-9 lead. But Boston College went on a 7-0 run and went on to win the frame, 25-17.
“One of the problems that we’ve been trying to hash out sort of in team discussions is why it is that we hold together with teams and then…we don’t have the strength to fight back after they get one run,” said captain and outside hitter Taylor Docter. “But I think that everybody’s aware of what needs to be fixed, and now it’s just a matter of putting in the work and the sacrifice to do it this week.”
Freshman outside hitter Kathleen Wallace and junior right side Erin Cooney each had eight kills for Harvard, and freshman setter Hannah Schmidt led the team with 10 digs.
NORTHEASTERN 3, HARVARD 0
Earlier on Saturday morning at the Solomon Court, the Crimson was swept by Northeastern, 25-17, 25-21, 25-17.
The Huskies (11-3) started to build a large lead around the halfway point of the first set and won it easily, 25-17.
In the second, Northeastern had a 6-5 lead but then went on an 11-2 run to take control of the set.
Harvard fought back and cut the lead to one at 21-20 off of an attack error from Northeastern, but still ended up losing the set, 25-21.
Northeastern had a comfortable lead for most of the third set and was able to close out the match with a 25-17 third set victory.
Wallace led the team with seven kills, while Docter had seven digs for the Crimson. Kinsella finished with 16 assists.
According to Docter, there were many things that went wrong this weekend, and Harvard just couldn’t make things work.
“[The matches] were all relatively similar; it was just honestly a really off weekend for us, and I think there’s a lot of things that we talked about that we need to work on in practice,” Docter said. “So many little things were just not being executed the way that they should that the whole system just kind of fell apart.”
UCONN 3, HARVARD 0
After a thrilling first-set loss to UConn (8-6) in its first game of the New England Challenge, the Crimson could not recover, falling, 3-0, on Friday evening in Storrs, Conn.
In the first set, a block by Cooney tied the score at 25-25 before Connecticut’s senior outside hitter Mattison Quayle earned two straight kills to take the set for Connecticut, 27-25.
After the back-and-forth first set, Harvard couldn’t keep pace with the Huskies in the second and third frames.
The Crimson never had the lead in either of the last two sets and ended up falling, 27-25, 25-17, 25-10.
Docter had 12 kills and 10 digs for Harvard, and Kinsella had 14 assists.
Despite the three losses, the Crimson plans to use these games as learning experiences as it prepares for Ivy League play.
“[These teams] are comparable to some of the teams that we’re gonna be playing in the Ivy League,” Kinsella said. “We obviously lost all three, but we just had a good discussion with our team about learning from the losses and those intangible things that we’re going to work on in practice this week to prepare for Ivy League play next weekend.”
Harvard is back in action on Tuesday night in its last tune-up at New Hampshire before conference play begins on Friday night at Dartmouth.
—Staff writer Denny Purcell can be reached at dpurcell@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The University of San Diego came into Harvard Stadium and dominated the time of possession battle, gaining 354 yards through the air in the process. The Toreros also earned more first downs and benefited from 119 yards worth of Crimson penalties.
But despite all of that, an experienced Harvard football team, led by senior running back Treavor Scales, did enough to win its season opener, 28-13.
On its first possession of the game, San Diego showed its offensive firepower. Quarterback Mason Mills took apart the Crimson defense with a blur of quick passes, leading his team on a nine-minute, 19-play drive. But the push stalled within the Harvard five-yard line, and the visitors were forced to settle for a field goal.
Throughout the game, the Toreros leaned on the passing attack, handing the ball off only 10 times, and the Crimson surrendered 350 passing yards for the first time since 2003. San Diego’s leading receiver, Brandon White, tallied 135 yards on 12 receptions in the air show.
As the game went on, the Harvard defense did stiffen up, finishing the day with one interception and seven sacks, including two each by sophomore Zach Hodges and fifth-year senior John Lyon.
While the Toreros came out firing in their third contest of the year, the Crimson’s first drive of the year stalled near midfield.
On its next drive, Harvard took advantage of great field position when senior Colton Chapple connected with a wide-open junior Cam Brate for a 29-yard touchdown pass to give the Crimson a 7-3 lead.
That 49-yard drive turned out to be Harvard’s longest of the first half as neither team was able to get more than one first down on a drive during the rest of the second quarter.
Chapple was inconsistent on the day, finishing with 209 yards, two touchdowns, and a red-zone interception on 16-for-29 passing. After the game, Harvard coach Tim Murphy said he wasn’t concerned with Chapple’s performance, which included a number of overthrown passes.
“I’m not worried about Colton,” Murphy said. “He’s a kid that finds a way to get it done.... He didn’t have a great game, but he did a good job engineering what we needed to do today to get a victory. He can throw the football; he’s proven that.”
San Diego came out to start the second half like it started the game, driving deep into Crimson territory before hitting a wall and settling for three points.
The Toreros finally broke through on their next drive when wide recevier Logan Smith grabbed a tipped ball in the end zone to help the visitors open up a 13-7 lead.
On the ensuing kickoff, it appeared that sophomore Seitu Smith II had put Harvard back in the lead with a 99-yard return for a touchdown, but a holding penalty negated the play.
The call was one of a number of special teams penalties on the day. In total, the Crimson committed eight penalties for 119 yards. In this case, the penalty forced the offense to go 94 yards to score.
Thanks to two long runs by Scales and two costly USD penalties that extended Harvard’s possession, the home team did just that. Chapple capped the drive with a quick pass to senior tight end Kyle Juszczyk, who broke a tackle and galloped into the end zone from eight yards out.
The Toreros were unable to mount a comeback as Scales scored two fourth-quarter touchdowns to give the Crimson 21 fourth-quarter points and a 28-13 win.
The second of those two touchdowns was a career-long 66-yard run set up by strong blocking as the running back went untouched into the end zone to seal the victory.
“When it opens up like that, you got to take advantage of the opportunity,” Scales said of the run. “As long as we keep that attack mode on offense, we are going to be successful.”
Scales finished the day with a career-high 173 yards rushing to go with two touchdowns. The senior also set a career-high in yards per rush, averaging 9.1 yards on each of his 19 carries.
The win was Harvard’s 12th straight in home openers.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacobfeldman@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard never had a shot, literally and figuratively, as the Crimson men’s soccer team fell at home to UConn, 6-0, on Friday.
Harvard was unable to register a shot on goal as the Huskies dominated every facet of the game from start to finish.
“It was just the perfect storm out there,” Crimson coach Carl Junot said. “We were that bad, and they were that good.”
Leading the way for the No. 4/3 Huskies (5-0-1) was junior forward Mamadou Doudou Diouf. Diouf routinely blew past the helpless Harvard (1-3-1) defenders on penetrating runs, registering two goals, an assist, and a free kick that resulted in another goal.
Diouf got the scoring started just four and a half minutes into regulation off a thwarted Crimson attack and a strong counter by the opportunistic UConn midfield. Midfielder Carlos Alvarez delivered a perfect ball through the air that Diouf calmly collected with his chest at the top of the box. The junior then fired a shot into the lower left corner past a diving Evan Mendez, the Crimson’s freshman goalkeeper, and into the back of the net.
Harvard tried to respond and had an opportunity just three minutes later. Junior Ross Friedman, who made his season debut on Friday, launched a throw-in from the right side of the field all the way across the net. Huskies goalie Michael Mercado misjudged his jump, and the ball trickled out in front of an open goal.
But a UConn defender got to it before the Crimson could and cleared his line. That was the closest Harvard came to scoring all afternoon.
At the 10:53 mark, Diouf was at it again, this time capitalizing on a defensive error by Friedman. Diouf stole the ball at the top of the box and once again beat Mendez, doubling UConn’s lead.
“From the start, we didn’t come out well, giving up those two easy goals,” co-captain Scott Prozeller said. “From there, we kind of lost our handle on the game. We had to press them a little bit, and that played right into their strategy.”
UConn’s Stephane Diop got in on the action in the 23rd minute. After a set-piece broke down, Diop found himself with the ball at the left corner of the 18-yard box and almost the entire Harvard defense between him and the net. Diop calmly collected himself and curled a beautiful shot around the defense and into the top opposite corner.
“I feel like we kind of spotted them those three goals in the first half,” Junot said. “I thought we could come out in the second half and respond, but that obviously didn’t happen.”
The rest of the first half was of little consequence as the Crimson hunkered down on defense, allowing the Huskies to control possession without many opportunities on goal.
That all changed when the teams came out for the second period. It took all of 24 seconds for UConn to find the back of the net.
Just three passes after he started things off with the kickoff, Alvarez was breaking down the middle as the Harvard defense struggled to catch up to him. Returning the favor, Diouf delivered a pin-point through ball that Alvarez buried in the back of the net to put the game well out of reach at 4-0.
“I think it’s certainly a humbling moment,” Prozeller said. “We’re gonna take what we can from this and move forward.”
The Crimson showed signs of some offensive rhythm for a period, controlling the ball and making progress down the field. But it was all for naught as Diouf once again disrupted Harvard’s plans in the 58th minute.
Darting down the field, Diouf was tackled by Friedman, earning a yellow card and a free kick from just outside the box. Junior Kyle Henderson argued both the call and the spot, receiving a yellow card of his own from referee Erich Simmons.
Stepping up to take the free kick, defender Max Wasserman curved his shot over the wall, past Mendez, and into the top left corner to make the score 5-0.
Both the Huskies and the Crimson seemed to acknowledge the game was over, taking out starters and letting substitutes play out the rest of the half. That was not enough to stop substitute Allando Matheson from leaving his mark on the game, adding insult to injury with UConn’s sixth goal of the game with just two minutes left.
As the fans filed out of Ohiri Field, Junot reflected on what was the worst loss for Harvard in recent memory.
“There was not a single outstanding performance from anyone on our side today,” Junot said. “It’s going to require a regrouping and rethinking from everyone. The coaches and the players all need to work harder to make sure this kind of thing never happens again.”
—Staff writer Alexander Koenig can be reached at akoenig@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Less than seven minutes into the game, it seemed as if the Harvard women’s soccer team could keep close to No. 5/12 Boston College after junior Elizabeth Weisman scored and tied the game, 1-1.
But the Eagles offense proved too strong and the Crimson fell, 8-1, Saturday night at Soldiers Field Soccer/Lacrosse Stadium in its second home loss.
“Going into this game, we knew that we were facing a great team,” said junior co-captain and midfielder Peyton Johnson.
Boston College (7-0-2) scored the first goal of the game when senior Kristen Mewis received a pass from Lauren Bernard, faked, then maneuvered the ball past sophomore goalkeeper Bethany Kanten to give the visitors the lead just 4:39 into the contest.
Less than two minutes later, the Crimson (3-2-1) struck back with a goal of its own. Senior midfielder Aisha Price unleashed a huge throw-in to the far post, and junior forward Elizabeth Weisman one-timed the ball into the back of the net to even the contest at one apiece.
“As the ball was passed in, I could only think of how Aisha Price threw the ball so far to the back post—what an amazing throw,” Weisman said. “The goal felt great, but straight after, I began to focus on the next five minutes of the game. [In] those five minutes, [it is] very important that everyone is focused [on] the game, not just the goal.”
“The goal was a great moment for the team, and it made us very optimistic,” Johnson added. “Against such a tough team, this was a great chance and really exciting.”
Though Harvard had many more scoring opportunities—15 in total—Weisman’s goal was the team’s only score in the contest. And seven minutes after Weisman tied to score, the Eagles retook the lead off another goal from Mewis. By the end of the half, the visitors had opened up an insurmountable 5-1 advantage.
On the defensive end, Kanten played the entire first half, tallying four saves.
As the game progressed and slipped further from the team’s grasp, the Crimson pulled many of its starters, including Kanten, to give substitutes playing time. Sophomore Cheta Emba and later senior Alexandra Millet replaced Kanten in goal, and Harvard switched up its offense as well, giving many of the Crimson’s freshmen playing time.
“The playing time for the freshmen was great for lots of people,” Johnson said. “They got the chance to feel the pressure of a game on the field and to feel what it is like to really compete. This’ll be very helpful later in the season because now they will know what to do when they are thrust into more stressful situations such as the Ivies.”
After giving up five goals in the first half, Harvard allowed three more in the second frame.
Mewis led the scoring for the Eagles, earning a hat trick in just under 48 minutes.
Following the rout, the Crimson viewed the contest as a learning experience.
“We were upset about how the game ended, but in the second half we weren’t worried about the score,” Weisman said. “We were worried about our type of soccer and focused on getting better. We realize what went down, and we have to come back from this rough start and stay mentally tough during our next games.”
Johnson agreed with her teammate, stressing the Eagles’ array of skills.
“Playing against a team like Boston College is beneficial because if we make mistakes, they are going to expose them. We will look at the video of the game and see where we need to improve,” Johnson agreed. “We are lucky to have things like that because now we can see what works for us and get fired to prepare for and start Ivy play.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a tightly contested matchup between archrivals, the Harvard field hockey team forced overtime with a late goal, but ultimately fell to Yale, 2-1, Saturday at Jordan Field.
The final stat sheet illustrated just how little separated the two teams; both finished with exactly 15 shots and 13 penalty corners.
“We definitely had some opportunities,” coach Tjerk van Herwaarden said. “One of them would have to have gone in early to make the game different, but that didn’t happen, so we just had to push through.”
The lack of early finishing proved costly for the Crimson, as the late comeback effort seemed to drain the team’s energy heading into overtime. Harvard was unable to muster significant offensive pressure in the extra period, and the team’s opponents took full advantage.
“I felt that there was a little bit of a heavy chain behind their legs holding them back,” van Herwaarden said. “This team can be very good if they just release and just play, and I felt that there was a little bit of a block on them.”
The Crimson started the game brightly, winning two penalty corners in the first five minutes. Both teams were inches from getting on the scoreboard early in the first half, as Harvard goalkeeper Cynthia Tassopoulos denied the Bulldogs’ Dinah Landshut from what looked to be an easy tap-in off of a rebound with a full-extension, sprawling save. The Crimson followed with a near miss of its own a few minutes later, as junior forward Bridget McGillivray dribbled herself into space on the left side of the circle and lashed a backhand sharply off of the crossbar.
Yale tallied the first goal of the game off of a penalty corner with just over ten minutes to go in the first half. After the first shot was blocked, the ball got deep into the Harvard circle, sparking a mad scramble in front of net. A rebound squirted out to the Bulldogs’ Mary Beth Barham, who pushed it under Tassopoulos to open the scoring.
Despite some promising stretches of offensive pressure, the Crimson was unable to threaten Yale’s cage until van Herwaarden adjusted the team’s structure following a timeout with eight minutes to play in the second half. The first-year coach opted to keep only three defenders back, adding an extra player to support the attack.
The move paid dividends just four minutes later. McGillivray won a penalty corner off the foot of a Bulldogs defender, and the ensuing move was finished off with a deflection into the top of the cage from sophomore Noel Painter, tying the game up and forcing the extra session.
In overtime, Yale looked the more dangerous team, winning four penalty corners to Harvard’s zero. It was the visitors’ final penalty corner that proved the difference in the game. Barham recovered her own rebound after her initial shot was blocked and swept it low into the bottom-left corner past Tassopoulos for her second goal of the day, setting off a celebration among her teammates and leaving the Crimson standing still in dejection.
“We had great practices this week,” co-captain Kim Goh said. “Obviously, there’s a lot more that goes into it; being our first Ivy [game], it’s a lot more mental. We did a lot of mental prep, and it got us to overtime, but it didn’t get us the win.”
Though Harvard managed to create quality scoring chances periodically throughout the game, the team continues to struggle with putting the ball in the back of the cage. Painter’s late goal was just the team’s third in five games this season, and the first since Sept. 3 against Sacred Heart. Goh was not overly concerned with the dearth of offensive production, believing that it’s mostly a matter of the bounces starting to go the Crimson’s way.
“The thing about field hockey is that you get it to the circle maybe fifty times, and one time you get a goal,” Goh said. “Staying positive is key, but it’s not necessarily that difficult as long as you put the work into it. A lot of it comes from communication and cheering on your teammates as they go.”
Staying positive might be more difficult following a deflating loss to a rival, but van Herwaarden stressed that the result won’t take his mind off of the bigger picture of strengthening the program.
“We’re just building, and it’s going to take time,” van Herwaarden said. “I don’t think we have too much time to focus on individual opponents. It’s more looking at us. We want to get better in the game that we are playing.”
—Staff writer Andrew R. Mooney can be reached at mooney@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
1. Only in Taiwan: Jeremy Lin '10 dressed up as Hello Kitty in order to exit his hotel undetected. He then made a video that has since gone viral, featuring some courtside action from the Linster himself.
2. Barack Obama's speech at the DNC inspired voters, but it was Michelle Obama who set the campaign trail ablaze. Her sincere account of her own family's struggles invigorated an otherwise lifeless reelection effort.
3. After nine years of marriage, the comedy power couple Will Arnett and Amy Poehler is splitting up. Every "Arrested Development" fan can agree that they've made a huge mistake.
4. You might want to revisit your definition of aphrodisiac. Ben & Jerry's is suing a California porn company for releasing a series of DVDs that lampoon the ice cream company's signature flavors. Less salacious titles include "Boston Cream Thigh" and "Chocolate Fudge Babes."
5. In other legal news, one of James Franco's former professors at NYU is suing the actor for defamation. Franco, who attended two out of 14 lectures, allegedly tarnished the man’s reputation by making “disparaging and inaccurate public statements" after receiving a "D" in his film course.
6. As if Apple didn't already rule the world, the company recently announced plans to launch an Internet radio program similar to Pandora and last.fm. The service will give unrestricted access to users, freeing them from pesky hourly limits on play counts.
7. It's official: no one can perform publicity stunts quite like Vladimir Putin. Along with a group of scientists, Putin will mount a motorized glider and help a flock of endangered Siberian cranes migrate to northern Russia.
8. Remember the days when the MTV Video Music Awards were actually about music videos? Neither do we. Nicki Minaj, Ke$ha, and Miley Cyrus (channeling a mutant hybrid of Robyn and "There's Something About Mary") threw the ceremony even more out of focus with their outlandish outfits.
9. Power to the states. In what could be a landmark initiative in favor of same-sex marriage, New York, Connecticut, and Vermont are taking on the feds. The three states argue that, despite the Defense of Marriage Act, the U.S. government has no jurisdiction to reverse same-sex marriages conducted within their borders.
10. Someone with way too much time has done humanity a great good. Courtesy of YouTube, the entire cast of Mad Men can now serenade you "Never Gonna Give You Up" at a moment’s notice.
Sections
In a shocking turn of events on last Friday's episode of "America's Next Top Model: College Edition," Harvard Divinity School alum Maria B. Tucker voluntarily removed herself from the running towards becoming America's next top model. The New Mexico native had made it past the first two rounds of judging, but started questioning her passion for fashion when faced with the potentially life-altering decision to cut her long locks during last week's makeover episode.
The last straw came when she was asked to pose nude with judge and male model Rob Evans for one of the photoshoots. After declining the shoot, she packed her bags and returned home. 
In a performance that we hope isn't now considered representative of the University, on the show Tucker became the Harvard girl who everyone hated. In honor of Harvard and pretty girls with bad personalities, here are the best Harvard and Tucker quotes from "Top Model."
"I guess when you are this smart people don't expect you to turn into a model. They think that's a waste of your intelligence." –Tucker
"I'm really bad at [chess]" –Tucker
"You go to Harvard!" –ANTM contestant Kristen
"But I'm bad at chess." –Tucker
"I'm the only one from Harvard. I'm the only one from an Ivy. I think people need to remember I have a little more maturity." –Tucker
"Maria seems like she's a smart girl, but just by the way she's acting, it's almost an embarrassment to Harvard." –ANTM contestant Destiny
[In response to Tucker's decision not to get a makeover] "She said hell no? This girl's from Harvard. How stupid could be right now?" –ANTM contestant Allyssa
"You're really committed to defending mediocrity." –ANTM judge Kelly Cutrone, to Tucker
[In response to Cutrone's comments about the makeover] "She's a c***" –Tucker
"Are you just, like, really stupid?" –Destiny to Tucker
"Maria finally went home. Thank God." –Kristen
Yikes!
