News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Chase E. Morrin ’15 and Kevin Sun ’14 will be recognized for musical excellence by the Yamaha Young Performing Artists Program, which selected accomplished musicians between the ages of 16 to 21 to take part in a concert this weekend at Ball State University in Muncie, Ind.
The national competition chose eight winners from the hundreds who applied, according to John Wittmann, Yamaha’s band and orchestral division’s manager of education and artist relations.
The eight will be flown to Indiana this weekend as part of an all-expenses-paid trip, where they will be honored with a ceremony and will participate in workshops designed to further their music careers.
“This is designed to launch the careers of young players who are gifted,” Wittmann said.
Morrin is a jazz pianist. He was judged by Mike Garson, a musician in the same field who has worked with David Bowie. Sun, who is also a Crimson magazine editor, plays tenor saxophone. His judge was Jeff Coffin, a member of the Dave Matthews Band.
“We had more jazz winners this year than we’ve ever had,” Wittmann said. “Usually we only have one.”
Though Morrin and Sun applied separately, the two have regularly practiced and performed together.
“The thing with jazz is that it’s really a social activity,” Morrin said.  “It’s about meeting people, it’s about playing with other people, and it’s about connecting and exchanging ideas.”
Sun said that he and Morrin have also collaborated with Josh Shpak, a jazz trumpeter who attends Berklee College of Music and was also recognized by Yamaha.
“I don’t think any of us knew we were applying, and then we all won,” Sun said.  “Funny how things turn out.”
Sun plans to blog about the experience of attending the symposium. Both he and Morrin said they intend to continue to pursue music professionally.
“Music is a beautiful thing,” Morrin said.  “None of us really know what we’re doing, but we’re trying to explore, and we will be for the rest of our lives.”
—Staff writer Maya S. Jonas-Silver can be reached at mayajonas-silver@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Petey E. Menz can be reached at menz@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Every week, The Crimson publishes a selection of articles that were printed in our pages in years past.
June 18, 1914: Class of 1864 Holds Reunion
The 50th anniversary of their graduation has brought back to the reunion in Phillips Brooks House today nearly all of the 36 living members of the Class of 1864.
There were 99 men in '64 who completed their four years and 44 who were associated with the class for a part of that time. The large number of men who did not graduate is accounted for by the fact that many of them went to war. Forty-one members of the class, either graduate or associate, took part in the Rebellion—35 in the Union Army and six in the Confederate Army. Of the 99 graduates, almost every one took a further degree than the A.B., and more than a third studied medicine or law.
June 21, 1937: Commencement Is 286th, Not 301st, As Might Be Thought
As Harvard is in its 301st year, one might assume that the coming Commencement would be the 301st, but such is not the fact.
The first Commencement was in 1642. No Commencement was held in 1644, and, owing to war, pestilence, disorder, and other causes, three were none in 1752, 1757, 1764, or from 1774 to 1780, inclusive. Since 1781 there has been one every year. Apparently, therefore, the 1937 exercises are the 286th.
June 20, 1950: College's Graduates Low in Birth Derby
There is one field in which the College's graduates are not leaders. In fact, they don't even come close. According to a recent survey by the Population Reference Bureau in Washington, the College's alumni have an average of only 1.13 children apiece. That makes the College 11th in a field of 16 schools surveyed in New England.
June 17, 1971: How (Not) To Build a Science Center
It's a testament to the past, a monument to the future. As for the present, well, it's a mess.
The Undergraduate Science Center, that rising mass of prefab concrete just north of the Yard, is due to be completed in September 1972. But it is presently uncertain what, if anything, will be inside it once it opens. For the original plans to use the Center for multidisciplinary general science undergraduate education have been sacrificed in a haze of financial and political confusion. The director of the Center has resigned, effective the end of this month, while a special task force set up to advise Dean Dunlop is weighing pressures from various departmental interests and preparing to recommend ways to improve use of the Center.
—Compiled by Julie M. Zauzmer
Sections
It's 1:30 in the morning, and you're hungry. But where do you go? It is a divisive debate among the Harvard student body, and loyalties to the Square's late-night stops run deep. Over an 11 day period, The Crimson will debate 11 popular choices around campus. Now up (in poetic form): IHOP.
It was a snowy, frigid night,And all through the SquareThe undergrads were sleeping,Their snores filled the air.
But three blockmates, awake?Half past two in the morning.Their stomachs were grumbling,Where to get the food they were yearning?
The Kong and Felipe’sWere probably closed,The Market or CVS?They would freeze their toes!
"We just need a placeTo finish psets in peace!""I refuse to put onPants not made of fleece."
The last blockmate yawnedHe'd been up since dawn"I want to sit at a tableAnd be waited upon."
And so the challenge was onThe terms were set.But the three Harvard sophomoresHad not found a place yet.
Then through the exhaustion,A glimmer of genius,"I know what to do!IHOP will feed us!"
It's perfect, they thoughtWelcoming and warm.Open ‘til fourAnd right near our dorm.
So they put on their parkasThey strolled out the doorThey faced down the snowOf the cold, harsh world.
IHOP's glow in the distance:Like Gatsby's green light.A beacon of hope;Soon all would be right.
They stumbled through the door,"A table for three!"In a matter of moments,Their food they could see.
Eggs and hash brownsPiled high on the plateSteaming warm pancakesOh goodness, how great.
The tired three students,Now warm and sated,Started in on their homework,Which ‘til then had waited.
The only interruptionWas to refill their drinks("It's bottomless?!" you inquire,"Of course!" one winks.)
Until four a.m. comes,For all good things must end,The students pay up,("That's it?" they commend.)
Indeed, a cheap mealBut of grade undeniableThey received that morningAt the sole locale viable.
And they rolled into bedIn their House near the townTheir stomachs were fullOf food which will be crowned
The best in all the landWhen hungry at night,IHOP above all else.Others can't put up a fight.
 
