News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Rounding out Harvard’s representatives at the 2012 London Olympics are two rowers from the dominant Crimson heavyweight boat of the mid-2000s.
Malcolm Howard ’05 and Brodie Buckland ’06 will represent Canada and Australia, respectively, as they try to recapture the success of their undefeated Harvard years. Howard returns to the defending Gold-Medal winning Canadian eight while Buckland makes his Olympic debut in the pair.
“Malcolm has one of the most distinguished records of any oarsmen that we’ve had over the years,” Crimson heavyweight coach Harry Parker said. “And Brodie was a terrific guy that we were lucky to get. I’m very excited to see how they do.”
From 2003 to 2005 the Harvard heavyweights won three-consecutive IRA National Championships, going undefeated in the process. Howard was in the boat for all of them and Buckland, after coming in second to the Crimson while rowing for Washington in 2004, joined him in 2005 by transferring to Harvard.
Though they rowed on the same boat in 2005 and will be rowing within two hours of each other in the first heats of their respective competitions on Saturday, the paths the two took to get where they are could hardly be more different.
Howard, a prodigious talent, has achieved sustained success at every level of competitive rowing. His first year at Harvard his freshman boat won Eastern Sprints. After transitioning to the 1V, Howard never lost a race to an opposing collegiate crew. Three years after graduation Howard continued his success standing at the top of the podium with his Canadian teammates in Beijing. In 2010, the 1V boat that the Crimson currently race in was christened “The Malcolm Howard.” He’s generally considered one of the strongest and most powerful rowers in the world, a veritable rowing machine.
Buckland, born in Colorado and raised in Olympia, Wa., spent his first two years rowing for the Huskies. Washington finished second to the Crimson at Nationals in back-to-back years after which Buckland transferred to Harvard. After winning a championship his junior year and coming in fourth as a senior, Buckland began graduate studies at Oxford University, competing in the only inter-collegiate athletic competition older than the Harvard-Yale Regatta, “The Boat Race” between Oxford and Cambridge.
In 2007 Buckland was on the move again, coming fourth in the eight with the United States at the World Championships, before losing his seat on the boat in advance of the 2008 games. Now pursuing a law degree from the Australian National University, Buckland has switched his allegiance to team up with Beijing silver medalist James Marburg in the pair. After getting his Australian citizenship in February, Buckland was all set to get another shot a championship.
“Brodie has written (to us) a lot,” Harvard freshman coach Linda Muri said. “He’s given us a lot of credit for the coaching they got here and the time they spent at Harvard. He seems to have really appreciated the opportunities here to row with some of the best in the world while also receiving an incredible education. There’s been nothing but gratitude from him and I’m very pleased with his success.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A singer, an actor, a tennis player, a model, and a leader, Temi Fagbenle ’15 is also a game-changer on the basketball court. Since picking up the game just five short years ago, Fagbenle has already helped alter the culture of three basketball programs.
When she takes the court as a starter and the youngest player on Great Britain’s national team, she will attempt to take the once-floundering team to new heights.
GROWING TO THE HOOP (GAME?)
A daughter of Nigerian parents, Fagbenle grew up in a busy household. For a time, her sport was not basketball but tennis, as she dreamed of growing up to be the next Venus Williams. But by 14, Temi had transitioned from the hard court to the hardwood.
“One day after tennis practice, my dad and I had a talk and it was decided that I would stop playing competitive tennis and start up basketball,” Fagbenle recalled.
The pair decided that basketball would help Fagbenle achieve her academic goals. Fagbenle has admitted that she didn’t love the game at first but it has since grown on her.
Though Fagbenle picked the game up late, her athletic ability and tall frame helped her excel quickly. To improve, Fagbenle left her large family in England to attend Blair Academy in New Jersey for high school.
Blair has a rich men’s basketball history, but only fielded a competitive women’s team, not championship-caliber, at the time of Fagbenle’s arrival. That would change quickly.
“The program has really just taken fire largely because of Temi,” Blair women’s basketball coach Quint Clarke said. “We may never have a player as good as she is.”
Clarke worked with Fagbenle to develop the inexperienced but athletic player.
“You could tell right away that she was very talented but a little raw,” Clarke said. “She was such a hard worker that her game really took off when she committed herself to it.”
Rather than just allow Fagbenle to use her size to dominate, Clarke pushed her to develop other skills necessary to succeed against the best of the best.
“When we first saw her, we said, ‘She’s 6’4”, she’s bigger than most high school players,’ but we didn’t want to limit who she was,” Clarke said. “She was big enough to succeed down low in high school, but as she proceeds in college and professionally, she needed to do more. We didn’t want her to be a center, so we worked her a lot on her ball handling, moves on the perimeter, in developing all kinds of different skills to make her as hard to guard as possible.”
Clarke and co. succeeded in making Fagbenle a nightmare for the competition.
By her senior year, Fagbenle was averaging 16.6 points and 9.3 rebounds, tallying 13 double-doubles while leading her team to the New Jersey Prep A title. For her efforts, Fagbenle was named a McDonald’s All-American and was ranked as one of the top prospects in her class.
EXCELLING OFF THE COURT
While Fagbenle was developing on the court early on at Blair, she was also forced to mature off of it.
“When she came in, she was scared,” Clarke said. “She was a homesick 15-year-old. It was not easy for her….It’s very rural out here, it’s not like London. You are black in a school that’s mostly white people, you are speaking different…I think she was forced to grow up faster than most 15-year-olds.”
After struggling to adjust to life in New Jersey at first, Fagbenle decided to add an extra year of schooling after junior year so as to bolster her academic record in hopes of attending a top-tier college like she planned when leaving her family a few years earlier.
Eventually Fagbenle adjusted to her new environment and began making a large impact beyond the basketball court.
Following in the footsteps of her family, Fagbenle spent her free time displaying her theatrical abilities at Blair.
“Theater Director Craig Evans came to me and said she could be a professional,” Clarke said. “She’s really good.”
Other members of Fagbenle’s large immediate family have done just that. Her brother Dapo works with music videos now after competing as a college basketball player.  His older brother O.T. is a professional theater, film, and television actor and another brother is a music producer
Athletically, Fagbenle continued playing tennis and running track, excelling at both. On the track, Fagbenle won state titles in high jump, javelin, discus and shot.
Fagbenle also served her school as an elected member of the eight-person senior class council that helps run the school.
“At first, she was viewed as a basketball player because of her height,” Hardwick said. “That said, within very short order, Temi was perceived primarily for her leadership and her impact on the community generally.”
FULFILLING A DREAM
By her senior fall, Fagbenle had developed into a socially comfortable leader on and off the court and was being pursued by just about every major basketball program in the country.
After team workouts, the men’s and women’s teams would scrimmage against each other so that Fagbenle and her teammates could face stiff competition. Those games became widely attended by scouts from both men’s and women’s college programs.
By the time the season began, the interest in Fagbenle was hard to ignore.
“We had so many colleges here,” Clarke said. “There was so much buzz about her. She is an unbelievably talented player.”
The administration attempted to shield Fagbenle from as much of the process as possible and she showed her newfound maturity during the stressful time. Despite serious offers from top programs, Fagbenle had her mind set on one school: Harvard.
“She wanted to be a great basketball player but she also understood basketball was a vehicle that was going to open a lot of doors,” Clarke said. “She is interested in being a successful person in a wide variety of areas. The reason she chose Blair was that she felt we had a chance to help her basketball wise, academic wise and otherwise to get her to Harvard to open more doors.”
“It was definitely hard to turn down other top schools like Duke because they seemed to offer the best of both worlds,” Fagbenle said. “But once I received my letter of admission from Harvard, I knew where I had to be.”
Fagbenle’s impact on the program continues to this day as she is given some credit for Blair’s 2012 state championship.
“The girls who came and saw her play and that got to talk to her afterwards came here,” Blair headmaster Chan Hardwick said. “The reason [this year’s team] was very good was because Temi set a standard for excellence that got people to come to the school. She’s the best recruiting tool – a happy and successful player.”
A SUSPENDED HOPE
Before the beginning of the 2011-2012 season, Harvard women’s basketball coach Kathy Delaney-Smith discussed how important Fagbenle was going to be for the Crimson program.
“Temi is an impact player flat out,” Delaney-Smith said. “Temi can step on the floor and impact the game immediately. She’s probably in the top five of any college player I’ve ever coached right now. We have a whole system we’re using because she’s at the core of it.”
But, due to NCAA rules attempting to control European players coming to America for college, Fagbenle was suspended for her freshman season. The stud recruit would be unable to change the program’s culture for at least one year.
“It was the most frustrating thing ever not being allowed to play last year,” Fagbenle said. “Knowing that I was fully capable of playing with my teammates, but not being allowed to for some debatable reason was, and still is, quite difficult to accept….It definitely wasn't easy to stay motivated each day.”
Without Fagbenle to anchor the Harvard offense, the Crimson posted a fourth straight-second place Ivy finish. Even though Fagbenle was never able to get on the court, the effects of her addition to the Harvard team are already becoming apparent.
Last spring, just a year after Fagbenle’s commitment, Shilpa Tummula, a top-100 recruit, committed to Harvard. Getting a player of that caliber was nearly unheard of for the Crimson in the years before Fagbenle’s arrival, but it may become a common occurrence now.
In addition to sitting out a year of basketball, Fagbenle had to give up the other activities such as theater that she had enjoyed in high school in order to dedicate herself to a sport she couldn’t even compete in.
Because she could not help Harvard, Fagbenle set her sights on joining another team, the Great Britain Olympic women’s basketball team, and helping it succeed for the first time.
“I began to doubt that I would be considered for the preparation camp because no one had seen me play for a whole year, but I kept working hard in the gym and weight room with the team,” Fagbenle said.
The odds of her making the team at 19 seemed slim. No one else who made the team was younger than 22.
“I thought it would be a longshot,” Fagbenle said. “I began to look towards 2016 instead.”
While the Olympics are an honor no matter where they are held, the possibility of playing for her home country while the events were being held in England provided even more motivation. Also, the host team is guaranteed a spot in the 12-team tournament.
So Fagbenle chased her dream, leaving school a few days early to travel back home and attend the Olympic preparation camp. There, she showed off her new skills to coach Tom Maher and quickly saw her stock rise.
Impressed by Fagbenle’s combination of size and skill, Maher fast-tracked her and added her to the adult team. From there, Fagbenle continued to take advantage of every opportunity and, by the time her squad faced the reigning gold-medalist Americans, she was starting and in charge of attempting to control the tip-off.
“It was great playing against the women on the USA team,” Fagbenle said. “I am so happy for the experience. Never would I have thought I would be running down the court having to guard Candace Parker and the likes of them at this age.”
Fagbenle’s rise corresponded with the general rise of British basketball. Just five years ago, when Fagbenle was just picking up basketball, Great Britain did not even have a world ranking in women’s basketball. Two years ago, the British did not compete in the 24-team FIBA World Championship.
Despite still being ranked near the bottom of FIBA’s top 50, the team now appears to be a real threat to make it out of the group stage and into the knockout round.
In exhibition competition this summer, Great Britain beat 11th-ranked Canada, eighth-ranked France, and the fourth-ranked Czech Republic.
“Our team expects to perform fearlessly and relentlessly each game,” Fagbenle said. “If we are able to do that, we will go very far in the Olympics.”
Even if Great Britain is unable to pull off the series of upsets it would need to make a dent in the women’s basketball tournament, Fagbenle will return to Harvard strengthened by her experiences this summer and ready to make a real impact on the floor.
“I can only imagine that this Olympic experience can bring her to a new level of play,” Harvard women’s basketball coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacobfeldman@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Every week, The Crimson publishes a selection of articles that were printed in our pages in years past.
July 23, 1943: Tricycles Aren't Bicycles?  Go Tell It to a Yard Cop
Admiral Farragut said, "Damn the torpedoes—full speed ahead," but it didn't do freshman Albert "Three Wheeling" Hamilton any good though. He couldn't go full speed ahead 'cause the signs in the Yard said "No Bicycling" and Yard Cops were around to make it hurt.
July 25, 1945: Conant's Committee Reports
Major changes in the goals and techniques of undergraduate education, including a compulsory "General Education" course in each of three broadly defined areas, are recommended in the report of the University Committee on the Objectives of a General Education in a Free Society which was made public this week.
July 23, 1959: Elliott Flies to Moscow with Nixon's Mission
William Y. Elliott, director of the Harvard Summer School, left for Moscow yesterday with Vice President Richard Nixon, it was learned last night. Elliott's name had not appeared on the published lists of members of the Nixon party, and it is thought that his decision to accompany the Vice President may have been made since last Friday.
July 27, 1979: Resident Tutors and Proctors May Get Minimum Wage Limit
The Labor Department's plan to have private colleges pay the minimum wage to proctors and resident tutors would be "very difficult" for Harvard, C. Burris Young, associate dean of freshmen, said yesterday.
July 27, 1984: From Four Continents: Olympics
While fans pouring into Harvard Stadium next week will see some of the world's best soccer, they may be surprised to see it played in a style quite unlike the brand played in the United States.
—Compiled by Nikita Kansra and Julie M. Zauzmer
