News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Members of the Harvard community gathered in Memorial Church on Wednesday to share memories of Wendy H. Chang ’12, who died on April 21.
Attendees of the memorial, which was organized by friends of Chang, filled up two thirds of the pews in the church.
“If it were anyone else, I don’t know you could fill a space like this with people she truly touched,” Chloe K. Goodwin ’12 said. “But for Wendy, I believe.”
A spokesperson for the agency overseeing the medical examiner confirmed last week that Chang’s death had been ruled a suicide.
An only child, Chang is survived by her father C.J. and her mother Ingrid.
The service began with opening words from Lowell House Co-Master Dorothy A. Austin and Tanya Henderson, a leader for the Buddhist movement Soka Gakkai International, which Chang belonged to.
While members of the Nichiren Buddhist Community performed a chant, attendees formed a procession to offer a rose or incense for Chang’s spirit. According to a pamphlet distributed by S.G.I. at the memorial, the “Nam Myoho Renge Kyo” chant was meant to awaken Buddhist brotherhood, while the smell of incense symbolizes the everlasting presence of loved ones who have died.
Lowell House Co-Master Diana L. Eck read aloud excerpts of a speech Chang had submitted for the senior class’ upcoming Class Day exercises.
In the speech, entitled “Many Brick Buildings,” Chang wrote that Harvard students were much like the strong brick buildings that populate the campus. She cautioned her fellow students not to house their hearts behind brick exteriors.
“We are often seen more as seeming okay rather than being okay,” Eck read from Chang’s speech.
The memorial also included a slideshow of photographs of Chang with friends around campus set to Dolly Parton’s “I Will Always Love You,” One Republic’s “Good Life,” and Jason Mraz’s “I’m Yours.”
“Never did I imagine I would walk through life without her,” said Kristin E. Arn ’12. She had imagined that she and Chang would pick out graduation dresses together, be bridesmaids in each others’ weddings, and sit side by side at reunions, she said.
“Today I have a hole in my heart in the shape of Wendy,” Arn said. No one could ever fill it, she continued, “and I don’t want them to.”
Many students spoke of Chang’s ability to make even banal and ordinary aspects of life exciting.
Erika P. Pierson ’12 recalled trips to CVS, where she and Chang would stock up on cheap make-up like fake eyelashes and “anything with glitter.”
“It’s a testament to Wendy’s ability to bring laughter and joy to the most mundane moments,” said Pierson, a former Crimson blog exec.
Jesse Calkins, who knew Chang from S.G.I., spoke of Chang’s enthusiasm for art that permeated her daily life. For Chang, even activities like mixing juices or concocting smoothies could be considered artistic expression, Calkins said.
Students also offered humorous memories. Asa E. Bush ’12 remembered a time he and Chang composed and performed a theme song for a Lowell House custodian during a late night in the dining hall.
“Being with Wendy was less like having a lone songster behind you and  more like having a gospel choir. It was loud, it was passionate, it was  radiant, and it was always, always full of love,” Bush said.
Many of the speakers also noted ways that members of the community have come together to support one another and collectively mourn Chang’s death.
Lowell House Resident Dean Brett Flehinger said that though Chang’s death has affected the lives of many, the tragedy has also shown the strength of the community. “She has proven we are not all alone,” he said. “We are connected and we are a part of each other.”
—Staff writer Melanie A. Guzman can be reached at melanieguzman@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: May 4
An earlier version of this article misquoted Asa E. Bush ’12.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sporting bright yellow foam construction hats stamped with a penguin, residents of Quincy House marked Harvard’s symbolic transition from planning to the implementation stage of the College-wide House renovation project at Old Quincy’s groundbreaking ceremony Wednesday evening.
With the Harvard Band playing in the background, Harvard administrators and Quincy residents enjoyed an outdoor barbeque with cake and a special photobooth provided by Harvard.
Top administrators, Quincy House Masters Lee and Deborah J. Gehrke, the Quincy House Committee co-chairs, and two Quincy alumni dug their shovels into a small cleared area of the Quincy courtyard.
“At last we’ve reached the day when we take an initial and very tangible step toward renewing the Harvard undergraduate Houses,”  Lee Gehrke said to the crowd.
During the ceremony, administrators acknowledged the inconveniences that the impending start of construction on Old Quincy will pose for the Quincy House community, but still expressed optimism about the House renewal process.
“We’re ready to go. We’re ready to move ahead,” Lee Gehrke said after the ceremony.
Shortly after Commencement, demolition on the interior of Old Quincy will begin, launching the first stage of a year-long construction process expected to conclude in June 2013.
In their speech, Quincy House Committee Co-chairs, Catherine G. Katz ’13 and Scott J. Yim '13 said that the construction’s finished product—which will include horizontal hallways and an underground common room with access to an outdoor terrace—would ultimately bring students closer together.
“Despite the temporary challenges renovation will bring to our community in the next year, we are confident that our House life and spirit will remain as strong as ever,” Yim said.
For much of the next year, Quincy courtyard will be divided by a wall separating the construction zone from New Quincy. Access from the gates of Quincy courtyard to Mill St. and DeWolfe St. will be restricted during parts of the process.
“It’s going to be disruptive,” Lee Gehrke said in an interview. “I think if we said there won’t be any problem at all, I think that would be just kind of ignoring what’s going on.”
In the past students have raised concerns about maintaining the quality of House community when Quincy residents are divided between New Quincy and what administrators call swing space—three apartment complexes located in Harvard Square.
Gehrke added that he is holding discussions with tutors in an effort to make “all Quincy students, especially the ones in swing space, feel included in everything” during the construction process. Planned initiatives include joint study breaks combining entryways in New Quincy and swing space, as well as social gatherings in the swing space conference rooms.
At the ceremony, Hammonds recounted the housing system’s history, emphasizing the developments and changes made throughout the decades since the new living arrangements were first implemented in the late 1920s. The housing systems in Oxford and Cambridge University inspired former university president Abbott Lawrence Lowell to reconsider the current arrangement set in place, which required some students to commute to school.
Hammonds said by keeping Old Quincy’s historical exterior and upgrading its interior Harvard is upholding Lowell’s original vision of fostering diverse communities.
During the ceremony, Gehrke reflected on the long planning process for the Old Quincy renovations, which began in 2006.
“As a result of attending innumerable meetings, we now know more about bathroom tiles, window panes, and shower ventilation than we ever imagined possible,” Gehrke joked.
Quincy is the first of Harvard’s twelve Houses to receive a face-lift—a project that administrators say will cost between $1 billion to $1.3 billion. Administrators have often described Old Quincy as the “test project” for future renovations. Leverett House’s McKinlock Hall is the next building slated to be upgraded.
—Staff writer Nathalie R. Miraval can be reached at nmiraval@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Rebecca D. Robbins can be reached at rrobbins@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Whether you're looking to grab food on the go before scurrying off to a final or just bored of eating the same HUDS salad every day, the food trucks in and around campus provide delectable dining options at a low cost. This week, Flyby scouted out a few different food trucks to learn more about the many delicious and convenient lunch possibilities they offer.
Grilled Cheese Nation
Harvard students love classy cheeses. This bodes well for classy grilled cheese sandwiches.  In addition to traditional melts, Grilled Cheese Nation offers new varieties like The Blue Man Goo made of blue cheese and fig spread on raisin pecan bread, and the Brie Me Up made of brie and sliced Asian pear on wheat bread. They also have shots of hot tomato soup or cold gazpacho. 11:30 a.m.-3 p.m., Tuesday and weekends, outside the Science Center.
Lobsta Love
Craving the taste of New England to complement the New England spring weather? Lobsta Love offers the trifecta of lobster rolls, lobster bisque, and lobster mac and cheese to remind you that you do actually go to school near an ocean. 11:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Sundays, 11:30 a.m.-7:30 p.m. Saturdays, and every other Tuesday (including May 8), outside the Science Center.
Plaza Tacos
Bask in the sunshine and brand-new outdoor seating near the Science Center while eating at Plaza Tacos. This HUDS initiative has four delicious menu items which can be purchased using Board Plus. Offering pollo asado as well as beef and vegetarian tacos, this student-staffed food truck is the perfect place to lay back and listen to music while munching on lunch. 11 a.m.-3 p.m., Monday - Friday.
Savory Food Truck
Located on Oxford Street right outside Maxwell Dworkin, the Savory Food Truck serves over 50 Asian-inspired dishes. Customers rave about the Roast Duck and the variety of specials that change daily. A common stop for grad students working in labs nearby, the Savory Food Truck is one of the best-kept secrets on campus.  Open 10:30 a.m.-2:30 p.m., Monday - Friday.
