Sections
MANKESSIM, Ghana—Between bartering in a pungent, chaotic marketplace and bouncing along coastal roads in the back of a pickup truck, I have found my constant in Ghana this summer by running on a long dirt road. After all, you only need a good attitude and a pair of shoes.
My alarm goes off every morning amidst the ever-blaring radios that signal the beginning of the day for the rest of our neighborhood. Bleary-eyed and often reluctantly, a troupe of my fellow interns and I lace up our shoes at 7 a.m. for our daily run.
The hilly dirt path we take meanders through houses and fields, with cars and people growing sparser the farther we travel from the main road.
“Abruni!” one little boy yells today. “White person! How are you?”
“Mehoye!” I gasp out as I try not to slip on a patch of slick mud. “I’m fine!”
Day after day, the children sprint in a colorful flock from their doorsteps to greet us. I’ve nearly barreled over little girls as they flew from hidden paths to leap into my arms.
I’ve raced a group of boys up a winding incline. “Abruni, you’re fast!” they said in surprise when I came in a respectable second place.
By the time my friends and I reach our turn-around point in the run, we’re drenched in sweat. We’ve been running in 90 percent humidity for 20 minutes, but the view is worth it. The vast lake, dotted with fishermen and flies, rises up to our left as we crest over the last hill. To our right, the verdant landscape undulates for miles. The swaying palm trees blend into the hills, and only their rising tufts signal a break in the lush earth. The dirt road continues in a straight line between these two stunning vistas. I catch my breath. I would continue on this path for miles if I could. But the sun is rising, the threat of missing breakfast looms high, and the hills and humidity are exhausting. I lift my legs, heavy with dawn and dew, and tread my way back home.
Today we ran with a group of boys whose arms were laden with fishing gear. “I like you,” one boy said. “Can I have your shoes?” Yesterday, after discussing everything from British colonialism to basketball with a local teacher, our conversation turned to our mutual love of running. I am still a stranger in a strange land, as the saying goes, but perhaps I will eventually blend in.
For now, though, I’ve got my morning chorus of “Abruni!” to blithely remind me that I have not.
Sections
TEL AVIV-JAFFA, Israel—It’s a Friday night. As Jews across the country are relaxing in their homes for Shabbat, Tel Aviv is in transition: tanned beach-goers have packed up their towels and paddle-ball games and returned to their hostels and apartments across the city for to prepare for the evening. Feeling slightly guilty for not exploring the city’s world-famous nightlife, I instead walk south along the beach towards the old city of Jaffa. To my right, the Mediterranean Sea calmly breathes in and out along the shore. To my left, fine sand stretches for a few blocks before turning into the rocky asphalt of Israel’s most developed city.
One hundred years ago, Zionist Jews began to build Tel Aviv just north of the Arab city of Jaffa. In the middle of the 20th century, the two cities officially joined together into Tel Aviv-Jaffa, an amalgamation of Jewish and Arab, old and new. At that time, Zionists viewed Israel as a land of peace, freedom, and liberation. When many Jews (including some in my family) imagined Israel as a country, it was as a workers’ nation, a socialist utopia. But the Tel Aviv-Jaffa of today is plagued by conflict over socioeconomic divisions and gentrification in Jaffa.
Back in Tel Aviv, the waves of the Mediterranean were lit an eerie purple as they reflected the colored lanterns of nearby bars. Behind the bars, luxury hotels and the office buildings of international financial firms stretched to the sky. But by the time I reach Jaffa, the bars have been replaced by small circles of Arab guys smoking hasheesh near the waves.
English teachers might describe this scene as liminal. I’m walking in between sea and land, between day and night, between Arab and Jewish. But one thing here is not in transition: the Tel Aviv of today is decidedly not a socialist workers’ utopia. Israel has adopted capitalism with fervor, and, for better or for worse, the financial firms and nightclubs of this city—and the way Tel Aviv’s economy has changed Jaffa—are not going away.
Sections
SINGAPORE, Singapore—As I stepped off the plane in Singapore, the first thing I noticed was the smell.  Or, rather, the lack thereof.  Perhaps it was because I had come from Bangkok, that king of pollution, durian, and other olfactory assaults, the lack of a distinctive scent hit me immediately and distracted me from the surrounding tropical beauty.
That tropical blandness, however, perfectly describes the city.  Though the city-state has history, today it is marked by its relentless pursuit of “perfection,” as it is defined by the ruling People’s Action Party.  Yes, there are signs in every subway station warning the public to “make time for someone today,” and passengers on the plane, as it descended into Changi Airport, were reminded that “drug offenses carry serious penalties in Singapore.” No, I never saw gum the entire time I was there. Yes, the government is trying to lure educated foreigners to a city that is neat and clean and diverse and safe.
But somehow, the whole thing felt a bit eerie.
Perhaps that’s why I was so reassured by the sight of the Marina Bay Sands, the beautiful new casino resort towering over a corner of the island.  A native of Las Vegas, I had heard about the expansion of Nevada-based Sands and knew what to expect.  I knew that I would have to go to the top of the hotel to see a panoramic view of the city I would later tour; I knew that the hotel was similar to the ones I knew from home.  Maybe I was just hoping for a breath of dry air from our desert home, or maybe I just felt uncomfortable in a place as carefully controlled as Singapore continues to be.
However, I was not expecting just how much the Marina Bay Sands would reflect the city it stands in.  Though the Sands is an import, it may be the most perfect example of the real Singapore.  Like the city, the features of the hotel are picked from the best of everywhere else—but straightened up and improved.  The quest for material things is as palpable inside its mall as it is on the rest of the island (ask any Singaporean about the five C’s). Singapore’s intense nationalism is on display at a “locals only” entrance to the casino, but locals have to pay a fee to enter the casino in what I can only guess is a morality tax.  The architecture is modern and adventurous; the tourists are in awe.  It is beautiful, safe, modern, and innovative.
And the view?  From the top of the tower, the island nation looks its best.
Sections
PARIS, France—My first afternoon in Paris, I explored the area around my residence. I found bakeries on most every block, lots of little fruit stands and convenience stores, and a handful of little cafes. Walking back, I passed a blue and white truck that looked sort of like a horse trailer, with long, thin window slits near the top. But the windows had bars on the inside, and there were dozens of men’s faces squashed against them looking out at me and shouting—prisoners being moved somewhere. The truck is sandwiched between two police cars and flanked by two policemen on motorcycles.
A couple days later I was taking the train back from the center of Paris. Already past midnight, there’s just me, a friend of mine, an American mother and daughter, and a single young black man in our car. Before we leave the station three burly men dressed in all black board the train from behind us. Their leader is short with a blond buzz cut. They look like special forces agents or something, but the Société Nationale des Chemins de fer français, France’s railway company, inscription on the back of their shirts identifies them as transit police. They cross the car and wrestle the man out of his seat. The short blond one spins him around, handcuffs him, and they drag him off the train.
There are police and law enforcement everywhere here. Mostly they don’t do much; they just stand on street corners or walk menacingly through crowded areas. Some are dressed in camouflage with red berets and carry large guns; others are dressed in dark, navy blue with matching sailor-style caps. One of my friends saw them arrest a serial shoplifter in a grocery store, and I heard one of them whistle harshly at some kids in a park. I think they were feeding the ducks or something, which is illegal. I’ve never been anywhere in America with such a constant police presence. The effect is both somewhat reassuring and rather sinister.
Sections
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina—The kinds of conversations one has in a cemetery are unlike most others. As we snaked our way through Recoleta Cemetery in Buenos Aires, Argentina—our efforts to find the tomb of the famous Eva Peron becoming increasingly fruitless by the minute—I became more and more at ease with this fact.
There in that cemetery my friends and I got lost. Lost in conversation. Walking amongst the exquisite domes paying homage to the great of Argentina, it seemed natural to imagine out loud how we ourselves wanted to be buried. Conversations predicting our inevitable ends was not gruesome, but welcome, and it tickled me that after just two weeks of knowing some of the people on my program, I could tell you whether or not they would prefer that you bury them or scatter their ashes, pull the plug or sit by their side if ever they lost control of their own bodies.
So many of the cemeteries I’ve seen in the United States are set off on the opposite side of the road. They’re set apart from the bustling sounds of the towns that surround them, their manicured lawns sitting deafeningly silent. They’re intimidating. But the Recoleta Cemetery does not sit isolated and aside from the life that surrounds it. Rather, it sits on a bustling street corner, its gates opening to a street fair lined with little stands and food carts, a patch of grass where street performers play their music and families gather sipping mate on the weekends. There Recoleta Cemetery stands, a reminder that death is not separate from life, but a part of it.
Sections
NEW YORK, New York—As I leave the United Airlines support desk and head back to the seating area, I marvel at how quiet Gate 27 has become. No one is arguing with the attendant at the ticket booth anymore. It’s the resigned silence of a crowd of people whose flights—and re-booked flights—have been cancelled and delayed since 7 a.m. in the morning.
I carefully tiptoe between prostrate teenagers playing poker, drowsy businessmen leaning against their bags, and watchful mothers cradling their sleeping babies. I find an empty place to sit next to a young man in a purple sweater and blue jeans. Our backs are against a large glass window. Behind us, the dark runways of John F. Kennedy International Airport twinkle with the bright white headlights of maintenance vehicles.
I turn and look at the man next to me. He is intently gazing at the estimated times of departure flashing across the monitor above us. Slowly but steadily, the times continue to be incremented by half-hour blocks, being pushed closer to the next day. My neighbor’s grey eyes, wide awake and unblinking behind a pair of stylish horn-rimmed glasses, are riveted on the screen, while his fingers unceasingly tap away at his iPhone. He has an air of excited determination.
“Where are you traveling?” I ask. He stops tapping, and turns his head slightly, still looking at the screen. “Providence, to visit my girlfriend. But I live in Japan.” He pauses and glances at me, managing to avert his eyes from the screen for a moment, and extends his hand. “This is my first time in America. My name is Sho, by the way.” We shake. He then asks, with genuine curiosity and a note of concern in his voice, “Are the planes here always late?”
Throughout the next two hours, no new departures are announced and people leave the gate, finding hotels or heading home until they can rebook. Only about twenty people are left waiting. A woman at the frozen yogurt store opposite our seating area is closing shop.
Sho tells me that he is a practicing veterinarian from a town outside Tokyo.  He’s been with his girlfriend throughout high school and college. Now she’s attending graduate school in Rhode Island. Usually she travels to Japan to visit him, but this time he’s traveling to visit her. He was supposed to depart for Providence at noon today. He wants to get there soon—he has only four days before he has to go home.
Suddenly, the intercom crackles to life. Most of the last flights of the night, including mine, are now cancelled. Times on the monitor rapidly change from black to red and then disappear, replaced by “Cancelled” labels.
The business commuters start grumbling and getting up to head home—there’s no point in rebooking now. They might as well save the miles and exchange their tickets for another week’s trip.
I’m packing up my things and getting ready to leave too. Sho, who hasn’t stopped gazing at the screen above us, gets up as well. “Was your flight cancelled?” I ask. He laughs, “No, thankfully!” He points to a lone line of black text above us, “It was moved to Gate 30. Just delayed a few more hours. I’ll get there soon, hopefully!” He smiles and walks away.
Sections
ISTANBUL, Turkey—As much as I believe in photographs—in the power of an image to get across some essential truth or indescribable beauty, or something like that—in Istanbul I realize that there are moments in life that cannot be replicated on film or in megapixels.
From where I sit on the water, outside this brand new art museum, I see the minarets of the Süleymaniye rising into the air, the peak of an empire in their perfect symmetry. To their left is the pink dome of the Hagia Sophia, where the Orthodox icons on the wall have listened to Christian prayers, then Muslim ones, and now hear the clamor of ten thousand tourists a day. Where the Bosporus meets the Golden Horn, the balcony of the Topkapı Palace juts out into the water, once allowing a 13-year-old boy sultan to stand and look out over two continents and to believe—to know—that he owned the world.
I zoom in, zoom out, and shift the camera in my hands. I re-focus the lens, change the aperture, adjust the white balance to try to capture the view. But when the shutter closes, it leaves behind the sound of the ferries cruising across the strait, gliding between Europe and Asia, and of the chatter of the Turkish families sitting around me. The photo won’t catch the heat of the sunlight that has settled on the left side of my body, or the cool of the salty breeze as it rises off the water, buoyed by the waves.
In a few minutes I’ll step back into the air-conditioned museum to browse slowly, relishing the air conditioning on such a hot day. I’ll stand around for a while, reflecting on the contemporary art installations, the abstract paintings, and the collection of photographs in the basement—visuals beautifully arranged to tell the story of this city.
For now, though, I’ll stay on the shore and keep looking across the water, listening in for a moment while the Bosporus and the skyline keep on talking, back and forth, like I’m not here.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a move that could spell the end of the Jeremy Lin era in New York, the Knicks have agreed to acquire veteran point guard Raymond Felton in a sign-and-trade deal with the Portland Trailblazers.  The New York Post cited a source that said the trade ends New York’s pursuit of Lin, a restricted free agent, who plays the same position as Felton.  According to the New York Times, a television reporter in South Carolina said that Felton had told him that the Knicks planned to let Lin walk away to the Houston Rockets, with whom the former Harvard standout has signed an offer sheet.
The terms of the offer sheet, which the Knicks must match by Tuesday evening in order to retain Lin, likely preclude New York from re-signing Lin without greatly exceeding the salary cap in the future.  Some sources, however, believe that the Knicks will still re-sign the international sensation, as the marketing value that Lin brings to New York far outweighs any luxury taxes the Knicks would pay from exceeding the salary cap.
Houston’s three-year, $25.1 million offer sheet includes a $14.8 million salary in the final year of the contract—an onerous figure for the Knicks that would mean New York would have $75 million committed to Lin, Carmelo Anthony, Amare Stoudemire and Tyson Chandler in 2014-2015.  It had been expected that Houston’s offer sheet would be for four years and approximately $29 million, with Lin earning no more than about $9 million in any single year.
Not bringing back Lin would mark a dramatic reversal for the team from the Big Apple.  All previous indications were that the Knicks would match any offer sheet that Lin signed.  Knicks Head Coach Mike Woodson has stated that not only would the team “absolutely” match any offer sheet for Lin, but also that Lin would be New York’s starting point guard. At last week’s press conference, where he was introduced as a new member of the Knicks, Jason Kidd spoke excitedly about serving as a mentor to Lin; and a source told ESPN.com’s Marc Stein last week, somewhat tongue-in-cheek, that “[New York] will match any offer on Lin up to $1 billion.”
If the Felton deal does conclude Lin’s time in New York, Lin’s tenure with the Knicks will have ended just as quickly as it started—yet certainly much more acrimoniously.  Last week, reports surfaced that Lin was unhappy with the Knicks for not offering him a contract before Houston; although, Lin quickly took to Twitter to refute these claims.  Now, the New York Post is reporting that “the Knicks were bitter because they told Lin the club would match the original [four-year, $29 million] offer and Lin apparently shared the information with the Rockets, who decided to raise it.”
The Knicks have until Tuesday at 11:59pm to match Houston’s offer sheet or let Linsanity launch with the Rockets.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On July 29, 2012, at 11:30 a.m. local time, Esther Lofgren ’07-’09 will realize an Olympic dream 28 years in the making. That is when the heats of the women’s eight rowing begin in the Games of the XXX Olympiad in London.
Lofgren's position on the eight is the pinnacle of a competitive career that began after her sophomore year in 2006 for the USA Under-23 team. But after taking time off of school to try-out for the Beijing Olympics in 2008—falling just short—Lofgren returned to school with an unsure future in rowing.
"[Not making that team] definitely is something that has motivated me over the last four years," Lofgren said. "In terms of when you’re at that point in an erg test and you need to find that little something to push yourself just a little farther, or those rare moments when you're not sure if this is what you want to do anymore, I definitely thought about making this team, and going to the Olympics."
Lofgren is joining the defending-champion USA team that looks to extend its dominance in the discipline.
Among the women on that boat four years ago was fellow alumna Caryn Davies ’04-’05, who also earned a silver medal in Athens in 2004. Davies will be returning to the Olympics for the third time as she and Lofgren book-end a boat that is both the six-time defending World Champion and the favorite for Olympic gold in London.
Five of the eight women return from the boat that captured the first Olympic gold for the United States in this event four years ago, and all eight members of the crew have competed at the World Championship level.
FAMILY TIES
Though Lofgren did not seriously consider the Olympics until making the U-23 National Team after her sophomore year, the quest for Olympic glory in the Lofgren family goes back to the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles, when her mother Christine, now a lecturer in cognitive science at University of California Irvine, narrowly missed out on making the Olympic team as the final cut in the women’s quadruple sculls.
“Both my husband and I rowed at MIT,” Christine said. “After college, we both raced at a national level, and then when I didn’t make the Olympic team in '84, Esther was conceived. She was a post-Olympic baby.”
Both Esther and her parents are quick to emphasize that there was no pressure to pursue the Olympics, or even rowing, from anyone in the family. But the experience of growing up with world-class athletes in the same sport certainly has its benefits—especially when Esther was one of the last cuts for the 2008 Olympic team that went on to win gold in Beijing.
“Being able to share all of these experiences with my parents has been really great, because not a lot of people have parents who pursued the same kind of things as they did in this arena,” Lofgren said.
“Being able to talk with my mom after being cut in 2008, which was pretty devastating, really made me think about things and focus myself for London.”
BLACK AND WHITE
Both Lofgren and Davies were recruited and coached by Radcliffe heavyweight coach Liz O’Leary. In 26 seasons at the helm of the Black and White heavyweight program, O’Leary has coached 13 Olympic and World Championship rowers and a team national championship that included Davies in 2003.
While in college, both women took time off to row with the national team—Davies in 2004 for the Olympics in Athens, and Lofgren in 2008. In their respective Radcliffe careers, the Black and White went a combined 58-23-1.
Davies declined to comment for this story.
"A lot of the things I learned at Radcliffe about being a good teammate about being part of a successful team, that’s all stuff that hasn’t changed much, coming here," Lofgren said. "I think there’s definitely alarge overlap in what makes you successful."
Davies is already the most decorated former Radcliffe rower on the international level in program history. If the USA wins the eight in London, Lofgren will join Davies as the only female Olympic gold medalists to have once called Weld Boathouse their home. Two other Black and White rowers have Olympic medals: Michelle Guerette ’02, who earned her silver in Beijing, and Anna Seaton ’86, a bronze medalist in the doubles at the 1988 Seoul Olympics.
MAKING ENDS MEET
In pursuing an international career in rowing, Lofgren, like so many other Olympians, has been forced to put other professional ambitions on hold.
“I’ve known from the beginning that it’s not a money-maker in this country,” Lofgren said. “It’s not something I can do forever, eventually I have to settle down and, you know, make money, but it’s so rewarding that it absolutely makes up for it.”
Since graduation in 2009, Lofgren has worked as a barista, tutor, sandwich-maker, and babysitter, always looking for jobs that will pay enough to get by while maintaining flexible hours to allow for the training that is necessary to compete at such a high level.
Lofgren is currently employed by US Rowing, serving as Athlete Media and Communications Coordinator. One of her primary responsibilities in this role is expanding rowing’s visibility through social media.
“You know there’s a fairly large community of rowers out there, and it’s still growing, but it’s not very centralized at all,” Lofgren said. “So we’re trying to link in the whole community around this build up to the Olympics.”
One way in which she is doing that is by blogging her experiences on a number of sites, including in the Huffington Post, US Rowing and her own blog, "Harder. Better. Faster. Stronger."
Lofgren began blogging while still in college, at her mother's suggestion, as a favor to younger rowers she was mentoring who wanted advice on training and managing time between rowing and academics. Though she describes herself as a “pretty private person,” her blogging audience has expanded substantially.
“So far, I have about 50,000 hits, which isn’t really that much in the grand scheme of the internet,” Lofgren said. “But it is a lot for me thinking it’s still just my mom reading it.”
GEARING UP FOR LONDON
Lofgren and Davies are currently in Princeton, N.J., with the rest of Team USA training for the fast-approaching Games.
“We’ve done a lot of work the last four years, with fitness and skill,” Lofgren said. “So now we’re just doing the final tune-up stuff and really coming together as a crew.”
The USA has dominated this event over the past six years, winning every major championship in that time span. The biggest competition in London will most likely be the Canadians, who came up just short against the Americans in 2011.
When the USA gets on the water in London, Lofgren’s parents will be there to watch her Olympic dream realized.
“On some level, most of us—and I might include myself in that—would be just so thrilled to be where she is, that the medal would be icing on the cake,” Christine said. “But I think given how they‘ve worked and who they are and the mentality of the people in this boat, there’s got to be a medal and I think they’re definitely thinking gold.”
There will definitely be a bulls-eye on the Americans’ back in London, but Lofgren and company would have it no other way.
“I think coming in with our top record and being the defending champions, there’s definitely an expectation,” Esther said. “But that’s something that motivates us, to be the favorite. We just want to go out there and race as hard and fast as we can, and everything else will fall into place.”
−Staff writer Alexander Koenig can be reached at akoenig@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Mandy Savitz-Romer, a lecturer at the Graduate School of Education, and Suzanne M. Bouffard, a GSE researcher, published a book called "Ready, Willing, and Able" which addresses the problems concerning college matriculation rates among low-income high school students.
"The current practices are overemphasizing academics and information dissemination without giving careful attention to who young people are," Savitz-Romer said.
She and Bouffard propose a focus on adolescent development when trying to understand the obstacles to students' college attendance.
In an interview with The Crimson, Savitz-Romer presented an example of an ineffective college preparatory strategy.  She said that many organizations use statistics on the financial advantage that comes with a college degree to get low-income students to go to college. But those data are, Savitz-Romer said, extrinsic, rather than intrinsic, motivators which studies show don’t work as well.
"The first time they have trouble, they're not going to persist," Savitz-Romer said. "Using those kinds of strategies is really not effective. But the literature on motivation hasn't been tied to college-going."
Savitz-Romer confronted these problems first-hand as a guidance counselor at Brighton High School in Boston.
"[The book] was inspired by both having worked in the schools and seeing kids who, despite all of my work and despite the programs that existed, weren't making progress," she said. "We suggest that if you look at developmental theory...you can learn a little bit about how young people become motivated."
