Sections
Every week, The Crimson publishes a selection of articles that were printed in our pages in years past.
August 25, 1944: Alumni in U.S.  Armed Forces Comprise Total of 22,620 Men
Of 85,756 living Harvard alumni, 22,620 are known to be in service in this war, according to the most recent count of the Harvard Alumni Association.
Approximately 259, or one out of 87, have died to date, and unofficial tabulation shows 134 of these have met death in the Army, 81 in the Navy, 13 in the Marine Corps, and eight in the Coast Guard. Twelve graduates have died in other United Nations Forces, one with the Merchant Marine, two with the American Field Service, and three more as civilians. Not included in the total are three members of the Harvard Faculty who were not alumni.
August 20, 1962: F.B.I. Search for Gems Makes Little Progress
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has not discovered any new clues in the past six weeks that would lead to the discovery of the $50,000 worth of gems and precious stones stolen from the Mineralogical Museum over the July Fourth holiday.
August 23, 1966: Lamont Found Not Guilty of Charges in Stock Case
A federal judge last week cleared one of the five members of the Harvard Corporation of charges that he had abused privileged information of rich, Canadian ore deposit.
The Securities and Exchange Commission had charged Thomas S. Lamont '21 had used the information to buy stock in the company that owned the deposits, the Texas Gulf Sulphur Company.
But federal judge Dudley B. Bonsal said that Lamont had bought his stock after a press conference announcing the discovery, and therefore, had not violated the law. The law prohibits "insiders"—officers, directors, and major stockholders—from using privileged information for their own gain.
August 20, 1974: Mayor Denies Blacks' Charge of Police Dept. Discrimination
Cambridge Mayor Walter J. Sullivan denied yesterday charges of racial discrimination in police hiring and promoting practices.
His response came in the wake of a pending suit brought by five black patrolmen, who accuse city officials of not appointing black sergeants and failing to recruit more blacks into the police force.
—Compiled by Julie M. Zauzmer
