News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Director Mike Nichols’ current Broadway revival of "Death of a Salesman" won  the category for “Best Revival of a Play” at the Tony Awards held in  June this year. This was simply the latest of many awards garnered by  the popular play: It was the recipient of the Pulitzer Prize for Drama  and the Tony Award for Best Play in 1949, and previous Broadway revivals  in 1984 and 1999 won numerous Tony Awards.
From  its original publication in 1949, the play has continuously resonated  with audiences. Nichols’ current revival is considered particularly  pertinent to today’s problems––with the New York Times commenting on the  way the play speaks to  our current economic recession
The  iconic tragedy by Arthur Miller centers on the life of failing salesman  Willy Loman (Phillip S. Hoffman), his wife Linda (Linda Emond), and his  two sons Biff (Andrew Garfield) and Hap (Finn Witrock), exploring the  negative ramifications of the American dream.
I saw "Death of a Salesman"  on the second-last day of its Broadway run. I had read the play before,  and even acted out scenes from the play in high school––but none of  those prior encounters with "Death of a Salesman" came close to the emotional intensity of Nichols’ production.
While  waiting in line for the show, I saw a poster proclaiming “TONY  NOMINATED FOR BEST LIGHTING.” As it turned out, the nomination was well  deserved. The staging of daytime, nighttime, and memory scenes all  contrast in a way that takes audiences through time and place while  watching Loman’s house light up from different angles. During the night  scenes, the orange glow from the boys’ upstairs window stand out from  the rest of the darkened house. The headlights of Willie’s car as he  drives to his death flashes into the eyes of the audience, to bring them  directly into the fear and drama of the characters.
Perhaps  because my friends and I used to spend hours dissecting the acting  ticks of our classmates, I always pay obsessive attention to the  physical choices the actors make.
Hoffman  leaves his mouth slightly open when not talking, a physical tick that  effectively conveys a sense of the character’s age and despair. Garfield  punches Biff’s little brother in the play when his character gets  excited––a burst of energy Biff cannot control and does not notice.  Emond clenches her fists when she is standing up for her husband. The  combination of nuanced acting, excellent staging, and direction gave me  chills.
While  the subject matter of the play certainly reminded me of the economic  woes of our contemporary world, the genius of Mike Nichols’ "Death of a Salesman" is  in its brilliant production elements which gives audiences an  opportunity to appreciate the staging, lighting and the physical choices  of individual characters. The meticulous craftsmanship of the play  stands out as its strongest feature.
Blogging from New York City, Virginia R. Marshall surveys the city's artistic heartbeat.
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
NEW DELHI, India—Unlike the rest of the cars in the New Delhi metro, the ladies car is tidy, uncrowded, and quiet. The air conditioning mingles smells of freshly ironed fabrics and soft perfumes. Words are hushed and conversation is light, but the dress is loud and colorful. It is a break from getting hassled in the streets and bothered on the buses. We are separated, yet we are still being watched. Through the open entryway male passengers in the connecting car leer unabashedly.
“I think they’re jealous,” I tell my mom, “packed in that car, all wearing a similar shade of beige.”
I feel grateful for whatever invisible force is barring the men from entering our car. None of them attempt to cross the threshold, yet they are all turned, watching us.
I stare back. In this space I feel safe—safe enough to play chicken with at least one mustachioed man. I refuse to break my gaze, coupled with my signature stank face. The train enters the station and the man looks away. I bathe in the glory of victory. The lady of the ladies car wins. Yet the feeling quickly fades once we step off the train, and I see the man watching me again through the crowded terminal.
Sections
VARANASI, India—A conman was leading me through the streets of Varanasi. I was fully aware of this, and I was letting it happen.
The conman had helped my friend acquire Ayurvedic medicine, legendary Varanasi silks, and pungent scents from a local apothecary. Pretending to help my friend haggle for the local price, the conman had actually taken a hefty commission on each sale. My friend eventually figured out the scheme, but at this point the damage was done with hundreds of U.S. dollars sunk on specialty goods from India’s holiest city. Maybe the guy was a conman, but he was our conman. Now we were reaping our reward by making him show us Varanasi’s famed Hanuman monkey temple.
Following the conman through buzzing streets on the way to the temple, we passed bare-butted children squatting to defecate out in the open and rats slithering along the curb. A headache-inducing chorus of auto-rickshaw honks was our soundtrack until we finally paused at an inelegant gate off the main road. Nothing here suggested that we had reached a notable place aside from a non-functioning security scanner and a woman who insisted on “checking my bag,” which is code for rummaging through my stuff to see what Americans actually bring with them when they visit sacred temples. She seems satisfied (CVS hand sanitizer never fails) and lets me pass.
As we stepped through the security scanner my friend pulled out a pack of biscuits and handed them to me (“Wouldn’t it be sweet if we could feed them to the baby monkeys?”) We were framed. Immediately the monkeys descended, swarms and stampedes of monkeys from a hundred yards away came barreling towards us; running full-speed, thrashing, ripping, tearing my scarf from my neck. Hitchcock’s The Birds could have taken its inspiration from this sort of full-frontal monkey attack. I screamed, threw the biscuits as far as I could, and sprinted in the opposite direction.
Finally the monkey onslaught subsided and I returned biscuitless for another attempt at entering the temple. I removed my shoes, tapped my hand on the floor and touched it to my forehead. I crossed the temple to glimpse the orange face of the Hanuman. His image seemed modern and stark like the faces of tragedy and comedy, indecisive with its smile. I gazed into the circular holes that resembled his eyes and applied red kumkum powder to my forehead. Like all monkeys, Hanuman was mischievous, cunning, and just a bit too human.
Sections
PARIS, France—As a girl who hails from the paved roads of suburbia, parks are what I consider to be my great outdoors. Growing up, Web Field, down the street, was where we’d go to get some “fresh air.” Each time I go into New York City I make sure to spend some leisurely time in Central Park, or Washington Square Park (where there is another famous arc, what a coincky-dink). Among many other things, I’ve missed my opportunity for a great escape from the hustle and bustle of the city since I left for college. Even after leaving New York, I still haven't been able to lose that iconic hurried pace.
Recently, in Paris, I finally managed to spend some significant time in a park. I went to the Parc des Buttes Chaumont in the 19th Arondissement. I like to refer to it as a garden on the peak of a city. It’s basically on the same altitude as Sacre Coeur, one of the highest points in the city. I could see every major monument from there, and it took my breath away. It put Paris in perspective for me, and it made me fall in love. Sitting on the bench in my solitude with my Brioche Tranchée and some strawberries I had handpicked from the market, I realized some things. For one, I suck at eating on a bench while thinking because I kept dropping food on the ground. But I also realized that I was at peace. I could hear my thoughts loud and clear, and they told me I was complacent.
I decided to take the bus back home so I could get a mini tour of the city, which let me see many parts of Paris that I hadn’t yet ventured to. There are soccer fields under subway bridges where pick-up games happen all the time. Just next to the courts under one bridge was a massive crowd of poor and homeless people a vying for the free food and water that good Samaritans were passing out. There were people eating at cafes and children holding their parent’s hand; it was beautiful to watch this coexistence. I got to be an undetected observer. For once I was watching time, and not so concerned about spending it.
Sections
IZMIR, TURKEY—It is Ramadan. I awake some mornings early to the call for prayer from the minarets, which are lit green at night over the sprawling skyline and the hazy coast, like traffic lights between us and the divine. We stay home in the sleepy heat of midday and go out as the air cools in the evening to buy Ramadan pita, eating it before it gets humidity-sweaty, not waiting for Iftar, butter on our hands.
I am in staying with my Turkish sister, Dicle, who spent her exchange year living with my family in New Jersey. When I enter her grandmother Anneanne’s apartment a torrent of emotional Turkish descends upon me. I have never been kissed this enthusiastically, not even in eleventh grade spin the bottle with the sexually confused theater kids: Anneanne releasing a shower of kisses, left cheek right cheek left cheek right cheek and on and on, shouting, “Canim benim, canim benim, ben seni yerim yerim yerim,” “Sweetheart, sweetheart, I will eat eat eat you,” as only a grandmother can. She squeezes my hand, pats my chest, shoulders, crying, telling me (Dicle translates energetically) how happy she is that I am there, how much she loves me and my family. “Çok güzelsin,” she repeats: “So beautiful, so beautiful.”
We go to seaside towns over impossibly windy roads, pass tombs and relics. We eat intestines hot on bread and ice cream that tastes fresh from the cow. Some men on the street have the same beautiful, sad faces I’ve seen decorating Etruscan tombs.
Anne, Dicle’s mother, has been taking salsa lessons. One night, the three of us go dancing in the park, where women in tight dresses whirl under the hands of men who are a little less sexy than they are. Dicle and I try to keep time with the music and end up dipping and whirling, tripping over giggles and our own feet. Anne returns to the car with us with an arm on each of our backs. The minarets spire into the skyline. Our skin is sweating in the dark heat. “Çok güzel,”—“so beautiful,” she says.
Sections
ROME, Italy—The perceptions of Rome that I had as a child came more from films than within classroom walls.
The violent images from Gladiator, Spartacus, and Ben-Hur were always more vivid in my mind than facts and dates about ancient Rome found in my history textbook.
The breezy, romantic comedy feel of Audrey Hepburn in Roman Holiday (and later on, Hilary Duff in The Lizzie McGuire Movie) cemented the idea of modern Rome as the “eternal city,” more so than my fifth-grade classmate’s tri-fold poster board presentation about Rome’s demographics and landmarks in Geography class.
St. Peter’s Basilica at night is none of these things. It is neither bloody nor violent, nor is it a whirlwind of romantic feelings, bright and cheerful. It is loud and quiet at the same time. It is illuminated, yet the space feels dark. It is sacred, but standing further down the street where more and more shops begin to appear, it even begins to feel slightly commercialized. This is the first place I have been while in Rome, and it doesn’t quite fit into any of those impressions from my childhood.
Later, as I see Rome in the daylight for the first time—view the ruins of the Roman Forum, climb the steps of the Colosseum, and sit on the Spanish steps where Audrey Hepburn once sat—my own experiences begin to blur with my favorite film moments.
Amidst all of this, however, Piazza San Pietro, as the Italians call it, remains its own vivid image, holding a place in my mind among all those pictures cast towards me from the cinema screen that are slowly being replaced by pictures I take with my own camera.
Sections
ADDIS ADABA, Ethiopia—“Forengi” is the word for “foreigner” here, something I learned when I heard a few locals say it to me on the streets of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. It’s not an insult; the people are merely pointing out that I look different, and I am indeed from another country. There are customs here that I’m not aware of, and when I do not respond correctly in certain situations it is even more apparent that I’m an American.
I’ve corrected myself on several occasions, and learned from my mistakes. For example, when shaking an older person’s hand, I now know to grasp the elbow region of my right arm with my left hand as if to support the handshake. To say “yes,” the Amharic word is “awo,” but it is more common to say yes by a sharp intake of breath while jerking the head back slightly.
When a group or family sits down to a meal, it is polite to turn to other tables in the room and invite them to eat with you. Usually the other tables decline the offer, but it is expected that you ask them to eat regardless.
The custom that I’m least used to is called “gorsha” which is a food-sharing custom that takes place during a meal. One person feeds the first bite of injera and wot to her neighbor, who accepts the food from the other’s fingers. It’s a gesture of affection, but I am not used to being fed pieces of meat and injera from another person’s fingers. It took me three tries to successfully accept a “gorsha” without laughing or blushing.
Although I will always be a “forengi” to the people here, I am learning some Ethiopian customs, and perhaps by the end of my trip I will be able to blend in a bit more.
Sections
"Newsies" is a little-known musical based on the 1992 live-action Disney  movie that was essentially ignored for 10 years as a box office  failure until its stage adaption by Disney Theatrical Productions in  2011. The musical debuted on Broadway in March after a run at the Paper  Mill Playhouse in New Jersey. 
 
"Newsies" is a loose re-telling of the Newsboys Strike of 1899––a song and dance narrative of industrial action, pitting the impoverished newsboys of New York against their exploitative newspaper bosses. The musical features songs by Alan Menken (of “Beauty and the Beast” and “The Little Mermaid” fame)––upbeat numbers with the kind of chorus that pulls on your underdog’s-gotta-win heartstrings.
 
I went to see the production with my mother in May. The theater was packed with children and grandparents, shouting to each other and beaming with excitement. If you want a serious thespian experience in New York, my advice is to go see “Death of a Salesman” or the revival “Porgy and Bess,” not a G-rated Disney production.
 
At "Newsies", audiences are in for a rollicking good time, and that is what they’re going to get. The newsboys leap across the stage and scurry over the moving urban jungle set, delighting the young and the young at heart alike. When the “adults” in the production came onstage to sing about profit-making, I got a bit impatient––I just wanted to watch the dancers. Every time the chorus sang “Seize the Day” (three times including reprises) I punched my siblings’ arms in excitement. It got me going, all of that patriotism and togetherness.
Blogging from New York City, Virginia R. Marshall surveys the city's artistic heartbeat.
 
 
