News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Finals are over for the Harvard men’s basketball team, and now it’s time to get back to work.
The Crimson (5-4) returns to the court Saturday afternoon at Lavieties Pavilion to take on Holy Cross (7-4) at 2 p.m.
Harvard will be looking for its fifth straight win over its intrastate rival, whom it beat 73-64 in Worcester a year ago.
Last season, the teams went into the break tied before Harvard pulled away in the second half. But 75 percent of the team’s scoring in that contest came from the quartet of players—Keith Wright ’12, Oliver McNally ’12, Brandyn Curry, and Kyle Casey—that are no longer with the team, meaning this year, the Crusaders, like all of Harvard’s opponents, will be facing an almost entirely new group of players.
Those newcomers are headlined by sophomore wing Wesley Saunders, who is second in the Ivy League in scoring at 15.9 points per game—just 0.1 points behind Brown’s Matt Sullivan.
Saunders registered the first double-digit scoring game of his career a year ago against Holy Cross. This season, he has teamed with freshman point guard Siyani Chambers to form a formidable young backcourt duo for the Crimson.
Chambers leads the Ancient Eight in assists per contest (5.1) and hit a game-winning jumper with five seconds to go to give Harvard a 65-64 win over BU in its most recent contest on Dec. 11. Chambers was this week named a nominee for the Bob Cousy Award for the nation’s best point guard; Cousy is a Holy Cross alum.
Harvard’s leading returning scorer from a year ago, junior co-captain Laurent Rivard, has struggled to get involved in the offense of late, averaging just 5.25 shots per game over the team’s last four contests.
“He’s a marked guy,” Crimson coach Tommy Amaker said last week. “We’re going to have some situations where people do things to take [him] out of the game…. We’re going to have to do things to see if we can work harder to get him open looks.”
Like Harvard, the Crusaders also lost a lot of talent in the year since the teams last met.
2011-12 leading scorer Devin Brown, who had 17 points against the Crimson last season, has graduated, while its second-leading scorer from last year, R.J. Evans, is playing a fifth year at UConn.
That has left junior forward Dave Dudzinski to play a larger offensive role, and Dudzinski has responded by averaging 14.5 points—including a career-high 31 last time out against San Francisco—and 7.9 rebounds per game.
Sophomore guard Justin Burrell has chipped in 13.5 points per contest and had 19 in the Crusaders’ 67-56 victory over fellow Ivy League foe Dartmouth on Dec. 8.
After the BU game, Amaker emphasized that his team’s perimeter defense would have to be better against opposing guards such as Burrell.
“I was very disappointed with our guard play defensively, and made that known clearly,” the coach said. “I just thought we weren’t fighting enough to get over the top of screens…[and] I didn’t think our guards were doing enough of their jobs to make it tough for the BU guards to penetrate.”
Trying to defend Dudinzki inside will be a frontcourt rotation that Amaker has continued to tinker with. After starting sophomores Kenyatta Smith and Steve Moundou-Missi to begin the season, the coach switched to a small-ball lineup that featured four perimeter players and only sophomore Jonah Travis inside.
Smith did not play at all in Crimson’s games against Boston College and Connecticut but reentered the rotation last Tuesday against the Terriers, contributing six points and five blocks off the bench.
“[Smith] came in with some crucial minutes,” Chambers said. “[He] made some big buckets for us and had some crucial blocks.”
All-time, Holy Cross is 40-24 against Harvard in a series that dates back to 1900-1901.
But of late, the Crimson has not only had the upper hand in its matchup with the Crusaders but against all schools from its state, winning 17 of its last 18 games against teams from the Commonwealth—the exception being a 67-64 loss to UMass on Nov. 13.
“We’ve been fortunate,” Amaker said. “We’ve known that we’ve done well so far in our area, in our state…. I think [our kids] have taken pride in that, and that’s a neat thing.”
—Staff writer Scott A. Sherman can be reached at ssherman13@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After leading Holy Cross by 14 after 25 minutes of play, the Harvard men’s basketball team found itself down by one with 5:43 to go in Saturday’s contest at Lavietes Pavilion.
But after a free throw from sophomore Wesley Saunders and a clutch three-pointer from co-captain Christian Webster in the following 1:21, Harvard (6-4) earned back a lead it would not relinquish.
Holy Cross (7-5) got the game within two points with 1:02 to play, but five made free throws—one from Saunders and four from junior co-captain Laurent Rivard helped the Crimson seal the game, 72-65.
“It was too close for comfort,” Webster said. “If we keep having games like this, my blood pressure’s going to be bad. But I think we played well overall.”
After Harvard opened the second half by knocking down its first seven attempts—including two early threes from Rivard and a two-handed dunk from sophomore Steve Moundou-Missi—Holy Cross went on a 15-0 run to close the gap, reclaiming the lead with just under six left to play.
“Coming off of exams and this time of year, things can be interesting, and things can be a struggle,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “I thought both teams really played hard and gave a great effort to win this basketball game.”
Instrumental to the Holy Cross comeback was the play of Crusaders’ junior forward Dave Dudzinski, who finished with a game-high 22 points. The big man scored his team’s final four points of the second-half run on a jump shot and two free throws, the last of which put Holy Cross up by one.
“[The Crusaders] are a strong, physical team up front,” Amaker said. “They have some veteran guys up front. They played like it, and we expected that. You look at our guys who we’re playing up front, and we’re all very young…. You can see how their team has come together.”
After Holy Cross claimed its first lead since midway through the first half at 60-59, the lead changed hands six times.
Following an Eric Obeysekere dunk that brought the Crusaders within two, Harvard pushed its advantage to five with 2:50 to play when rookie point guard Siyani Chambers—who ended the contest with 14 points and five assists in 40 minutes of play—converted an and-one layup.
“[Chambers] is a competitor; he’s a winner,” Amaker said. “That big basket he made, the and-one…just a huge basket there.”
“He's really confident; he has a lot of poise for a young guy, and you don’t really see that often,” Webster added. “I call him ‘Little Man’ because he’s little, but he’s like a man…. He’s just a general on the court; that’s just his game.”
Neither team was able to pull away by more than two possessions until Rivard’s final free throw with four seconds left pushed Harvard’s advantage to seven.
“It just came down to clamping down on defense,” Webster said. “Coach Amaker always harps on defense, and that’s what it came down to, just getting those stops, getting rebounds, getting it up the floor, and getting easy buckets.”
Despite starting the contest shooting 0 of 9 from the field, the Crimson led Holy Cross by nine at the break. Harvard shot 14 of 19 from the field to close the half and went into the locker room leading, 36-27.
The Crusaders held a five-point advantage 6-1, with just over 15 minutes to play, after Dudzinski—who ended the half with nine points—tallied his first basket of the contest on a layup.
But in the following 3:39, Harvard outscored the Crusaders, 10-4, on the way to its first lead of the game after a three pointer from Webster. The Crimson was able to extend this one-point lead to nine by the end of the half.
“It’s a game of runs,” Amaker said. We got on a run, they got on a run; that’s how it works. We were fortunate enough to withstand. They rallied, no question about it. They did a good job of putting themselves in a position to win.”
Four Crimson players—Chambers, Webster, Saunders, and Rivard—finished in double-figures. Saunders led the team in scoring with 15 points on nine shots. The win marked Harvard’s fifth straight over Holy Cross, pushing the Crimson to 6-1 against the Crusaders with Amaker at the helm.
“I was very pleased with the effort that our kids gave to fight through this after we lost the lead,” Amaker said. “We had a big margin, a 14-point lead, and they battled back. I was very pleased we were able to show the composure and poise necessary during the stretch to pull this out.”
—Staff writer Catherine E. Coppinger can be reached at ccoppinger@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Every week, The Crimson publishes a selection of articles that were printed in our pages in years past.
 December 19, 1902: Assistance Wanted to Distribute Coal to Needy
The committee of citizens who have undertaken to supply coal to the poor of Boston may need assistance in its distribution and in giving instructions how best to use it economically. The services of students would be very acceptable in case of cold or bad weather.... Previous experience in the use of coal is not necessary as information will be supplied to all who volunteer to aid in this work.
 December 19, 1944: Blaze Perks Up Bellboys' Yuletide Dinner Festivities
President Abbott Lawrence Lowell '77 frowned down through dense brown kerosene fume last night as Elliott Perkins, Master or Lowell House, looked shamefacedly at the bonfire he had started. It all began at the Lowell House Christmas dinner when Perkins lit the traditional Yule log after forgetting to open the draft.
To make matters worse, this happened after he had sent out circulars the week before instructing everyone to be sure to open their fireplace drafts. Finally the blaze was quelled, leaving a blush on the face of Perkins and a smirk on the face of the Bellboys.
 December 16, 1955: City Offers Students from Midwest Free Journey Home in Fire Engine
The last of Cambridge's armor-plated fire engines will head for the Mississippi and beyond at 4 a.m. tomorrow morning, and will give up to eight Harvard and Radcliffe students a free ride home.
City Fire Chief Henry E. Kilfoyle last night offered free rides to "any student that wants one" in the engine which fire mechanic Justin C. McCarthy is driving to Kenosha, Wisconsin for repairs. During the three-day trek, the apparatus will pass through New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, and Chicago.
December 16, 1964: Vellucci Renews Bid for Harvard Yard 
It's Christmas time and City Councillor Alfred E. Vellucci wants Harvard to give Cambridge a present. Something big, he suggests. Something like a chunk of Harvard Yard....
Vellucci suggests that the surgery will take care of all congestion in the Square.
To acquire a chunk of the Yard—a chunk that would probably include Straus and Lehman Halls and possibly the office of President Pusey in Massachusetts Hall—Vellucci suggests use of urban renewal laws.
 December 19, 1976: Feminism and Apple Cider
Strains of Gilbert and Sullivan drifted up Agassiz's broad stairwell, along the hall, and up some narrow hidden steps in to the room where the legislature of the Radcliffe Union of Students [Radcliffe's student governent] was meeting last month. The 14 women, sitting cross-legged on the floor, were discussing a request from a group of cheerleaders for a grant of $100 with which to buy uniforms.
"We're here to give money for things that Radcliffe women want," one of them was saying.
"But we have to look at the impact it will have," another responded. "It has to somehow have relevance to women."
"They want money to cheer for the men's basketball team?" one woman asked, incredulous. "Forget it."
Compiled by Sandra Y. L. Korn
