News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After 28 years at the AMC Harvard Square theater, the Full Body Cast will move its weekly midnight screenings of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” to the AMC Loews Boston Common 19 theater, with shows starting Saturday, Aug. 4.
FBC, a rotating group of actors who perform along with the screening of the film, will stage two final performances in Harvard Square on Saturday night at 9:30 p.m. and 12:30 a.m.  The AMC Harvard Square Theater will close the next day at the end of business hours.
FBC director Alex H. Savitsky said that the company reviewed several theaters and chose the new cinema, located in the heart of downtown Boston, because it has plenty of space for performances and storage.
“It was a close call … but they just had the best combination of performing space and storage space,” Savitsky said, adding that the FBC’s familiarity with AMC also influenced its decision.
Though the new home of FBC’s “Rocky Horror” has less street parking than the Harvard Square location, the Boston Common area does have more 24-hour garages, Savitsky said.
The final midnight show in Harvard Square has been sold out since last Saturday, according to Savitsky. The 9:30 p.m. showing has been sold since Wednesday.
These two final shows will feature what Savitsky called “all-star casts,” groups comprised of current performers and “Rocky Horror” alumni.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It's 1:30 in the morning, and you're hungry. But where do you go? It is a divisive debate among the Harvard student body, and loyalties to the Square's late-night stops run deep. So far, The Crimson has debated nine of 11 popular choices around campus. Now up: Quincy Grille.
In the past few days, I’ve read a few futile attempts trying to justify late-night food choices like CVS and ABP. Now, fast forward to September. I’m hungry. And it’s after midnight. Do I buy questionable sushi from 24-Hour Market? Do I buy some mystery meat concoction from the Kong?
 
No. I’m a broke college student. And I’m using my Board Plus.
 
Every semester, Harvard gifts us with $70 of Board Plus. And every semester, I use all of my Board Plus at my favorite late night food joint: the Quincy Grille.
 
But let’s ignore the fact that Quincy Grille is far cheaper than any other late night food option. Otherwise, it’s just unfair. Here is why you should be heading over to Quincy Grille to fulfill late night cravings.
 
The Food:
Mozz sticks. Need I say more? Okay, let's say you’re not in the mood for mozzarella sticks. If you’re in the mood for something salty, you can get the Ronnie Burger or curly fries. If you’re in the mood for something sweet, you can get cheesecake or an ice cream sandwich. Salty or sweet, you’ll get whatever you need to satisfy your appetite.
 
The Drinks: 
Not many late-night joints offer a wide selection of drinks, but at Quincy Grille you can start with a fruit smoothie made with any combination of real strawberry, peach, mango and banana. Rough night ahead? You can get red bull or a coffee frappe. And even when you just want an iced tea or Coke, you can get an unlimited amount free just up the stairs in the D-Hall.
 
The People and Location:
Located in Quincy House (duh), the Quincy Grille is in prime location. Students linger around this hot spot, so it’s a great way to catch up with a friend you haven’t seen in a while or make a new one. While you wait, you can also play ping pong, play pool, or watch TV. Quincy Grille has the perfect atmosphere for you not only to eat your food, but also enjoy and savor every last bite.
 
For the indecisive, I recommend to stay clear from Quincy Grille. The endless delicious options can be overwhelming. For the anti-social, the friendly students may be too much. For those who enjoy mediocre food, respective taste buds may not be able to handle such awesomeness. But for the rest, do the right thing come September. Choose Quincy Grille.
