News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This week, the Undergraduate Council recently launched a new initiative drafted last fall to increase the funding available for student organizations. The program, known as UC Loans, allows the Council to distribute money to student groups aiming to make a profit through events with significant fixed costs, like fundraisers. In many ways, this program is a stark divergence from previous UC policy, as the governing body was unable to give money to groups intending to make a profit or those that did not serve the interests of the undergraduate population directly. Much like microfinance, these loans will be small-scale, drawing from a budget of $10,000, and the groups receiving them will be under a short, three week time constraint to pay them back.
The Undergraduate Council’s move to expand the availability of funding for student organizations is a noble one; such a program brings us closer to creating a more vibrant campus community. We hope to see UC Loans succeed, and if possible, implemented on an even larger scale.
We have praised past efforts by former UC president Senan Ebrahim ’12 and his predecessors to make student funding more accessible, and support this continuation of his legacy. However, the current Council has done little to actualize his vision besides implement programs already in the pipeline. We have still seen little in the way of radical change from the new administration, and we reaffirm our earlier position on the usefulness of the Council’s numerous other ventures and proposals.
Our issues about the efficacy of the UC notwithstanding, we support the Council’s expansion of the role it plays best—that of financier for student organizations. Through more access to funds, student groups, particularly those in their infancy, will be capable of implementing more ambitious fundraising plans and increasing their visibility on campus. This will also undoubtedly encourage the formation of groups that would have otherwise been unable to clear the financial obstacles posed by the dues-and-donations model. All are positive developments, and will serve to increase the relevance of Harvard’s many student groups.
It is still worth noting that this initiative is an experimental program involving a significant degree of risk. As the UC finances its expenditures through fees collected from undergraduates, it is obligated to invest these funds wisely. We hope that the new administration will distribute this money prudently, neither approving obviously risky projects nor denying worthy ones.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On February 4, the Human Rights Campaign gave its 2012 Corporate Equality award to Goldman Sachs, the infamous investment bank typically associated with greed and inequality. While Goldman has an admirable diversity recruiting program for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender people and other groups traditionally excluded from Wall Street, hiring practices are just one of many fields where a corporation may have a social impact. Looking at its broader impact on LGBT rights and other forms of inequality, it is clear that Goldman Sachs is blatantly undeserving of the Corporate Equality award. Furthermore, HRC’s decision to give Goldman this award is a telling indictment of an organization increasingly at odds with queer activists across the country.
The HRC was founded in 1980 “to provide financial support on behalf of the gay and lesbian community to candidates... who pledge their support of gay civil rights legislation.” However, Goldman Sachs has supported conservative politicians who oppose LGBT equality. For example, Goldman’s employees have been the largest financial supporters of Governor Mitt Romney’s presidential campaign, despite his opposition to marriage equality and his ending Don’t Ask Don’t Tell. The Obama administration, on the other hand, has repealed Don’t Ask Don’t Tell, refused to defend the federal government’s ban on same sex marriage, and made protection of LGBT rights abroad a part of U.S. foreign policy. By promoting Romney instead of Obama, Goldman employees are using their wealth to fight against LGBT equality.
Goldman Sachs cannot be a meaningful political ally for LGBT equality because its position to profit from conservative economic policies will almost always place them at odds with candidates promoting LGBT equality. Clearly, corporate influence is too strong at the HRC when it is giving special recognition to a corporation that works against its original mission. In addition to Goldman, other major corporate sponsors of HRC include Bank of America, Citi, Chase, and Morgan Stanley.
More deeply, Goldman Sachs is unworthy of the Corporate Equality award because it has produced and perpetuated economic, gender, and racial inequality through irresponsible financial practices. But why should economic, gender, racial, and economic inequality matter at all to the Human Rights Campaign? The simplest reason is that there are LGBT people of all races, genders, and classes, and the HRC cannot expect support from people whom it liberates in some ways but oppresses in others.
Furthermore, HRC claims to promote LGBT rights as a part of human rights more generally. Its mission statement declares that HRC strives to “realize a nation that achieves fundamental fairness and equality for all.” Branding LGBT equality as a human right is a strategic tool for building consensus and legitimacy around LGBT rights. However, this framework cannot be used if the HRC fails to respect the broader human rights agenda—which is exactly what honoring Goldman Sachs has accomplished. Clearly, this organization must implement many changes before it can deserve the name Human Rights Campaign.
Honoring Goldman Sachs means honoring a bank whose financial abuses have disproportionately hurt low-income and non-white Americans. Goldman played a pivotal role in the creation of the financial crisis, employing credit default swaps to create toxic debts in Greece and toxic mortgages in the USA while betting against the odds of repayment in order to derive profit from the ensuing collapse. Goldman directly hurt the working class through wrongful home foreclosures, kicking people out of their homes without even conducting the required review of case files. Furthermore, the foreclosure crisis exacerbated racial inequalities, with black and Latino families almost three times more likely to lose their homes than white families.
Honoring Goldman Sachs also means honoring a workplace environment where racial and gender inequality run rampant. Christina Chen-Oster, a former vice-president who spent eight years at Goldman, filed a class action discrimination lawsuit against Goldman in 2010 with two other female employees. She reported pervasive workplace sexism and racism at Goldman, including an instance when she had to use physical force to stop unwanted sexual advances from a coworker while walking home from a company-funded visit to a strip club.
Sadly, the decision to honor Goldman Sachs is the norm rather than the exception for HRC. Astonishingly, the HRC also gave the 2011 Workplace Equality award to Goldman Sachs. By failing to look outside Wall Street, HRC has demonstrated that it is uninterested in workplace equality outside of the outrageously wealthy financial firms that help fund their organization.
Many working class Americans fear disclosing their sexual orientation or gender identity at work knowing they could fall into poverty if they are fired. But HRC continues to focus single-mindedly on LGBT equality on Wall Street, whose employees are rich and protected by state and city laws against anti-LGBT discrimination. However, in most parts of America it is still perfectly legal to fire someone because of their gender identity or sexual orientation. It would be much more meaningful for HRC to reward pioneers standing up for LGBT equality where it is not legally protected rather than to reward Goldman Sachs for meeting expectations.
By focusing on this incredibly privileged group of Wall Street employees, HRC is ignoring the needs of normal LGBT people. Awards like the Corporate Equality award enable Goldman Sachs to create a false image of social responsibility while continuing to perpetuate inequality in all of its forms. However, LGBT activists with a social conscience have responded quickly, organizing protests in NYC and San Francisco as well as a petition on change.org. The whole debacle has ultimately served to implicate HRC for supporting Wall Street abuses and has solidified HRC as an organization that has lost any memory of what the fight for equality is all about.
Samuel J. Bakkila ’11-’12 is a special concentrator in Social Inequality and Public Health in Eliot House. He is the former Co-Chair of Queer Students and Allies.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Graduate Student Council recently made news with a resounding vote in favor of a resolution that proclaims solidarity with nonviolent protesters at the University  of California and condemns the use of violence against students on campuses everywhere. This resolution passed 29-9 at a widely publicized meeting of the GSC, which took place in Dudley House on February 1st.
Many members of the GSC stated that the meeting at which the resolution was proposed, and the subsequent meeting at which it was debated, were the best attended and most engaging meetings they had ever seen at the GSC. Indeed, the passage of this resolution followed almost two months of deliberation, during which GSC representatives were asked to bring the resolution to students in their departments and programs to solicit opinions, and, where necessary, to conduct a student vote on it. The resulting public statement represents a reinvigorated notion of graduate student government that has been dormant for too long.
Contrasting with this vision, Dahianna Lopez and Laura McDaniel wrote in their February 3 op-ed that the primary purpose of the GSC is “to allocate research and travel grants supported by the mandatory $25 fee assessed to every resident GSAS student in the fall of each academic year.” Though this may characterize the primary activity of the GSC in recent years, it is not the Council’s primary function. In fact, it does not even appear in the “Objects and Purposes” section of the GSC Constitution. Instead, this section opens by stating the role of the GSC: “to serve as the official representative body of the students of GSAS; to provide a forum for discussion of issues internal and external of concern to graduate students; to represent graduate student interests before the Harvard faculty and administration.” In fact, Lopez and McDaniel are also incorrect in stating that the $25 fee is mandatory, as it can be waived by any graduate student as long as this is requested in writing at the start of the year.
Their letter does, however, open an important conversation about the organization and structure of the GSC. The debate over the GSC’s latest resolution demonstrates that not only were most GSC representatives not elected in the first place, but many representatives also did not even know how to communicate with the students they were appointed to represent!
I was engaged with the GSC in various capacities for a long time (2006 – 2010). As a former executive board officer of the GSC, who has previously held responsibility for constitutional affairs at the Council, I am well aware of the undemocratic and ineffective nature of its structure and function. For example, the GSC president, vice-president, and secretary, to name a few, are not elected by graduate students in general, but by a handful of representatives, who form less than two percent of GSC membership. This may be news to undergraduates and the general Harvard community used to the participatory nature of the Undergraduate Council elections, where issues close to the undergraduate community become part of competing campaigns’ platforms. The fact that the GSC has allowed its democratic credentials to slip and its focus to narrow to that of a mere channel for funds puts it in shameful standing alongside comparable student councils in the country, and alongside the truly active organization that this month’s debate has showed it can be.
Even the GSC fee is a symbol of its undemocratic nature, as this represents an increase of 25 percent that was voted on at a meeting in the spring of 2011 with very poor attendance. Why would so few representatives turn up to vote on an issue as important as a 25 percent increase in an annual fee, to be levied on all Harvard graduate students? Because that crucial meeting was held on the Longwood campus, far away from the eyes of the vast majority of Graduate School of Arts and Sciences students who may have opposed it. The upcoming meeting will also be held at Longwood.
The resolution proposed for discussion at the March meeting of the GSC is of profound importance to the future of the Council. If it fails, the GSC may be robbed of the ability to make any public statements on issues that don’t uniquely relate to graduate students. What about the university health plan, library hours, or recreational facilities? As these issues apply to more than just graduate students, rejection of this resolution gags the Council from commenting on any of these important issues. Lopez and McDaniel try to frighten readers by bringing up resolutions that have nothing to do with graduate student affairs, without noting that such issues, unlike that debated on this month, clearly fall outside of the realm of the GSC as defined by its constitution.
I call on the GSC to delay its vote on this important resolution until it can be held at a meeting that most of its members can attend. To attempt to use low attendance in order to overturn a resolution voted on with huge attendance is subversive to the democratic spirit, and betrays an unnecessary fear of the political, as if that weren’t what student government were all about. I also invite all graduate students to attend monthly meetings from here on, and to offer your voice as to what your council might mean to you.
Garga Chatterjee, PhD '11, is a non-resident tutor in Winthrop House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This Saturday marks the one-year anniversary of Hosni Mubarak’s resignation, and the Harvard University Institute of Politics marked the occasion last week with the event “Egypt: From Tahrir Square to Today.” The panel, which included Harvard Kennedy School Professor Tarek Masoud and journalist Mona Eltahawy, praised the new self-determination of the Egyptian people and expressed a cautious optimism despite the inherent “messiness” of Egypt’s transition to democratic rule.
But there is another story to be told here, one that was disgracefully ignored by the panel and often downplayed in the Western media. And that is the story of how the Egyptian revolution has resulted in unmitigated disaster for Egypt’s Coptic Christians.
Deriving their name from the Arabic “qubt,” meaning “Egyptian,” Copts have maintained a continuous presence in Egypt since approximately 43 CE, almost six centuries before the founding of Islam. Over the past few decades, Egypt’s Copts have experienced severe persecution from extremist Muslim groups—a horrific church bombing in Alexandria on New Year’s Day 2011 was the most devastating attack before the revolution. For better or worse, however, under Mubarak, the Egyptian government suppressed many of these extremist groups, including members of the ultraconservative Salafists. As a result, Copts maintained an uneasy relationship with the military and currently account for approximately ten percent of Egypt’s population.
But that number is dwindling. Since Mubarak’s ouster last year, escalating persecution against Copts has led to what one refugee calls a mass Christian “exodus” from Egypt. Forty Copts died in 22 separate incidents in the first half of 2011, compared to just 15 in all of 2010. For the first time ever, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom has recommended that Egypt be designated a “Country of Particular Concern,” placing it on par with the likes of North Korea, Iraq, and Saudi Arabia with respect to religious freedom. Human rights groups estimate that approximately 100,000 Christians have fled Egypt since the revolution, and the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service reports that the number of Copts seeking asylum in America more than doubled in 2011.
What, exactly, has happened since last February? Although Christians demonstrated alongside Muslims to overthrow Mubarak last year, the military regime in his absence has refused to make any arrests in response to attacks on Copts. So although Salafists continued to persecute Christians throughout 2011, the post-Mubarak government has given them a far freer reign to do so.
Thus, one month after Mubarak’s ouster, Al Arabiya ran an article headlined “Ultraconservative Muslims more assertive in Egypt,” detailing how Salafists clashed with villagers south of Cairo after demanding that a liquor store be closed down. In May, approximately 11 people were killed and two churches burned after a Salafist-led mob terrorized Christians in Imbaba. In October, the Egyptian army fired at Copts in Maspero who were peacefully protesting a church attack, killing 26 mostly Christian protestors.
Furthermore, the recent democratic elections allowed parties that were previously banned under Mubarak to run freely. This reform was hailed in the West, but the unfortunate result left the Salafists, the very people who had been helping facilitate oppression of Egypt’s Copts for decades, in control of approximately a quarter of Egypt’s parliament.
American reaction to these events has unfortunately been far too muted. A New York Times column by Nicolas Kristof in December, for example, featured a video in its online version titled “Who’s Afraid of Egypt’s Islamists?” “Democratic transitions are always messy,” Kristof asserts, but “the fundamental historical truth unfolding this year is not the rise of one party,” but “the emergence of people-power…to overthrow a dictator.” “It’s reasonable to worry,” Kristof insists, “but let’s not overdo it.”
Three weeks after Kristof published that column, the spokesman for the Salafist Al Nour party declared that it was forbidden for Muslims to send Christmas greetings to Christians. Three days later, a Coptic student was detained for publishing an “offensive” image of Muhammad on his Facebook—Al-Masry Al-Youm reported that angry Muslim residents from four nearby villages proceeded to firebomb the student’s house. And five days before the IOP event, a mob of over 3000 Muslims attacked Copts in Alexandria, looting Coptic homes and shops before setting them ablaze.
Needless to say, none of these incidents was mentioned at the Harvard panel.
Given the tremendous optimism expressed by the United States at the start of the Arab Spring, it is hard to acknowledge the reality that Egyptian self-determination has come at the expense of its Christians. But the answer to this problem is not to ignore it. Everything that is said now, while Egypt’s government is still in flux, can help shape the country in a way that will protect the rights of its minorities. And for the sake of religious freedom for Egypt’s Coptic Christians, America cannot afford to be silent.
Avishai D. Don ’12, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Adams House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I like to ride my bicycle. I live in what the students call the Quad, an area on campus that Harvard once used to house women and minorities. Naturally, it is farther away from central campus than any other housing. The walk from there to the main Yard takes anywhere from 10 to 30 minutes, depending on how late you are or how long your legs are. It takes me 30 minutes because I am short and lazy.
And so I got a bike the first month after I got back to school. I wanted to get a hipster bike, but the one outside of the ATA store would have cost me nearly $500, so I quickly went inside, to the lower level, and asked the clerk for the one that was the least expensive. And there he showed me my prize: an olive green mountain bike with the words “DIAMOND BACK” printed in curly letters on the side. It was the smallest and considerably less expensive.
“I’ll take this one,” I said, and I rode the bike home wearing my fashionable pink glasses and red flowery sundress. From that day on I rode my bike everywhere.
There were many perks to having a bike. It was faster than walking, and it was more fun than driving. I could have both the privileges of riding a car and of being a pedestrian, and I could switch my role depending on where the traffic lay. I loved it when I found an empty road and I could just sit on my bike, and let the inertia take me to where I needed to be. All I needed to do was sit and enjoy the wind and feel good wearing my favorite dress.
There were also times when I nearly got run over by cars. I was going down Garden Street, towards the intersection with Mass. Ave., when the car in the neighboring lane started to change into my lane. I could not move any farther right because the side was already filled with parked cars, and I could not stop or else the cars behind me would hit me. I tried to scream, but what came out was small. I prepared myself to die when the car was a foot away from my side, and then it bounced back into its lane. I was going to be okay.
In a strange sense, this danger kept me alive. On Fridays, I would ride my bike in one direction until I got lost (which happens very easily). Sometimes it helped for me to choose one location and then make my way towards it. I rode to a nursing home in Arlington; to the Medical School; to a bubble tea place in Boston; through the small neighborhoods surrounding the Business School; all around the Charles.
No one knew me. All that existed was my bike and the drifting of my shadow on the road. I rode alongside with fear, and fear forced me to become fully aware of everything going on around me: of swaying patterns of traffic, of movements of my own body, of strange men staring at me through parked cars. I was using all of my capacities and wits to stay alive and make it back home, something that I had to do constantly when I travelled alone through South America and that I missed doing very much once I left. It was the adventure I craved, that somehow, in Cambridge, I could feel as alive as I did when I walked through Peru.
And yet, it’s not about the adventure. It’s not about being able to replace “walks of shame” with “rides of pride.” It’s not about feeling special when I furiously pedal down Mt. Auburn Street in a dress or racing (and beating) the shuttle back from the Quad. It’s the ride that I care about.
My favorite time to ride my bike is at two in the morning when I make my daily trip from Pfoho to Quincy. After finishing a day’s worth of work, I pack up my bags, close the door, and turn off the light. The moment I hop on, I know I am done for the day.
Riding away from my dorm, I see clumps of students walking towards the Quad—some are probably marching to their late-night love nest, others from a late meeting in Lamont. I pedal down Garden Street, and I am the only person who exists in the world. Cambridge becomes an entirely different city on a late Monday night. Not a single car drives by, and I smile knowing that I am the best friend I have at that moment. I am stirred by my sudden lack of thought, and it turns into a smile. Sometimes I sing, sometimes I don’t. Sometimes I wear my leather gloves, sometimes I forget.
Silence does move, and it moves inside of me. The current of my mind adjusts to the topography of the landscape, and for once in the day, I am at peace. I ride past CVS and see two homeless men smoking, and I think of Mickey, whom I met at the homeless shelter a year ago, and wonder if he is still alive. I am surrounded by strangers, and yet I feel at home. I see a man walking alone on the street and wonder if he is sharing my serenity. Perhaps he knows what I’m up to. I don’t mind, because I know my secrets will be guarded in the stillness of the night. There is an unwritten code of silence, and all of us stragglers understand that.
This is why I ride my bike. I live for these moments of transition, these moments of change, for it is in being between two points that I am forced to live in the present. I avoid the shuttle at all costs, because I don’t want my moments of transition to be ruined by the constant talk and interjection of people in my head. Whenever I talk to anyone, I am letting them enter me momentarily. If I do not take time to realign myself, I will be cut to pieces. I find that I am constantly hurling myself into the world and scratching myself against life. Interactions with others may not necessarily bring us pain, but they do shift the self in strange ways. Over time, these shifts collect and multiply in effect until, before we realize it, we have become something entirely different. Where is that time to heal?
And so, for seven-and-a-half minutes every day, starting at around two in the morning, I take my bike out and start my meditation. I ride in this blissful solitude for seven-and-a-half precious minutes, observing the world through the eyes of an infant until I reach the gates of Quincy. Every night, I finish this journey knowing that something had just happened, something too beautiful and too subtle to be put into words.
I park my bike and I take off my gloves, if I am wearing them, and then I start moving forward again.
Sections
If all goes well, I will be graduating in May. Accordingly, it seems, I am expected to develop some sort of template to follow in the coming months, and my thoughts have started coming back to those that I shamelessly admire.
One of them, my childhood piano teacher—it feels silly to refer to a childhood, as if I have entered adulthood, as if you and I aren’t childish—is a real artist. I recognized this shortly after I started studying with her, when she described a moment during a Rubinstein concert—or maybe it was Richter—that she attended while still a conservatory student; she was sitting so far up in the nosebleeds that to hear every soft note of the piano would be a miracle. Because it was Richter (or Rubinstein), her miracle duly occurred: Closing her eyes, she could hear the notes falling like glass against grass, and the crowded wooden rows disappeared as she floated out of her seat into the clouds and among the angels. My teacher insists on the existence of angels. I take her word for it.
She was forced from her art by circumstances out of her control. Her stage fright, she claimed in a commanding voice, was impossible to master. And besides: Her hands were devastatingly small. When she was still curled up inside her mother, longitudinal interdigital necrosis failed miserably after six or seven weeks, causing a very slight case of syndactyly: excess webbing between the fingers.
What she really meant was that her fingers were too short to play a ninth comfortably. So while others leaped forward, she was held back by having to spend hours practicing stretches that only marginally widened her reach, to tackle passages that required the most creative of fingering, and to rehearse acrobatics that might successfully get her from one note to the next.
She often took the liberty of eliminating notes from the score entirely, since even the most educated ears wouldn’t have been able to tell which were missing from the crowd. Often it worked. Sometimes it didn’t. She had memorized a list of pieces she never could quite master and would relate them to me in passing. And then, brightening: “You should learn it! You could, with your hand size.”
I hated it when she said things like that—I hated her for bringing up hand size at all—because I always felt incredibly guilty, as if I were wasting a gift, letting to rot something that could have been.
Over the years, I found it increasingly strange that she pointed so often to the webbing between her fingers, mostly because I just didn’t see any. Her hands were not physically deformed. They were just small. But, for her, those things were one and the same—that her fingers couldn’t stretch any further had to be the result of some sort of mutation, some physical difference. The hours she spent begging God for a reason behind the curse amounted to silence, until finally she was made to be satisfied with science and with students who never practiced quite as much as they should.
Occasionally, I’ve been advised not to do what I love doing, because I’ll just grow to hate it. Love is an emotion better reserved for hobbies and knick-knacks, not occupations. It’s a common refrain around the Harvard campus: we assume that eventually, by taking the usual paths, we’ll grow rich and fat and stable—and then we can start to do what we really love.
But I look at my teacher’s life; I hear stories about growing up in Soviet Russia; I visit her in the mobile trailer park where she holds lessons and lives alone. I watch as she jealously regards my hands and I realize that, despite everything, she is more full of life than anyone else I know.
Maybe it’s stupid to throw caution to the wind. My mother certainly believes so; she informs me that it’s a luxury to de-prioritize job stability for the sake of potentially misguided adventure. Money, she reminds me, allows for the comforts in life that you don’t realize you desire when you’re young. Her realism plays the Doubting Thomas in my head, the voice that reminds me no, I don’t have any idea what I want to do with my life; I spend more hours commiserating with my unemployed friends than discussing my future in productive ways; and I duck my head in the sand during recruiting seasons in the hopes that I might still look recruitable without it.
It’s not that I just don’t know—it’s not that I can’t say what exactly might wake me up in the morning without the dissatisfactions of an office job routine and that corporate bullshit. It’s that to flout convention requires a kind of conviction that I’m not sure I have.
It’s in this moment that I remember my teacher telling me about Richter and/or Rubinstein, stories in which she wasn’t working, or doing much of anything at all. She was just sitting there, basking in sounds that she loved and understood so well, leaving me to suppose that that was enough for her.
 
— Danielle Kim ’12, a former Crimson Design Chair, is an anthropology concentrator in Quincy House. She enjoys floating to the harmonies of piano keys.
Sections
9:15 p.m. Filling out internship applications in formal wear. Way to go, Harvard.
9:27 p.m. Rosé with vodka-soaked gummy bears. That’s classy, right?
 9:41 p.m. Swaying slightly. My alcohol tolerance has decreased since freshman week.
 9:43 p.m. “We’re going to the effing party!!” someone shouts.
9:50 p.m. On the T.
 9:54 p.m. I can’t wait for a magical night full of sexy times and grinding. Oh, may the light of the disco ball and my dress’s sparkles bedazzling deliver me to a night full of romance and stars.
9:57 p.m. Why do the Krokodiloes wear dumb jackets?
 10:06 p.m. “How much is tuition?” asks the guy next to me.
 10:12 p.m. We have to walk on an overpass to get to formal. This is an evolutionary rat race: those who don’t get hit by cars on the way to the party get to mate at the end of the night.
 10:25 p.m. I didn’t realize all these people were in my class.
10:31 p.m. Christ, I wish I had a flask.
10:42 p.m. Flask.
11:10 p.m. Sense of cosmic completeness. It’s like I BELONG here.
11:12 p.m. No one wants to dance with me.
11:13 p.m. Flask, please.
11:46 p.m. We are alone in the universe and bound for death. How am I supposed to get my grind on when somebody’s pulled the fire alarm? And why is there no Pitbull? There are no sexy times without Pitbull.
11:57 p.m. These are not sexy times.
12:25 a.m. People making out in public are not cool, unless those people are me. I don’t know where my friends have gone.
 12:31 a.m. Give up all hope.
12:32 a.m. God, I love Celine Dion.
12:40 a.m. Shuttle.
1:15 a.m. Afterparty?
1:16 a.m. Sophomore booty call?
1:21 a.m. Bed.
11:47 a.m. Hangover.
12:13 p.m. Internship applications in pajamas. Way to go, Harvard.
Sections
It’s that time of year again when those who are in love rejoice and those who are not get belligerently drunk. Regardless of whether you’re sipping these recipes in the arms of your lover or pounding them down alone, FM hopes they’ll hit the spot.
THE ENCANTO
Pause your “When Harry Met Sally” DVD and savor this Latin love-day favorite.
-½ oz. of simple syrup
-¼ oz. of lime juice
-7 oz. champagne
-Raspberries
Start with simple syrup in a flute, add champagne, and top off with lime juice and raspberries.
THE HOPELESS ROMANTIC
This sweet drink will get you feisty enough to enjoy Valentine’s Day properly.
-2 oz. champagne
-½ oz. lemonade
-½ oz. orange juice
-½ pineapple juice
-1 lemon twist
Mix juices well, throw in champagne, and garnish with lemon twist.
THE SHOT OF LOVE
Crush a couple of these babies, and V-Day will either be one to remember or one you won’t have to.
-1 oz. vodka (preferably grape)
-½ oz. raspberry liquor
-½ oz. cranberry juice
Put all ingredients in a cocktail shaker. Add ice and shake. Pour into a chilled shot glass and enjoy.
Sections
With an abundance of cheesy pick-up lines and heavily-armed nude flying babies, Valentine’s Day already crosses over into the somewhat absurd. But such absurdity is never best confronted alone. For this reason, FM brings you four tips for faking a relationship this February 14th. Hey, you may not be able to trick yourself into happiness on this fateful day, but you just might be able to trick others into thinking you’re not quite so alone.
Make Your Dog Your Valentine
What to do: When people ask you who those roses or that unusually large steak you are buying are for, you can simply say “my baby” or “my puppy.” This works especially well if your dog has a human name such as Todd or Zoe. Cutesy names work as well.
What to watch out for: The name “Mr. Bo-Jangles” might be a giveaway. Don’t reference the “accident” on your kitchen floor. Also, most romantic restaurants are not dog-friendly.
 Have a “Long-Distance” Valentine
What to do: Simply tell people that your girl goes to Boston University. If people get curious, make up a vague major and name: “Karen majors in English.”  Don’t say “concentrates.” The more bland you keep your Valentine, the more likely people will be to lose interest and walk away.
]What to watch out for: If you are worried about people somehow having a connection with nearby universities, move your Valentine somewhere even more remote than BU. North Dakota and Wyoming are nice, unpopulated places. Some will be so shocked that there are actually people living there that they won’t think to question your story.
 Schedule a Lunch Meeting with Your Academic Advisor 
What to do: Tell people you have a “hot date” and leave it at that. If you make it to a restaurant known for its spicy cuisine, this statement will also be true. Even if the date doesn’t go well, at least you’ll get some solid advice (and maybe indegestion) along the way.
What to watch out for: Make sure the date doesn’t go too well...That could make future meetings awkward.
 Skip Class and Tell People you Have Mono
What to do: Announce that you have “the kissing disease.” People can assume the worst—or the best.
What to watch out for: Your lack of symptoms may give your story away. Also, telling people you have a disease might hurt your chances for getting a future Valentine.
Sections
If music icon Janet Jackson spoke about running into Michael Jackson impersonators:
I’ve seen a lot of good ones. Since Michael’s death, the best ones I’ve run into have psychologically scarred me. This one impersonator in Miami did a great moonwalk.
No one chooses to impersonate black Michael. Is that racist? Probably.
Sections
The Harvard Law School’s recently opened Wasserstein Hall is now home to a bathroom that is sure to inspire an involuntary giggle from even the most serious of law students. Berkeley Law Professor William A. Falik is the namesake for this new addition to the Law School’s hallowed halls.
Falik made the donation in honor of his late father’s 100th birthday. His first choice for the inscription? The Falik Gentlemen’s Lounge. According to the blog Above the Law, former Law School Dean and current Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan approved of his preferred moniker.
Sections
In honor of Harvard’s annual V-day rendition of “The Vagina Monologues,” FM passes the microphone to a gender-neutral orating body part: the humble navel.
“The late 90s  were rough for everyone, but for us in particular. The early 2000s were even more brutal. I don’t want to be the bearer of bad news, but you aren’t Britney Spears circa 1999.
The next time you want to take your inner slutty Catholic out for a spin, please remember that I carry over 1,400 strains of bacteria. I’m a dime-sized bio terrorist.
Keep that in mind whenever the fancy for an exposed midriff strikes.
Just because I’m not crusading for crop tops like Carrie Bradshaw doesn’t make me some kind of prude. I was just a little insecure. Your cousin Brad once tried to stuff me with mini M&Ms. He fit three before your mom made him stop. All I’m saying is: umbilicoplasty. We could look into it. Karolina Kurkova did it. Just saying. Brad. What an asshole.
We’re only going to have a few more summers of bikinis, okay? I’m not going to shamelessly bare all like some Seaside Heights outie until we’re 40. At a certain point, we’re going to have to invest in a little more spandex than you’re used to. But please wait until you’re at least 50 to buy a Miracle Suit. We’re better than that.
When pregnancy eventually distorts me beyond repair, remember that it was I who facilitated all of those body shots during senior year.
You’re welcome.
Speaking of senior year, why is your mother so square? The hole has basically completely closed, and anyway, I kind of liked it.
By the way, I think I have displacement condition. I was Googling “Ayuverdic principle,” and I read that if the distance between me and your left foot, and me and your right foot isn’t equal, I’m displaced. We should look into yoga lessons.
Oh, and for heaven’s sake—we’re adults. Stop calling me a belly button. It’s embarrassing.”
Sections
This evening’s third annual Harvard Thinks Big draws inspiration from the TED (Technology, Entertainment, Design) conferences, celebrated for gathering some of the world’s most brilliant names in different fields to share their big passions in short lectures. What follows is the participating professors’ previews of their ten-minute speeches: transformative ideas encapsulated in only one sentence.
Stephen J. Greenblatt, Professor of the Humanities
“I’ll be talking about radical innovation in the arts, with Hamlet as my principal example.”
Nicholas A. Christakis, Professor of Sociology and Pforzheimer House Master
“I will be speaking about how and why human social networks are like carbon.”
Douglas A. Melton, Professor in the Natural Sciences and Elliot Housemaster
“I will speak on the new biology of stem cells and prospects for enhancing the human condition.
Donhee Ham,  Professor of Applied Physics and Electrical Engineering
“I will talk about ‘broken symmetry,’ and that’s pretty much what I can tell at this point.”
Kaia Stern, Lecturer on Ethics at the Divinity School
“My talk is called ‘Act Big: Dare to See,’ and I will focus on the ways we exclude certain members of our society, are blind to the ways we are connected, and are unaware of our power as agents of change.”
Eleanor R. Duckworth, Professor of Education
“I want to let people know they are lucky to teach.”
Daniel E. Lieberman ‘86, Professor of Human Evolutionary Biology
“I haven’t anything profound to say, other than I am looking forward to the chance to participate, and I am taking the assignment of  ‘thinking big’ very seriously and perhaps a little too literally.”
Jill M. Lepore, Professor of American History
“Nothing is bigger than the past.”
Sections
Fifteen Minutes presents you with the 2012 Chickwich Challenge: 12 dining halls, 108 chicken patties, five teams, one race for eternal fame and glory. Join us as we follow the (throw)ups and (scarf)downs of Eric R. Brewster ’14, Matthew S. Chuchul ’13, Laura E. D’Asaro ’13, Richard K. Fegelman ’13, Philip M. Gillen ’13, Christine J. Hu ’13, Adam B. Kern ’13, Avery A. Leonard ’14, Andrew K. Murray ’13, and Tobi T. Tikolo ’14 as they lay their stomachs on the line in the name of all that is unidentifiable meat. The rules of the athletic contest, which started in the Cabot dining hall and ended at the Eliot servery, are straightforward: Each team must eat its way across campus, devouring two golden discs of processed delight in each dining hall along the way.
Without further ado, let the games begin.
START
 
GILLEN & KERN
For all the words that have been used to describe Chickwich Challenge, “a gentleman’s game” has never been among them. That is, until Philip Michael “The Chickwich” Gillen and Adam Burchfield “Leg Man” Kern stroll into the Cabot dining hall at promptly “noon-thirty” on competition day.
Gillen stands smartly in a navy suit and bright red bow tie, his leather shoes gleaming in the midday sun. He seems comfortable in his incongruous chickwiching attire, which stands in sharp contrast to his athletically-outfitted opponents. Kern, in similar dress, cradles a bottle of red wine.
“These suits are fully functional,” says Kern in a vaguely British accent as bystanders take notice of their odd dress. “All weather, all terrain, we’re ready.”
BREWSTER & LEONARD
Brewster and Leonard’s motivation for participating in the Chickwich Challenge is unclear, though what is certain is that they do not intend to take this competition seriously.
While other competitors have shown up in running gear or coordinated outfits, Brewster is wearing a terry-cloth shirt, orange gym shorts, boat shoes, and—despite the midday sun—a head lamp. “If there’s a power outage,” he explains matter-of-factly.
In a red winter coat and heeled clogs, Leonard looks as if she could just as soon be walking to class as to an eating contest.
The two are members of the Harvard Generalist, a student group dedicated to artistic content that aims to bridge the gap between performer and audience, and—before the competition has even started—it’s clear that the pair are treating the Challenge as a stage for some type of performance art.
There’s no semblance of a strategy. “Can you carry me?” Brewster casually asks his cohort.
“Probably,” she responds, explaining that she feels up to the task since she spends a lot of time hauling around scrap metal for art pieces. She is probably being facetious here, but it’s tough to be sure.
D’ASARO & MURRAY
Clad in tight “K-Force” t-shirts, black athletic shorts, Under Armour sweatbands, and knee highs (courtesy of their Quidditch uniforms), D’Asaro and Murray are prepared to eat their way across campus, one dining hall at a time. While Murray appears anxious, D’Asaro is energetic, springing into a back flip in the Quad Yard as she and Murray walk to Cabot House.
“We shared a watermelon this morning to help stretch our stomachs. It’s low in calories and high-volume,” D’Asaro says, explaining their strategy. “Most competitive eaters do this. We did some research.”
With small white and yellow pedometers clipped to their shorts, they reason that running to each of the Houses will help, in a small way, to counteract their gluttony.
“We’re going to do our best and help one another,” D’Asaro says. “It’s all about supporting each other.”
FEGELMAN & TIKOLO
It’s 12:36 p.m. when Tikolo orders his first chickwich—or two, actually, the second for his partner, Fegelman. Tikolo rests his elbow on the grill’s counter, chatting casually with the other contestants. In a white sweatband, button-up shirt (sans bow tie), and loafers, he’s dressed down for the occasion.
“We’re in this for the headbands,” Fegelman says, grinning at Tikolo, “and for the friendship.”
A few seconds later, Fegelman disappears without a word. Tikolo searches for his partner, who he later learns has run ahead to order two chickwiches in Currier and Pforzheimer in advance. “I’ve got this guy’s proverbial back,” Fegelman says. Tikolo laughs, and Fegelman continues: “I’m just dishing these lines out, no pun intended.”
IN THE QUAD
 
BREWSTER & LEONARD
It’s “Go!’ and the Challenge begins. Leonard waits for the first chickwiches in Cabot as Brewster runs to place grill orders at the other two Quad houses in an improvised divide-and-conquer strategy.
When he returns, the two take their first bites. “They’re so dry!” Brewster complains. “They’re so bad without buns or mustard,” Leonard adds.
After Cabot, the pair splits up. Brewster goes to Pforzheimer to eat the two chickwiches he has ordered, while Leonard goes to Currier to do the same.
“We don’t believe in phones,” Leonard explains as she walks into Currier. It’s an arbitrary restriction that will make coordination much more difficult.
“How much sabotage is too much sabotage?” she asks, eyeing two chickwiches sitting on the counter in Currier, seemingly unaware that the plate is meant for her.
After a trip to the soda machine, she finally figures it out. “Oh, maybe he already ordered! These might be his!”
“I think it’s impossible to eat without a bun,” Leonard posits, also giving faint praise to the patties’ “wonderful, ambiguous, processed consistency.”
Before splitting up, Brewster had said that he would meet Leonard back in Currier, but he hasn’t shown up yet. “I’m very worried,” Leonard says. “We’re both full of empty promises.”
He shows up shortly afterwards, and supports Leonard by eating half of her chickwich, dipping the patty in water for easier eating. By their math, he has eaten three-and-a-half chickwiches, and Avery has eaten two-and-a-half. Six down, 18 to go.
D’ASARO & MURRAY
“They’re so hot!” D’Asaro exclaims mid-mouthful.
The pair tear their oily, sizzling slabs of meat into pieces before wolfing them down. After busing their plates and glasses, they sprint to Pfoho, stopping twice to ask for directions before finding the dining hall. As D’Asaro orders, Murray scrambles to get glasses of water and a plate of ketchup.
“Good teamwork, Andrew,” D’Asaro cheers.
She bounces on the balls of her feet as the grill chef deposits a fresh plate of chickwiches on the counter. Glancing at the grill receipt, she discovers that the chickwiches belong to another team.
“I don’t want to steal the chickwiches,” D’Asaro says, putting the plate aside.
GILLEN & KERN
Gillen saunters past his competitors—or his “fellow chickwich enthusiasts,” as the pair prefer to call them—announcing with a guffaw that he has already swiped.
While waiting for their first plates, the team has questions about the International Chickwich Committee (ICC) and its policy on buns. However, noting that the Chickwich Challenge is a private event not regulated by the ICC, they decide to forgo buns, remaining “chickwich purists.”
The coveted sandwiches arrive shortly thereafter, and the pair collect their supplies: two plates, two glasses, and enough cutlery to supply each of their fellow enthusiasts with the proper utensils for a proper meal.
“I should probably Purell real quick” says Gillen, taking a moment to clean his hands before sitting down to the first patty of the day.
Once seated, Kern uncorks the bottle of wine.
“Nothing puts me in the mood for a chickwich like a spunky Shiraz,” says Kern, sipping from a glass of his six-dollar bottle and remarking on its “complicated” aroma.
The 2010 Shiraz is the preferred wine for chickwich consumption, by the team’s consensus. A Chardonnay would have been Kern’s second choice, as the wine would “bring out the hidden underbelly” of the chickwich, with a ’95 Malbec (a “great year”) coming in at a close third.
Cutting into the patties with care, each raises a piece in toast: “This is the first bite of a new life,” proposes Gillen.
As Gillen takes his third bite, their opponents are already off to the next house. Seeing their fellow enthusiasts depart, Gillen grows concerned. “Why is everyone leaving so quickly?” he ponders. “It’s just rude.”
FEGELMAN & TIKOLO
By the time the two chickwiches Tikolo had ordered at Cabot are prepared, Fegelman is back and ready for action.
“This is disgusting,” Fegelman says, dissecting the chickwich without looking at it. Noticing a camera, he pauses. “I’m self-conscious when I eat.”
Leonard remarks on the bareness of the team’s chickwiches—no condiments or spices, nothing. “You can’t eat the same of one thing 12 times,” she says.
“Watch me,” Fegelman jokingly retaliates.
Within five minutes, the team has downed their first chickwiches and is headed to Currier.
There, they pick up their orders without a word and eat on the go, leaving their empty plates by the salad bar and taking their last bites by the soda fountain. They grimace, fanning the chickwiches to cool them off.
In Pfoho, a dining hall worker says that three other teams have already left. Tikolo, who had committed to the Challenge without a complete understanding of its rules, isn’t too happy with his third chickwich: “I thought we only had to eat six,” he says, laughing in disbelief.
Fegelman is not ecstatic either, commenting on the poor quality of this particular chickwich. “This is the worst,” he says while inspecting the greasy composition. “It’s kind of crumbly, not ideal. What really freaks me out is how homogenous it is on the inside.”
QUARTER POUNDER
 
BREWSTER & LEONARD
In the sanctuary of the shuttle, Leonard comments on the chickwich’s standing in the vast oeuvre of HUDS chicken products. “It’s pretty much one of the most bland chicken dishes.”
The pair will split up again, as Leonard tackles Lowell and Adams and Brewster heads to Leverett and Quincy. As they pass J.P. Licks, one suggests getting ice cream after the competition.
In Leverett, Brewster notes that the chickwich pales in comparison to barbeque chicken, teriyaki chicken, and red spice chicken. “The chickwich falls right in between chicken tenders and chicken nuggets,” he contends.
The patties are beginning to get the better of him. He has been searching for mustard in every dining hall, trying to find something to help the fried food go down easier. “The crust is terrible,” he scoffs, convinced that “they gave me some extra large ones.”
In Quincy, Brewster grabs two patties and heads over to the condiments bar, ecstatic to find mustard. “This is why we live in Quincy,” he says before globbing some on. Eyeing a fellow diner’s lunch, he shakes his head in grief. “Grilled cheese looks so good right now.”
Before leaving the dining hall, Brewster gets a phone call, and it is clear from their conversation that the person on the other end is Leonard. When asked what happened to their self-imposed “no phones” rule, Brewster replies, “She’s such a flip-flopper. She’d be a good politician.”
D’ASARO & MURRAY
The team uses the shuttle ride to plan their optimal route through the nine river Houses, finally deciding to start in Adams. “Disgusting,” an onlooker in Adams says as he watches Murray shove a whole chickwich into a glass of water.
Murray tips the glass over as he tries to fish out an elusive chunk of chickwich, inadvertently spilling water across the table and onto the floor. He apologizes, taking a brief moment to survey the damage before running to Quincy. Their pace slows significantly when the chickwiches in Lowell take several minutes to cook. D’Asaro welcomes the wait.
GILLEN & KERN
Lingering in Cabot long after their competitors have departed, the polished pair decide it’s time to make the journey to Currier, but not before stopping outside to top off their glasses. “As for our strategem, the wine has a lot to do with it,” says Gillen, sipping his cup.
As they enter Currier jovially—debating an aspect of chickwich philosophy—their competition is already on their way out. Politely inquiring how the enthusiasts enjoyed their second chickwiches, the pair is unprepared for the response: “It was disgusting.”
Gillen can hardly believe his ears. “If you’re not in this for a love of chickwiches,” he ponders, offended, “what are you here for?”
Downstairs, the pair sit down with Caleb J. Thompson ’14, a Crimson Arts editor. Once the sandwiches are prepared and the wine poured, dining resumes.
“The wine does help a bit,” remarks Thompson, hesitantly. “Fuck me, this is disgusting.”
“Perhaps not a match made in heaven,” agrees Kern, “but a match made in Chile.”
Pfoho comes next, where the pair chooses to occupy the coveted love seat on the upper level, overseeing the rest of the dining hall.
“Do you see any chickwiches?” asks Kern, surveying those seated below them. “Ah, there’s some...oh no, just nuggets.”
“A nugget is but half a chickwich, and half a chickwich is not worth my time,” replies Gillen, forking another morsel into his mouth.
Over the course of the competition, the pair revels in their knowledge of chickwich history. In Pfoho, Gillen discusses the Make a ChickWish Foundation and toasts “to the children” in recognition of all the fine work the organization does. In a rare lapse of character, Kern almost chokes on his chickwich.
FEGELMAN & TIKOLO
Reinvigorated by a walk through the Square, Fegelman and Tikolo progress from Adams to Lowell. In their second River House, the pair wonders whether they’ve accidentally grabbed the wrong plate—both chickwiches have buns and are supplemented with cheese. But there’s no looking back; they peel off the cheese and toss the buns, eating slowly, seriously, in silence. When asked if they want Powerade, they simply nod, miserable. Unlike water, they say, it takes away the chickwich taste.
From here the team splits up again: Tikolo to Winthrop and Fegelman to Quincy.
They meet in Quincy with newfound confidence, describing themselves as “pretty pumped” and “ready to rage.” But such enthusiasm is short-lived.
“You know what the worst part about this is?” Fegelman asks the newly solemn Tikolo. “They have grilled cheese today. I actually like that.”
Both teammates are staring at the floor, taking slow bites: “It’s in my mouth, but I can’t swallow it.”
THE FINISH LINE
 
BREWSTER & LEONARD
Brewster and Leonard each grab their final chickwich. One bite in, Brewster remembers that he had eaten half of Leonard’s chickwich in Currier. “You owe me that half,” he says, handing her another portion of fried, processed chicken.
They clink their final bites together before popping them in their mouths. They’ve finished the Chickwich Challenge, and by all accounts, they appear to have finished the race in first place.
The victory is unexpected. The very tactics that should have undermined them seemed to have enabled them to succeed with no vomiting, no jogging, and only minimal whining. The team that arguably took the contest the least seriously also managed to take first place.
The nonchalance that the pair displayed throughout the entire contest did not lend any insight to what drove them to victory. At an impromptu awards ceremony on the MAC quad, Leonard deadpans, “We worked for the victories of poets, artists, and writers everywhere.”
D’ASARO & MURRAY
In Eliot at last, the team finishes their final chickwiches with determination, though Brewster and Leonard had already completed the task. Although they lost the race, the duo are in good spirits. They make plans to hang out that afternoon, both deciding to forgo dinner.
“We’re proud of each other,” D’Asaro says, slinging her arm around her teammate and smiling.
GILLEN & KERN
With the end of their chickwiching in sight, another friend accosts the pair. “Are you wearing a grey suit on a Saturday?” the passerby asks Kern. “I knew there was a reason I didn’t like you.”
Unperturbed, the men climb the stairs to Eliot dining hall, finding their final chickwiches waiting for them on the center table. Wishing to appreciate their final bites to the fullest, Kern comes up with a daring plan: the last chickwiches will be garnished with peanut butter and blueberry tart frozen yogurt.
“And if I throw up, I’m blaming you,” Gillen warns his teammate.
Sitting down to their meal, each man cuts a slice, hooks a suit-clad arm around the other’s, and begins the sixth and final chickwich of their Challenge.
“This is the best chickwich I’ve ever had today. I don’t even want to swallow it—it’s so good,” declares Gillen.
“Victory tastes like peanut butter and fried chicken. It also tastes a bit like shame, to be honest,” he adds.
“It’s a good thing I can die happy now, because I’m about to die,” sighs a contented Kern.
Surrounded by fellow enthusiasts, the Challenge finally behind them, Gillen smiles. “I think we are all winners today.”
FEGELMAN & TIKOLO
Fegelman meets Tikolo in Eliot, where their competitors have already finished the contest. The team, unfortunately, has lost, but Tikolo is still at the Eliot grill, where the chef has agreed to make the last two chickwiches of the day. Fegelman offers to eat Tikolo’s (“You drank a chickwich for me, man!”), but Tikolo refuses.
The team eats their final chickwiches in solidarity as lunch comes to a close in the near-abandoned Eliot dining hall. Skipping Powerade, they pour themselves water and carry their plates out of the servery. “Shall we?” Tikolo asks, and together they sit down at a center table, leaning back in their chairs to examine what will be not only their final chickwiches for the day, but possibly their final chickwiches for good. The grease glistens in the sunlight from the window. How does it taste? “Like freedom,” Fegelman says.
Sections
“I bleed Crimson,” pronounces Andrew L. Farkas ’82, sitting at the light wooden bar at Henrietta’sTable, the posh restaurant attached to theCharles Hotel. Indeed, the former president of the Hasty Pudding Club has made his love for his alma mater quite public. Due to his recent donation, New College Theater now bears the name Farkas Hall.
It’s winter, but Farkas is tan. He has an air of monied efficiency: a clipped, genial tone and a sense of unadulterated self-assurance. He is the kind of short man, he boasts, who is not intimidatedby tall women. “My wife,” he says. “is 6’3”in heels.” He is the kind of man whose calendar is always full. Prominent among these commitments is this evening’s Hasty Pudding Man of the Year event, when he will be recognized as the theater’s new namesake.
Farkas is familiar with the Hasty Pudding Club—as an undergraduate he was its president for two years. He says that it was his fondness for the Club, and the Theatricals which call 12 Holyoke Street home, that inspired the gift.
Since his Harvard days, Farkas has founded Island Capital, a hugely successful real estate firm. More relevant to tonight’s festivities, however, is abusiness enterprise he was involved with while at Harvard. “When I was undergraduate president, the Pudding was in a tremendous amount of trouble,” Farkas says. “It was basically broke.” So Farkas did something that he admits has since become a major component of his lifestyle, if not of his business model: he threw a party.
“I got the Copley Plaza Hotel to give me 900 bottles of champagne for a very, very cheap price,”he recounts. “Then I sold tickets, basically door-to-door, for a gala in honor of the Hasty Pudding.” The party grossed about $35,000, covering the Club’s operating budget for that year.
Farkas rhapsodizes about the Pudding, recounting strings of facts about the organization: “It’s been around since 1770....It’s the oldest college social club in the United States by far. Five presidents of the United States were members. The Hasty Pudding Theatricals is the third-oldest theatrical organization in the world.”
The Pudding is not the only club at Harvard to which Farkas has kept ties after graduating. He was in the A.D. Club as an undergraduate, and he is rumored to have flown all of the Final club’s members to Las Vegas.
“I will not comment on anything that goes on in the A.D. Club,” Farkas responds to the rumor, in a voice that suggests that he is accustomed to talking to reporters about things he will not comment on.
Farkas will, however, confirm the rumors currently circulating that he wanted to name the theater “The Farkatorium.” “The Farkatorium sounds to me like Thunderdome,” he says with a smile—though the University, apparently, was slightly less amused.
But it’s not the first time the Farkas name has been a source of tension. The family has long been linked to Harvard—Farkas’ father, brother, daughter, nephews, and cousins all attended the school. But Farkas says with playful matter-of-factness that he was “brutally, relentlessly, ruthlessly” mocked for his unconventional surname. “It probably formed who I am today, having to overcomethat torment,” he says.
When asked for advice he pauses for a moment, then offers: “Harvard is just the greatest place on earth.” It’s the kind of phrase that would qualify as “gushing” if he weren’t so composed. “It really is,” he affirms, his voice building. “If you’re fortunate enough to be here, it’s really important that you pause and remind yourself of that.”
Maybe that’s easy to say when your name graces a building—but there’s something about the man’s conviction that could persuade the rest of us too.
Though Farkas himself never participated in the Hasty Pudding’s most famed ritual, he has no qualms about attending his dedication in whatever dress is necessary. “If I have to do it while wearing panties and a bra, I’ll do it.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A new blood test designed at Massachusetts General Hospital appears to accurately indicate whether a person is suffering from depression, according to a paper published in Molecular Psychiatry.
Depression, a psychological disorder currently diagnosed by matching a certain number of patient symptoms to those listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, has been known to have physiological indicators. According to George I. Papakostas, the primary researcher for the new test at MGH, after more than 50 years of experimenting with depression there were still many questions about the biological signals of the disorder.
“There were signs, but not strong enough for a test,” said Papakostas, who is also a professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School.
He and the other researchers in his lab wondered, “what if the solution is multi-faceted?”
After a series of experiments, a blood test was designed to measure the level of nine different chemicals shown to be associated with depression. According to Papakostas, when the results of the blood tests were compared to the diagnoses of a trained clinical psychologist, the blood test proved to be surprisingly accurate.
The test is designed to be simple, Papakostas said. The patient comes in for a regular blood draw and then the blood is sent to a lab for testing.
The results of this test are translated into a point system that indicates whether a patient is likely suffering from depression.
According the Papakostas, the most important implications of this discovery are the new questions it raises and its potential applications. He and his researchers are now asking whether it can be used to monitor the recovery of a patient suffering from depression, find patients who have a potential to be depressed, or indicate that a patient is likely to relapse into depression. However, the question currently at the forefront for Papakostas is whether or not this test is effective in screening subjects in a doctor’s clinic.
Papakostas said the test will undergo further study, this time in a clinical field, to gauge how effective it is in the real world. He hopes it will become a helpful tool for diagnosticians and a clue to help researchers better understand depression.
Papakostas does not see this test as a new standard for clinical diagnosis.
“Testing negative is not a reason for insurance companies to not cover the expenses of treatment or reason to absolutely reject depression as a diagnosis,” said Papakostas. “The test is supposed to complement clinical care.”
—Staff writer Armaghan N. Behlum can be reached at behlum@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While most newly-minted high school graduates march directly through the gates of college campuses, Yoav B. G. Schaefer ’15 took a detour.
In the span of five years, Schaefer left his “picturesque, stereotypic, American Jewish life” in California to follow an unconventional path that led him to serve in a combat unit of the Israeli Defense Forces, to work in Israel’s parliament, and to found a non-profit in memory of his twin brother.
Now a 23-year-old freshman in Hurlbut, Schaefer devotes himself to engaging Harvard students in thoughtful discussion and spreading the wisdom that he has collected throughout his life—both in Israel and at home.
When Schaefer was young, his father told Yoav and his identical twin, Avi, that “an enemy is someone whose story you have not yet heard.”
Schaefer says that he internalized this message, allowing it to guide his work to bridge divides between radically different groups of people.
FALLING FOR ISRAEL
Yoav and Avi first traveled to Israel when they were nine-years-old. Their father, who is a rabbi, lawyer, and professor, took a yearlong sabbatical from his job in Santa Barbara and moved his wife and four sons to Israel.
“We fell in love with Jerusalem, with the land, with the people, with the food,” Schaefer says of his first trip.
At age 13, the twins traveled back to Israel during the summer, when the country was in the midst of the Second Intifada.
Schaefer says he and Avi witnessed a suicide bombing from 20 feet away at the Sbarro Pizza restaurant in Jerusalem. The attack killed 15 civilians and injured 130.
The experience transformed his relationship to Israel, Schaefer says. “It was no longer just something that we learned about in books, not just something we experienced as tourists. At that moment we became interconnected with the life of the Israeli that lived through the Intifada,” he says.
The brothers returned to Israel for a semester abroad in high school, and they moved there permanently after their graduation in 2006.
The decision to relocate was motivated by their desire “to play a role in writing the next chapter of the story of the Jewish people,” Schaefer says.
“We were brought up to believe that if you really care about something, if you really desire something, you fight for it. You don’t just talk about it,” he says.
Their move coincided with the eruption of conflict between Israel and Lebanon.
Within minutes of the brothers’ arrival to their new home in Northern Israel, their village was hit by missiles.
Two days later, another attack resulted in the death of a member of their village.
According to Schaefer, the violence prompted an outpouring of support from both the left and right, and both Arabs and Jews.
“It was a really profound and powerful way to be welcomed into the state of Israel,” he says.
Soon after, the brothers enlisted in the Israeli army as lone soldiers—foreign volunteers with no immediate family in Israel.
SPLITTING IN THE ARMY
Since their birth on June 11, 1988, the twins had been inseparable. “He was my other half,” Schaefer says. “I don’t think that words can articulate what the connection of identical twins is.”
However, the Israeli army—which requires all citizens to serve—has a policy of separating twins.
For the first time in their lives, Schaefer and his brother lived apart, serving in two separate combat brigades. Schaefer joined a reconnaissance unit while Avi served in a Special Forces anti-tank unit.
Schaefer says he never imagined he would join the military when he was younger.
“I was never allowed to have a [toy] gun,” Schaefer says. “I was a naïve, skinny Jewish kid from Southern California who found himself in a really serious military.”
Schaefer says his time in the army was marked by a deep internal struggle.
“I constantly felt tension between my love for Israel...and sympathizing with the reality of Palestinians,” he says.
During his time in combat, Schaefer was stationed on Israel’s border with Lebanon and in the West Bank. After two and half years of service, he suffered a serious knee injury during a mission and was released from combat.
After recovering from his injury in California, Schaefer made his way back to Israel to serve as a counselor for American Jewish kids in Israel while Avi continued to serve.
MOVING ON
After Avi completed his army service he enrolled at Brown University. At college, Avi’s experiences in the army came in handy. He engaged in campus fundraising efforts for Israeli organizations and even trained the SWAT team of the Providence Police Department.
While Avi was known as a vocal advocate for Israel on campus, he became close friends with students who held a variety of viewpoints.
“He proved that true friendships can transcend political barriers,” Schaefer says of his brother.
Five months into his time at Brown, Avi was killed by a drunk driver while walking home one night.
“There are no words to describe what that loss feels like,” Schaefer says. “It’s like having your heart ripped out.”
This Sunday will mark two years since Avi’s death.
In a letter to the Brown Community following Avi’s passing, University President Ruth J. Simmons wrote, “A young man of inordinate strength and integrity, Avi had already begun to have an impact on the Brown community....By all early signs, he was a student who was going to make the most of his time at Brown and his mark on the world after Brown.”
After Avi’s death, Schaefer and his family founded the Avi Schaefer Fund, which seeks to promote open discussion on college campuses surrounding Israel and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Schaefer spent a year building the fund, speaking at conferences in Israel and America and interning at the Israeli parliamentary office of Einat Wilf ’96.
Schaefer says he also spent that year trying to understand “how I could live my life without Avi by my side.”
Schaefer’s work at the Fund has included organizing an annual symposium in Jerusalem and a conference that will be held at Brown in two weeks. The event will bring together pro-Israeli and pro-Palestinian student leaders from across the Ivy League.
At Harvard, Schaefer says he is working to foster dialogue among students from diverse backgrounds about Israel, just as Avi had at Brown.
“Conflict is often generated by misconceptions that become quickly dispelled when you actually encounter each other. I am not here with any agenda, and not for any political reason,” Schaefer says. “I just want to help these people talk to each other.”
—Staff writer Alyza J. Sebenius can be reached at asebenius@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: February 8, 2012, at 11:45 p.m.
The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority is considering serious fare changes and service cuts, including raising student fares by up to 83.3 percent for local buses and by 76.5 percent for T fare.
The MBTA, which includes Massachusetts rails, commuter rails, buses, and ferries, says that the changes are necessary, considering a projected deficit of $161 million for fiscal year 2013 and a total debt of $9 billion.
“This structural deficit will continue to grow through FY 2016 and beyond under current conditions,” the MBTA said in a report about the potential cuts on its website. “To maintain financial stability the T will have to make decisions in the next few months that will significantly impact fares and service.”
The website also explained that the MBTA will decide between two proposals. The first would increase fares overall by an average of 43 percent, and eliminate 34 to 49 million annual trips. The second proposal would only increase fares by an overall average of 35 percent, and eliminate 53 to 64 million annual trips. Both proposals will save the MBTA about $160 million.
But the MBTA’s financial woes do not stem from a lack of passengers. Earlier this month, the Boston Globe reported that MBTA use reached record usage in 2011, with over 379 million passenger trips reported.
Hundreds of those trips were made by members of the Harvard sailing team, which takes the T up to three times a week during season in order to get to practice, according to captain Isabel W. Ruane ’14.
Ruane expressed concern over the potential increase.
“The T fares are already frustratingly expensive, especially when we only travel two stops per fare,” Ruane said in an email, referring to the Sailing Team’s boathouse near the Kendell Square stop. “But I value the service, and therefore respect the fare.”
Ruane added that the hike in fare price might incentivize her to look for alternate forms of transportation.
“Higher fares would give me greater incentive to bike, meaning I’d probably take the T a little less,” she said.
The MBTA raised fares in 2007 and contemplated another raise in 2009. But the state legislature created a new source of revenue for the public rail—$160 million allocated from the sales tax. Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino urged the state legislature to intervene again to prevent either of MBTA’s proposals from being enacted.
“I understand the difficult decisions facing the MBTA. Many administrations have simply passed the buck,” Menino wrote in a letter to Secretary and Chief Executive Officer of the Department of Transportation Richard A. Davey, which was also sent to several Massachusetts and Boston officials, including Governor Deval L. Patrick ’78. “However, riders should not be forced to shoulder the entire weight of this debt.”
The MBTA will hold a public workshop to hear comments and concerns from Cambridge residents on Feb. 29 at 6 p.m. at the Citywide Senior Center.
—Staff writer Caroline M. McKay can be reached at carolinemckay@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the past year, Western Ave. has witnessed a flurry of activity as new small businesses have sprung up one by one in vacant buildings owned by Harvard University. But some Allston residents are not satisfied with these new developments.
Members of the Harvard Allston Task Force—a group of neighborhood residents selected by the City of Boston to give Harvard feedback on its construction projects—expressed divided opinions on the University’s new tenants. Some members said the businesses represent a positive step forward in the University’s tumultuous history of development in the community.
Paul Berkeley, who is also president of the Allston Civic Association, said that the new businesses have spruced up Western Ave. significantly.
“It’s nice to have Harvard using the properties and buildings that they own, the community certainly welcomes it and needs it,” Berkeley said.
Berkeley added that he is excited that Harvard has found occupants for its empty and unused property.
“I think ultimately Harvard has a responsibility for utilizing their facilities and land that they’ve purchased, and it is encouraging that they are making an effort now to utilize it,” Berkeley said.
In a 2005 planning document, Harvard said it would create a “main street” environment on Western Ave. However, this vision was put on hold when the University halted its Allston construction during the financial crisis. The University had allowed many of its leases to expire, leaving a significant portion of its real estate vacant.
Allston resident Rita M. DiGesse said that the new businesses have been “welcomed into the community with open arms.”
“I don’t use all of the businesses, but I think we can all agree that these businesses are better than the empty buildings that were there before,” she said.
But other Task Force members said that the new businesses do not align with the “main street” concept that Harvard had envisioned.
Allston resident Harry E. Mattison said that Harvard’s new tenants, who range from restaurateurs to wholesale retailers, do not interface enough with the community.
“A lot of these businesses are not very interactive,” Mattison said. “Sure, there is a business, but they’re not enlivening the community. They’re not creating the main-street Harvard promised.”
Brent Whelan ’73 worried that this new activity, which he viewed as small-scale development, will disincentivize the University from engaging in broader planning efforts.
“The big picture here is that Harvard is trying to collect rents on properties that are here and there,” Whelan said. “But [Harvard] is still turning its back on anything like a comprehensive planning process based on signals that it was getting from the community.”
Despite some residents’ dissatisfaction with the University’s new leaseholders, a Harvard spokesperson said that the University is mindful of the Allston community when considering potential leases.
“Harvard has worked hard to attract businesses that serve the community,” University spokesperson Lauren M. Marshall wrote in an email. “These new businesses and non-profits bring products, services and jobs to the community and are part of the University’s ongoing efforts to support the vibrancy of Allston through leasing, greening and property stewardship.”
The University has issued 18 leases on its Allston property since 2010.
—Staff writer Mercer R. Cook can be reached at mcook@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Top College administrators expressed concerns about a perceived rise in the number of limited enrollment courses this semester at Wednesday’s Committee on Undergraduate Education meeting.
The meeting—filled with greater debate than usual—also touched on a possible delay in the Add/Drop deadline as well as the potential adoption of a formalized mid-semester course evaluation.
Former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 said he raised the issue of the perceived rise in the number of lotteried classes at the meeting because he had heard anecdotal evidence that an unusually high number of professors lotteried their courses this shopping period.
“People pay a lot of money to come to Harvard.... And if they want to take a course, they should be able to take the effing course,” Lewis said.
Committee members debated possible causes of the potential rise in number of lotteried classes, pointing to factors such as a flawed Pre-Term Planning system, limited classroom space, and faculty reluctance to teach large classes.
“My sense is that it’s increasingly thought to be a matter of professorial prerogative to say, ‘to make a better teaching experience for me, I’m not going to teach these students who are paying $50,000 a year to come to Harvard’—and it doesn’t seem right to me,” Lewis said.
Currently, the office of the Program of General Education randomly lotteries high-demand Gen Ed classes. But in-demand departmental classes are sometimes lotteried through an application process run by the department and that might favor certain concentrations or class years.
Chair of the Undergraduate Council’s Education Committee Samuel F. Himel ’12, who attended the meeting, said he “would have liked to see less deference to departments” in the discussion, adding that Harvard is “a place where there have to be institution-wide standards.”
UC President Danny P. Bicknell ’13, also present at the meeting, said in an interview after the meeting that he hopes to solve the perceived problem by exploring changes in Pre-Term Planning or moving lotteries earlier in shopping week.
“We’re trying to make it where students aren’t having three classes they’re lotterying for, and then they get lotteried out of all of them,” Bicknell said.
Members also discussed the possibility of moving back the deadlines to add, drop, or withdraw from a class. Currently, the Add/Drop deadline falls on the fifth Monday of the term, while the deadline to withdraw from a course falls on the seventh Monday of the semester.
This past fall, students dropped about 3200 courses and added 2200 courses, according to data provided by Faculty of Arts and Sciences Registrar Michael P. Burke in an interview. In spring 2011, roughly 2900 courses were dropped and 2600 courses were added, Burke said.
During the discussion, a number of administrators voiced concerns that a delayed Add/Drop deadline might encourage students to drop a course late in the term to avoid a low grade.
“It’s as though the purpose of the whole system [of a late Add/Drop deadline] is to arrange it in such a way that students can maximize their GPAs, and that’s not the point,” Lewis said.
Although most administrators who spoke during the committee meeting said they would be unlikely to support a delayed Add/Drop deadline, they reached a consensus that professors should be encouraged to give students feedback about their performance in the form of a midterm examination before the fifth week of the term.
At the meeting, Himel introduced a third proposal that would create a mandated, College-wide midterm course evaluation system that would allow students to provide feedback to their professors mid-semester.
Himel said he thought the end-of-the-term Q Guide evaluation and the proposed mid-term evaluation system would both be “important data points” in assessing a course.
Currently, the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning informally facilitates mid-semester evaluations that some professors and teaching fellows distribute to their students.
But Lewis slammed the proposal, saying he thought a peer evaluation system among faculty would provide more useful feedback than a second student evaluation.
“The Q Guide, as presently formulated,...serves the principal purpose of making students think we care what they think,” Lewis said, adding that “we know, scientifically, that the Q Guide numbers correlate strongly with what students think of professors after watching them lecture for thirty seconds with no sound.”
“I doubt that has much to do with good teaching or quality learning,” he added.
The CUE, an exploratory group, only discusses potential undergraduate education policies. If a mid-term course evaluation were to be adopted, the decision would be made by a different committee.
—Staff writer Rebecca D. Robbins can be reached at rrobbins@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Corporation has created four new bodies, some of which will incorporate people who are not formally members of the Corporation, as part of the ongoing restructuring of the University’s highest governing body.
The Corporation added three new subcommittees—finance, governance, and alumni affairs and development—along with a joint committee on facilities and capital planning.
The finance committee and the committee on alumni affairs and development include some people who are not members of the Corporation, primarily alumni with experience in finance.
The committee on facilities and capital planning, a joint committee with the Board of Overseers, contains Corporation members, overseers, and three other members.
The governance committee is comprised exclusively of Corporation members.
Officials said last spring that the addition of nonmember contributors was intended to bring outside perspectives and additional expertise to the historically insular body. Though these individuals participate in the discussion about policy, the fiduciary power lies in the hands of the Corporation, according to University President Drew G. Faust and Corporation Senior Fellow Robert D. Reischauer ’63.
“They have been seamlessly integrated into this process. If you were a fly on the wall and came into a committee meeting, you would have no idea who is a member of the Corporation and who were one of the non-Corporation members,” Reischauer said. “It’s allowed us to dig more deeply and over a longer period of time into these issues...and come up with what I would say are the best possible decisions.”
The formation of the new groups is part of a set of ongoing reforms announced in 2010, which reshape the oldest corporate body in the Western hemisphere.
Other changes include nearly doubling the body’s membership from 7 to 13 and introducing six-year term limits for members.
The Corporation had previously been criticized for a lack of transparency. In part, these reforms were intended to tackle that problem.
“Part of the nature of the reforms was to embed constant scrutiny into the regular workings of the Corporation,” Faust said. “The governance committee is one that is always going to be asking, ‘Are we doing this in the best possible way?’”
The delegation of certain tasks to the committees has allowed the Corporation itself to discuss broader issues that it could not have dealt with otherwise, Reischauer said. These issues include Harvard’s international role, federal relations strategies, and the undergraduate experience.
The Committee, which currently has nine members plus Faust, will add three more members over the course of the next two years while also expanding the size of the committees, Reischauer said.
—Staff writer Hana N. Rouse can be reached at hrouse@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Justin C. Worland can be reached at jworland@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While most of Crimson Nation is going “Linsane” over its newest basketball-star-turned-pop-culture-juggernaut, Harvard alums elsewhere in the pros are getting it done as well.
Former Harvard hockey player Louis Leblanc is back in action with the Montreal Canadiens after spending the month of January in the American Hockey League.
And in the first four games since his return, Leblanc is starting to turn heads.
After providing an assist in a Feb. 2 loss to the New Jersey Devils, the former Crimson standout opened the scoring in a 3-2 shootout win against the Pittsburgh Penguins.
After teammate Andrei Kostitsyn deflected a pass into the Penguins’ half, Leblanc beat the Pittsburgh defense to the puck and fired a shot past Marc-Andre Fleury.
With over 15 minutes of ice time, including some time on the power-play line, it appears as though Leblanc might have earned himself a spot on the Canadien team for the remainder of the season.
And while no one is chanting "MVP" when he passes the puck, with any luck, the Crimson faithful will find another object of sports obsession.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Nearing midnight on Tuesday in Currier House, a group of students huddled around a table in the dining hall scrambling to finish a problem set, while others sat down the hall watching the end of SportsCenter. Alone in the Cardio Room, running a full sprint on the treadmill, was junior Brandyn Curry.
“I’ve got to chase Zack Rosen up and down the court for 40 minutes on Friday,” explained Curry, as he wiped the sweat off his forehead moments after finishing his workout—his second of the day.
Curry is not the only one looking ahead to his meeting with the Penn standout this Friday when the No. 21/25 Crimson (20-2, 6-0 Ivy) visits the Quakers (12-10, 4-1).
Ivy League basketball fans have already been drooling over the point guard matchup, which pits Rosen, the Ivy League’s second leading scorer, against Curry, arguably the conference’s top perimeter defender. Whichever player wins that matchup has a good shot at leading his team to victory.
“He’s been by far the focal point of their team,” said co-captain Oliver McNally of Rosen, who enters Friday’s matchup averaging 18.3 points and 6.0 assists per game. “When he’s going, they’re going as a team, and if he has an off night, I think they haven’t been too successful as a team. He’s going to be the main focus of our defense.”
Much of the responsibility for slowing Rosen will fall on the shoulders of Curry, a 6’1” guard who is routinely charged with the unenviable task of matching up with opposing team’s top perimeter scorers, a task with which he has had much success.
“I think Brandyn is one of the premier defensive players in the country, and that matchup is definitely going to be tough for Penn,” junior Kyle Casey said.
While Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said he plans on rotating a number of different players onto Rosen throughout the contest, Curry will get the first crack at the 6’1” lefty who leads the conference in minutes played (38.1 per game) and connects on 41.5 percent of his attempts from beyond the arc.
“My strategy is to just go in there and make everything tough for him the whole game, all 40 minutes,” Curry said. “Just hound him on defense and then make him work on offense.”
Friday’s matchup will be the fifth time the two point guards have gone head-to-head. In the past, Curry—and the rest of the Crimson defense—has had success against Rosen, limiting the senior to 16 points per game on 32.6 percent shooting while forcing an average of six turnovers per contest. Not surprisingly, Harvard came out on top in all four matchups.
But that’s not to say the wins came easily. When Curry first visited Penn’s Palestra in 2010, the Crimson needed all 40 minutes to dispose of the Quakers. Last year, it took two overtimes before Harvard came away with the 83-82 victory.
This year’s Penn team is expected to pose another challenge to the Ivy League favorites. In addition to Rosen, Penn boasts a pair of talented guards in senior Tyler Bernardini and sophomore Miles Cartwright.
Bernardini—who currently sits fifth in the conference in scoring, averaging 14.9 points per game—can stroke it from beyond the arc, shooting a league-best 43.2 percent from three. Cartwright is the third Quakers guard among the Ivy League’s top 20 scorers, posting 10.2 points per game.
After squaring off against Penn’s talented guards on Friday, the Crimson will face a much different opponent on Saturday when it visits Princeton for the first time since the Tigers sent Harvard to the NIT, Doug-Davis style.
This year’s Princeton squad has a different look. The Tigers lost head coach Sydney Johnson and graduated two of their three best players—Kareem Maddox, last season’s Ivy League Defensive Player of the Year, and Dan Mavraides, the three-point specialist Crimson fans loved to hate.
But Princeton (11-10, 2-3) is still capable of knocking off talented opponents, as evidenced by its triple-overtime victory over No. 17 Florida State on Dec. 30, just over a month after Harvard took down the Seminoles.
Junior Ian Hummer, a 6’7” forward who leads the Tigers, averaging 17.1 points and 7.6 rebounds per game, will pose a challenge for Crimson forwards Keith Wright and Kyle Casey.
“Hummer is as good as anybody in our league,” Amaker said. “He’s rough, he’s rugged, [and] he’s tough inside.”
Containing Hummer will be key for Harvard as it looks to pick up its first win at Princeton’s Jadwin Gymnasium since 1989.
If the Crimson was to win both games this weekend, it would mark the first time since the 1984-85 season that the Crimson swept the Penn-Princeton series on the road.
For Curry, doing so would mean that the hard work and extra workouts had paid off.
“It’s something that we haven’t discussed as a team, but everyone wants [a sweep] very badly,” Curry said.
—Staff writer Martin Kessler can be reached at martin.kessler@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The final match of the regular season for both the Harvard men’s and women’s squash teams could provide the year’s most excitement on the court.
On Sunday, both Crimson squash teams will head to Yale’s Brady SquashCenter for their final matchups until CSA Team Championships.  The No. 4 Harvard men (13-2, 4-1 Ivy) will take on the top-ranked Bulldogs (12-1, 4-1 Ivy), while the No. 1 Crimson women (12-0, 5-0 Ivy) will battle No. 2 Yale (14-0, 5-0 Ivy).
“I would say, regular season, this is the single-most important match we’re going to play,” women’s co-captain Cece Cortes said.
This will not be the first time these two traditional rivals have met this year. Both the Harvard men and women came out victorious at Ivy League Scrimmages in November, but both are quick to point out that their preseason success is in no way an indication of a sure victory this Sunday.
“Ivy Scrimmages are good only because they’re a way for us to jump right into the season with the toughest teams and get some good match play,” Cortes said. “But in terms of predicting anything, they’re pretty inaccurate. It’s too tough to look at those scores and say whether or not they’re going to translate into a win for us this coming weekend.”
Crimson Coach Mike Way—who is currently at the helm of both the men’s and women’s teams—echoed Cortes’ sentiments.
“Some people see on paper that we are a stronger team,” Way said. “But that has its own set of problems like the expectations being too high…. It’s all about going down there and handling the challenge and the pressure on the day.”
For the Harvard women, the match -up against Yale is an opportunity for players to release some year-old frustration.
The Bulldogs bested the Crimson last year at the 2011 CSA Team Championships, 5-4, ending Harvard’s chances of securing its second straight national title.  For returning members on the Crimson squad, the defeat is not easily forgotten.
“The loss to Yale last year was definitely disappointing,” Cortes said. “It was 5-4, super close, and I’d be lying if I said we don’t want to have some redemption.There’s definitely some Harvard-Yale rivalry.”
The Crimson men will also face a difficult challenge against Yale. The Bulldogs came up with one of the biggest upsets in both collegiate squash and collegiate sports this season, defeating Trinity College on Jan. 18th.  The defeat was the first for the Trinity men’s team in 252 matches—the longest winning streak in varsity intercollegiate athletics.
But Yale’s momentum coming off the victory does not seem to phase Way.
“I think that win may have had an impact [on the Bulldog’s confidence]. [But] since then, there have been a couple of things that should be taken into consideration,” Way said.  “We lost to Princeton, 5-4, and we actually thought we had a chance of winning that match [because] it was so close.  And Princeton last week went out and hammered Yale, 8-1, so if Yale had a confidence boost after beating Trinity, I think that bubble probably has been popped a little bit.”
After the Harvard men’s team lost two straight matches to No. 2 Trinity and No. 3 Princeton, the Crimson bounced back with three consecutive wins, most recently this past weekend at then-No. 6 Cornell.  Down 4-1, Harvard battled back to win, 5-4, in dramatic fashion.
Men’s co-captain Will Ahmed attributes his team’s recent success to a strong mental toughness that has been developing  all season.
“Sometimes, you might take for granted how talented you are, and lose sight of some of the fitness levels and tough mental capacities [of other teams],” Ahmed said. “I think this recent match shows the kind of growth in [our] mental fortitude that has been so crucial all season.”
Two key Crimson players to watch this Sunday are No. 1 Amanda Sobhy for the women and No. 1 Ali Farag for the men.  Both are favored to win the CSA Individual Championships in the spring, and both were unable to play in the preseason matchup against the Bulldogs.
And according to Way, all of the athletes are excited about the high-intensity atmosphere.
“I’m hoping that we’re going to go down and relish in the competition,” Way said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Off to its best start in two decades, the Harvard men’s volleyball team, led by co-captain and California native Matt Jones, appeared ready to take on the fast-paced offense of west coast rival Cal Baptist at the Malkin Athletic Center on Wednesday night.
With the match tied at one game apiece, boths teams had the opportunity to take the momentum in the third frame. But despite the powerful hitting of the Lancers (2-8), the Crimson (5-0) was able to overcome and take the match, 3-1.
Harvard jumped out to a 9-3 lead after two service aces from Jones. But Cal Baptist junior outside hitter Aaron McCalmont was able to bring the visitors back into the match, trading kills with Jones.
Following a set of kills from the Lancers, the Crimson called a timeout with the lead at 21-20.
Both teams came out of the break with huge hits and digs, leading to the longest rally of the game. Cal Baptist took the point for a net violation by Harvard–which was contested by the Crimson–tying the score 22-22.
But Harvard fought back, with freshman outside hitter D.J. White notching two kills to put the Crimson at game point.
Drawn out with a lot of net play, the final rally was won with a kill from freshman middle hitter Caleb Zimmick, putting Harvard up 2-1 and giving them momentum to take the match in four games.
“I’m most impressed by our confidence and patience out there,” Crimson coach Brian Baise said. “We’re unflappable most of the time, we don’t let things bother us.”
The match began with both teams trading kills back and forth, but missed serves on both sides kept the game knotted.
A kill and a service ace by Zimmick– followed by a kill from Jones–began Harvard’s attempt to pull away at 17-14.
“I think what helped us was our ability to serve and keep them out of system, so they weren’t able to keep [their] offense super fast,” Jones said. “That’s when we were able to pick up points on them.”
The Crimson ended the first set on a 5-0 run set up by kills from Jones and sophomore outside hitter Nick Madden.
The Harvard defense was put to the test in the second frame. The Lancers’ freshman outside hitter Corey Bates knocked down four kills on the Crimson early in the set.
A string of missed serves caused a Harvard timeout with Cal Baptist ahead, 19-15. The Crimson was unable to recover after a service ace from the Lancers and a cross-court kill from McCalmont, dropping the game, 25-19.
With the match tied, 1-1, Harvard came into the third frame with strong serves and consistent passing.
“We focused on our side of the net.” Zimmick said. “We knew that if we made more serves and if we passed better, we would be fine.”
Both squads were able to set up hitting attacks well–producing 55 kills apiece for the entire match.
Winning the third match was a huge momentum shift in the game, as the hosts’ defense withstood the powerful hitting of the Lancers to go up, 2-1.
The fourth set began with two service aces from Jones–adding to the Crimson’s total of 10 service aces for the match– and adding to Harvard’s momentum.
“As the match went on, we started getting more touches, more hands,” Jones said. “I think we started to read a little better [and] get a jump on the tempo.”
Following service errors on both sides, the Crimson was able to go on a 5-0 run. Led by strong blocking from Zimmick and four more kills from Jones, Harvard forced a Cal Baptist timeout with the score at 14-8.
The Crimson came out of the time out even stronger than its opponent. With three more kills from White. Harvard ended the frame with a six point run, winning 25-19, and 3-1 overall.
And with the win, the Crimson ride into conference play coming off the tails of its best win in two years, according to Jones.
“I just thought mentally, we were really strong,” Baise said. “They were kind of able to take control of that second game, but coming back in the third and again in the fourth shows a lot of maturity [and] a lot of confidence,” Blaise said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the Harvard men’s basketball team visiting Penn on Friday night, we caught up with The Daily Pennsylvanian’s Calder Silcox over email to get the inside scoop on Penn basketball. Check out what Silcox had to say below.
The Harvard Crimson: What can Harvard expect from Penn on Friday?
Calder Silcox: The question isn't what Harvard can expect from Penn, but rather which Penn Harvard can expect. Lately we've seen a Penn team that has depth and a real drive to win. This is the Penn that swept its first Ivy weekend against Columbia and Cornell, beat St. Joe's, manhandled Princeton, and dispatched Brown (I've got a few more synonyms for 'won' in case you need them). This team also showed up to New Haven and played 35 minutes against Yale, only to relapse into the other Penn for the final crucial possessions and lose to the Bulldogs.
This other Penn, who we had gotten accustomed to seeing throughout December and early January, relies heavily on one player (you guessed it, Zack Rosen), and when his shots don't fall, Penn doesn't do very well. But lately we've seen a much deeper Penn team, with wingmen Tyler Bernardini and Miles Cartwright contributing much more, and freshman big man Henry Brooks is peaking. I'd expect the more competitive Penn to show up, looking to defend its home court on Friday. Penn's season essentially hinges on a victory over Harvard this weekend, and after last year's gut-wrenching loss here at the Palestra, I would be surprised to see the lesser version of this Quakers team show up.
THC: After posting 14.3 points, 5.4 assists, and 3.5 rebounds per game as a junior, Zack Rosen is off to an even better start this season. How has he improved since the Crimson last saw him?
CS: The thing I've come to notice about Zack this season is that he's really developed his ability to knock down shots of insane difficulties. He will shoot from any range, with any coverage and he will make them. He also has developed an uncanny ability to weave his way through defenders as the shot clock runs down and save a possession for Penn. His drive to win has only increased.
THC: Entering the season, there were a lot of question marks surrounding Penn’s frontcourt. How has it held up thus far?
 
CS: There are still a lot of questions about the Quakers' frontcourt. It clearly wasn't able to contain Yale's Greg Mangano enough to leave New Haven with a win, and that doesn't bode well for Penn with Harvard's duo of Kyle Casey and Keith Wright coming to town. Penn has a young big man in Brooks who—after an ACL tear last march—is getting up to speed with his knee and the college game. His shot selection isn't the best quite yet, but he's earned the starting role. Perhaps the biggest surprise in our frontcourt is the emergence of Rob Belcore as a real forward. This is a guy who was Rosen's backup PG freshman year, but he'll do whatever it takes for the team, and if that means playing center (which he technically has for a few minutes this season) he will. He's one of the top defenders in the league, and should put up a fight against Harvard's talented bigs.
THC: Pat’s or Geno’s?
CS: I've actually never had either. Is that embarrassing? I can tell you that the third-fiddle Jim's Steaks on South St. is just okay, and that if you ever find yourself at the DP offices, I wouldn't get a cheesesteak at Lee's across the street. Coincidentally, I've got plans to try Geno's after the game Friday night, so I'll let you know on Saturday.
THC: What went wrong at Yale last weekend?
CS: Coming in to the game with the Elis, Penn had won three games wire-to-wire. So when Yale threw the Quakers off their gameplan early, they were never really able to recover. They just couldn't dominate as they had lately and as a result, when they really needed to take over in the final minutes, they weren't in a rhythm.
THC: If I’m at Wawa late night on Friday, what should I order?
CS: Three words: Mac 'n' Cheese. I'd also get a Gatorade for Saturday morning.
THC: Who has more swag: Denzel Washington or Jerome Allen?
CS: Jerome, no question. I haven't seen Denzel back at the Palestra since his son Malcolm left the team, but when he was here, he acted very nondescript to avoid drawing attention to himself. His black-on-black Yankees hat was cool I guess, but have you seen Jerome Allen's suits? The man spent a lot of time in Italy during his pro career, and it shows.
THC: Final score prediction?
CS: If we're using history as a guide, I've got two case studies from my career to draw from:
Sat. Feb. 5, 2011: Harvard 83, Penn 82 (2OT). The last time Penn hosted Harvard. We all remember the game. The best I've ever seen here. The headline in the DP on Monday was "Gut-wrenching defeat."
Fri. Feb. 12, 2010: Penn 79, No. 22 Cornell 62. The last time Penn hosted a ranked Ivy team. Penn's best win that I've seen at the Palestra. The headline in the DP after this one was "Ranked and Spanked!"
I'm gonna go with the latter. Penn 72, Harvard 68. And lets throw in a couple overtimes for ol' times sake.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s official: “Linsanity” has taken ahold of the NBA, causing Facebook and Twitter feeds worldwide to blow up. After posting three consecutive 20-point games for the New York Knicks, Jeremy Lin ’10 has received coverage from ESPN, The New York Times, and The Atlantic—and even has a rap song devoted to him.
But it wasn’t that long ago that Lin was suiting up in a Harvard men’s basketball uniform. As a senior during the 2009-10 season, Lin led the Crimson to a 21-8 finish while averaging 16.4 points per game.
With Lin now turning heads in the NBA, we caught up with some current Harvard men’s basketball players to hear their thoughts on Crimson grad’s recent success.
How excited are you to see Jeremy’s recent success in the NBA? Are you surprised by his success?
 
Oliver McNally: “We were 100 percent confident that he was a legitimate NBA backup. I don’t want to lie. I thought he could definitely play in the NBA, but I don’t think anybody saw this happening. It’s pretty unbelievable….I couldn’t be happier. He’s by far the hardest worker I’ve ever been around. All he cares about is his family, his friends, and basketball. No one is more deserving.”
 
Keith Wright: “I’m really excited for him; I’m not surprised about it at all. He’s an extremely hard worker. He just needed a chance.…I think he made the most of [that] chance on Saturday night [a 25-point, seven-assist, five-rebound, two-steal effort against the New Jersey Nets]. He’s continued to work on his game, and it’s just nice to see his hard work pan out.”
Kyle Casey: “It’s really exciting, especially since I’ve seen how much work he’s put in just from playing with him for a year and watching him grow and develop as a player. It’s really thrilling and exciting for the Harvard community and for myself. I wouldn’t say I’m surprised. I’m just happy he got a legitimate chance. I’ve always been a Jeremy Lin fan and believer.”
Laurent Rivard: “He got some good minutes with the Warriors, but it was tough over there with two superstars at the point guard position in Stephen Curry and Monta Ellis. He just kept working hard and he never stopped working and his hard work paid off.”
Matt Brown: “Aw man, I’m very excited. Just knowing Jeremy, he’s an awesome, awesome guy. Extremely hard working. Everything he’s getting now, he deserves it. Knowing how hard he worked and the time he put into his craft, I’m not surprised at all. I’m more surprised at the timing of this opportunity with all the injuries on the Knicks, but with regards to his success, I’m not surprised at all.”
How closely do you follow Jeremy’s journey through the NBA? Have you spoken to Jeremy recently?
 
OM: “I’ve watched every minute of every game—I’ve figured out a way. And I speak to him after. I just text him, tell him I’m proud of him. He’ll text me later. After his first start he got over 300 texts.”
 
KW: “[Lin] is such a inspirational human being. We don’t talk every day or every week for that matter, but he called me after the Fordham game and just gave me some words of wisdom and advice… to remind me that I’m the former Ivy League player of the year, that I’m a really good player and I need to play with that confidence….Hearing those words from him really put me in a positive place.”
LR: “I talk to him not too often…but I’ve had interactions with him before and he’s emailed me in the past. I remember last semester [after] my first game, I had a really bad shooting game, he emailed me afterwards and he told me not to worry about.”
MB: “Basically everything he does, I pretty much hear about. He reminds us of what we have to do to stay focused and reminds us of the goals we set for ourselves. I remember he sent us an email last year before the Princeton game and offered us words of encouragement. ”
 
How has he improved since you played with him at Harvard? What kind of things has he worked on to transition to the pro game?
OM: “It’s kind of funny because he wasn’t always the greatest talker. He was a great leader by demonstration with how hard he worked, but he didn’t talk a lot. That’s one thing Coach always told him to work on. But if you watch games [now] he’s barking out orders and stuff like that. It just shows his confidence in his game. He’s taking control of the New York Knicks…and now he looks like he’s been leading NBA teams for years.”
KW: “I think he’s worked on his ball handling and court vision. Here he was more of an off-guard scorer—definitely a great facilitator, but one of the biggest knocks on him was that he wasn’t a point guard. He’s done a tremendous job working on his jumper, and I know he continues to work on it every day.”
KC: “He seems a lot more assertive at this stage in his game. He’s clearly been working a lot since he’s been at Harvard and has developed his game nicely.”
LR: “I think he really improved his shot, and that helps him in a lot of areas. It makes the defender have to guard him more closely, and it makes it easier for him to blow that his defender. He’s not a shooter like Ray Allen, but he’s good enough to make guys guard him close. His ball handling is really tight, and his decision making is great.”
How does it make you feel to see a Harvard graduate achieve success in the NBA? What kind of motivation or confidence does it provide to you with regards to your own NBA dreams and goals?
KW: “It’s just a testament to his hard work and his faith in God.…I think that anything is possible if you put your mind to it, if you believe, and if you stay positive. I think good things happen to good people. It really solidifies in my head that if he can do it, so can I.”
KC: “It’s refreshing. Just seeing someone make it from the Ivy League, and in particular from Harvard, is great. I played alongside him, and I’ve seen a lot of the work and things that he’s put into his game. Just seeing what it takes to really make the next level is a humbling experience. It’s something that you don’t really forget.…It’s a good thing for our program, and a good thing for our league.”
LR: “It’s really great. We’re all happy for him. He’s starting now for a good NBA team. I think it makes us realize that hard work really pays off. Coach talks about him, probably weekly, telling us how hard he worked everyday. It makes us realize that we can accomplish our dreams if we really work at it.…It makes us realize that it’s really possible [to get to the NBA].”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Two memes have emerged in the past few days: Harvard Douchebag and Harvard Good Guy. Currently, Harvard Douchebag seems to be winning, at least in terms of numbers. With 86 images to Harvard Good Guy's 57, it looks like the classic Harvard douche is getting more attention. But here's to rooting for the underdog.
Sections
This week, Fifteen Minutes Magazine presents you with the 2012 Chickwich Challenge: 12 dining halls, 108 chicken patties, five teams, one race for eternal fame and glory. Join us as we follow the (throw)ups and (scarf)downs of ten courageous undergraduates as they eat their way across campus, revealing the origins of the chickwich and its storied history on Harvard's campus.
Spoiler alert: our winning team consumed 24 chickwiches in under two hours. How much foul can you stomach?
Sections
If Elle Woods were real, she'd be stoked right now. Hoping to bring social nights back to campus, the Harvard Law School opened a new venue, simply called "The Pub," last week.
Students and faculty on the Wasserstein Hall, Caspersen Student Center, and Clinical Wing (WCC) planning team worked together to create this new locale. This is not the first pub at the Law School, however.
HLS previously had a pub in its cafeteria in the late 2000's, but it lacked the appropriate ambience and was closed. The student government began hosting casual beer and snack events, evolving into Student Government Pub Nights, on Friday afternoons at off-campus locations. Now with the new on-campus option, the student government hopes to host these events at The Pub.
Despite its simple name, The Pub has extensive offerings. In addition to wine and beer, its late night menu features pizza, deli foods, flatbreads, a salad bar, a comfort station, and desserts. An espresso machine and pasta station will soon expand the selection.
Want to check it out? The Pub is open Wednesday through Friday from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. The Pub Café, which is adjacent to the Pub, is open from 2:30 p.m. to 8 p.m. Monday through Friday, as well as for brunch on Saturday and Sunday from 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. Both can be found in the Law School's WCC building.
Sections
Need a study break from too many long hours spent at Lamont? GoogleFight pits different googleable search queries against each other, and after a brief and bloody stick figure animation, a winner is crowned. Some of the results of these fights are shocking, but others are just downright sad. Ready…set…fight!
1. Harvard vs.Yale
Consider this a test run: Harvard, with 22,200,000 results, is the clear winner.
2. Harvard Good Guy vs. Harvard Douchebag 
Harvard Good Guy. Apparently, nice guys don't always finish last.
3. Boxers vs. Briefs
And the winner is…briefs! Time to step up the underwear game, gents.
4. Justin Bieber vs. Barack Obama
Sorry, Barack, but J-Biebz has got this one in the bag. He also beats Osama bin Laden, Harvard University, and even Jesus.
5. Drew Faust vs. Occupy Harvard
The 99%, 1. Drew Faust, 0.
6.  Natalie Portman vs. Matt Damon
Harvard alums square off! And Natalie Portman takes the gold.
7. Final Clubs vs. Dorm Parties
Final clubs win big.
8. Clothed vs. Naked
Naked. No surprise here.
9. Widener Library vs. Lamont Library
Lamont outlasts the competition.
10. The Lampoon vs. The Crimson
The Crimson.
Sections
You may have noticed that when Dorm Crew workers clean a bathroom, they leave behind a post-it note inviting feedback in the form of questions, complaints, or compliments. Nineteen years ago today, on Feb. 9, 1993, a certain Lowell House blocking group sent a compliment in to Dorm Crew. If you look closely at the seventh name on the letter, you'll see that it was signed by one "Matthew Damon," aka notable celebrity dropout Matt P. Damon (formerly '92).
 
