News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, Harvard students involved in the Harvard Red Cross ran a two-day blood drive at three locations around campus. Staged as a competition with Yale, the “Harvard Beats Yale” blood drive has historically generated over 100 units of blood per school.
We truly love the Harvard-Yale blood drive. Having a student-run drive on campus raises student awareness and participation in a time when the American Red Cross is especially in need of donations. Drawing on the historic rivalry between Harvard and Yale is also a good strategy for generating passion about donations. Nonetheless, as Harvard students, we cannot help taking issue with the fact that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration still maintains the increasingly ridiculous regulation that men who have sex with men cannot donate blood.
The Harvard-Yale blood drive, staged as a competition between the two schools as to which campus can donate the most blood to the American Red Cross, has proved wildly popular in both Cambridge and New Haven. Apparently, despite our 300-year-old rivalry with Yale, there is not enough bad blood between our schools to prevent the success of this worthwhile charitable event.
Although we cannot possibly imagine what kind of person would want blood donated from an Eli coursing through their veins, we nonetheless acknowledge the fruitful and creative nature of the drive. Better yet, the Harvard-Yale-theme of the blood drive allows the Crimson to publish headlines referring to “a bloody battle,” an unusual circumstance for a college newspaper. Indeed, the light-hearted nature of the drive is fitting: Donating blood is a relatively simple and vitally important way of quite literally saving lives.
However, the presence of a blood drive on open-minded and LGBT-friendly campuses like Harvard and Yale raises the issue of discrimination in blood donations. After all, U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulation still prohibits men who have had sex with men at any time since 1977 from donating blood.
Established in 1983 in response to fears of HIV spreading through the blood supply, this regulation is out-dated and irrelevant to the modern blood donor community. Although men who have had sex with men do have a higher incidence of HIV infection than the general population, new testing technology makes this nearly irrelevant: Modern tests can detect the HIV virus within weeks of infection with nearly complete certainty. In fact, as of November 2011, the United Kingdom established a rule allowing men who had sexual contact with a man longer than twelve months before donation to give blood. This regulation, called a “deferral,” recognizes that different people have varying risks of infection based on not only the gender of sexual partners but also frequency of sexual contact and other factors.
Of course, other categories of people are also discouraged or prohibited from donating blood, including people who weight less than 110 pounds and people who have travelled to or lived abroad in certain countries. Even so, the systematic exclusion of much of the LGBT community from taking part in blood donations seems discriminatory and illogical.
Allowing men who have had sex with men to donate blood would allow many more Harvard and Yale students to participate in this most bloody of competitions—and, more importantly, would allow many more people to give blood and save lives.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
There you are, sitting with your bros in a totally normal way entranced by the latest episode of Gossip Girl and maybe eating a Luna Bar:
[A door suddenly opens.]
Serena: “O! M! G! Dan! What are you doing making waffles with Blair? How could you!?”
Dan: “Serena, just let me explain…Georgina’s back in town!”
[Text messages all around. Everyone looks at a picture on their phone of Chuck walking a dog. Serena and Blair gasp.]
Dan: “See, I told you she’s back! By the way, I’m a bestselling author now. Isn’t that neat?”
Gossip Girl: “Uh oh. Looks like Lonely Boy’s got some explaining to do. XOXO, Gossip Girl.”
[Fade to darkness.]
Announcer: “IF YOU HAVE AN ERECTION THAT LASTS FOR MORE THAN FOUR HOURS, CALL A DOCTOR IMMEDIATELY!”
Needless to say, your shock at the new turn of real-life events on the Upper East Side is cut brutally short as you’re forced to fumble for the remote and mute the salesman’s screaming. After taking a bit of consolation in the fact that there might indeed be other men watching, you mutter to yourself and wonder why advertisers insist on ruining every good commercial with an offensive decibel level. Sound familiar?
Luckily, 2012 will be a good year for TV viewers. In what is the only bill to successfully pass through Congress in recent memory, the almost cleverly named Commercial Advertising Loudness Mitigation Act became law in December 2010. It mandates that a commercial can only be as loud as the mean volume of the program it is interrupting. Using some smart science that involves packing the frequencies that humans hear best, advertisers can still give their commercials a slight perceived boost, but technically and practically, CALM will make this pet peeve a thing of the past. The Federal Communications Commission finally adopted the new rules in December 2011 and gave broadcasters another year to comply. Even though CALM won’t be enforced until December 2012, many broadcasters have already deployed its required A/85-decibel standard ahead of the crackdown—a noticeable relief for couch spuds everywhere.
Unluckily, no one my age is an actual TV viewer. Live primetime is pretty blasé—an antiquated “whatever” for old people who like to be programmed by the programmers. Having grown up during the first coming of the truly personalized digital media experience, our generation demands way more choice and control than the last couple generations of counter-culture youth who thought they were demanding those things. And, as before, big business has gradually learned that mimicking or absorbing the startups that cater to our lucrative new needs are the only ways to stay relevant in the long term.
In the case of video, on-demand and digital are the way forward, and all the major content providers have been frantically racing to build a winning solution. Somehow, despite all of their experience delivering content, they’re forgetting to transfer the technological good practice they learned from old media to new media. Even as the Comcasts and Disneys of the world retreat from loud commercials on the tube, they appear to be running straight for them online. In my own—admittedly anecdotal—experience, commercial breaks that divvy up web-served content seem to be getting frustratingly louder by the day.
There’s something pretty crazy about this. Anyone can recognize that many of the consumer pressures that come to bear on video are the same whether it’s delivered via the Internet or over the airwaves. Consumers still want to laugh at a comedy, get high and watch Planet Earth, cry when Mufasa dies, and not deal with obnoxiously loud commercials.
What makes this more absurd is that CALM’s A/85 standard was painstakingly developed and published by the Advanced Television Systems Committee—an industry organization that includes all the major broadcasters—way back in November 2009 before CALM was even on the table. They did so specifically to combat the “audio loudness differential” of “interstitial content” that was annoying their customers. Could this bit of self-regulation indicate a long-standing commitment and willingness to accommodate consumer preference without being forced? Yes, indeed. So what gives?
There could be any number of perfectly reasonable explanations, but even so, my point is a much broader one. With the web being the future and all, the willingness of content providers to hold their services to a lower standard online than they do offline is unsettling. Advertisement volume is one example of something online that’s just worse than its big offline brother for no apparent reason.
The texture of every subpar online content experience might benefit if big publishers did more to come together and democratically define, adopt, and continually improve online media standards that parallel existing, offline ones. Doing so would iron out unpopular incongruities between new and old and put a framework in place to address new problems as they arise. Failing this, Big Media will just waste a lot of time and money relearning what it already knows.
Karthik R. Kasaraneni ’12, a former Crimson associate editorial editor, is a chemistry concentrator in Lowell House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than twenty years ago, I read a study of junior high school students in Rhode Island that included one finding I’ve never been able to get out of my head. Students were asked if a man who spent money on a woman during a date was entitled to force her into sexual activity. An astounding 25 percent of the young boys said yes—and even more astounding, 17 percent of the junior high school girls agreed.
You may think that sounds like a long time ago—and it was. But, sadly, dating violence remains a very real problem in our country—especially on college campuses.
Today, while in college, nearly one in five women will be a victim of sexual assault and one in 10 teens will be hurt on purpose by someone they are dating. These aren’t just statistics, these are people you know:  your roommates, your friends, your sisters, your classmates. This is a problem we all have to face.
My dad used to say that there’s no worse sin than the abuse of power. Whether it was raising a hand to someone weaker, or using any advantage to push people around, he taught me that if you saw abuse, you had an obligation to attempt to stop it. It’s a lesson to remember every day, but especially this February, during Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month.
Awareness is the first step to pushing back against a problem this big. When I held Senate hearings on violence against women more than two decades ago, domestic abuse in American society was rarely spoken about in public. I’ll never forget the stories of abuse I heard in over a thousand hours of hearings. The brutality of family members, acquaintances, and strangers against the women in their lives was absolutely devastating.
It was those hearings that led to the Violence Against Women Act, and since then annual incidents of domestic violence have dropped by more than 50 percent. But for women in college and younger today, the risk is still much too high.
That’s why I joined with Education Secretary Arne Duncan last April to announce historic new guidelines for colleges and universities about their responsibilities under Title IX to prevent sexual assault.  Under the federal civil rights law, schools have an obligation not only to respond appropriately when an assault occurs, but also to create a climate on campus that makes such violence unacceptable.
I also started an initiative called “1 is 2 many” to help reduce dating violence and sexual assault among teens and young adults. We harnessed the power of technology to get our message out, launching a national contest to develop “Apps Against Abuse.” The two winning apps—which will be available later this spring—will let you get in touch with your friends quickly and safely so you can call for help if you need it and stop violence in its tracks.  We’ve also made sure the National Dating Abuse Helpline can be reached by text, online, or phone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Last month, the FBI changed the way the federal government defines rape. The narrow, outdated definition—unchanged since 1929—said the assault had to be forcible and against a woman’s will to be classified as rape. It’s just not true, and it’s a point that I make on college campuses all across the country. Rape is rape and no means no. No means no whether drunk or sober. No means no whether in the dorm room or on the street. There is never an excuse. Young women and men alike need to understand this. Under the new definition, rape occurs when there is no consent, and it also includes sexual assault against boys and young men in national law enforcement reporting.
These are important changes, but ending dating violence and sexual assault isn’t just a matter of laws and legislation.  It’s about education. It’s about attitudes. It’s about your participation.  I need your help to address this issue in your dorms and on your campuses.  Studies show that men’s ideas about what other men think is one of the strongest determinants of how they act. So guys, you need to speak out.
The ultimate measure of a civilized society is how its laws and culture treat the abuse of women. Attitudes can change.  Violence can end.  But it can’t happen without universal understanding that dating violence and sexual assault will never be tolerated anywhere, at any time, for any reason.  Period.  That’s all of our responsibility.
 
Joseph R. Biden, Jr. is the Vice President of the United States.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editor:
When I wrote "The Rhetoric of Equality" and submitted it to The Crimson, I fully anticipated the torrent of insults and disparagement that flooded forth from anonymous online commenters.  However, I was surprised to see the attacks spill over onto the pages of The Crimson itself.  In his op-ed, "The Inevitably of Equality," Saieed Hasnoo refers to "close-minded pundits and politicians" who support traditional marriage, with the phrase "close-minded" set as a hyperlink to my own op-ed.  Clearly, I am one of the "pundits" Mr. Hasnoo has in mind.
His epithet is both groundless and unfair.  I presented a reasoned argument, devoid of any libelous or hateful speech.  In fact, I concluded with an invitation for my opponents in this debate to explain their ideas further, hardly the behavior of a "close-minded pundit."  Unfortunately, Mr. Hasnoo rejected that invitation: not only did he abstain from answering any of the questions I posed to same-sex marriage advocates, but he also failed to address any of my arguments at all.
Marriage is a very significant and contentious issue in our society and on our campus, and it is my hope that more debate on the issue can fill the pages of this newspaper in the future.  However, name-calling is simply counterproductive, as well as antithetical to the mission of an institution of higher learning.  Rigorous academic inquiry should predominate, especially at a university like Harvard, which makes a point of preaching civility.  In the interest of continued debate, I hope advocates of same-sex marriage can do better than Mr. Hasnoo and others' ad hominem barbs.
James P. McGlone '15
Cambridge, Mass.
Vice-President, True Love Revolution
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Fifteen Minutes sat down with IOP fellow and renowned journalist Farai Chideya ’90 for a cozy chat about radio, faux-hawks, and science fiction.
1. Fifteen Minutes: Welcome back to Harvard! What’s it like being back?
Farai Chideya: I love it! It’s great to experience Harvard life from a different perspective.... The people who end up at Harvard are incredibly passionate and sophisticated, but still kind of starting out their lives and careers, and it’s nice to have that energy.
2. FM: Which classes have you been auditing?
FC: I have not yet been to the bioethics class. That’s the number one class that I want to audit. There’s also a sociology class with William Julius Wilson and there is another class that I haven’t been to yet about how folk and myth has influenced contemporary fantasy writing, like J.K. Rowling.
3. FM: I know you’ve only been back briefly, but how would you say Harvard has changed since you were here?
FC: I think the level of undergraduate teaching is better. I think when I was here there was a lot of emphasis on having famous professors teach even if they didn’t really like teaching or didn’t relate well to undergrads.
4. FM: Last year you were Leader in Residence at the Colin Powell Center for Policy Studies, teaching about media and policymaking. How was the transition to teaching?
FC: I loved it.... You get a lot of energy from interacting with students and you also then have to stay up on your game.
5. FM: You’ve had a whirlwind career in journalism, from hosting shows on NPR to being a political analyst and commentator. How did you first become involved in journalism?
FC: Well, it was here at Harvard. I was at The Independent, but really it was the Office of Career Services that told me about an internship at the Boston Bureau of Newsweek... I was able to get this internship at Newsweek, and later on I was hired by them.
6. FM: How do you see the future of broadcast radio in an internet age?
FC: First of all there will be a lot more programming that is online-only, but then I think terrestrial radio will be around for a while because of cars. There’s always going to be a huge audience for radio, as long as there are people in their vehicle who are bored!
7. FM: You’ve done so many different things in your career so far, but what have been some of your favorite roles?
FC: Well, writing is hard, but in some ways it’s my home base, and it’s what I always return to. I’ve written four books, and I’m working on starting some new book projects so, to me, writing—including short-form writing like magazine writing and blogging—is what I always return to.
8. FM: Speaking of career goals, what did you want to be when you were younger?
FC: Well, what I wanted to be when I was little I’m still working on... I wanted to write science fiction and fantasy. I’m working on the outline for a young adult science fiction trilogy that’s set 300 years in the future.... Science fiction is really where people play out alternate discussions about issues like equality. I think it really talks a lot about human nature.
9. FM: In a blog post last year on The Huffington Post, you use this great phrase, saying you were disillusioned with the “government cheese” in the 80s. Where do you see this type of government cheese today, particularly in light of the 2012 election campaigns?
FC: Well, the phrase “government cheese” comes from the Reagan era when literally blocks of cheese were given to poor people. It was like, let’s do government cheese instead of a bigger solution to poverty.... In this election, you’ve heard a lot of rhetoric like, “Well, I’m not even going to bother taking care of the poor.” It’s like, you don’t get any government cheese and you don’t get a solution either! Even the president’s State of the Union address had a lot of small solutions, as opposed to big things.
10. FM: Speaking of big solutions, last week was Harvard Thinks Big, an event where eight professors were given 10 minutes to talk about what they see as today’s most pressing issues. Given this opportunity, what would you speak about?
FC: I would say that the impact of the combination of economic instability and the lack of family and social ties mean that a lot of people are very alone when they go through periods of trouble.... I think that rebuilding the economic safety net but also finding ways to rebuild the social safety net is really important, and they don’t have to be mutually exclusive.
11. FM: During your time here at Harvard you were part of an improv troupe. For you, what role does humor play in political reporting?
FC: Well, with political commentary...you have to be well-informed and serious, but you have to be able to crack a joke. I was just on the radio yesterday with two other people and one of them said that CPAC, a conservative convention, was like a Star Trek convention, and then the Republican on the panel got very upset, and I tried to sort of broker a peace, but it was really funny.... I think doing improv really helped me with being a political analyst because it gave me an ability to think on my feet and be quick.
12. FM: You once said in an interview that you have been called out by the black community for not being “black enough.” What do you think that means?
FC: Well, I think my whole feeling is that we shouldn’t judge people on being black enough, but sometimes people do. I myself during college was kind of a goth.... I had a kind of faux-hawk, and I wore all black, and I also did improv.... During college people would be like, what’s this girl doing with this crazy hair, listening to The Cure? And it was simple: That’s what I wanted to do.
13. FM: You did a piece for NPR a while ago about how eating disorders are mistakenly thought of as a white person’s disease. Are there any other areas where you’ve found unexpected racism?
FC: Well, when I was at Harvard I developed bulimia and at the time they just thought, “Oh, it’s the skinny white girls who have an issue.” I think when it comes to race...I had a real alternative-culture streak to me, and a lot of times racial preconceptions come into play about who can subscribe to what kinds of culture. A lot of my work deals with how race plays into inequality.
14. FM: Your work has taken you to almost all 50 states and around the globe a few times. What have been some of the most eye-opening experiences of your travels?
FC: Well, I have to say that India totally blew my mind. If you’re driving down the road in India, you can go from the 4th century to the 25th century in half an hour. So one moment you’re by an old temple and people are picking rice by hand, and the next minute you’re in some tech hub from the future.
15. FM: Finally, what one piece of advice would you give to our generation?
FC: Wow, well, I think that one of the things I’ve learned the hard way is that you cannot sacrifice your own health and mental health for work. Sometimes you have to stay awake for three days, I mean you have to do it sometimes, but it’s a balance.... Stay curious, stay active, and stay healthy!
Sections
Born and raised in Tehran, Nazila Fathi is a Shorenstein Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School. Before comingto Harvard, she worked in Iran as a journalist for The New York Times and other publications, until she wasforced to flee during the 2009 protests after threats from the Iranian government.
1. Fifteen Minutes: Did you always know you would become a journalist?
Nazila Fathi: The first time I fell in love with journalism was when I saw that press conference [in Iran during which Geraldine Brooks was chided by government officials for dressing extremely conservatively]. I realized the power that journalists can indirectly have—the authority, and how politicians could worry about their image in their encounters with reporters.
2. FM: How did you get involved with reporting on Iran for The New York Times?
NF: I started as a translator.... [News publications] had a huge appetite for stories from Iran. [As a stringer] basically I was on call all the time. They used me whenever they needed me. I didn’t get any credit, partially because I didn’t have credentials, and The New York Times had this policy until early 2000 that they wouldn’t give credit to stringers.
3. FM: What were some of the challenges that you faced as a reporter? How did you work around them?
NF: Part of [my work] was very secretive for one or two years at the beginning, but then things started to change because the government started valuing us because they knew who we were. I was summoned to the Intelligence Ministry and questioned, grilled.... We were showing a more human image of Iran to people. Until then, reporters were coming to Iran, and they were taking pictures of murals of martyrs on the walls, anti-American and anti-Western slogans on the walls, but then through us they started talking to people who expressed very pro-American feelings, and so the stories became much more different.
4. FM: At your talk you spoke mostly about your experience during the 2009 elections. What was one of the more memorable stories you covered before that?
NF: The first massive celebration demonstration was over the victory of Iran’s football team [which qualified them] for the 1998 World Cup. That was the first time that people saw that, “Oh my God, we can come out in huge numbers,” and the government was terrified. I mean, even traffic police, they were dancing on the roofs of their cars, throwing their hats in the air. It was just a spontaneous, massive celebration. It was then that people realized that they could appear in public in massive numbers, and the first political demonstrations started in 1999.
5. FM: What was it like for you to cover the 2009 election as an Iranian?
NF: I still believe it was the most important event in our recent history, other than the 1979 Revolution. I don’t think anything has shaken the foundation of the Islamic regime as much as those protests. I grew up in Iran, and for 30 years I wanted to see real change in my country. We’re not talking only about political freedom; we’re talking about very basic rights being taken away from people, especially women...as a woman, as someone who has lived in a repressive society, I was dying to see real change. And I was absolutely excited and happy to see those uprisings; I couldn’t believe the government wouldn’t back down. And deep in my heart, I was waiting. I was waiting for the government to back down, even just to hold new elections. That’s all people wanted. But they didn’t, and the violent crackdown started a week after, so it was a combination of joy and excitement first, then a sense of disappointment and betrayal.
6. FM: What was it like to leave Iran?
NF: I didn’t know I wouldn’t be able to go back when I was leaving.... I felt like I was betraying my people, that I shouldn’t be leaving. Towards the last three days when my house came under surveillance, I realized that I couldn’t do anything. I didn’t have internet; my phone was tapped; I couldn’t leave my house.... I thought I would leave and things would be completely normal again after a few weeks’ time, and I would come back. I thought the hundreds of people who were arrested would be released after a couple of weeks.... I was writing stories, and we still thought we would go back. It honestly took me about six months to realize we wouldn’t be able to go back.
7. FM: What were you doing during those six months?
NF: I went to Canada. We had lived in Canada previously, and it was like a second home for us. I wasn’t thinking of putting my kids in school until a week before September, then I suddenly realized that they had to go to school. People were being gradually released—friends, people I knew—and they kept contacting me and warning me not to go back, [telling me about] the fabricated stories that the government had made up, that I was part of the ring that wanted to overthrow the regime, that I was behind the protests. I realized it didn’t make sense to go back.
8. FM: In Aug. 2010 you came here for the Nieman Fellowship, and now you’re a Shorenstein Fellow. What sort of work have you been doing?
NF: The Nieman Fellowship is basically for mid-career journalists.... They give you one year time off from work to take courses here and to expand your intellectual horizon, and usually by the end of the program we all feel we want to do something different. Or, if people go back to their jobs, they have totally new perspectives. I was inspired to write a book, a memoir to tell a bigger story.... The purpose was to use my own experience as a woman who grew up during the first decade of the revolution and then started working as a reporter during the second and third decades to tell a bigger story of what has happened to Iran, to society, and where it’s moving.
9. FM: How has the political situation in Iran changed since Feb. 12, 2010, when the protests died down?
NF: The protest continued until February, but before the Feb. 12 protest there was already an internal debate going on among activists and the people who were involved that this was not making sense anymore.... What were they going to achieve? They didn’t want to overthrow the regime because they didn’t have an alternative, the movement didn’t have a clear leadership. The violence was getting out of hand, the number of deaths was escalating, and there was an internal debate—what are we doing out on the streets? I think the movement is very much alive because they still have this internal debate going on.... [The regime knows] that it’s there; it’s simmering beneath the surface. I can’t tell where it’s going, but I’m positive there is a civil society. They’re debating. So this movement is not dead.
10. FM: There are a lot of questions about how the 2012 U.S. election will affect U.S.-Iranian relations. How do you see that relationship evolving depending on whether or not Obama is re-elected?
NF: Iran has been one of the most important foreign policy issues, and they’ve said the military option would be on the table if Iran does not back down from its nuclear program. A military option is just catastrophic; it’s mad. And so far I’ve liked Obama’s foreign policy. I think he’s done well in Pakistan and on Iran. He hasn’t had a very active diplomacy; he wasn’t able to bring Iranians to the negotiating table, which is a major setback, but he is trying.... But I think that 2009 also undermined any kind of efforts for rapprochement or even talks about the nuclear program because Obama was faced with a regime that has no legitimacy at home, so how can he engage in any kind of conversation or dialogue?
11. FM: What is it like for journalists still covering issues inside Iran?
NF: There are still a couple of people. The Washington Post has a Dutch reporter working for it. But they are doing very little work. You can see the number of stories they’re covering is very limited, and they’re under pressure. I have a friend who works at The Financial Times, who I think is doing the best work, but they’re under huge pressure. They receive threats that they can’t go out on certain days.... Iran is not giving visas to foreign reporters to visit.
12. FM: In 2001, you translated Nobel Laureate Shirin Ebadi’s book, “The History and Documentation of Human Rights in Iran.” What was it like to work with her?
NF: Well, she hadn’t won the prize yet, and I had no idea who I was translating. I knew her as a person, but I didn’t know she would become the Nobel Laureate. [She was one of] two very prominent human rights lawyers, both of whom had written lots of books in English, and I would have translated both of their books. Both of them were jailed, and one of them came down with cancer and had to leave the country, so Shirin won. She’s very brave. I think it was a very well-deserved prize, and she has [lived] up to her reputation.
FM: They impounded her medal, didn’t they?
NF: They did! They stole it! They went into her safe in the bank and they stole it.
13. FM: Your translation of President Ahmadinejad’s statement that “Israel should be wiped off the map” has been pretty controversial. What are your thoughts on the extent to which translation has affected the way he comes across?
NF: It might be true that he comes across in a different way in translation, but the truth is that the language he uses is not a very intellectual language. He was elected on a populist agenda, and he constantly wants to appeal to the masses.... He talks in Persian like he’s talking to people who know nothing, who are not aware of anything, and are quite illiterate. Regarding the comment at Columbia, I don’t think he was mistranslated. I think he said what he said. “Israel should be wiped off the map”—this was not his sound bite. This was [Ayatollah Ruhollah] Khomeini’s sound bite in the beginning of the Revolution, and it’s everywhere, on the walls, at the military parades.... The Iranian news agency translated it the same way, before I translated it. Maybe it’s the wrong translation, but this is how it’s officially been going around by the regime itself. It’s not my job to go correct the translation; it’s the government’s job to see how they want to use that slogan.
14. FM: What do you think are some of the biggest misconceptions that Americans have about Iran, and what can we as students do to better understand the country?
NF: [There are] three misconceptions. There was no Twitter revolution in 2009. Number two, Iranians did not want to stage a revolution in 2009—it was just a protest demanding second elections to be held. Those demands changed as the violence escalated, but then people very cautiously withdrew from the streets. Number three, a military attack is disastrous for all the countries in the region but most of all for Iranian civil society.
15. FM: Do you have any advice for aspiring journalists?
NF: Go out there, learn a language...because you can go out there as freelancers, and then you don’t need translators, you don’t have to rely on fixers, and it’s a big advantage. I saw that in Iraq and Afghanistan—those who spoke the language, they all got jobs with good publications, but the ones who didn’t speak the language, they had to constantly rely on a translator, which is an extra cost.
Sections
Political identification is a tricky game, especially out on the left. Uniquely positioned in American political and intellectual life, Harvard has its own long and complex history with communism—and its own formative experiences of anxiety and exclusion.
In February 1950, Senator Joseph R. McCarthy launched the Communist witch hunt that defined an era and established his name. “Today,” he said, “we are engaged in a final, all-out battle between communistic atheism and Christianity. The modern champions of communism have selected this as the time. And, ladies and gentlemen, the chips are down, they are truly down.”
Harvard found itself at the center in this national scare. It was a clear target, in fact, with a reputation for turning out liberal graduates and an apparently strong Communist presence between the wars—all of which had earned it the moniker “Kremlin on the Charles.” Yet throughout the many turns of the ’30s, ’40s, and ’50s, Harvard fought to balance its commitment to intellectual freedom with its desire to avoid being marginalized or pressured from above.
The discussion of communism on campus, initially private to Harvard’s students and faculty, became a deeply public matter, and the tensions of the ’50s left a legacy of partisanship and pariahdom that was influential through the Vietnam era and beyond.
“REDS OF ALL SHADES”
The Communist fever that made Harvard the “Kremlin on the Charles” during the 1930s was slow to take shape. In the early days of American communism, its supporters faced little criticism at Harvard.
Leftist political thought first took official form on campus in 1908 with the formation of Harvard’s chapter of the Intercollegiate Socialist Society (ISS), a national organization of student and faculty working to spread socialist thought throughout the country.
Until at least 1920, Harvard delegates went to the annual ISS Convention, where they met with students from ISS chapters at other universities to discuss contemporary political affairs. In 1914, the Harvard ISS boasted 60 members: a small fraction of the College’s enrollment, but a recognized and tolerated group.
While the 1930s are generally considered the high point of Communist activity on college campuses, the start of that decade was quiet in terms of Harvard’s campus sentiment. But if Marx was not on everyone’s mind just yet, then politics certainly were.
An op-ed in The Crimson from April 1930 affirmed a strong belief in the freedom of speech and thought on campus. The article expressed “shock” in response to the University of Washington’s suppression of on-campus Communist groups.
The author went on to give a casual overview of left-wing politics at Harvard: “Harvard has her share of reds of all shades from a pinkish tint to a dark blood-red and Harvard is rather fond of them in a very mild sort of way. They add to the variety of the college scene.”
While these tinges of red were present—and non-threatening, according to the writer—it was not until two years later that they were officially recognized. In April 1932, Harvard students participated in the creation of the New England branch of the National Student League (NSL), which became known for its strong communist ideology. Gathered in a corner of Eliot House, students from Harvard, Radcliffe, Tufts, Boston University, and other local universities established the organization.
The NSL made its political goals apparent from the start and outlined them in its official agenda, “The Student Review.” It took a clear anti-capitalist stance, seeking to “expose the sham of ‘democracy’” and fight the “consistent denial of the elementary rights of free speech, press and peaceful assembly” it perceived as prevalent in America.
Philip G. Altbach writes in his book “Student Politics in America” that the NSL provided “a key means of recruiting students to the Communist party in the early thirties.” The 1935 founding of the American Student Union dissolved the individuality of the NSL, but Altbach insists that its basic political approach remained influential in the student movement throughout the 30s and, in various forms, until the present.
Marxist thought quickly spread across college campuses around this time, according to Harvey E. Klehr, a professor of history and politics at Emory University and an authority on the American communist movement. “The ’30s was the period in which the Communist Party made its most significant intrusion into college life and attracted the most support it ever would have among college students,” Klehr said.
A SPECTACLE
In the slump of the Great Depression, a group of students met in Leverett House D-41 and formed an association dedicated to the study of “scientific Marxism.” The John Reed Club, as it was named, was strictly intellectual.
The Young Communist League (YCL), also born in the 1930s, was far more active in the promotion of communism. The YCL was steadfast in the promotion of its ideas and stubborn in the protection of its members’ identities. As recorded in The Crimson, the YCL instigated a series of anti-war demonstrations and yearly riots at the University: “They held mass meetings, parades, soap-box harangues, and released doves of peace from the steps of Widener.” The YCL preached peace above all else, but it nonetheless found itself targeted by many anti-Communists.
The organization also produced a monthly publication, “The Harvard Communist.” By this time, the Red Scare had arrived at Harvard, and students took precautions accordingly. All articles that appeared in the issues were signed by generic figures named “Max” or “John,” and all letters to the editor were addressed “Dear Comrade.” The YCL even took care to send the publication from an anonymous post office box in Boston.
Sentiment among its writers was strong. An anonymous writer in the Dec. 1936 issue wrote, “The Harvard tradition, I believe, resides not in The Crimson and not in the select clubs and not in the Board of Overseers and not in its imposing plant and not in its dear ivy-clad walls but in its radical student movement, the radical student movement and its allies among the faculty.” The magazine’s motto was “Truth is Revolutionary.”
Perhaps one of the biggest clashes between the right and the left on campus was the peace strike on April 13, 1934. YCL students cut their 11 a.m. classes in order to congregate on the steps of Widener to promote peace. In retaliation, on the same day, at the same time, and at the same place, the conservative editors of The Crimson called a meeting of the Michael Mullins Chowder and Marching Society of Upper Plympton Street—a pro-war student group.
A stand-off ensued, and the peace strike was anything but peaceful. The YCL established its place on the steps, beating a peace drum. Armed with pro-war banners, 300 Society members approached the YCL strikers (their three leaders came dressed as Hitler, Karl Marx, and a boy scout). The chaos began, and the crowd threw eggs, onions, and pennies at the YCL, who continued to beat their drum.
The YCL did not survive this farce, but other activist groups stepped in to take their place. Although still controversial, communism held a steady position on campus throughout the 1930s. The war would change all that. Many Americans had believed that the USSR would stand against Nazi Germany; this perception, however, was shattered in Aug. 1939 when news broke of the Nazi-Soviet Non-Aggression Pact. Suddenly, Communist allegiance was associated with Nazism and America’s wartime enemies.
By the end of the ’40s, only a small contingent of self-identified Communists remained on campus. The John Reed Club functioned as the main Marxist organization at the College, though it never boasted more than 50 members. Despite its small size, the organization still drew attention, provoking the intellectual curiosity of the College at large. On several occasions, the society invited German politician and suspected communist Gerhard Eisler to speak. Nearly 500 students attended his 1949 lecture, “The Marxist Theory of Social Change,” and many more were turned away due to capacity restrictions.
In an interview with The Crimson in 1949, then-President of the John Reed Club Robert N. Bellah ’48 noted that the club faced opposition from the University, although there was no direct threat to the organization by the administration. “There was quite a bit of pressure on us not to invite speakers who would embarrass the University,” Bellah said.
Aggression towards self-identified Communists did occasionally manifest itself. Another president of the John Reed Club, George W. Stocking ’49, was attacked by three unidentified men while promoting a Communist event in November 1948.
Despite its prior prominence, the group eventually succumbed to the negativity directed at the Communist Party. By the early 1950s, with the clouds of McCarthyism looming, the John Reed Club became drastically less visible. Indeed, in 1950, the society gave up its charter, ceasing to be officially recognized as a University student group.
There were few pro-Soviet campaigners who were active at the University after the war, and few public displays like those of the YCL. In 1948, the American Youth for Democracy, an organization with strong Communist influences, circulated its charter; some of its members were assaulted by students when distributing literature in the Yard. Under the constant threat of heckling or attack, the AYD folded and the University was left without an openly Communist student organization.
“HOTBED OF COMMUNISM”
According to Crimson archives, in Jan. 1948 The Chicago Tribune named Harvard a “hotbed of communism,” an attack leveled against the University since the 1930s. In truth, the student body was, at that point, far more moderate than it had previously been. Yet this was the time that external accusations began and the University administrators became involved.
A booklet titled “Red-ucators at Harvard University,” published in 1949, accused 68 faculty members of being Communists or Communist sympathizers, once again raising questions of Harvard’s commitment to anti-communism.
Whether they were true or not, accusations that Harvard students and faculty were sympathetic to communism were not without consequence. Harvard found itself squarely in the line of fire of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and his followers, in the uncomfortable position of trying to prove itself adequately anti-Communist without compromising academic freedom.
In 1949, the Harvard faculty voted in favor of the proposition that “‘Communists should not be employed as teachers because membership in the [Communist Party] meant that they had surrendered their intellectual integrity.”
The vote exacerbated fears that Harvard would sacrifice academic and intellectual freedom at the University in order to save face. Bolstering this rejection of communism was a statement released by Harvard President James B. Conant ’14 in June 1949 asserting that Communists were not fit to teach at the University, assuring their freedom of thought was clearly compromised.
Despite the faculty and administration’s disavowal of Communist professors, Harvard remained a target. A special congressional committee was set up in Boston to begin questioning various Harvard professors about their involvement with the Communist Party. McCarthy himself said the following of Harvard: “I cannot conceive of anyone sending their children anywhere where they might be open to indoctrination by Communist professors.”
Harvard continued to be labeled as “pink,” or sympathetic to communism. Indeed, despite direct statements by Presidents Conant and Nathan M. Pusey ’28 that Communists were not fit to be on Harvard’s faculty, the University notably refused to fire professors who McCarthy accused of Communist allegiance.
Documents in the Harvard Archives show that then-President Pusey and Senator McCarthy communicated on several occasions in 1953 regarding Harvard’s alleged sympathies to the Communist Party. In tense exchanges between President Pusey and McCarthy, Pusey drew a line in the sand.
“Harvard is unalterably opposed to communism. It is dedicated to free inquiry by free men,” Pusey wrote in a telegram to McCarthy. “I am in full agreement with the opinion publicly stated by my predecessor and the Harvard Corporation that a member of the Communist Party is not fit to be on the Faculty because he has not the necessary independence of thought and judgment.”
Some students showed their disdain for the McCarthy investigation by organizing petitions and writing letters to The Crimson. One 1953 editorial read: “In all humility, we believe the President, the Corporation, and the students of Harvard are better able to judge whether there is a Communist on the Faculty, or whether there are other evidences of a ‘smelly mess’ than is McCarthy.”
Even while condemning Communists, the University sought to publicly protect its own from persecution. This conflict came to a head in 1953 when assistant professor Wendell H. Furry refused to incriminate himself under oath during a hearing, citing his Fifth Amendment right. In May 1953, the Harvard Corporation, the University’s central governing body, released a statement refusing to fire three faculty members accused without evidence by McCarthyites.
FBI documents uncovered by The Crimson in the early 2000s indicate that some University deans privately attempted to push accused faculty members out of Harvard, but these cases seem to be the exception rather than the rule. Even if Harvard privately put pressure on accused professors to resign, publicly the University defended its right to hire or to fire.
“WHAT ABOUT COMMUNISM?”
In the 1950s, the fear of communism was gaining traction, and the terror of Communist contagion pervaded the public sphere. As well as students, respectable left-leaning academics wanted to separate themselves very clearly from Communists and communism.
In the Harvard Depository there is a 32-page book entitled “What About Communism?”. Written at the dawn of the McCarthy era, the pamphlet attentively describes the “Communist specter.” Its author, Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. ’38, is one of the most respected historians of the twentieth century.
As an associate professor in the late 1940s, Schlesinger was known for frequently writing and lecturing about the dangers of communism and the importance of supporting Europe in its postwar relief effort. In his landmark book of 1949, “The Vital Center,” Schlesinger envisaged the United States as a guard post for liberal democracy against the threats of communism and fascism.
The title page of his pamphlet is decorated with a hammer and a sickle, entwined in the style of the communist logo, only the sickle bends around to look like a question mark.
“It was a favorite communist tactic,” Schlesinger wrote, “to plant secret members on the staff, say, of an organization dedicated to some good liberal cause, and then to manipulate the organization in the Communist interest.... In the same way attempts were made to slip secret Party members into the government.”
The pamphlet was published under the banner of the Public Affairs Committee. Schlesinger lamented that all too often Americans responded to the specter of communism with anxiety, running “panic-stricken from a haunted house.” Yet he made sure to include a detailed section titled “How Do You Tell a Communist?”
A person’s attitude toward the USSR, Schlesinger wrote, must be considered in addition to his attitude toward capitalism.
“If you find a man who believed strongly in collective security until Aug. 1939, who then became an isolationist until June 1941, who then demanded a second front, and who now opposes the Marshall Plan and the North Atlantic Pact...then it is fairly safe to assume that you have found at least a reliable fellow traveler.”
Even for moderates like Schlesinger, the threat of communism hung heavy.
Professor Stanley H. Hoffmann, one of the founders of the social studies program who has taught at Harvard since 1950, remembers the lasting effects of communist anxiety on campus. Hoffmann was at Harvard for the 1950-51 school year, but left briefly for France to fulfill his compulsory military service before returning.
“I came back in ’55 and the teachers... there was really a split between left and right, which was new,” Hoffman said. “For instance, social studies had not been very political when it was formed but by the mid-’50s everything was politicized and divided.”
“I think in about ’56 there was Commencement and there was a rumor that the far left and the communists and people sympathetic to communism would try to disrupt Commencement. Nobody, by the way, had decided to do so. It was just one of those rumors,” Hoffmann explained.
“On the steps of the chapel...[liberals] were standing on the left and the conservatives were standing on the right. They didn’t look at each other. It was like two separate universities and the order was perfect. So it was rather picturesque.”
By the 1950s, the ideological threat of communism, often portrayed as a plague, had become an issue that divided the University.
The transformation from tolerance to scorn in campus politics paved the way for the tumult of the ’60s and the energy of radical movements that followed. And, for those on the left, the widespread suspicion of dangerous ideas continues to influence the language and the practice of political expression.
This article has been modified to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Feb. 22
An earlier version of this article misrepresented the political views of William P. Whitham ’14. Whitham does not consider himself “left-wing progressive.”
Sections
Somebody had to design the Veritas shield. Scrawled in scraggly brown ink and bound in a narrow, leather volume, this sketch resides in Pusey Library in the Harvard University Archives, which are responsible for collecting and maintaining artifacts of historical significance to Harvard.
“Our holdings are not all paper,” says Peter Kosewski, manager for publications and communications for the Harvard University Library. “There’s a lot of cultural property in there, too.”
The collection offers a diverse array of artifacts, from uniforms and catchers’ mitts to papers and letters from former faculty members to copies of the first website interfaces of Harvard academic departments. The Archives house some less expected items, too, like a dining hall tray designed by famed Bauhaus architect Walter A. G. Gropius and paper glasses from Harvard’s 350th anniversary celebration. The oldest item—a London land deed donated by John Harvard as part of the large gift that made him the university’s namesake—dates back to 1577.
The variety of artifacts in the University Archives means that the collection cannot be counted in traditional ways. “Our materials are stored in boxes so we measure [our holdings] by linear feet,” explains University Archivist Megan G. Sniffin-Marinoff. She noted that the Harvard Archives contain over 50,000 linear feet of material.
The Archives also seek donations from current Harvard student groups and organizations to keep their collection up-to-date. When asked what kind of things get chosen to be part of the archive, Sniffin-Marinoff replied that, in addition to saving all of the official records of the University, “the collection aims to catch things that might be elusive.” Such ephemeral items include student organization t-shirts, banners, and scrapbooks that are easy to overlook—vibrant and somewhat innocuous artifacts that illuminate the robust nature of Harvard’s social and intellectual life.
Sections
On Feb. 7, Proposition 8, a Calif. provision that banned same-sex marriage, was deemed unconstitutional by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Does this ruling mean that the panel is upholding the constitutionality of same-sex marriage? If not, why does the Ninth Circuit panel stop short of declaring same-sex marriage constitutional?
 
Laurence H. Tribe: The Ninth Circuit panel was clear about the fact that it was not holding that same-sex marriage is constitutionally required as a general proposition; the court left no doubt that its holding applied only in the special circumstances present in Calif. There was no need for the court to go any further in order to strike down Proposition 8, and by rendering as limited a decision as it could, the court reduced the odds of being reversed.
Fifteen Minutes: To what extent does this ruling express changing views of same-sex marriage?
LHT: This ruling is in step with a gradual shift in national views on the same-sex marriage issue but rested on grounds that would have been fully applicable years ago.
FM: Will this ruling serve as a catalyst for other states to allow same-sex marriage? If so, how?
LHT: This ruling might become another source of steady pressure in the direction of same-sex marriage, purely as a psychological matter, but it will not have any direct effect in states outside the Ninth Circuit.
Sections
A class devoted to reinventing society, “Progressive Alternatives: Institutional Reconstruction Today” not only crosses intellectual boundaries, but also uses modern technology to allow college students from around the world to interact in real time.
Taught by Harvard Law School Professor Roberto M. Unger, the class includes live commentary from Columbia University professor Jeffrey D. Sachs ’76 and Sciences Po professor Laurence Tubiana in Paris, France.
Using video teleconferencing technology, instructors and students from all three institutions can engage in thoughtful discussion on “how to reimagine society,” Unger said.
During the first hour of the class, the three professors lecture and comment on the day’s topic of discussion via teleconferencing software.
“In the remaining one hour, students from all three campuses ask questions, and a discussion-based class is led by the professors,” said Alpkaan Celik ’15, a student in the course.
“Progressive Alternatives” is listed as a course at both Harvard College and Harvard Law School. Over 65 students are enrolled in the class, half of whom are undergraduates.
Students and professors alike are prompted to question today’s definition of progressivism. Unger said that the course aims to “shake up dogmas and make what seems natural look strange.” Described by Unger as “a promise of intellectual liberalism,” the class encourages and challenges students to actively develop proposals for change.
As of now, this intercollegiate trade of ideas exists only between the classrooms of Unger, Sachs, and Tubiana.
“This is a limited experiment because we have colleagues who are still only in the North Atlantic area. We want to try to engage people in the major developing countries in the world,” Unger said.
In his own words, he hopes to encourage the “exchange of ideas with different parts of the world and different intellectual traditions.”
Ultimately, the course prompts students and professors alike to ask a fundamental question through unconventional means: as Unger puts it, “What should progressives stand for now?”
Sections
"Have you ever heard this elevator say ‘lobby’? It’s the most seductive thing ever."—at Wasserstein Hall, Law School
"Ladies, be on your game tonight. You might just meet your husband here."—at a final club
Woman to crane operator: "When will you guys be done?"
Crane operator: "Hopefully never. We need the work."—at the Fogg construction site
"They’re not making love. They’re fucking. She’s getting railed every night."—outside of Ramrod
"She’s total Harvard hoochie material."—in Adams Dhall
Sections
I have never been more confident in the decline of Western civilization and the impending, frankly overdue 2012 apocalypse than I am when I look at the veritable cesspool of intellectual and moral decay that is the collection of memes on the Facebook group of the Harvard College Class of 2015. Used as supposedly humorous tools in the arguments over the Abe Liu controversy, they are just another example of awful, idiotic internet creations.
Let’s be clear: I don’t hate all memes, as they are defined in the dictionary. I just hate what we call “memes,” and how they have been abused.
The term has been bastardized. “Meme” was coined in 1976 by Richard Dawkins when he shortened the Greek word “mimema,” meaning “something imitated” (think Mr. Mime). It was defined as the cultural analogue of the biological gene, or a unit that behaves in culture like a gene might over generations of organisms, copied, miscopied, and altered.
Once referring to a concept of cultural evolution, it now conjures up the endless march of all-too-easy-to-make-and-distribute image macros, which are rarely entertaining enough to justify the time and bandwidth they occupy. One does not simply “make” a meme, as Dawkins would define them, when you create a half-assed image macro on quickmeme.
Besides, memes just aren’t funny, people. A bad “meme” image is like bad poetry—it just sucks and it’s painful to read. Right? So, uh...don’t do it. I’m looking at you out there, making that “High Expectations Asian Father” macro, preying on worn-out cultural stereotypes and a poor imitation of first-generation Asian-American pronunciation difficulties. Close the laptop. Don’t upload your distaste to my Facebook for the cheap thrill of a “like” or two. Go take a walk.
Sections
Just like it’s easy to hate on the popular kids in high school, it’s easy to hate on memes. After all, it doesn’t take a genius to notice that memes have become the prom king and queen of the internet—just take a look at your Facebook newsfeed. But even if memes are becoming a bit overexposed, it’s only because they’re hilarious and deserve to be recognized. So for those people who think that they’re too cool to LOL out loud or eat at the popular table, you can just go back to MySpace for all I care.
Memes embody everything that our generation loves—unnecessary content that’s entertaining, easily consumed, and requires only two seconds of our attention. These qualities make them perfect for a procrastination maneuver I like to call “the scroll and LOL,” a technique that others prefer to call a black hole for productivity. But the best part about memes is that I no longer feel the need to be legitimately funny around my friends. All I have to do is be the first to find the funniest memes, spam their inboxes, and by the transitive property (or something), I myself become funny.
Of course, all this meme-hunting can be a major time suck in your already busy schedule. But am I embarrassed that I spend more time with my favorite internet characters than I do with my actual friends? Not really. Condescending Willy Wonka is a snarky little bee-otch, and I love it. Socially Awkward Penguin is adorable and makes me feel better about my own social ineptitude. Philosoraptor has so many interesting metaphysical insights! Can real friends do all that? Didn’t think so.
From the Harvard Douchebag to High Expectations Asian Father, memes are what’s happening and cool. And if I didn’t get to hang out with the in-crowd in high school, then I’m definitely not going to miss out on my chance now.
Sections
Ryan A. Duncan ’13 says he wouldn’t consider himself a douche—his friends created the meme after snapping a candid picture of Duncan with a newly purchased camera. Is he truly a Harvard douchebag? FM tracked down the man behind the meme so you could decide. Keep in mind: Harvard Good Guy declined to be Scoped!
House: Cabot
Concentration: Chemistry
Hometown: Buckhannon, W. Va.
Ideal date: Dinner and a movie. It’s kinda cliché, but it’s cliché because it works.
What you look for in a girl: A modest amount of quirkiness, something that makes them kind of spikey or stand out.
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Out partying or watching The Colbert Report with my blockmates.
Your best pickup line: You’re so stunning you made me forget my pickup line.
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: The worst lies I ever told are white, like whether or not my mom’s food is good. She went on this crazy tofu diet.
Something you’ve always wanted to tell someone: Whenever I see kids in public that are egregiously misbehaving, I really want to slap their parents for being so negligent. That’s my biggest pet peeve.
Favorite childhood activity: playing Zelda
Sexiest physical trait: The dealmaker is when a girl has good eyes.
Best part about Harvard: University Choir that sings in Memorial Church, involved for 3 years.
Worst part about Harvard: No hot breakfast. Aside from that, I try not to be too pessimistic.
Describe yourself in 3 words: ironically, rather gentleman
In 15 minutes you are: Chem. 165 write-up
In 15 years you are: doing research and industry on alternative energy
Sections
The Closet is a 9x5 foot rectangular room with no windows. You access it through the white door on the left of the common room entrance, just past the table that holds our mugs, Hershey’s syrup, Five o’clock vodka, and Country Time lemonade mix. The closet itself is relatively empty—a dozen or so hangers, a mattress. The space is mostly unused. Sounds just like any old closet, I know. And I guess that’s what it is.
The room—can we call it a room?—is pretty famous, actually. Last year, the space acted as a ball pit and, when my roommates and I first moved in, we knew it needed a transformation worthy of the suite’s previous residents. We passed ideas around: Caffeine hub? Meditation space? Batting cage? The possibilities were endless. They were also fairly unreasonable, for the most part.
Then by chance (and some association with Dorm Crew), we came across a large collection of abandoned pillows that had been used by high school students over the summer. My roommate, with the help of a friend, had the idea to stuff the pillows into garbage bags and transport them to the Quad. It was pouring rain that day, so they caught a cab outside CVS and crammed the bags into the trunk. The cabbie charged extra. “Because of the dripping bags,” he said.
Back in Pfoho we poured the pillows into our closet—35 in all—until the floor had been covered completely. My roommates and I advertised the space as the Pillow Room. In the first few days, we spent a lot of time just sitting in the fluff.
Our newly transformed closet reminded me of my couch back home—the L-shaped fern-colored corduroy monstrosity my sister and I used to convert into a post office or castle or mansion (but usually a post office) and play in for hours. We would build fantastic forts, leaving just-small-enough holes that we could weasel our way in and crawl along the dimly lit, slightly muggy interior. For some reason, playing postman was our favorite. One of us would crouch inside and receive mail—little hand-delivered letters, notes, and drawings that would be exchanged through the side gaps where two cushions met. For a couch, this one was memorable for its abundance of removable pillows.
The year I moved to college was the year my parents bought a new couch and gave away the one that we had sat on, taken apart, played in, and put back together. But that green corduroy is still what I picture when I think of home.
The Pillow Room at school was similar, in that you could burrow deep into the cushions there too. Our friends seemed to appreciate its comforts as well, and the closet became a refuge for those daunted by 3 a.m. returns to the River. Eventually, the Pillow Room made its way into debriefs at Sunday Brunch. (“Wait, so what were they doing in there?” “Not sure, but they were in there for a long time....”) Once, the closet even appeared in a friend’s blog about chronicling new experiences—our Cabot neighbor had never before slept in a room entirely composed of pillows. “Beyond cozy, if a little weird,” she said.
But, like all good things, after a few months of one-off sleepovers and a growing sense of accumulating dust, the Pillow Room started looking a little gray (or so I imagined). We started having disagreements about the future of the closet, about whether to get rid of the pillows or not, about what would eventually be used to take their place. My parents had always reminded my sister and me to tidy up after we had moved on from our fort to other activities. “You can’t just leave all the pillows laying there. Clean up, girls!” There was a nagging feeling that the closet had to be straightened up. I felt like I’d come full circle.
Then a very lucky thing happened: We were given a reason to change the room. My roommate, a triplet, found out that one of her sisters would be coming to visit, all the way from university in South Africa, for the first week of spring semester. And so, just like that, we were in agreement.
In a stroke of cleanliness, we cleared and disposed of the pillows (mostly). Those we kept found other functions. A particularly fluffy one made its way to my bed. Another six were placed under our broken futon to give an impression of height to what, in reality, is a very sunken couch. A select few remained in the closet, in the state it’s in today. The pillows, though separated, found new roles—new ways of providing comfort and support.
Before we left for January break, the closet had been transformed. Pillows gone, we dragged in a mattress. My roommate, excited about her sister’s scheduled arrival in seven weeks’ time, neatly dressed it with soft sheets and a gray cover. A framed picture of their family made its way onto the closet shelf. We decorated the door with a bright welcome sign.
Once J-Term ended and a new semester began, we found ourselves with one extra roommate, adding a fourth tea drinker to the suite. Most evenings we kept two kettles running. There were late night chats, our bodies extended lazily on the common room couches. The start to the semester was slow, and the presence of a sister brought each of us back home in different ways.
I thought of all the times I had cuddled up with my own sister to watch a movie in bed. I thought of both of us huddled in the green fort telling stories. I thought of our secret, non-verbal way of saying “I’m sorry.” And so, when we all squashed onto the sunken futon for a screening of “Forgetting Sarah Marshall,” hugging pillows to our chests, it felt almost right, except for the small sense that something (someone) was missing.
My sister called me the other morning to ask about the pancake recipe our family uses, the one from our yellowed, batter-stained copy of “Joy of Cooking.”
“Hey, how much yogurt does Dad add to the pancake mix to make the pancakes fluffy?”
“He adds half a cup, I think.”
“Right, but does he subtract some milk too?”
“No, I feel like he just adds the yogurt on top of it all. Are you making pancakes this morning? Remember how Dad used to make animal shapes with the pancake mix, a bunny for you and a bear for me? I miss you.”
“I miss you too.”
When my sister called, I was laying on the bare mattress in our closet, reading. My roommates and I had decided to keep the room simple, unadorned. When no one is visiting, it certainly isn’t anything extraordinary—just a walk-in closet. I told my sister that I had been thinking of her, that I couldn’t wait to visit her this President’s Day weekend in her new apartment in San Francisco.
“Can we video chat?” she asked. “I want to show you the house.”
A week was too long to wait. She gave me an object-by-object tour of her entire apartment—bed, couch, and closet included. She said that she might be coming to visit, in May. If she does, there’s a place for her to stay.
—Sophie T. Bearman ’13, Online Magazine Chair, is a visual and environmental studies concentrator in Pforzheimer House. She is flying to San Francisco on Friday.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
America currently faces a bullying crisis, according to the award-winning documentary “Bully” which was screened at the Graduate School of Education Wednesday night.
Lee Hirsch, director of “Bully,” said his experiences being bullied as a child inspired the film.
The film, which depicts the lives of five families with children who were the victims of bullying over the course of one school year, was viewed by an audience of approximately 200 as part of the Askwith Forum lecture series..
Hirsch said he decided to focus on telling the stories of the children in the film, rather than exploring solutions for eradicating bullying.
“This film was truly dictated by the stories we found,” Hirsch said.
Hirsch said he hopes his film will reveal the extent of the bullying crisis in the U.S.
“I’m very happy that this film sparks a conversation,” Hirsch said.
Hirsch said he also hopes bullying comes to be viewed as a form of torture and a human rights issue.
Attendees said the film was extremely powerful and brought them to tears.
“I didn’t realize how prevalent this is in schools,” Lesley University student Anna R. Finkelstein said.
A panel following the film stressed the importance of addressing the crisis of bullying and the negative effects it can have in children’s lives.
The panelists discussed the difficulties that school administrators and teachers face in controlling bullying in the classroom.
Teachers do not receive adequate training to deal with bullying, panelists said.
Anna P. Nolin, the principal of Wilson Middle School in Natick, Mass., said she has observed firsthand the lack of moral education that school children receive.
“The life curriculum is not taught alongside the academic curriculum,” Nolin said.
This event comes two weeks before Lady Gaga will visit Harvard to launch the Born This Way Foundation, a nonprofit organization promoting anti-bullying efforts.
—Staff writer Elizabeth S. Auritt can be reached at eauritt@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the Faculty of Arts and Sciences poised to meet its goal of balancing its budget by the end of June, faculty members across all disciplines are hoping to increase tenure-track faculty representation in their departments—all of which have seen stagnation in hiring since the 2008 financial crisis.
Both large and small departments have continued to make tenure appointments despite the hiring freeze that FAS Dean Michael D. Smith implemented in Nov. 2008 to balance the school’s deficit. The ranks of tenure-track faculty have since shrunk from 208 in 2008 to 173 at the beginning of this academic year.
For example, a spate of promotions in the history department has left only five tenure-track professors in a department of 50, department chair James T. Kloppenberg said.
According to professors, tenure-track faculty are critical for the teaching staff to maintain the vitality and freshness of its teaching and research. Younger tenure-track professors often enter departments with cutting-edge research.
“In general, the ideal balance is about one-third junior [faculty], two-thirds senior,” said Julie A. Buckler, chair of the Slavic languages and literatures department.
But with the sole junior professor in her department currently under review for tenure and no current search for tenure-track faculty underway, Buckler may find her department without any tenure-track faculty next fall.
The loss of tenure-track faculty to other universities—a commonplace phenomenon as faculty often receive competitive offers from institutions other than Harvard—has only exacerbated skewed ratios.
“We have a number of faculty who are on track for retirement; we were understaffed in certain fields; and we were constantly losing people,” said Jeffry A. Frieden, a government professor. “The first year of the crisis, we lost five very, very promising junior faculty members [to tenure offers].”
Frieden added that the government department has increasingly relied on visiting professors to fill teaching positions.
“We’re finding it difficult to staff our classes,” he said.
A strong tenure-track faculty is also critical to the intellectual depth of departments, according to many professors.
“The junior faculty is the incubator of new ideas,” said economics professor Claudia Goldin, whose department has seen tenure-track faculty decreased by 40 percent, from 15 to 9 in just three years.
“These are usually people who have an awful lot of energy and connect with students very well,” said Sean D. Kelly, chair of the philosophy department. “[They know] what cutting-edge research is like.”
FAS hired a slew of new assistant and associate professors in the years preceding the economic downturn, increasing the total number of tenure-track faculty by nearly 20 percent between 2002 and 2008.
But this period of growth was cut short when Smith halted all new faculty hires in Nov. 2008 to cut costs.
“It is hard to work within the constraint of not hiring, not growing,” said Eric N. Jacobsen, chair of the chemistry department.
He said that tenure-track faculty members compose a “healthy” fraction of the current chemistry and chemical biology faculty but added that many will be reviewed for tenure soon.
But department administrators are hopeful that as FAS regains its financial footing, their departments will grow as well. Many are once again pursuing faculty searches to fill vacancies—four new searches have recently been authorized in history and three in economics.
“It seems to be lifting, but I think we have catching up to do,” Frieden said. “I think it will take three to four years of aggressive hiring.”
—Staff writer Radhika Jain can be reached at radhikajain@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Kevin J. Wu can be reached at kwu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After more than a month of speculation, Joseph P. Kennedy III is set to formally declare his candidacy for Congress Thursday morning.
Kennedy’s campaign said it will release a video statement announcing his bid early Thursday morning before beginning an all-day tour of the Fourth District.
“I’ve spoken to people from across the 4th Congressional District—from Newton to Fall River—who believe that Washington no longer works for them,” Kennedy said in a statement on Wednesday. “I will work hard to earn every vote and if elected bring the fight for fairness to the U.S. Congress.”
Kennedy announced last month that he would leave the Middlesex County District Attorney’s office to pursue a possible bid for the Fourth District seat held by retiring Congressman Barney Frank ’61-’62.
Kennedy has gained momentum in recent days even though it remained unclear when he would formally enter the race.
A poll late last week showed Kennedy leading his chief Republican challenger, Sean Bielat, two to one. On Sunday, Kennedy received the endorsement of the Massachusetts AFL-CIO, the state’s largest labor union.
Kennedy’s campaign appears to be using some of the tactics employed by Harvard Law School professor and U.S. Senate candidate Elizabeth Warren.
Warren also announced her candidacy by video, followed by several pit stops throughout Massachusetts. Both campaigns are being advised by Democratic consultant Doug Rubin.
Political analysts said the nature of the announcement and the length of Kennedy’s exploratory period raise red flags about the 31-year-old’s readiness to enter the race.
“I think that they want to keep it very controlled,” Republican political consultant Todd Domke said. “They don’t want to open him up to a lot of questions.”
Democratic political consultant Michael Goldman said that the campaign’s caution may be caused by the pressure of the Kennedy legacy.
“When your name is Kennedy, the expectation is that by osmosis you know the answers to all the questions,” Goldman said. These expectations, he added, could hurt an unprepared candidate.
Kennedy is the son of former Mass. Congressman Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. and the grandson of former Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy. His announcement Thursday marks the first time a member of the family has run for office since the death of Edward M. Kennedy ’54-’56 in 2009.
The Kennedy name will likely give the campaign a boost in fundraising and media attention, analysts have said, which may translate into votes.
Kennedy will attend three major fundraisers on his behalf in Washington, D.C., next week, according to a report in the Boston Globe.
Even though he is little-known among voters, Kennedy is considered the de facto early frontrunner, analysts said.
Bielat is considered to be Kennedy’s chief opponent after a host of other candidates dropped their bids in the wake of Kennedy’s announcement of a potential run.
“What I’m not sure any of us could have expected was how quickly the field cleared out,” said former Boston City Councillor Lawrence S. DiCara ’71.
Kennedy is a graduate of Stanford and Harvard Law School. He served in the Peace Corps for two years before returning to Massachusetts to work as a prosecutor.
—Staff writer Nicholas P. Fandos can be reached at nicholasfandos@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Law School professor Elizabeth Warren and U.S. Senator Scott Brown are deadlocked in the Massachusetts race for U.S. Senate, with Warren leading Brown by three points, 46 percent to 43 percent, according to a WBUR poll released Tuesday.
The results point to a tightening in a race that many consider to be one of the most significant Senate contests in the country this election cycle, according to former Boston City Councillor Lawrence S. DiCara ’71.
“I think that this is going to be nip and tuck until the very end,” DiCara said. “I don’t view this as one where either candidate is going to get much more than 50 percent.”
Warren led Brown by seven points in an early December poll. In an October poll, Brown was in the lead.
Warren’s three-point lead is within the poll’s margin of error.
Republican Brown’s popularity among traditionally Democratic working-class voters has led political analysts to predict the race will be based more on how voters relate to candidates than specific policy issues.
“The most important factor is going to be their capacity to connect with people,” Harvard Kennedy School lecturer M. Marty Linsky said. “That’s what’s going to make the most difference. We don’t know very much about how Elizabeth Warren is going to be experienced by people.”
Both Warren and Brown have tried to fashion themselves as middle-of-the-road, common sense candidates, experts said. Brown has tried to focus attention to his bipartisan voting record and middle-class values, while Warren has emphasized her work as a consumer advocate.
The WBUR poll suggests that the candidates’ efforts to relate to voters have been effective thus far. Of the 503 Massachusetts voters polled, half said they have a favorable view of Brown while 39 percent reported a favorable view of Warren.
On issues pertaining to the candidates' backgrounds and values, voters said they felt similarly about the two candidates.
When asked if each candidate would stand up for them in the Senate and if they understand middle class families, voters responded equally in favor of both candidates.
Democratic political consultants said Warren’s performance in this poll bodes well for her campaign, which is still relatively young and unknown in Massachusetts.
Fifteen percent of voters polled by WBUR said they had never heard of Warren, who launched her campaign in October.
“The surprise is that she’s neck and neck without huge numbers of people knowing who she is yet,” Democratic political consultant Michael Goldman said. “She hasn’t even put up her first commercial yet.”
“These are very good numbers for her and very tough numbers for Brown because he doesn’t have numbers to grow and she does,” Goldman added.
—Staff writer Nicholas P. Fandos can be reached at nicholasfandos@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
During her time in Adams House, Nancy Stieber ’71 would take the sheet off her bed and hang it up on her wall every few weeks to show films for her male and female friends.
“People would just pour in. Our living room would be filled,” Stieber said of gatherings she hosted after Harvard and Radcliffe merged some of their residential houses.
“It was inconceivable before that switch,” she said.
Stieber was one of several Harvard and Radcliffe alumni who shared memories of the 1970 co-ed residential merger at a gender history exhibit in Pforzheimer House on Wednesday night.  The merger brought the men of Harvard and the women of Radcliffe to live in the same Houses for the first time in the institutions' history.
In February 1970, 159 Harvard men moved into Radcliffe’s North, East, and West dorms, transfers which allowed the first generation of Radcliffe women to move into Winthrop, Lowell, and Adams houses.
Wednesday night’s exhibit featured student handbooks, yearbooks, photographs, and other documents dating back to 1906.
Spearheaded by Harvard College Women’s Center intern Suzanna E. H. Bobadilla ’13 and Pforzheimer House Committee Chair Matthew S. Chuchul ’13, the one-night exhibit was a component of the pair’s larger project to investigate Pforzheimer House’s history—a pursuit inspired by Harvard’s 375th anniversary festivities.
After proposing the exhibit this past November, Bobadilla and Chuchul spent several weeks in January poring over archives in Schlesinger Library.
Bobadilla said that she decided to focus the exhibit on the co-residential merger because the historical moment resonated with her personally.
“It’s hard to imagine having a whole segment of the population not be around you all the time,” said Bobadilla.
Pforzheimer Co-House Master Erika L. Christakis ’86 praised the exhibit, saying it shed light on an important event in her House’s history that needed to be  better documented.
“I thought Pfoho in particular really needed to have its history told,” Christakis said. “We don’t have the really obvious signifiers of history the way some of the River Houses have pictures of old people on their walls and dusty books.”
Though some panelists said the co-residential merger was a milestone for gender equality at Harvard College, others recalled the era as a time of tense gender relations.
“There are guys in my class who never dated a Radcliffe student,” panelist Meryl L. Stowbridge ’71 said. “I remember hearing about one Radcliffe girl who went down to a mixer at Lowell House and introduced herself to the guy she was dancing with, and he said, ‘You couldn’t be a 'Cliffie, a 'Cliffie wouldn’t stoop that low.’”
—Staff writer Rebecca D. Robbins can be reached a rrobbins@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Kennedy School announced Friday the spring 2012 recipients of its Fisher Family Fellowship, an award that recognizes excellence and innovation in diplomacy and brings fellows to Cambridge to engage with both Kennedy School students and the broader Cambridge community.
The Fisher Family Fellows program, established in 2010 by the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs’ Future of Diplomacy Project, has selected three recipients: Shyam Saran, the Indian government’s former foreign secretary; Javier Solana, who has served as NATO secretary general and the European Union's high representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy; and Timothy P. Shriver, the president and chief executive officer of Special Olympics.
“The premise of the Fisher Family Fellowship is to bring diplomats who have generally speaking just left the scene to the Kennedy School, so that they can use it as a venue to publicly reflect,” said Cathryn A. Cluver, executive director of the Future of Diplomacy Project.
Saran and Solana will join the Fisher Family program’s inaugural fellow, Said Tayeb Jawad, who has served as Afghanistan's ambassador to the United States, to share some of their most recent experiences as diplomats in the thick of the international affairs scene.
In addition to diplomats-in-residence, who spend anywhere from a few days to a month in Cambridge, the Fisher Family Fellow program brings journalists, academics, and prominent nonprofit leaders to Harvard. Past years’ selections have included individuals such as New York Times and International Herald Tribune columnist Roger Cohen and Princeton professor Anne-Marie Slaughter, a Harvard Law School graduate.
“The Fellows program gives Harvard students very direct access to how international affairs are changing on the front lines, said Cluver. “As over 40 percent of the Kennedy School’s student body is international, we try to reach a certain level of diversity in selection to help teach about issues that are borderless.”
In interest of achieving what Cluver referred to as a “geopolitical and geostrategic balance,” the Fellows program has selected three individuals with very different backgrounds and approaches to the issues of modern diplomacy. Shriver, who will retain his position with the Special Olympics during his time at Harvard, is the first head of a major non-governmental organization to be a fellow in the program’s history.
“Through the growth of the Special Olympics, Tim has shown understanding and compassion to be essential elements of what modern diplomacy is,” said Cluver, adding that “international affairs are no longer just state to state, and diplomacy is no longer just men in ties sitting around mahogany tables.”
Saran will be in residence from Feb. 13 to Feb. 17, Solana during the month of April, and Shriver during the first week of April.
—Staff writer Ethan G. Loewi can be reached at ethanloewi@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge Police Department reported on Wednesday that crime in Cambridge has reached a historic low. According to the report, the Department responded to 3,567 serious crimes in 2011—the lowest registered number of incidents since 1963 and a 1.3 percent decrease from 2010.
CPD spokesperson Daniel M. Riviello said that the police department’s increased transparency contributed to lowering crime rates.
“We do not just tell the community what the police are doing to combat these trends, but also provide them with tips and information on what they can do to protect themselves and their property from becoming a victim of crime,” he said.
Cambridge Police Commissioner Robert C. Haas also attributed the dip in crime rates to the efforts of his police force.
"The men and women of the Cambridge Police Department are extremely professional and hardworking, and it is their daily efforts which have had such a positive effect on crime," Haas said in a statement. "These efforts, coupled with our strong community partnerships and commitment to allocate our resources based on data and analysis, are what have succeeded in making Cambridge a safer and more welcoming place."
The report showed that serious crime has decreased by 68 percent since 1974. Serious crime tallies are measured in accordance with classifications set by the Federal Bureau of Investigations’ Uniform Crime Reporting Program, according to the report. Under FBI guidelines, "serious crime" indicates the number of committed “index crimes,” which include homicide, rape, larceny, burglary, and aggravated assault. Serious crime is further divided into violent crimes and property crimes.
According to the release, Cambridge registered 436 violent crimes and 3,309 property crimes in 2011.
Of violent crimes, street robbery in Cambridge declined by the widest margin. The CPD reported 113 street robberies in 2011, 20 percent less than the number committed in 2010 and the fewest robberies registered in the past 50 years.
Though the city saw a decrease in street robberies, the number of registered murders and commercial robberies increased in 2011.
The Cambridge Police Department recorded five homicides last year, but no homicides were reported in 2010. The CPD said that despite this spike in the city’s homicide rate it closes 82 percent of such cases, which is higher than the 65 percent national rate.
Commercial robberies increased by 55 percent in the last year.
“While burglary did increase in 2011, this increase must be tempered by the fact that both 2009 and 2010 saw near record lows for this crime type, and 2011 levels were settling back toward the average number of those types of crimes we historically see in Cambridge,” said Riviello.
—Staff writer Julia K. Dean can be reached at juliadean@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard College Global Health and AIDS Coalition put a Valentine’s Day spin on the group’s campaign demanding that pharmaceutical company Merck’s increase access to its AIDS drug raltegravir in poor nations.
A group of 20 people—primarily members of the Coalition and several Medical School students—protested outside Merck’s research laboratories adjacent to Harvard Medical School on Monday afternoon.
The demonstration included pink, red, and white balloons—a play on Valentine’s Day colors with a symbolic message, Coalition member Nathan T. Georgette ’13 said.
“The implication [of the theme] is that their current policies are breaking the hearts of the millions of people who can’t afford their life-saving AIDS drugs,” Georgette said.
The demonstration was the most recent in a series of efforts by the student group this academic year to convince Merck to negotiate with the Medicines Patent Pool, an organization established two years ago to provide an avenue for pharmaceutical companies to provide generic versions of patented AIDS drugs for lower prices in poor countries.
Other pharmaceutical companies such as Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, and ViiV Healthcare have entered negotiations with the Patent Pool, but Merck has refused to do so, according to a Global Health and AIDS Coalition press release.
“I find it outrageous that Merck would demonstrate such indecency while peer companies join the Patent Pool graciously,” said protester and Harvard Medical School student Matthew F. Basilico ’08 in a press release.
The protesters performed a symbolic “die-in,” silently lying down for ten minutes to represent the “human cost of preventing people from accessing these drugs,” Georgette said.
As the protesters were lying down during the die-in, Georgette alleged, a Merck employee photographed protesters individually to record their faces.
Georgette said that he interpreted this as an intimidation tactic, noting that many of the protesters may be interested in entering the field of medicine and pharmaceuticals in the future.
“You have to question why they’re so unwilling for undergraduate students to express their views,” Georgette said. “We’re not damaging their property or committing any crimes, so it’s not like gathering evidence for a criminal proceeding. It’s more of an intimidation attempt, in my view.”
The Coalition began the campaign during the fall semester, Georgette said. In October, the group held a “pool party”-themed protest, featuring inflatable beach balls and a kiddie pool in reference to the name of the Medicines Patent Pool.
The group has held themed protests in an effort to make its demonstrations fun and friendly rather than aggressive, Georgette said.
“We realize that corporations are made up of people who aren’t too dissimilar from you or I,” Georgette said. “There are much more extreme tactics we could take that are more vilifying of the employees, but we don’t want to do that. What we want to do is offer an alternative that we think is beneficial to the company and for all of these people who need access to the drugs.”
Other actions that the group has taken include a demonstration outside a Boston pharmaceutical conference on World AIDS Day in December, and a petition with 716 signatures that was delivered to Merck’s director of global policy, Georgette said.
—Staff writer Dan Dou can be reached at ddou@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: February 16, 2012, at 9:55 p.m.
Allan M. Brandt announced Wednesday that he will be stepping down from his role as dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences due to health considerations stemming from a recently diagnosed illness.
“I am deeply grateful for the opportunity I have had to know and collaborate with all of you,” Brandt wrote in an email to his GSAS colleagues. “The core mission you have worked hard to support will continue unchanged.”
Noting his leadership capacity and positive energy, faculty members said news of Brandt’s decision was unexpected and sobering.
“We were devastated,” said Garth O. McCavana, GSAS dean for student affairs. “We were very sad...that he is stepping down, because he is such a great leader.”
Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith highlighted Brandt’s accomplishments in pedagogical innovation, diversity at the Ph.D. level, and student support in an email that he sent to FAS faculty members and staff on Thursday.
“In the five admissions cycles he has overseen, the quality of our entering Ph.D. and A.M. [Masters of Arts] classes has risen to unprecedented heights, as have the number of applications to GSAS,” Smith wrote.
In addition to developing the student body of GSAS, Brandt launched Graduate Seminars in General Education—a program through which graduate students help design undergraduate courses.
“He sees undergraduate and graduate education as part of the same seamless fit,” said classics professor Richard F. Thomas, who serves as the classics department’s director of graduate studies.
Colleagues praised Brandt for increasing the accessibility of graduate education at Harvard.
Applications to GSAS—including those from underrepresented minorities—have increased consistently during his tenure.
And in the midst of the financial downturn since 2008, Brandt has continued to fund graduate stipends and student support programs.
“He has created an unbelievably collaborative and communicative environment among the directors of graduate studies,” said Marie D. Dahleh, director of graduate studies for engineering and applied sciences. “We’ve been getting together more frequently...to discuss concerns that go beyond departmental boundaries.”
Brandt also made an effort to interact with the Graduate Student Council—the school’s representative student body.
Council President Cammi N. Valdez said that Brandt’s dedication to graduate students went “above and beyond” the call of duty. “Finding someone who is as committed to graduate students as Dean Brandt is rare,” Valdez said.
Beyond his role as an administrator, Brandt has become known for his warm personality and genuine dedication to the needs of his colleagues and of his students.
“He’s a truly fantastic fellow,” said Eli Tziperman, director of graduate studies for earth and planetary sciences.
In addition to his administrative role, Brandt holds joint appointments at Harvard Medical School and the history of science department.
“[Teaching] is something he’s been able to continue actively during the time he’s been dean,” said James M. Hogle, Dudley House Master and director of graduate studies for biophysics. Hogle added that he appreciated that Brandt was an “ardent supporter” of Dudley House.
Although Brandt does not plan to return as dean, he does intend to resume teaching duties upon finishing medical treatment.
“I will greatly look forward to my return to the faculty and to re-engaging in the critically important work of graduate education,” he wrote in his email.
Richard J. Tarrant, Pope Professor of the Latin Language and Literatures and acting dean of GSAS from 1995 to 1996, will serve as interim dean while Brandt’s replacement is found.
Smith and Brandt approached Tarrant last weekend to request that he serve as interim GSAS dean. Tarrant accepted the appointment after conversations with both administrators on Tuesday.
“My highest priority is to ensure as smooth a transition as possible, so that the work of GSAS can be successfully carried on through the end of the academic year,” Tarrant wrote in an email to the Crimson.
“He knows the graduate school well and the administration well,” said Margot N. Gill, GSAS administrative dean.
The search for Brandt’s permanent replacement is in its initial stages, according to FAS spokesperson Jeff Neal. Smith has invited members of the FAS community to send him their thoughts on potential candidates.
—Staff writer Radhika Jain can be reached at radhikajain@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Kevin J. Wu can be reached at kwu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A father-son duo of former Harvard swimming and diving team captains has created a fund for the head coach position of the men’s swimming and diving team, establishing the 13th endowed coaching position at Harvard.
Charles “Charlie” J. Egan Jr. ’54 and his son Peter F. Egan ’86 announced the new Ulen-Brooks Endowed Coach post earlier this month.
The position was named in honor of the Egans’ swimming and diving coaches when they were at Harvard—Harold S. Ulen, who spent 27 seasons at the helm of the team, and his successor William J. Brooks.
The Egans are one of only two father-son pairs to serve as captains of the swimming and diving team during their Harvard careers.
In his four seasons with the Crimson, Charlie Egan earned both team-wide and intercollegiate recognition. He set a program record in the 150-yard IM, an event in which he later placed 23rd in the 1953 NCAA Championship. During his time at Harvard, Charlie Egan was also a was a member of the 400-yard freestyle relay team that placed third in the Eastern Intercollegiate Swimming League Championship.
Like his father, Peter Egan was a standout during his time with the Crimson. As a senior, Peter Egan was captain of the 1985-1986 squad, which won the EISL Championship and placed 16th overall in the NCAA Championship. That year, he earned All-American honors in the 200-yard butterfly.
Since leaving campus, the Egan family has remained involved in University affairs. Charlie Egan has served as a member of the Harvard College Fund Council, an honorary director of the Harvard Alumni Association board, and president of the Harvard Club of Kansas City.
“Charlie and the entire Egan family mean a great deal to the Harvard swimming community,” said Tim D. Murphy, the current head coach, in an Athletics Department press release.
Murphy, in his 14th season as head coach for the swimming and diving team, will be the first to hold the Ulen-Brooks coaching position.
Diving coach Keith Miller called the endowment an “incredible honor” for the team.
The newly endowed position is the latest in a string of honors and successes for the team under Murphy’s tutelage. Over the past 13 seasons, Murphy has led the team to six EISL Championships and an overall record of 107-9. In six of those seasons, Harvard emerged undefeated.
The endowment may help the team continue that success. The award will bring “great stability to the team for years to come,” assistant coach Kevin M. Tyrrell said.
Charlie and Peter Egan could not be reached for comment.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Maria J. Dominguez Gray will serve as the first female executive director of the Phillips Brooks House Association, PBHA leaders announced on Wednesday.
Dominguez Gray, who served as deputy director of PBHA since 1999, will take over for Gene A. Corbin. Corbin left PBHA, Harvard's main umbrella organization for undergraduate volunteerism, for a position in the College administration as an assistant dean of student life for public service.
Corbin said that diversity in leadership is important for any social justice organization, explaining that the appointment of a woman as executive director will be an asset for PBHA in its role as a social justice advocate.
Although Dominguez Gray is the first woman to hold the position, she said that PBHA has had many female staff members and student presidents who have influenced the direction of the organization
E. Abim Thomas ’96, a member of the PBHA Board of Trustees, said that Dominguez Gray’s appointment is not only significant in itself but is also “laying the foundation for...others to follow in her footsteps.”
Corbin, who has worked with Dominguez Gray for more than eight years, stressed that her gender “is really an added benefit.”
“Maria was named to the position because she’s incredibly capable,” Corbin added.
Dominguez Gray graduated from the Harvard Graduate School of Education in 1994.
For student leaders of PBHA, Dominguez Gray is already a familiar face noted for her efforts to get to know students on a personal level.
“It’s very clear that her priority is supporting students,” said Carolyn W. Chou ’13, president of PBHA. “She has made a big impact on a lot of Harvard students’ lives.”
Jesus H. A. Sesma ’13, a program director at PBHA, said, “It’s not often that you hear [of] someone who has a position like executive director of an organization who has so many one-on-one relationships with the student body that she works with.”
In addition to her work at PBHA, Dominguez Gray said she is actively involved in the wider communities of Cambridge and the Boston area.
Dominguez Gray said that she believes “being present” in the community aids her work at PBHA. By attending community meetings and making an effort to be involved outside of Harvard, she helps staff members adjust PBHA programming to meet community needs and increase PBHA’s credibility as a social justice organization, she said.
“I’ve just always been impressed by her involvement with the community,” said Thomas, who has worked with Dominguez Gray on efforts to encourage service in Massachusetts. As deputy chief counsel to Massachusetts Governor Deval L. Patrick ’78, Thomas worked with Dominguez Gray to establish the Commonwealth Corps program, a statewide youth service program.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations is discussing the creation of a Modern Middle Eastern Studies track within the concentration, following a similar program introduced within the secondary field in September.
The consideration of a new track that focuses on contemporary issues is a response to what department administrators see as an increase in student interest in the subject.
“The bulk of our concentrators and secondary field students want [to study] the modern Middle East,” said NELC Director of Undergraduate Studies Peter B. Machinist ’66.
This past fall, about 15 undergraduates enrolled in the gateway course for the newly-introduced Modern Middle Eastern Studies secondary field.
“It was three times as many as I had expected,” said lecturer Susan M. Kahn, the course’s instructor.
Despite this high interest, there is currently no defined program within the concentration for students interested in contemporary Arab issues.
“Harvard has a Center for Middle Eastern Studies where you can take a masters program or study for a Ph.D.,” said NELC Department Chair Ali S. Asani ’77. “Why can’t you take it as an undergraduate?”
Asani said that department faculty members agree that there is a need for a new concentration track, but its form and structure have yet to be determined.
While Asani said he hopes the plans will be completed by the end of this academic year, the logistics of planning a new undergraduate program are complicated.
“The institutional structures have not been in place,” Asani continued. “Whenever you mount an undergraduate major, you have to make sure that there are special resources for undergraduates, such as making sure they have advisers.”
Estimating the number of students interested in pursuing this proposed track is difficult, Asani said, because undergraduates can wait until their senior year to declare a secondary field.
He also said that it is “hard to predict” the kinds of students who enter the Modern Middle Eastern Studies secondary field, saying that it has attracted pre-meds and economics concentrators alike.
A unifying thread among students in the secondary field is experience with a Middle Eastern language, according to Asani. “It’s quite easy to build up a secondary, especially if you’ve studied the language.”
Government concentrator Rebecca K. Gilmore ’12, who began pursuing a secondary in NELC before the Modern Middle Eastern Studies track was added, followed this approach.
Gilmore, who plans to work in Middle Eastern foreign policy, said that she hopes for more “cross-disciplinary courses” about contemporary Middle Eastern politics.
“I think that there could be more interest if there were more course offerings,” Gilmore said.
—Staff writer Nikita Kansra can be reached at nkansra01@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Sabrina A. Mohamed can be reached at smohamed@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Since the New York Knicks’ game against the New Jersey Nets on Feb. 4, it seems that no one can stop Jeremy Lin ’10.
That is, no one except Lin himself.
While all the buzz has been about Lin’s record setting scoring, points aren’t his only stat that has shot up. In his first five starts, the Harvard alum recorded 30 turnovers—a number that sets the record for most turnovers in a player’s first five starts since the NBA/ABA Merger.
On Wednesday night, when his Knicks took on the Sacramento Kings, the turnover streak continued as he committed six on the night. Proportionally, how bad is this? Well, he alone accounted for 33% of his team’s turnovers. Some of this can be attributed to his position, true, but if we compare his 36 in the last six games to the stats of other players, it does not look good for the second-year player.
The league’s leader in turnovers, the Oklahoma City Thunder’s Russell Westbrook, has committed 121 in 28 games. If we take Lin’s current numbers and correlate them to what they would be after 28 games—let’s just say that it would be 47 more than Westbrook, a guy known around the league to leave the ball in the hands of the opponents.
Overall on the season, which includes the games before he was Linsational, Linsane, or even Lincredible, he is averaging 6.4 turnovers per every 48-minute sequence. The guys in front of him on this list are people like Ryan Ried of OKC, for example, who has played four minutes on the season, and committed one turnover during that time, shooting his TOP48 rate up to 12.5. Or Eddy Curry…who is infamous for being, well, Eddy Curry.
If we look through Lin’s game tape, there are a couple obvious reasons why he commits so many turnovers.
Firstly, he often telegraphs his passes all the way through, leaving little doubt for the defenders on which way they should cheat. Secondly, the guy goes to the hoop. A lot. Anytime that happens, there is bound to be some instances where he dribbles it off his foot or tries to force it to a teammate in just too much traffic. The point isn’t that his turnovers are unwarranted, it is that there are just so many of them.
As he plays more and adapts to the highly intense world of being an NBA regular, these mistakes will go down. But for right now, despite his extraordinary play, his turnovers have just been too numerous for this hype to continue for much longer. While his points and assists have been consistently high for the last week and a half, Lin must do something, and fast, if he wants to correct this Linterruption to his quickly-growing legend.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following Monday’s win over Northeastern in the Beanpot consolation game, the Harvard men’s hockey team (8-7-10, 6-4-8 ECAC) looks to build on that success as it embarks on a two-night road trip this weekend, travelling to a Friday night matchup against Brown before heading to Yale for a Saturday showdown with its archrival.
Both the Bulldogs and the Bears will be looking for revenge, as the Crimson has prevailed in its home contest against each team, including a nationally televised 4-3 victory over Yale on Jan. 27.
“Right now, our focus is truly on Friday night,” head coach Ted Donato ’91 said. “I think [Saturday] will be electric, so we’ll have no problem being ready for that game.”
This weekend marks the ninth time the Crimson has played games on back-to-back nights, with a total record of 4-6-6 in those matchups. The team will travel from Providence to New   Haven immediately following Friday night’s game against Brown. According to senior forward Alex Killorn, the combination of opponents makes for an atypical travel schedule, though it shouldn’t affect the team’s performance on the ice.
“Typically when we go to Brown it’s a day trip,” Killorn said. “There’s a lot of emotion in Ivy games, but they’re both huge games. You can always muster up the energy, especially for Yale.”
Despite a difficult start to ECAC conference play, Harvard has clawed its way back to fourth place, with 20 points, leading fifth-place Clarkson by one point. Both Yale and Brown trail the Crimson, with 15 and 12 points, respectively, in the conference.
“Climbing the ranking is always good for the national rankings, but it’s also good for our overall confidence,” junior forward Alex Fallstrom said. “We’re playing for four points this weekend, and we want to keep the teams [that are] behind us, behind us.”
After a close defeat against No. 1 ranked Boston  University in the first round of the Beanpot, Harvard carried its solid play into Monday’s contest versus Northeastern, emerging with a 3-2 victory keyed by a game-winning shorthanded goal from junior forward Luke Greiner. The win was the first for the Crimson in 10 days, one that it hopes provides a boost in advance of the weekend’s games.
“The past games before that [against Rensselaer and BU], we were playing really well, just not getting the results we wanted,” Fallstrom said. “[The win] is a huge momentum shifter.”
Monday’s victory also marks the latest in the season the Crimson’s record has risen above .500 since 2007-08. For Killorn, playing in his last year at Harvard, the winning record represents a milestone not yet achieved during his career.
“Obviously, you want to be a winning team,” Killorn said. “Since I’ve been here, we haven’t really had the success that we want. Especially as a senior, you want to leave your mark.”
“There’s a lot of pride in our locker room,” Donato added. “Our schedule is always tough with our late start, and we’ve continued to schedule some of the toughest non-conference games in the country. [The record] is something that I think is a benchmark we’d like to improve upon.”
Looking beyond this weekend’s contests, Harvard will finish the regular season next Friday and Saturday at Bright  Hockey Center with games against St. Lawrence and Clarkson. The Crimson looks for a strong finish before the ECAC Tournament, which kicks off on Mar. 2, and for which a spot in the NCAA Tournament will be at stake. Should Harvard remain in the top four of the conference following the conclusion of regular season play, the team will earn a first-round bye and a home best-of-three quarterfinal on Mar. 9-11.
“We want to get as high [in the standings] as possible, but we really want to establish how we’re playing heading into the playoffs,” Donato said. “Being second, third, or fourth isn’t as much of an issue as getting one of the top four spots.”
Given the quality of its recent play and the tight nature of this year’s ECAC—the top seven teams are separated by just nine points—the Crimson believe it has as good of a chance as any team to claim this year’s tournament title and the coveted NCAA bid that comes with it.
“We’ve played every team [in the ECAC] so far, so we know we have the ability to beat these teams,” Killorn said. “We’re excited.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Around 7:45 p.m. Eastern Standard Time last Saturday evening, everything appeared to be going right for Harvard men’s basketball.
Columbia had jumped out to a surprising 30-23 halftime lead over Yale, Penn was clinging to a slim 27-22 advantage over lowly Dartmouth at intermission, and the nationally ranked Crimson held an identical advantage over Princeton at the break.
By the end of the night, however, things had shifted dramatically. The Bulldogs had mounted a comeback of epic proportions to win by a point, a fall-away three-pointer by Zack Rosen had given Penn a 58-55 nailbiter over the Big Green, and the Tigers had used a 13-3 run late in the game to hand Harvard its first loss in Ivy play.
Despite having its hopes dashed of becoming the first team since Cornell’s 2007-08 squad to go 14-0 in league action, the first-place Crimson (21-3, 7-1 Ivy) remains in the pole position in the Ancient Eight. The other two teams that control their own destiny, Yale (16-6, 6-2) and Penn (13-11, 5-2), each have lost to Harvard on their home turf.
And so the road to the league title will go (literally) through Cambridge, where the Crimson currently boasts a 25-game home winning streak—the second-longest streak in the nation, trailing only Kentucky’s 49 consecutive home victories.
“Hopefully we don’t fall into the trap of thinking just because we’re home, things are supposed to turn out correctly,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “That’s a formula for disaster.”
The Crimson will have its first chance to extend the program-record run on Friday, when the seventh-place Bears will take the court riding a five-game losing streak, including a pair of defeats at Columbia and Cornell last weekend.
Friday’s 86-60 drubbing by the Lions was wholly forgettable for Brown, but it opened with a better showing the following night against Cornell, entering the half down two points before losing by nine.
Guard Matt Sullivan carried the squad in the absence of leading scorer Sean McGonagill, who had sustained a concussion the week before against Penn. Sullivan totaled 38 points over two games and was named to the weekly Ivy League Honor Roll.
“We’re trying to reinvent ourselves once again with the loss of another one of our players...our overall leading guy, [McGonagill],” said Bears coach Jesse Agel, who has been forced to cobble together a makeshift rotation after the loss of multiple key players to injury earlier in the year. “By the second night, I thought we adapted well and gave ourselves a chance to compete.”
Agel, whose squad competed in a nine-point home loss to Harvard three weeks ago, declined to comment on whether McGonagill would return this weekend.
Perimeter defense may prove to be a point of emphasis this weekend, as both Cornell and Columbia made more than half of their attempts from three-point land against the Bears.
Having shot just 27 percent from behind the arc since downing Yale three weeks prior, Harvard should relish the chance to rediscover its long-range stroke.  As for the Bears, 40.1 percent of their field goal attempts are three-pointers, placing them 36th in the country.
Visiting Lavietes Pavilion the following day after a Friday-night date with Dartmouth will be the Bulldogs, who will be seeking retribution for a 65-35 letdown loss to the Crimson three weeks ago.
The Bulldogs went 1-1 during its Empire  State road trip this past weekend, finishing each in dramatic fashion.
“Playing on the road against those two teams in those environments was difficult, and I thought our guys did a good job being gritty and fighting to the end,” Yale coach Joe Jones said.
At Columbia Saturday, the Bulldogs rallied from a 21-point deficit with 11:30 left in the second half to come away with a 59-58 victory—its fourth in five games, including a home sweep of Penn and Princeton.
While Ivy scoring and rebounding leader Greg Mangano had just 11 points and six boards, forward Reggie Willhite scored six of his squad’s last nine points against the Lions, including the eventual game-winner.
He finished with a career-high 24 points and five assists, which earned the senior a spot on the league’s weekly Honor Roll. Since Yale’s first meeting with Harvard on Jan. 27, Willhite is averaging 15.0 points and 7.2 rebounds per game.
The night before, the Bulldogs found themselves on the other end of a one-point margin, falling in overtime to the Big Red, 85-84, in a loss that could have devastated their Ivy title hopes.
Instead Yale will take to the road in four of its six final games with plenty to play for; its 16 current victories are the most for any Bulldog team since the 2001-02 edition won 21.
Critical to Yale’s hopes of avenging their earlier loss to the Crimson—the most lopsided in the history between the two rivals—will be its ability to hold onto the ball. The Bulldogs rank 284th in the country in turnover percentage and gave the ball away to Harvard 22 times back in New   Haven.
On Friday it again lost the turnover battle to Cornell, 15-11, but coughed it up only 14 times to the Lions’ 21 the following night.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When a ranked team loses to a 13-10 squad, it’s not surprising that a scapegoat is sought. So after the Harvard men’s basketball team’s 70-62 loss to Princeton on Saturday, the media (myself included) looked for a place—or person—to pin the blame. This time around, it fell on junior forward Kyle Casey.
Casey missed four of five critical free throws down the stretch, and Princeton closed the game on a 28-18 run to grab the eight-point win that gave the Crimson its first Ivy League loss of the season.
“I thought we had many chances in that game to come out on top,” said Harvard coach Tommy Amaker two days after the loss.
One of those chances occurred with the Crimson trailing by two, 48-46, with 5:14 to play. Harvard put the ball in the hands of Casey, and the 6’7” forward put the ball on the deck, attacking the basket. He reached the rim, drawing contact and a whistle while tossing the ball at the hoop. As the ball rolled around the top of the cylinder, it seemed as if Harvard fans were about to witness another special night courtesy of Kyle Casey.
Throughout his time with the Crimson, Casey has put together a number of Greg-Jennings style, “I-put-the-team-on-my-back” performances. In last season’s regular season finale against Princeton, Casey delivered Harvard a share of its first Ivy League title with a 24-point performance. And earlier this season, Casey brought the Crimson back from a 10-point halftime deficit against St.   Joseph’s, dropping 20 in the second frame.
But on Saturday it was not meant to be. Casey’s layup attempt rimmed out, and the junior went to the line, where he proceeded to knock down one of two tries. After Princeton nailed two free throws on the other end, the Crimson went back to Casey. Again the forward put his head down and drove to the hoop, and again it looked like Casey was primed to swing the momentum back to the Crimson with an and-one finish. But the ball did not cooperate, and Casey returned to the charity stripe where his struggles continued. After two missed free throws and a Tigers score on the ensuing possession, the Crimson found itself down by five with time running out.
Casey had one last shot at redeeming himself, going to the line with a chance to bring Harvard within three at 2:58 to go. But he misfired on the front end of a one-and-one, marking his fourth missed attempt.
“I sucked from the free-throw line,” said Casey on Monday. “It was horrible.”
While it’s easy to pit the blame of Saturday’s loss on Casey and his missed free throws, Harvard fans should not be so quick to get upset with the forward. The result may have not been what the Crimson faithful desired, but Harvard needs that aggressiveness from Casey offensively going forward.
With Amaker opting to go with lineups featuring spot-up shooters Laurent Rivard and Corbin Miller on the wing, Casey can provide a different dimension to the Crimson offense by putting the ball on the floor and drawing contact at the rim. Last season, Christian Webster filled that role, getting to the line 123 times as a sophomore. But 22 games into his junior season, Webster has gotten to the stripe on just 13 occasions. And with Rivard replacing Webster in the starting lineup in December, it has become even more important for Casey to play a penetrating role for the Crimson.
“That’s exactly what we need is to be aggressive going to the rim, creating the opportunities to get fouled,” Amaker said. “We couldn’t ask for anything more. He’s going to be a much better foul shooter. What happened [Saturday] is unfortunate, but I have the ultimate confidence in Kyle.”
Casey, it seems, has accepted his position as an attacker first and a spot-up shooter second.
“We don’t exactly need me to get ’em up from the three-point line,” Casey said. “If I can attack the basket and get to the free throw line, get to the rim, and knock my open shots down, that’s what we need from me.”
It may not have worked out on Saturday, but Amaker and Casey feel that the future will be brighter.
“[After the Princeton game Amaker] said, ‘Keep your head up,’” Casey recalled. “He knows I’m a better free-throw shooter than that. [I’ve got to] just keep attacking and stay aggressive because I feel like we’ll definitely need that if we want to get to where we say we want to go.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After Jeremy Lin’s clutch buzzer beater in Toronto on Tuesday night, the Knicks were gel-lin (cheap, I know, but it’s too tempting) on Wednesday, capturing a 100-85 win over the Sacramento Kings in front of a raucous crowd at Madison Square Garden. With seven minutes remaining in the fourth quarter, the Knicks had a 30-point lead, but the fans, gripped by Linsanity, were still glued to their seats.
Tonight was a true illustration of what Lin has been saying repeatedly since he burst on the scene: success is a team effort. But that’s not to say the former Harvard standout didn’t do his part, as he dished out a barrage of alley-oops and Nash-like passes to his teammates in the first five minutes en route to a 25-17 New York lead after one quarter.
New York never looked back and by half time, the Knicks (15-15) had managed to extend the lead to 18 points over the lifeless Kings (10-19). Seven different Knicks tallied at least 10 points, and in an impressive display of depth, the bench added 39. The Kings struggled to guard the plethora of options Lin had at his disposal.
While tonight’s action may not have had the nail-biting finish of last night’s game against Toronto, Lin played an effective game. Shooting four for six from the field, scoring 10 points, and dishing out a career-high13 assists, Lin earned a double-double on the way to the dominant victory and the continuation of his undefeated status as a starter. He also showed some impressive displays of defensive grit when he stood strong to take a charge early in the first quarter and wrestled with Sacramento’s DeMarcus Cousins in order to earn a jump ball and a change of possession.
However, Lin also turned the ball over six times. Though that's better than his  eight the previous night, turnovers remains an issue for the point  guard.
Meanwhile, naysayers who claimed Lin would be relegated when the other Knicks stars returned to the lineup were silenced for at least the time being. Amare Stoudemire fit well into the Lin-led system, fighting his way to 11 points and five rebounds and keeping the ball moving in a display of unselfish play.
Fields and Chandler also added strong physical play on the defensive end to back the team’s high-paced offense.
There still remains the question of how Carmelo Anthony will fit into Lin’s offense when he returns from injury, but Knick superfan Spike Lee seems to have no concerns. When one Knicks fan tweeted, “if Melo's return slows down #linsanity , knicks fans will be calling for his head," Lee responded, "This Will Not Happen. Melo Is Cool”.
But tonight’s win should be taken at face value. A victory over the Sacramento Kings should hardly be something that is sensational. With home games against the tough Mavericks and Hawks and an away tilt against the Heat on the horizon, Lin and company will need to continue their strong, unselfish play to stay on their winning streak.
For me, one play from the sea of awesome Lin assists characterizes the night. Lin drove towards the basket with :04 left on the clock for the first half. After successfully weaving through defenders, he dished a perfect no look pass to Tyson Chandler who dunked the ball as time expired. And it is this simple and unselfish play by the Knicks that’s earning them win after win. #Linning.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Here at The Back Page, we like Jeremy Lin. We also like ranking things. They are probably our two greatest loves, so we began to think of how we could combine them into one giant love. And then we got it: Alumni Power Rankings.
We all know how great the past two weeks have been for Jeremy Lin, but what about other alumni? How have they been faring in this New Year? We decided to look at the top seven Alumni to see if anyone could top Lin so far in 2012.
No. 7: Matt Damon (formerly '92)
Matt Damon cemented his place as a Hollywood action juggernaut with the Jason Bourne series. After winning an Oscar for “Best Original Screenplay” for Good Will Hunting, I don’t think anyone would have expected to end up beating the snot out of people in his later films. 
But Damon is no longer the star of the continuing Bourne Series, and he recently made a movie about buying a zoo. Poor form, Matt. That's called "setting swag to zero." No Hahvahd tours are going to keep stopping outside Matthews to point at your freshman room if you’re a zookeeper.
No. 6: Ryan Fitzpatrick ’05
A few months ago, “Fitzmagic” probably would’ve come in close to the top of this list. After leading a typically hapless Buffalo Bills team to a 4-2 record, including a win over the eventual Super Bowl runner-ups, the New England Patriots, the Bills rewarded the former Crimson standout with a six-year, $59 million contract extension.
But Fitzpatrick and his Bills stumbled halfway through the season, as the team lost eight of the last 10 games, and Buffalo failed to make the playoffs for the 12th straight season. However, win or lose, Fitzpatrick still has one of the more baller beards in all of professional sports, so he’s got that going for him, which is nice.
 
No. 5 Natalie Portman ’03
I promise, Natalie, I won’t hold The Attacks of the Clones against you, because if you couldn’t make Hayden Christiansen look like a half-way decent actor, who could? And after two box offices smashes in Black Swan (for which she won the Oscar for “Best Actress”) and No Strings Attached, she welcomed her first son, Aleph, last summer. Plus, considering she made out with Mila Kunis, she can die happy.
With so much professional and personal success, you might be wondering why is Portman so low? Because she won’t return my calls. Come on, Natalie! What’s a guy got to do? You had a kid with a ballet dancer? Sportswriters are definitely probably manlier than ballerinos. As I said in my emails: we could go to Café of India (your favorite restaurant in Cambridge) and then maybe pop next door for some Burdick’s hot chocolate? And I promise I won’t make fun of the name Aleph more than once.
No. 4: Matt Birk ’98
Matt Birk plays one of the most underrated positions in football, and although many current students haven’t heard of him, he is by far Harvard's most successful professional athlete playing today. A 13-year pro, Birk has played center for the Minnesota Vikings and the Baltimore Ravens, earning six Pro-Bowl appearances and the Ed Block Courage Award in 2006.
Most recently, after his Ravens were dumped out of the playoffs in the AFC Championship game against the Patriots, Birk went on to receive the Walter Payton Man of the Year Award, meant to honor the player whose work both on and off the field inspire others to improve themselves and their community. Birk was recognized for his HIKE Foundation, an educational charity hoping to improve the opportunities for inner-city youth.
 
No. 3: Barack Obama (HLS ’91)
The Back Page doesn’t like to get political, but Obama is doing pretty well for himself. His approval rating is back at 50%, he is beating all Republican candidates at the polls, and if we’re being honest with ourselves, he probably has a better jumper than Jeremy Lin.
No. 2: Jeremy Lin ('10)
With all do respect, Mr. President, your approval ratings are at 50%, and Jeremy Lin is clocking in at about 99.7%. If Natalie Portman finally agreed to go to Café of India with me but insisted on covering the bill and bringing Mila Kunis, I would still be light years away from achieving what JLin has in the last fortnight.
NBA records? Check. Accolades? Check. Shelter? Check. Lin has gone from benchwarmer to flash-in-the-pan to sensation to legend in about 14 days, and the man has handled all of that pressure with class, inspiring a city, country, and world to never give up. And when “The Basketball Player Formerly Known as Ron Artest” is giving you style advice, you know you have made it.
No. 1: Mark Zuckerberg (formerly '06)
My heart says Lin, but my brain says Zuck. One of the world’s youngest billionaires just added a few more zeros to his bank account this past week, as Facebook is about to go public with an initial public offering somewhere in the $5-10 billion range. Sorry Jeremy, but with that kind of money, The Zuck could probably buy the Knicks and then suit up with you against the Hornets tomorrow night. And chances are you guys would probably still win by 12.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On Tuesday, students across  campus received their true (algorithmic) soulmates via Datamatch. The question is,  after you've changed your profile pictures to something more flattering  and successfully stalked your matches, what do you do? Don't fret—we've  come up with a few suggestions to help you make the most of your romance.
1. Be "The  Bachelor"
Invite all  of your matches to a dinner and make them vie for your affection, Bachelor(ette)  style. Better yet, have them fight to the death—that way you won’t have  to deal with awkward interactions with the ones that you don't  choose.
2. Create a  Doodle poll
If you don't  want to choose just one, and you don't want to have to deal with the  pressure of keeping them all secret from one another, create a Doodle poll. Now all of your  matches can schedule a convenient time to visit with you separately! Possible location: your room.
3. Marry them
All  of them.
4. Future Baby
Morph pictures of your face with the faces of each of your matches and then choose the  one that looks the best with your face. It's never too early to guarantee  that your future babies will be good looking.
5. Sexy Blood  Drive
If, for some  reason, thinking about marriage and children on your first date is too  overwhelming (but why would it be?) then do the next logical thing: take  all of your matches on a "Sexy Blood Drive Date." While they are  giving blood, you will have time to bombard them with questions and  find out how compatible you two truly are—most importantly, whether or not  they could give you a blood transfusion. Plus, even if no one is your  type, at least you saved a life.
6. Stalk Them
Why not go  about love the old-fashioned non-algorithmic way…via stalking? It's  easy, it's cheap, and you don't even need to be Facebook friends to  get started. Just casually hang outside your match's room or dining  hall for a casual couple of hours (or weeks) and eventually you will  find the perfect opportunity to introduce yourself—casually, of course.  As long as you keep bringing up the fact that the whole incident is casual, it definitely doesn't qualify as stalking.
Feeling more prepared? You can thank us later. First, quickly email/call/follow your  match into a dark alley before they change their relationship status  to "In a Relationship" and you loose your chance for true love forever! Or  at least until next year's Datamatch rolls around.
Sections
 
In this series, Crimson arts writer Brian A. Feldman '13 will describe to you, the reader, some videos he saw on the internet. 
Last  Friday, Feb. 10 was the one-year anniversary of the day Rebecca Black's "Friday" was uploaded to YouTube. Do you guys remember "Friday"? That  was a weird situation. Because I didn't find it particularly funny, and  it didn't seem like anyone else did either, but nobody wanted to be that  guy to point it out, so everyone kept listening to it ironically and  whenever it came on at a party it seemed like people were feigning  amusement at a joke that should have lasted, at most, about a week. And  then she was at the Grammys on Sunday! Hahaha, Rebecca Black, joke's on  you! Punk'd!
 
Anyway, there's been some ups and downs this week, and it was only Wednesday when I wrote this—if you can believe it. So let's just jump in.
 
 
A Flawless Tribute to Whitney Houston on the Subway  
 
There's  no denying that Whitney Houston was very good at singing and very good  at pretending to love Kevin Costner in a movie. We'll miss your gift,  Whitney.
 
 
Another Flawless Tribute to Whitney Houston From a Synchronized Fountain in Dubai  
 
Come on. Do I really need to explain this one?
 
 
A Baby Plays the Piano and It's Not Terrible  
 
If  you're one of those people who listens to music while they work, but  find songs with lyrics too distracting, might I recommend listening to  this baby?
 
 
An Attempt to Cross a Frozen Canal Does Not Go As Planned  
 
We're  already at mid-Feb., so maybe this is a late advisory, but please  don't try to walk on frozen rivers. It is a bad idea and you could die.  It's not worth it. Unless you get it on video. Actually, no never mind.  Don't ever try to walk across a frozen river. Then again, this looks fun.
An Extensive List of First World Problems  
 
The  whole First World Problems thing was always a little odd  to me. I mean,  yes, acknowledging that you are complaining about  relatively  minor/idiotic problems is a good first step towards greater  global  awareness, but it is not the only step. Acknowledging pettiness  does not  also immediately negate pettiness.
 
Then  again, complaining about people who complain about First  World Problems  is probably the most self-involved causality loop in the  history of  logic and is, in and of itself, a First World Problem,  so...forget I  said anything.
A Cat Investigates What a Fish is Doing in The Sink  
 
Wouldn't  be an internet video roundup without cats. And that  cat just has a  great reaction. I won't tell you what happens, but stick  with it until  the very end. It's a slow burn.
 
 
An Australian Choir Sings All The Popular Songs at The Same Time 
 
If  you like Taio Cruz, Justin Bieber, and a cappella choral arrangements,  this video is for you. Which one of Harvard's 15 gazillion a cappella  groups will be the first to perform it on campus? At this point, it's really anybody's race.
A Mini Horse Dressed as a Lion Does Circus Tricks 
 
Mini  horses are nature's most elegant creatures. I know we're not allowed to  keep pets in our dorm rooms, but maybe the College could make an  exception for these mini horses? Please?
 
 
A Woman Gets a Hug From a Penguin 
 
She  makes the exact face I would make if a penguin waddled up to me and  gave me a hug. The thing I like most about penguins—aside from how they  look and move and are the best—is how they get places by sliding on  their stomach. Wouldn't that be great? If you could just roll out of bed  and fall on your stomach, and somehow end up in your 10 a.m. philosophy  seminar? That would be pretty cool.
Sections
Magazine writers Brian A. Feldman and Mark R. Jahnke compete to see who can do the best spins, twists, and jumps in Harvard's skating rink.
Sections
1. With Facebook going public soon, Lady Gaga wants in on the action. She's created her own social media site named "Little Monsters," aimed at consolidating her fanbase—which is certainly large, considering she has 19 million followers on Twitter.
2. Speaking of Facebook, Mark E. Zuckerberg raised eyebrows this week by appearing to endorse Mitt Romney. The catch? Zuckerberg actually just "liked" a post written by Slate's Farhad Manjoo, which read, "Just try looking at the Romney logo without seeing MONEY." #failbook
3. Meanwhile, the FBI just released Steve Jobs's file. Any interesting finds? Not really, aside from his past drug use and tendency to "distort reality."
4. Genghis Khan emerged victorious—at the Westminster Dog Show, that is. Martha Stewart's chow-chow won Best in Breed.
5. Not enough drama for you in the Republican primaries? With reports heralding her as the "woman before Monica Lewinsky," Mimi Beardsley Alford's new book, recounting her affair with JFK, had tongues wagging this past week.
6. Food fight anyone? In case you missed it, President Obama tested 14-year-old Joey Hudy's marshmallow cannon in the White House this week. Remember, everyone, this is America's "Sputnik moment."
7. With midterm season fast approaching, Presidents' Day weekend promises to be one of the last where you can enjoy those cans of PBR on both Friday and Saturday night without feeling guilty. Are you DTR?!
8. Check out Michelle Obama dancing, doing push-ups, and practically feeding Jay Leno some of her White House honey—all for the second anniversary of "Let's Move." Our advice? Get up and MOVE (out of the library).
9. Do you take birth control or just prefer to live (or rather lay) on the edge? Washington has been abuzz regarding a bill mandating employers to provide insurance coverage for contraception.
10. Dream on. A Japanese iPhone app plays a pre-selected "dream" when the user enters REM sleep. Current dream options include becoming rich and "romances specified for both men and women."
Sections
It was only on Valentine's Day that Tommy M. MacWilliam '13, known for his backwards baseball cap and status as a popular CS50 TF, revealed his true romantic identity with an internet slideshow expressing his affection for Julia V. Mitelman, his girlfriend and fellow CS50 TF.
At noon, he posted the link on her Facebook Wall. "She actually happened to open it while I was sitting next to her, so I got to see her reaction, which was priceless," MacWilliam recounted. "As she watched it, she got really happy and couldn't stop smiling for hours afterwards. It was the best."
Since then, more than 1,200 users have viewed his chef-d'oeuvre. MacWilliam considered going the crafty route, "but everything seemed out of my league, so I didn't try." MacWilliam added, "JavaScript is a boyfriend's best friend."
After meeting as linkmates during Freshman year, Mitelman and MacWilliam became best friends. "I wasn't sure I wanted to risk our friendship," Mitelman said. "I told him our first date was a trial." They went to the Prudential Center and the Cheesecake Factory.
Besides computer science, they both love typography and, it appears, surprises. For Christmas, MacWilliam filled Mitelman's room with roses and over spring break he visited her on a whim in New York City. "He came there and back in a day, which is nine hours!" Mitelman said.
Has Mitelman done anything romantic? "Oh my god, so many things," MacWilliam reports. "My favorite is the little things she does, like bringing me ice cream or a box of chocolate donuts when I'm stressed or having a bad day." "She always knows when," he added.
Does the romantic pair have any advice for those still searching for that special person?
"Effort is the most important thing. But it's also easy to make someone really happy with something small," MacWilliam said.
Sections
Springtime at Harvard means that hundreds of students are strapping on their fancy suits, accentuating the action verbs on their resumes, and exposing themselves to another deadly outbreak of investment banking interviews. Unbeknownst to most of these finance-types, however, are the health risks that result from continual exposure to such workplace activity.
According to a recent study from the University of Southern California, which followed over two-dozen entry-level investment bankers over the course of a decade, the combination of 100-hour workweeks and high-stakes job requirements often leads to psychological and physical ailments including insomnia, alcoholism, heart palpitations, eating disorders, shorter tempers, and prescription drug addiction after only several years on the job.
Further psychological reports found that investment bankers are three times more likely to be depressed and anxious than the average person. In many cases bankers even displayed suicidal tendencies. Others were diagnosed with chronic health conditions like Crohn’s disease, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, and thyroid disorders.
The study additionally found that over 20 percent of bankers leave the profession by their mid-30s, and that two-fifth of those who remain choose to curb their workload because of health concerns. The majority of investment bankers, however, maintain their heavy workloads in favor of the luxury, big money, and steak dinner perks that their high-salary careers offer.
Still, students headed into finance should be cautious before going into their I-banking interviews—or at least that's what the study seems to be suggesting!
