News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It came down to the wire at Hofstra on Saturday, when the Harvard women’s basketball team went on an 11-6 run in overtime to seal the win, 70-67.
Up by six with less than three minutes to go in regulation, the Crimson fought to hold onto its lead. But with 13 seconds on the clock, the Pride tied up the game with a pair of free throws by senior forward Shante Evans, who had a game-high 24 points for Hofstra.
Harvard fell behind in the opening seconds of the overtime period after Pride sophomore forward Anma Onyeuku hit a jumper and followed it up with a driving layup 20 seconds later.
Senior forward Victoria Lippert, who finished the night with a game-high and season-high 21 points, put the Crimson within one with her third three pointer of the game. With 38 seconds to play, Lippert drew a foul and hit back-to-back free throws, giving Harvard its first lead of the period. As the clock wound down, junior guard Christine Clark sunk two from the charity stripe to end the game.
Defense was crucial in the Crimson’s third straight victory. Harvard held Hofstra to 35 percent shooting from the field in the first half and 39 in the second, which allowed the team to stay in the game despite being outscored 30-23 in the second period.
After the Crimson jumped out to a four-point lead to open the match, the next 15 minutes were a contentious back-and-forth battle in which there were 12 lead changes. Harvard took control in the last five minutes and went on a 9-2 run to close out the period up by seven.
The Pride came back reinvigorated after the break, chipping away at the Crimson’s lead and tying up the score at 41 with 12 minutes to play. After trading points for the next four minutes, Harvard opened up a six-point lead—its biggest lead of the half—on a three pointer by Lippert.
In its sixth win of the season, the Crimson topped Hofstra in shooting percentage across the board. Harvard also benefited from its depth, with 12 bench points to the Pride’s two. Despite going 0-2 from the charity stripe, junior guard Melissa Mullins led the bench with six points in 21 minutes on the court.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As we wrap up classes and stress over work for reading period, all the buzz around campus for new ways to procrastinate brings up two words: HBO GO. So rather than writing that paper or finishing that pset, join the trend. Here are Flyby's recommendations for the five must-see shows that HBO GO offers, free of charge.
1. "The Newsroom": From the screenwriter of "The West Wing" and "The Social Network," this fast-paced fictional drama takes you behind the scenes of what it takes to report the news every night. Soon you too will be gushing over Jim and Maggie's awkward attraction, Charlie and Leona's hilarious confrontations, and McKenzie and Will's sharp talk. 
2. "Girls": This quirky Emmy-winning dramedy created by and starring Lena Dunham looks at life in the Big Apple among four friends in their stormy twenties. With its raw take on female friendships, you'll soon be having a love-hate relationship with Hannah, wondering why Adam almost always appears shirtless, and realizing that this could actually be your life after college!  
3. "VEEP": With Selina Meyer as the female vice-president of the USA, the second Emmy winner of the bunch comes with a whole new set of baggage as she and her staffers tackle issues along the lines of blog nicknames, fake dogs, and jokes without a punch line. After just one 30-minute episode, you'll find yourself wondering if the president will ever call, whether Jonah will get lucky with any girl, and when, if ever, Mike and Dan will get along.  
4. "True Blood": Set in the Deep South, this sex-drenched drama centers on the life of the half-fairy, telepathic Sookie Stackhouse and her encounters with centuries-old vampires, hedonist maenads, necromancing witches, and junkie werewolves. Jump in at dinner in the d-hall with references to Eric, Bill, and Sookie’s love triangle, Pam and Lafayette's fierce glamour, and Jason and Alcide's ripped abs. 
 5. "Boardwalk Empire": Starring Steve Buscemi as the all-powerful Atlantic City gangster "Nucky" during Prohibition, this historical drama delves into the intersecting lives of prostitutes, hit men, bootleggers, and widowed mothers in Chicago, New York, and the "World’s Favorite Playground" (also known as Atlantic City, NJ). Choose your favorites among the gangsters and their mistresses, assassins, rivals, and prohibition officers and let yourself be shocked by all the blood, money, guns, and alcohol.
Sections
The Mayan calendar predicts that the world will end on December 21, 2012. Based on these five catastrophic events, it seems like even the Harvard bubble won't protect us from the demise of life as we know it.
1. An earthquake struck Harvard in October, reaching a 4.0 on the Richter scale. Apparently, mother nature forgot that we are in Massachusetts, where earthquakes just don't happen.
2. For the first time in 34 years, Harvard cancelled classes for a snow day in what must have been "An Act of God." The world must be ending if students miss Monday morning lecture – but that's okay.
3. The freak power outage on Thursday is the ultimate proof that the Apocalpyse is arriving. Most Harvard students probably thought the world did end when the Internet shut down.
4. By the end of December, experts estimate that the Gangnam style music video on YouTube will have reached over 1 billion views. PSY might be single-handedly responsible for destroying earth.
5. Although it only occurred for a brief period, there was a point in November when hell actually froze temporarily: the Yale football team had scored more points than our team during The Game. Such horror can only mean one thing: the world is ending.
