Sections
It's an argument almost as old as the burrito itself, and students for generations have devoted untold hours to debating the best burrito joint in Harvard Square. Over the next few days, members of The Crimson's summer staff will make a case the Big 4 of Square burritos: Boloco, Chipotle, Felipe's, and Qdoba.
Like many Harvard students, I was struck by one question when I first explored Harvard Square: why on earth were there four burrito places within a few blocks of each other? Within a few months of living in Cambridge, however, that enigma had been replaced by another: how on earth do Boloco, Chipotle, and Qdoba compete with Felipe’s?
 
It’s a question that still mystifies me today. In addition to its prime location in the Garage, Felipe’s features more seating than any other burrito joint. When it’s snowing, raining, or below 10 degrees, that makes a big difference.
 
But it's the burritos, which feature delectable ingredients and sturdy tortillas, that what really distinguish Felipe’s. No other Harvard Square burrito establishment can compare to these gems.
 
Boloco, though deservedly lauded for its incredible smoothies, offers burritos just as unconvincing as their faux-Mexican moniker. Due to its somewhat flavorless ingredients, you’ll most likely leave Boloco feeling unsatisfied, even if you don’t purchase the unfortunately named “disturbingly small burrito.” Qdoba’s fillings may be slightly better, but not by any large margin.
 
And though the contents of Chipotle’s burritos are often excellent, their tortillas are much too flimsy to provide a truly satisfying experience. When I find myself eating a burrito from Chipotle, it’ll nearly always end up falling apart in my hands.
 
Most important, however, is the fact that Felipe’s is the only burrito joint open later than 11 p.m. On Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights, you can get a burrito until two in the morning. And since it’s a Felipe’s burrito, it's an an undeniably great way to end the night.
Sections
It's an argument almost as old as the burrito itself, and students for generations have devoted untold hours to debating the best burrito joint in Harvard Square. Over the next few days, members of The Crimson's summer staff will make a case the Big 4 of Square burritos: Boloco, Chipotle, Felipe's, and Qdoba.
Simply put, Chipotle is the best. I won’t sugar-coat it. And neither will Chipotle. The restaurant itself proudly proclaims, “It’s not just a burrito. It’s a foil-wrapped, hand-crafted, local farm supporting, food culture changing cylinder of deliciousness.” And they’re absolutely right. Because not only do they the best-tasting burritos on campus; they are also the healthiest.
Nevertheless, I’ve often heard otherwise from friends, colleagues, and passers-by. I’ve listened attentively. And now, I’m going to politely tell each and every one of you nay-sayers why you’re flat-out wrong.
In any Chipotle debate, the regular complaint is that it’s “too far.” Um, excuse me, far? Believe me, I know far—I was a Quadling once—and that ain’t it. What, are you walking to Mordor? Google Maps tells us that it takes anywhere from six to eight minutes to get that glorious place we know as Chipotle from most of the Houses on the river. (If you’re in the Quad, you’d be better off going to Anna’s Taqueria in Porter Square—it’s closer to you poor souls.) If you’re not willing to make that effort, then let’s face it: you don’t deserve Chipotle.
I’ve heard myriad suggested alternatives to the wrapped delights, each more ridiculous than the last. Most recently, when deciding where to go for dinner, a friend offered the following: “No, that’s way too long a walk. Can’t we just get a CVS frozen pizza and cook it back at my apartment?” This fool would rather walk almost as far as Chipotle, only to walk back to the Quad and have me watch him hopelessly sandwich the CVS slices two-by-two into his George Foreman Grill to warm them up. Take a lap, man.
Other than the alleged distance “issue,” what’s not to love? As I said before, it is, without question, the tastiest option.
Plus, the vegetables are organic and locally produced. Dairy cattle grow without the aid of dangerous hormones like rBGH. And Chipotle has set a goal to have 100 percent of its chickens antibiotic-free. Each of the menu options is produced with the freshest, finest ingredients around and that, above all else, is what makes them the best.
Still looking for a healthier option, but craving that same burrito? You can forget the tortilla and grab a bowl, saving calories and carbs.
So the next time you hear someone complain about Chipotle’s location or quibble over taste, tell them to take a hike—a hike to 1 Brattle Square, so they can try it for themselves.
Because that’s an experience everyone should enjoy at least once.
