News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Behind a strong offense and the league’s top pitcher, the Harvard softball team dominated the Ancient Eight in 2011 and cruised to a conference championship. But the Crimson's season came to an abrupt end, as it was unable to score a run in either of its two contests in the NCAA tournament and was quickly eliminated.
After using a similar formula to win the Ivy League once again this year, history seemed to be repeating itself for Harvard in its first game of the 2012 tournament.
Facing No. 18 Washington (39-17, 7-15 Pac-12) Friday night, co-captain pitcher Rachel Brown pitched well, but Huskies starter Kaitlin Inglesby was even better, shutting out the Crimson, 2-0, at Husky Softball Stadium in Seattle, Wash.
The sophomore won her 19th game of the year by three-hitting Harvard (35-15, 17-3 Ivy) in the first-ever meeting between the two schools and the Crimson’s fifth tournament appearance in program history.
The Huskies’ offense managed only two runs, which came on a Kimberlee Souza double off Brown in the bottom of the fourth. But that was all Washington needed to pull out the win in the first game of the round-robin tournament, as Inglesby struck out junior Ashley Heritage with the tying runs on base to end the game.
“We weren’t nervous,” Crimson coach Jenny Allard said. “I think we were really focused on Friday, [but] they were really zoned in.”
Inglesby shut the Crimson down one-two-three in the top of the first. In the bottom of the inning, Brown worked around two walks and got Kylee Lahners to fly out with two runners on to end a Washington threat.
Harvard got the first hit of the game in the top of the second, when freshman Katherine Lantz singled to right, and senior Whitney Shaw walked with two outs to put runners on first and second. But rookie Adrienne Hume flied out to left field to end what would be one of Harvard’s few chances on the day, as Inglesby held the Crimson hitless in each of the following four innings.
“[Inglesby] did a really good job of mixing her speeds,” Allard said. “She was faster than what we normally see.... In our conference, the max speed is 60 to 61 [miles per hour], but she was throwing probably 65 to 66.”
Brown shut Washington down in the second and worked around a two-out triple by Nikia Williams in the third to keep the game scoreless. But with one out in the fourth, Huskies center fielder Jerrin Faasua reached on a bunt single, and Shawna Wright followed with a single to left. They were sacrificed to second and third by Hooch Fagaly, and Souza followed with a double to left center to bring home the game’s first two runs.
Brown then struck out Kimi Pohlman to limit the damage, and after keeping Washington off the board in the fifth, the Harvard ace worked out of a first-and-third, no-outs jam in the following inning to give her team one final chance.
With the game on the line in the top of the seventh, Lantz lined out to second, but sophomore Ashley Scott hit a shallow single to right, and Shaw followed with a line-drive single to left to put the tying runs on base. Hume then beat out a potential double-play grounder to put runners at the corners with two outs, but Inglesby struck out Heritage to end the game.
“We didn’t string hits together,” Allard said. “We had isolated quality at-bats.... The ball wasn’t dropping where we needed it.”
Inglesby finished with seven strikeouts and held the top three of Harvard’s batting order hitless, helping Washington snap a seven-game losing streak.
Despite the loss, Brown—the 2011 and 2012 Ivy League Pitcher of the Year and the Crimson’s all-time leader in wins, saves, strikeouts, shutouts, and innings pitched—said she was proud of her team’s performance in the first game of what would be her final postseason appearance.
“I definitely think the experience [in last year’s tournament] helped us,” Brown said. “We kind of knew the level of the play that was required to stick with a top-20 team, and I think we really represented ourselves well.”
—Staff writer Scott A. Sherman can be reached at ssherman13@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
This year's high yield rate of 81 percent for Harvard admits—up four percent from last year—only proves that playing "hard to get" can work.
While many administrators attribute the increase in yield to the return of Early Action decisions and the current economic climate, Flyby has its own theories as to why more admitted students actually want to come to Harvard:
1. Jeremy Lin's basketball career has reminded students that you can go to Harvard and be good at sports.
2. Eager Lady Gaga fans are attending Harvard in hopes of getting closer to the celeb after her visit to campus: After all, it's easier to get into Harvard than to get a ticket to a Lady Gaga concert.
3. Romney accused Obama of spending too much time at Harvard, implying that the worst Harvard can do is make you president of the United States of America.
4. The Occupy Harvard movement was successful in encouraging more students to literally occupy Harvard.
5. This year's prefrosh did not have to witness YardFest.
6. The mild winter created the illusion that Cambridge is actually inhabitable from November through May.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: May 19, 2012
An earlier version of this blog post implied in its headline that Harvard's yield this year was 84 percent. In fact, it was 81 percent.
Sections
Every week, The Crimson publishes a selection of articles that were printed in our pages in years past.
May 17, 1917: An International Medley
It has been urged lately by some who, being of revolutionistic turn of mind, like to see any change, whatever it may be that we adopt "America" as our national anthem instead of the more martial song to which we now pay reverence. One reason set forth is that the "Star Spangled Banner" is well enough as an anthem in the bloody times of war, but in peace we need some more dulcet sentiment. Another is that "America" is well suited to the orchestration of the people's voices, whereas our present unlegalized national anthem is of too intricate a nature to be rendered to perfection by any save trained singers.
May 16, 1929: Crimson Cohorts Combat Comical Colleagues in Classic Crab Catching Crew Contest—Cup Clandestinely Confiscated
The welkin rang in proverbial style at Gerry's Landing up the Charles yesterday evening as final preparations for the tornadic Crimson-Lampoon regatta, scheduled for 2.30 o'clock this afternoon, were completed. Merwomen prinked, pollywogs warbled, as two specially designed Gloucester herring chasers were launched with solomn rites on the star-flecked upper reaches of the local stream.
May 16, 1946: Rugged Individualist, Class of '34, Pedals Bicycle on Road to Success
Not a bicycle races by Adams House hell-bent for New Lecture Hall that does not bring a smile to Harry Frankel '34, proprietor of the Bi-ex Bike Repair Shop on 3 Bow Street. For it means another member of his old alma mater converted to the bicycle brethren.
"I always hate to buy a bike from anybody. Even if it's a good buy, it just means we've lost another cyclist to the Sport," he remarked yesterday on this conflict between long and short run business principle.
May 14, 1979: Police Find Coins Stolen from Fogg
State and federal investigators Saturday completed their recovery of a collection of 5,000 rare coins stolen from the Fogg Museum in December 1973 and valued at approximately $2 million.
—Compiled by Julie M. Zauzmer.
Sections
Still on campus and looking for something to do? Radio 92.9's annual EarthFest concert is happening today at the Hatch Shell in Boston, beginning at 11:00 a.m. This year's performers include Eve 6, Switchfoot, Spin Doctors, and Third Eye Blind. Beyond providing music to the public, the concert seeks to promote an understanding of the environmental problems facing our planet. As a result, you'll learn a lot about green causes and be privy to a plethera of delicious (and probably all-natural) food samples from green-minded companies. Oh, and the concert is entirely free. So if you're craving some hummus, good music, and a day out in the sun, grab your friends and consider heading over to Boston for the afternoon.
