News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Needing a win to stay in the hunt for a WNIT bid, the Harvard women’s basketball team didn’t mess around Friday night at Lavietes Pavilion, as it took down Columbia, 88-64.
Co-captain Brogan Berry scored the first six points of the game on a pair of three-point plays, one on a three-pointer and the other on an and-on finish. Berry then showed her passing prowess as she dished the ball to junior Victoria Lippert for a jumper.
The Crimson tallied 10 points before the Lions even got on the board and extended its lead from there. At one point early on, the home squad was up, 22-3, and it finished the first half leading, 43-24. One of Columbia’s lone highlights in the first period came as the buzzer sounded when junior Tyler Simpson hit a remarkable turnaround jumper to narrow the gap by two. Even so, Harvard owned the first 20 minutes of the game.
“We finally were able to kind of peak and hit our stride in this game,” Berry said.
The Crimson’s success could largely be attributed to a consistent ability to bring down rebounds. In the contest, Harvard corralled 55 rebounds. Hagedorn led the team with 13 boards to go with 11 points for her first career double-double. Lippert added 10 rebounds in addition to her 13 points. For the first time since the 2009 season, two Crimson players recorded double-doubles.
“[Friday], we really put an emphasis on anticipating the shot so that we could get in rebounding position early,” Hagedorn said. “I was able to do that and basically everyone else did as well. That change in mindset really helped us improve our rebounding in this game.”
Many of those rebounds led to fastbreaks, as the team scored 14 points in transition and many more on the secondary break.
“We got a lot of possessions because our offensive rebounding was amazing, and everyone was moving the ball really well,” Berry said. “We were pushing the ball, and we had a lot of possessions—we had about four a minute.”
The team also consistently converted from the charity stripe. After going 21 for 21 on free throws in its last game against the Lions, Harvard started out 18 for 18 Friday before the sole miss of the night and finished 24 of 25 from the line. The Crimson attempted as many shots as Columbia and made only four more, but its 96 percent free-throw percentage made a big difference as the Lions went 10 of 16 from the line.
“When things are clicking out there, there is less pressure at the line,” Hagedorn said. “We went up pretty early, and there wasn’t as much pressure with each free throw.”
Berry and sophomore Christine Clark both entered the locker room at halftime having already accrued double-digit points, and they finished the game with 16 and 18 points respectively, to lead the team.
The second half brought more Harvard dominance, even as reserves played extended minutes. The bench tallied 18 of its 30 points in the second half while the Crimson extended its lead. By the end of the game, Harvard had recorded one of its strongest performances of the year in the 88-64 victory. The 88 points represented the highest scoring output for the Crimson since a double-overtime game against Penn last season.
Whereas in the past the team has shown a propensity to give up a portion of its lead during a dry stretch in the second half, that lull never came Friday.
“If we mentally prepare ourselves correctly, nothing can stop us because physically we are one of the best teams I’ve played with at Harvard,” Berry said. “If we focus on defense and rebounding for a full 40 minutes, we won’t ever have a slump.’
With the win, Harvard moved a half game ahead of Yale for second place in the Ivy League as the Bulldogs were beaten by Princeton Friday. With the second team in the Ancient Eight getting an automatic bid to the WNIT, the team is battling to keep its season alive.
“We’re playing for our seniors, but we’re also playing for ourselves because we love playing with Brogan [Berry] and Lindsay [Louie],” Hagedorn said. “So as long as we can keep playing with them and hopefully make the WNIT, we will do everything we can to win.”
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacobfeldman@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
ITHACA, N.Y.—There may be no better indicator of just how far the Harvard men’s basketball program has come than the Crimson’s reaction following Saturday night’s 67-63 win over Cornell Saturday night at Newman Arena.
Despite clinching at least a share of the program’s second consecutive Ivy League championship, Harvard’s celebration was relatively subdued following its win over the Big Red.
Crimson coach Tommy Amaker briefly lifted his arm into the air, and co-captain Keith Wright gave junior Kyle Casey a hug, but Harvard disappeared into the locker room shortly after shaking hands with Cornell.
With Penn’s 68-47 victory over Yale Saturday night, the Quakers (19-11, 11-2 Ivy) and Crimson (26-4, 12-2) remain even in the loss column with one game remaining in the Ancient Eight schedule.
If Penn defeats Princeton on the road Tuesday night in the Ivy League’s regular season finale, Harvard will square off against the Quakers this weekend in a one-game playoff to determine the recipient of the Ivy League’s automatic berth to the NCAA tournament.
“If we have to play some more, we’ll play,” said Harvard coach Tommy Amaker, whose squad nearly squandered an 11-point second-half lead on Saturday.
Spurred by senior guard Chris Wroblewski’s 15 second-half points, the Big Red cut the Crimson’s lead to one with 3:54 to play but was unable to get any closer.
Co-captain Oliver McNally scored nine points in the final 2:21 of play, leading the Crimson on an 11-8 run to seal the title-clinching win.
McNally and fellow guard Brandyn Curry, who combined for 26 second-half points, came up big for Harvard throughout the final frame.
After going scoreless in the first half, Curry scored 12 straight points for the Crimson off four three-pointers during a stretch of 3:27, turning a one-point deficit into a seven-point Harvard lead.
“I was just taking my open shots,” said Curry, who entered Saturday’s contest shooting 26.2 percent from deep. “[Coach] always yells at us to be ready to take our open shots. I just stepped up and took ’em. Fortunately, they gave me four open ones, and they went in finally.”
Curry’s first triple came just moments after the Big Red grabbed its first lead of the game off a Jonathan Gray three-pointer with 17:31 to play.
Curry answered 11 seconds later, sticking a shot off a McNally pass.
The Big Red regained the advantage off a pair of Etan Chemerinski free throws with 15:52 to go, but once again, Curry had the answer, drilling a trey from the top of the key to put Harvard up by one, 35-34.
“I thought Brandyn Curry showed so much courage,” Amaker said. “He’s got a heart of a champion. He’s made big plays and big shots for us throughout his career.”
Curry added two more threes to put Harvard up by seven, 41-34, with 14:04 to go. The Crimson never trailed the rest of the way.
“[Opponents] don’t think that Brandyn is going to be aggressive to score,” Wright said. “I told him that a couple weeks ago, ‘You got to be aggressive.’ And he was tonight, using the ball screen well.”
McNally extended Harvard’s lead to 11, 55-44, with 6:13 to go off a jumper, but Cornell refused to give up.
After struggling to find the bottom of the net throughout the game, the Big Red caught fire with 6:02 to go, going five for five from the field over 2:19 of play to pull within one, 56-55.
Junior Kyle Casey put an end to the 11-1 Cornell run, elevating over his defender and banking in a shot off the backboard to put the Crimson up by one.
After a Galal Cancer miss, Harvard swung the ball to an open McNally on the perimeter. The guard stuck his third triple on the night, making it a six-point game with 2:21 to go.
Wroblewski, who scored 12 of Cornell’s final 17 points, brought Cornell within two, 63-61, after nailing a free throw with 26 ticks on the clock.
Harvard proceeded to inbound the ball to McNally, who was intentionally fouled and sent to the line where he knocked down both attempts.
Wroblewski responded by taking it coast to coast for two with 14 seconds to play, but the Crimson once again successfully inbounded the ball to McNally. The senior was again sent to the line where he knocked down both free throws.
Cornell’s Drew Ferry air-balled a three-pointer on the Big Red’s final possession, and the Crimson escaped with the four-point win.
“I’m very proud of this group,” Amaker said. “It’s the second [Ivy title] in a row, which says a heck of a lot about the job these kids have done.”
Harvard led by as many as 12 in the opening frame, capitalizing on the Big Red’s 32.1 percent shooting in the first period. But the Crimson, which turned the ball over seven times in the opening frame, went into the break leading by six, 27-21.
Cornell shot better in the second half, going 13-of-27, but finished the game shooting 40 percent from the field. Harvard was 48.8 percent from the field on the night and finished with 14 turnovers.
Amaker and his players will now have to wait until Tuesday’s Penn-Princeton matchup to learn whether their next matchup takes place in the first round of the NCAA tournament or an Ivy League playoff.
If Penn comes up with the win, the Crimson will square off against the Quakers this weekend at a neutral site.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
You've done it in Widener stacks. You've jumped naked into the Charles. You've even seen both Lady Gaga and John Legend in the course of a week. Or maybe you haven't actually done any of these, but are just looking to do something new.
Luckily, Flyby has you covered. In case you're having a rough week or need a break from studying for your midterms, here are 10 things you can do on campus to cool off during the pre-spring break grind.
10. Go to Brunch at Eliot House. On Sundays, they hire various musicians to play live music in the dining hall—very classy.
9. Get lost north of the Science Center. You'll find the Law School, the Engineering Quad, and the beautiful Divinity School. Extra points if you're an English concentrator who can find your way out of Northwest Labs.
8. Make music in room 014 in the basement of Annenberg, where there's a piano and a drum set. You'll need swipe access, so talk to the Annenberg staff beforehand.
7. Take a trip to New Hampshire, where you can spend the day hiking, climbing, or skiing within a couple hours of Cambridge. If you're looking for company, go to the Harvard Outing Club or the Harvard Mountaineering Club meetings.
6. If you're interested in climbing, you can also do it on campus. Lowell House has a bouldering wall in the sub-basement of A entryway—hard to find, but pretty great once you get there.
5. Also in Lowell is one of the most serene spots on campus: The tower room under the Lowell bells offers both a piano and great views of campus. Check it out.
4. Find Pennypacker, and try not to get lost.
3. Attend Drew Faust's office hours—just make sure you don't occupy too much of her time.
2. Try out a club team, even if you're not sure you want to join permanently. It's always fun to go to a few practices and improve your skills, or to just screw around and burn off some steam.
1. Or if you're looking for extra steam, you can explore Harvard's extensive steam tunnel collection. As many people might not know, there are tunnels connecting the entire campus underground, but most of the entrances are difficult to find. (Nota bene: entering the tunnels is also prohibited.) Good luck.
Sections
As  part of our Housing Market series, we'll be posting reviews and  rankings for each of Harvard's 12 residential Houses over the next few  days. Click here to read more about the series.
Named  after not just one, but two famous men—the first governor of the  Massachusetts Bay Colony and his descendant, who served as a professor  of mathematics and natural philosophy and, more importantly, as  president of the University—John Winthrop House consists of two  buildings dating from 1914. Despite Winthrop's subpar housing, the House boasts a high level of House spirit, a  tightly-knit community, and several impressive, if underused, social  spaces.

 
House Spirit: While Winthrop did not top the polls in terms of House spirit (in fact, it was in twelfth place), their massive intramural turnout seems to  tell a different story. Winthrop is widely acknowledged as a force to be  reckoned with in intramural sports, and House residents say this helps  build a solid sense of community in the House. 'Throppers use the phrase "lions give me five," or "fivepeat," which reference Winthrop's IM "domination" and House spirit.
 
Housing Quality: Winthrop certainly has a reputation for bad housing, and many residents  complain about the lack of n+1 housing. If you thought you were done  with bunk beds after freshman year, Winthrop will tell you to think again. Some residents,  however, report that housing is "not all bad" and several praised the  "enormous senior suites." Although Winthrop does not offer the best  chances for singles to its residents, with a little luck, it's possible to  receive a rooming set up that is "pretty sweet." All in all, Winthrop received a rating of 11 out of 12 in the housing-specific poll.
 
Dining Hall: Despite complaints about housing, Winthrop residents praise the dining hall for its convenience and  central location. They also extol the dining hall's "cozy" atmosphere,  replete with wooden tables and a slightly subdued noise level compared  to other river dining halls. Though only seasonally relevant, residents  also cited the virtues of their outdoor patio which, during good  weather, is a great place to eat and enjoy "killer river views." One commenter, in response to the question about what makes Winthrop a good House, simply wrote: "The Sunday brunch bacon."
 
Facilities: Some 'Throppers complained about the "lack of common rooms" available in  the House, but others praised the variety of exciting, if underused,  social options. Winthrop offers a tire swing, three courtyards, and an  exciting speaker series that allows students to hear from interesting lecturers such as Paul Farmer. Students added that the great tutors, the resident dean,  and House Masters "enliven every aspect of the house."
 
Rating: Winthrop has moved up in the rankings this year, though  housing seems to be the limiting factor in its ascent. Although Winthrop  may be criticized by much of the Harvard community, many of those who  live within its walls claim that the House community and strong  House pride more than make up for the potentially limited housing  options. As one resident wrote, "Winthrop basically has it all—the  best house spirit, the best location, the best house staff/tutors, the  best IMs, and the best students." Overall, Winthrop House ranked tenth out of 12.
 
Our rankings so far: 
10. Winthrop
11. Cabot
12. Dunster
 
Sections
With Housing Day under a week away, eight new videos to advertise the upperclass Houses have been released. As always, there is a healthy amount of inter-house teasing. Here's our recap. 
 
Replete with posh British accents and multiple wine glass clinks, Eliot's video paints an image of luxury and wealth, poking fun at rival Houses in the process. Some may find it offensive, others hilarious.
 
Pfoho takes this mockery a bit further in "Sh*t River People Say," which depicts the many perils of living in a River House: animal  infestations, tiny rooms, and crowded d-halls, among other things. This one, we think, was actuall pretty funny.
 
Music  video parodies are another common thread this year. Leverett House  continues its music video trend with its unofficial video "Bunnies in Paris," a spoof in which Jay-Z's original "Niggas in Paris" plays in the background.  Housemaster Howard M. Georgi '67 can be seen dancing around in bunny  ears with Lev residents. 
 
Mather's black-and-white "Call Me Mather" mimics Carly Rae Jepsen's "Call Me Maybe."  The song's custom-written lyrics boast of Mather's single rooms, the  tower, and "Mather Lather"—perks that set it apart from other Houses. There's also a lot of girating and grinding to keep the attention of those watching.
 
Other Houses have showcased impressively professional remakes of popular movie trailers. Based on the trailer for "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo," Currier's video is disturbingly entertaining. With its eerie background music and "Fear the Tree" message, it is one of the creepiest we have ever seen, and that may not be a good thing.
 
Quincy's rendition of "X-Men: First Class" is a prequel to last year's "Quinception" video. With super-powered penguin mutants, "Q-Men: Freshman Class" takes us along on a tour that leaves only one conclusion: "Other Houses were never an option."
We shouldn't forget the Adams video, which was taken down for a few days after Cabot House took offense. But a new one is up, and this time the t-shirts aren't targeting Cabot in particular, but rather the Quad overall.
 
Finally,  there's the video that made most people stop and say "what?"  Considering that the point was to show Kirkland's unique flavor, this video is a definite success: it is highly unlikely that any non-Kirkland resident will ever actually understand it.  
 
So, judge for yourselves. Some suck, while others are actually pretty good. Leave a comment letting us know what you think.
