News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
MEDELLÍN, Colombia—I had been aware that a soccer match was going on. As I sat stuck in game-induced bumper-to-bumper traffic on the way to dinner, people overflowed the streets as they watched the game in bars or on the sidewalk using portable televisions with rusting metal antennas. But the huge number of people should have made me realize that this was actually the soccer match - Nacional, Medellín’s soccer team, was playing Bogotá’s Santa Fe, in the national championships.
At dinner, our conversation was regularly punctuated by cries of local supporters. Soon, however, the people at the small hole-in-the-wall diner next door erupted into cheers: the final score was 2-0. “Somos campeones, otra vez,” they chanted. “We are the champions, once again!”
As we walked back towards the park at the center of Parque Lleras, the city’s nightlife district, a roar filled the air. It was only when we rounded the corner that we saw that we had walked right into the madhouse: several thousand people had descended upon the park like a tsunami of green and white—jumping, chanting, and lighting fireworks in a street packed as tightly as sardines. With cries of “un limpio, un limpio!” (“He’s clean!”), people with spray cans of foam and bags of flour were dousing fellow revelers until the air was snow white.
At first, we dodged the flour missiles and foam projectiles as best as we could, but it immediately became clear it would be impossible to emerge unscathed—at one point, a man threw a bag of flour directly into my (unfortunately) open mouth, forcing me to participate in a doughy version of the cinnamon challenge. So, after buying a spray can of foam from a man in the street, we joined in.
As I sit here writing this article a week later, with just a few days left in Colombia, the image of thousands of cheering fans remains etched in my mind. The people of Medellín, in general, are proud of their city, and rightly so. Earlier this summer, I called Medellín a “city transformed,” and it is: every day, its gleaming metro ferries people across the city with an efficiency unrivaled by Boston’s T. The city’s investment of millions in poor districts building new transportation networks, libraries, parks, and schools has demonstrated the power of urban renewal. A Brazilian Bolsa Familia-style cash grant system helps the poor afford basic necessities. With Pablo Escobar now two decades in the past, violence—while still high—has dropped, with an 84 percent decrease in the murder rate since the end of his reign.
Yet, every day, that same silver, shining metro exhales me out of the richer, foreigner-dominated south into the poorer, more dangerous, dirtier north where I work, only to breathe me back into the South’s cool safety every evening. Last year, my neighborhood, el Poblado, had just three “disappearances” and a murder rate of 5.6 per 100,000, compared to 58 and 173, respectively, for la Candeleria next door—a metro stop I have been warned never to use at night. Medellín is a city transformed, but also a city of daunting inequality, where shopping malls with touchscreen “You are here” maps, luxury apartments, beautiful parks, and artisanal coffee shops co-exist minutes away from impoverished slums and graffiti-ed streets. As the metro whisks me past la Candeleria, across the invisible border marking the division between north and south, it often seems as if I live in two different cities.
That night in Parque Lleras, we emerged an hour later covered in white from head to toe, surrounded by people drunk on their city’s win. For once, the entire city, north and south, seemed united: everyone was clad in green and white, everyone was absurdly covered in flour. It took Nacional beating Santa Fe 2 to 0 for me to see this divided city brought together, a reminder that much work remains to be done, even in a city that has moved so far beyond its past.
Eventually, I found a taxi and settled in for the ride home, lost in my thoughts as we sat in the traffic caused by a group of teenagers standing in the middle of the road, waving a giant green and white Nacional flag. They must be doing something right, I thought, in a country where three out of four people describe themselves as happy, a figure that makes Colombia the happiest country in the world.
I was brought out of my reverie when my driver—also wearing green and white—rolled down his window and started honking in celebration, before waving to the policeman on the motorcycle in the lane over.
“Hey,” he shouted in Spanish, “check out at this gringo covered in flour messing up my car!”
Laughing, the policeman honked back.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Forbes continued its annual tradition of kicking Harvard in the shins this week when it released its "America’s Top Colleges" list, ranking our esteemed university in a lowly eighth place. That’s behind Stanford, two liberal arts colleges, three other Ivies, and the United States Military Academy. The shock and horror.
The rankings, Forbes says on its website, are set apart from others by its "firm belief in 'output' over 'input'"—that is to say, its interest in what students are getting out of college, not how they got in. Forbes says its rankings are calculated based on 12 factors that fall under five categories, which include student satisfaction, post-graduate success, and student debt. We haven't found a problem with this methodology yet, but since College Confidential told us we were going to the best school in the world, we know Forbes must be doing something wrong.
Regardless, don't be too alarmed by our lackluster showing, proud Harvardians, because this isn't actually that big of a change. Although Harvard regularly tops the U.S. News and World Report rankings for best national universities, Harvard also failed to crack the top five in last year's Forbes rankings (it settled for sixth).
At least Harvard had a better showing this year than the trade school down the river; MIT came in 10th.
Sections
 
In a series of reviews, members of The Crimson's summer staff are making a case for the best froyo in the Square. We've already reviewed Pinkberry, Ben and Jerry's, Yogurtland, Lizzy's, and J.P. Licks. Now up: Berryline.
Dearest reader,
I ask you to close your eyes for a moment. Relax your mind, and imagine Harvard Square’s frozen yogurt marketplace as it once was. Back in those better, simpler days, there was no Pinkberry. There was no Yogurtland. Ben and Jerry's had yet to launch its Greek frozen yogurt line. Sure, Lizzy's and J.P. Licks served frozen yogurt, but let's be real: no one really liked their froyo anyway.
 
Back then, the destination for anyone craving frozen yogurt was clear—Berryline. As long ago as 2007, locals have gathered together to enjoy delicious froyo in that little corner of homegrown paradise at 3 Arrow St.
 
Can't remember such a glorious vision of the Square? I'm not surprised. If you're reading this esteemed student life blog, you're probably too young to remember that wholesome, happy time. But let me tell you this: As recently as early 2011, when members of the Class of 2014 were wide-eyed freshmen, Berryline reigned supreme as the Square’s unquestioned froyo hotspot.
 
But since then, things have changed. Every year, fresh faces with short memories and capricious tastes flood the Square, distracted by new, flashy, corporate froyo options. And Berryline—poor, forgotten Berryline—finds itself further from the hearts of the fickle patrons it sought to serve.
 
Call me a crotchety old rising senior, but back in my day, Berryline meant something. My peers and I would have never dreamed of eating Pinkberry's mawkishly sweet froyo when we could savor Berryline's creamy delights, nor would we have considered serving ourselves at Yogurtland when we could enjoy Berryline’s unrivaled customer service.
 
But not all is lost. It is not too late, wayward youth, to reject artifice, to honor your heritage, to remember your roots. It is not too late to go to Berryline.
