News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
With temperatures nearing triple digits just past noon on Friday, three workers took a break in the worksite outside the nearly renovated Old Quincy building. Their supervisors had not mentioned anything about leaving the site early due to the heat, and the workers said they did not expect them to. One member of the trio, who stood with the others in a patch of shade, said of the day’s remaining work: “Gotta get it done.” 
On a day in which temperatures hit 99 degrees in Boston and heat index values soared to an estimated 110 degrees, workers were out in full force at Harvard’s Old Quincy and Old Leverett buildings, which are being renovated as part of House Renewal, the University’s more than $1 billion plan to eventually refurbish all 12 of Harvard’s upperclassman Houses.
Workers nearly universally said they were being encouraged to drink water and take breaks, but two called the experience of working in such hot weather “miserable” and “brutal.”
Coming on the heels of a six-day heat wave, Friday’s heat was severe enough to prompt the National Weather Service to issue an excessive heat warning for much of eastern Massachusetts, including Cambridge. The warning, which was in effect from noon to 7 p.m., advised people to “avoid prolonged work in the sun or in poorly ventilated areas” and to be especially careful in the hottest hours of the day.
The scorching temperatures also motivated officials at some construction sites around campus to alter their plans for the day.
At noon on Friday, Mike Kilbride, a Consigli Construction Co., Inc., foreman, took down caution tape at the corner of Bow and DeWolfe Streets. He said he had received orders from his company to dismiss the employees from their work on the exterior of Adams House due to the heat.
At the Harvard Lampoon, a semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine and is now covered with scaffolding, construction workers changed their schedule, arriving at 7 a.m. and leaving at around 10 or 11 a.m. Lampoon president Eric R. Brewster ’14 wrote in an email that it was the workers’ decision to “beat the heat because the Lampoon is a free will semi-Sorrento humor square.”
But at other campus construction sites, operations continued as normal, though many took special precautions in response to the unusually warm weather.  
Bob, an ABC Moving Services, Inc., operations manager at Quincy House, said that the members of his team were thinking carefully about safety and ensuring that workers were drinking a lot of water as they worked their standard eight-hour day. Bob, like several other workers interviewed for this article, only agreed to be identified by his first name because he was not authorized to talk to the media.
Purchased by workers or provided by the contractors they worked for, bottles of water were everywhere on campus construction sites. Painters kneeled on the sidewalk with bottles next to them. One worker paused while driving a construction vehicle to take a swig. As one worker lowered a wardrobe from a truck, another asked if he had gotten water. “I’m all set,” he responded. 
Many workers emphasized that their bosses were taking precautions to keep them safe. “Make sure you stay hydrated—that’s the first thing they say,” Ed Hardy, an electrical worker, said while eating lunch in the courtyard of Quincy House.  
At Old Leverett, Sean, a foreman at the site, mused that it was so hot “you could probably crack an egg and fry it” on the House’s roof. In such weather, his fellow Dimeo Construction Company employee K.T. said, “Worker safety is our first priority.... Here at Dimeo, we keep the guys hydrated.”
The workers’ safety precautions appear to have been successful. Lisa Hogarty, Harvard’s vice president for campus services, wrote in an emailed statement that there had been no reported cases of illness among workers as a result of the six-day heat wave. 
“This is a credit to the general contractor’s supervision, subcontractor supervision, and all of the workers for remaining alert and looking out for one another,” wrote Hogarty, whose office oversees campus health and safety.  
And not everyone was unhappy with the weather. One man, wearing a Harvard hat, seemed relaxed as he sat outside of Old Leverett.
“Doesn’t bother me one bit,” he said of the heat. “I’m from Jamaica.”
—Staff writer Maya Jonas-Silver can be reached at mayajonas-silver@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @mayajonassilver.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In a series of reviews, members of The Crimson's summer staff are making a case for the best froyo in the Square. We've already reviewed Pinkberry and Ben and Jerry's. Now up: Yogurtland.
Two of my esteemed colleagues have now offered their not-so-esteemed opinions on the best frozen yogurt in Harvard Square. Both have tried to portray their froyo of choice in a patriotic light, but when it comes to American values, no frozen yogurt vendor can claim to top the heartland that is Yogurtland.
Here in America, we believe in freedom. While other lesser froyo joints restrict their patrons to just a handful of flavor options, the new Yogurtland location on JFK Street offers 16 delicious varieties of froyo at any given time—meaning customers have the freedom to choose from among 65,535 distinct combinations. Want to just do plain tart by itself tonight? Great. How about mixing tiramisu with taro? No problem. What about all 16 flavors at once? Well, this is America, and no one's stopping you.
Now you might say, “I'd feel terrible ordering 16 flavors and making the staff get all of them for me one by one.” Fear not, courteous reader: Yogurtland offers self-service, which means that you have full control over your frozen treat. The amount of yogurt, the proportions of the flavors, the selection of toppings, the amount of each of the toppings, the direction your froyo swirls, even the color of your spoon: It's all up to you. At the end of the day, you can proudly dig your spoon into the froyo and declare, "I built this."
On top of all this goodness, Yogurtland operates under a fair, forthright, truly American business model. Yogurtland is affordable, charging a mere $0.45 per ounce of sugary deliciousness. With price measured strictly by weight, there are no fees for extra flavors or additional toppings.
Wait—do you hear that? That's the phone’s ringing, and America's on the line. She’s telling you to take control of your life, to be a little adventurous. She’s telling you to recall the words of the great patriot Francis Scott Key and to embrace the land of the free and the home of the brave. She's telling you to go to the place where it feels like the Fourth of July every day of the whole damn year. She's telling you to pick Yogurtland.
