News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was sweet number 16 for the No. 2 Harvard heavyweight men’s crew as the Crimson bested both No. 4 Northeastern and Holy Cross in all five races on Saturday on the Charles River. The victory earned Harvard’s 16th straight Smith Cup in the annual regatta between the cross-town rivals.
The first varsity boat remained undefeated over its spring contests as the eight grabbed yet another win. The first 1,000 meters were knotted for Harvard and the Huskies, but the Crimson opened a significant lead by the 1,500-meter mark and took the Smith Cup with open water. Harvard won the race by almost four seconds, 5.30.8 to 5:34.2.
“We’ve been working all season on improving in the middle of our race,” said captain James O’Connor, who rows in the two-seat. “Coming into this one we knew Northeastern was going to be similarly fast on the line. We realized this was the time to shine, if you will, and we really needed to get our middle together and turn out victorious.”
The varsity eight, coxed by senior David Fuller, with senior Parker Washburn at stroke and sophomore James Medway at the bow, has swept all six sprint races this spring and found its only misstep this year at the Head of the Charles in October, when the boat was clipped by last year’s national champion, the University of Washington.
“They’re essentially different seasons—the sprint season and the championship season,” O’Connor said. “We know that we’ve come out on top, which means we have really good boat speed and the potential to win.”
Saturday’s races concluded the season on the Charles for the Crimson, as the squad will resume competition at the EARC Sprints in two weeks and head to IRA Nationals a week later.
“The attitude right now towards Sprints is primarily to work to balance the academic priorities and the specific desire to go fast and win the championship,” Harvard freshman coach Bill Manning said. “It’s a challenging period for everybody and these guys want to do both well.”
The first boats on the water were the fifth varsity fours. While the Harvard ‘A’ boat won outright in 6:54.8, Crimson teammates in the ‘C’ and ‘B’ boats were not far behind, taking second and third, respectively.
After catching a crab at the 800-meter mark and falling out of winning contention, the Holy Cross boat finished last in 7:30.0, 20 seconds behind Harvard’s ‘B’ boat.
The fourth varsity four race also saw the Crimson establish a sizeable lead over its opponents, with the ‘B’ boat capturing first place in 6:38.6 and the ‘A’ boat taking second seven seconds later. Northeastern rounded out the trio of boats finishing nearly eight seconds after the final Harvard boat.
“The Harvard students did a good job on the day,” Manning said. “We’re fortunate that we have good competition within the squad both at the top and elsewhere. I think the Harvard crews are really set upon racing each other and trying to prove that they’re the stronger half of the program.”
The slimmest margin of victory came in the third varsity eight race, as the Crimson’s first freshman boat battled through catching a crab late in the final 15 strokes to edge the Huskies by just over a second, 5:48.2 to 5:49.8. Moderately choppy conditions in the second 1000 meters proved challenging, yet did not slip up the novices.
“They had established a significant lead prior to that so that when they had that bobble it was not possible that the other team could overtake them,” Manning said. “They had established a big enough lead and they recovered well from it.”
Victory came a bit easier for the second varsity boat. While Harvard and Northeastern stayed close to one another for the first 1000 meters, as the Crimson came out from under the Harvard Bridge, the boat began to gain on its opponent and won with a lead of nearly a whole boat length.
—Staff writer Cordelia F. Mendez can be reached at cordeliamendez@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @CrimsonCordelia.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At this year’s Indoor Heptagonal Championships, the Harvard women’s track and field team exceeded expectations, stringing together a number of brilliant performances to eek out a five-point victory over Cornell.
In spite of a number of strong individual performances at this weekend’s Outdoor Heps, the Crimson was simply unable to put up enough points to compete with the Big Red. The Harvard women took home third place with a team score of 118 points, while Cornell earned the Ivy League title with 145. On the men’s side, the Crimson recorded 59 team points to finish in fifth place as the Princeton men were dominant, tallying 190 points en route to the Ivy crown.
“The weekend went really well,” Harvard coach Jason Saretsky said. “I think we were able to establish that we’re one of the best teams in the Ivy League. The women had a phenomenal competition…. The men were a bit off from where we had hoped, but still managed to get fifth with a number of individual winners.”
Freshman sprinter Autumne Franklin was one of the Crimson’s top scorers at Heps, which was hosted at Princeton’s Weaver Stadium, as she contributed 28 of the squad’s total points. The rookie began the weekend by taking first place in the 100-meter hurdles with a time of 13.50 seconds, nearly a quarter of a second faster than Penn’s Gabrielle Piper.
Going into the weekend, Franklin boasted the top time in the Ivies in the 400-meter hurdles, as well. Though she was unable to live up to the No. 1 ranking, she crossed the finish line in a personal-best time of 58.70 to earn second place and eight points for Harvard.
“If there was a ‘Freshman of the Meet,’ I think she would be a clear-cut choice,” Saretsky said. “There’s so much that Autumne brings to the table; she’s had a great freshman year.”
The rookie finished the impressive weekend by running in the 4x400 meter relay, which has been strong for the women’s team down the stretch this season. Franklin was joined by classmate Gabrielle Scott, sophomore Christi Scott, and junior Olivia Abbate. Though the foursome was unable to break the school record for the third time this season, their time of 3:39.66 was good for first place.
Also for the Harvard women, senior Mary Hirst capped off the last Heps of her collegiate career in style by winning the heptathlon and the high jump. The veteran had a monster performance in the heptathlon, winning four of the seven events to shatter the school record. Hirst’s point total of 5359 bested the old record, which was set in 2007, by over 250 points. In each of the components of the heptathlon but the high jump, Hirst bettered her personal records.
“I had a whole new edge of competitiveness that I haven’t felt at other meets,” Hirst said.
Of the seven parts that compose the heptathlon, Hirst had her largest margin of victory in the javelin throw. The senior’s throw of 40.29 meters was 10 meters farther than five of her eight competitors.
For the Harvard men, the strongest performances came away from the track, as the squad’s field athletes chipped in a majority of the team’s point total.
The Crimson’s throwing corps earned 18 points in the shot put with a 2-3-4 finish from junior Dustin Brode, and sophomores Ben Glauser and Igor Liokumovich, respectively. Brode was the only Harvard athlete to eclipse 18 meters in the event with a school record-breaking toss of 18.20 meters. The previous record was 18.19 meters and was set in 1969.
“The shot put was an incredible competition,” Saretsky said. “For [Brode] to break that record is a great achievement. I’m guessing that with the throwers we’ve got, they’re going to be going back and forth with that record for a while now.
Sophomore Jarvis Harris was 0.02 seconds shy of breaking his own school record in the 100 meter hurdles, earning first place in the event with a time of 14.15 seconds.
Senior Nico Weiler supplied the first victory of the weekend for the Crimson squad in the pole vault. Weiler, who finished in fourth place at last year’s outdoor NCAA Championships and holds the school record in the event, cleared a height of 5.20 meters to win the Ivy title.
A number of injuries prevented some of the members of both the men’s and women’s team from competing. Freshman Martina Salander, who finished in fifth place at NCAA Indoor National Championships was among the athletes who could not compete for Harvard.
“My guess is that if you called up Cornell and Columbia, the two teams in front of us, they would say they have some injuries, too,” Saretsky said. “We went to Princeton with the best team we had on the day, and I think they competed their hearts out.”
—Staff writer Dominic Martinez can be reached at dmartinez@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @dominicmTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
Welcome to "Listen Up!," Flyby's weekly advice column, written by two jobless, washed-up seniors from their futon in Winthrop.
We rounded up some of your most poignant questions from the past few week and responded with our unfailing wisdom.
Q: I'm a senior and have completed the following: jumping off Weeks, Primal Scream, peeing on John Harvard. Last thing to do is get it on in the stacks of Widener, but I have no boyfriend and no prospects. Any suggestions??
Love,
Suddenly Horny
A: With only a month left to graduation, strategy is key to completing this task. We suggest you target the following groups:
 
1. Past hookups: Find that guy from your freshmen entryway and tell him you are feeling "nostalgic." Or "suddenly horny."
2. Younger men: There are plenty of freshmen just a few feet from Widener.
3. Librarians: Easy access. Although we don't know where they stand on the sex in the stacks thing.
4. Public records of those convicted of indecent exposure: Self explanatory.
 
Q: I have a recurring problem where I become friends with a guy, we become pretty close, then it gets awkward because I like hanging out with him, but I'm not looking to take it to the next level.  So basically do you have any advice on balancing being close friends with a guy while also ensuring that he doesn't develop feelings for you which would make it weird?  PS- I also have a long distance boyfriend.
 
A: You clearly have not been reading our column. Again, this is not a problem.
 
Q: When texting a boy, how do you play it "cool" and not come off as desperate?
 
A: It is difficult for us to answer this, mostly because we rarely make it to the stage where we have the number of a guy who does not work for Domino's Pizza or Insomnia Cookies. (And we definitely come off as desperate when we interact with them. There's no "playing it cool" when you have waited for the the S'mores Deluxe to come out of the oven on a Friday night several weekends in a row.) If you are so lucky, however, there are a few things we recommend.
 
First of all, keep it short and casual. Just because your iPhone is capable of sending novellas over iMessage doesn't mean you should do that. Remember when texts were limited to 160 characters? Aim for that.
 
Timing is key. Not in the, "I'm going to wait five hours to answer this so then he thinks I am out doing something really fun and am too busy to be thinking about talking to him when really I am sitting here staring at my blank computer screen and licking melted chocolate from my hands" way. It is also weird to wait the exact amount of time to answer that he last waited to answer you. Respond when you have time and when you have something to say (unless what you have to say is stupid).
 
Also, don't use LOL. Just don't. You will sound like a seventh grade girl. And if the recipient thinks that’s okay, then you should probably quit worrying about sounding desperate and stop texting him.  If something is funny, you can signify this in other ways. For example, the bloody needle emoji.
 
Finally, this is what the notepad function on your iPhone is for. Draft, edit, copy, paste, send. Now put your phone away and stop obsessively checking to see if he has responded. If necessary (which it always is in our room), change your phone's password three times in rapid succession so even you aren't sure of what it is. Bonus points if you wait to send a nerve-wracking text until your phone is on 1% battery so it dies before you can repeatedly check to see if he's answered.
 
If none of this works, keep this in mind. When we ask Pete at Domino's if he wants to come over at midnight on a Saturday, he always says yes. And he brings snacks.
 
Q: Online dating...do or don't?
A: HAS NO ONE ELSE SEEN THE CRAIGSLIST KILLER LIFETIME MOVIE?
Have issues? We can help!
Maybe.
Anonymously submit your pressing life questions here!
 
Love and Life Lessons,
Sarah and Julia
Sections
They say that a parent's love is unconditional, but if you want to keep receiving care packages from Mom, it can't hurt to show her some love on Mother's Day.
Even though the holiday isn't until next Sunday, it's probably not a good idea to treat your gift like a response paper, because in this case, every word counts— and your mom, unlike your TF, will see right through your sloppy submission. To help you get started on your gift before reading period and exams drain your life source quicker than a Dementor, Flyby has some suggestions.
1. Use your Harvard degree. Literature majors can write poems, VES majors can create a piece of art, CS majors can code a simple program, and Folklore and Mythology majors can (close) read their mothers a bedtime story.
2. Accessories. Buy your mom a bright scarf, bracelet, necklace, or purse. Do not buy her a "Harvard Mom" sweatshirt—not everything in her life is about you.
3. Flowers. Flowers may seem a bit cliché, but how nice were those daffodils in front of the Science Center? They're all probably dead by now, but didn't they spruce up your room quite nicely for a few days?
4. Crafts. Convert a Mason jar into a candle, find a nice frame and decorate it, or make your Mom some jewelry. Just don't buy something from Senior Sale and pass it off as your own.
5. HBO GO. Because everyone deserves "Game of Thrones."
