News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Ukrainian Research Institute is using a seed grant from the Sustainable Ukraine Foundation to look into establishing a research center in Kiev, Ukraine.
 
The proposed research center would serve to advance Ukrainian Studies research and teaching, to find and make use of resources, and to involve students and faculty in Ukraine, according to an announcement on the Institute’s website.
The Kyiv Initiative, as the project is called, is in an exploratory stage, during which the Institute plans to search for potential donors and start planning for legal and administrative approval processes, the announcement said.
Tymish J. Holowinsky, the Institute’s executive director, emphasized in an email that the Institute is still in the “very preliminary stages” with the project.
“We have not actually decided or committed to [establish a research office in Kiev] until we have explored all that is entailed in having an office abroad, discussed the matter further internally, and obtained authorization to move forward in accordance with University policy and procedure,” Holowinsky wrote.
 
The Institute plans to work with partners based in Ukraine to create a proposal for the research center, which would then need to be reviewed by the University Committee on International Projects and Sites and approved by the University Provost. A second stage of review from Harvard would follow, the announcement said.
 
The Kyiv Initiative follows several recent moves to explore expanding Harvard’s international presence. In 2010 University President Drew G. Faust launched an International Strategy Working Group, which a year later issued a set of recommendations to administrators about the University’s global approach. In 2012, Harvard Business School professor Krishna G. Palepu was named senior adviser to the president for global strategy, a newly created position.
 
And in a May email to faculty listing seven principles that will guide Harvard’s upcoming capital campaign, which is set to launch next month, Faust mentioned international strategy within the context of one of those principles, the globalization of knowledge.
 
—Staff writer Madeline R. Conway at mconway@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
After Forbes magazine inexplicably denied Harvard the top spot on several of its college rankings this summer, equilibrium was restored Aug. 15 when our University was named best in the world by the Center for World-Class Universities at China's Shanghai Jiao Tong University.
 
The news is even better for STEM-field concentrators: Harvard's first-place finish was based on criteria almost entirely centered on math and science.
 
Case in point: the rankings take into account how many articles are published in Nature and Science journals and how many articles are indexed in the Science Citation Index-Expanded and Social Sciences Citation Index. The Shanghai rankings also consider how many alumni and staff win Nobel Prizes and Fields Medals, the number of "highly cited researchers," and "per capita academic performance," calculated based on the institution's size.
 
 
Harvard notably beat out second-place Stanford, America's "top" college, according to Forbes. It also topped fourth-place MIT, the trade school down the river that specializes in many of the fields valued highly in the Shanghai rankings' criteria.
 
Take Harvard's victory with a grain of salt, though: A recent study has called into question the value of the Shanghai rankings and other global college rankings systems. The paper, published in the research journal Minerva, claims that a few universities' high rankings "does not necessarily indicate social or economic beneﬁt" for a society and that the rankings themselves can perpetuate inequities in higher education.
 We, however, would rather top a possibly flawed ranking than no ranking at all.
