News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I am sick and tired of banking bores at Harvard. I try not to complain when the Office of Career Services announces a “career in finance” event for the thousandth time. While I wish they had more diverse options, it is understandably a lot harder to bring other types of career representatives to campus.  I make a conscious effort not to roll my eyes when friends disappear for weeks because they’re preparing for their consulting interviews (which sound cultish and bizarre). I even keep my mouth shut when classmates who are passionate about public service suddenly decide to work at a hedge-fund for the summer. I can appreciate that it’s good, supportive money and a clear path that can lead to many rewards.
But, I feel I finally need to draw the line with one specific aspect about Harvard’s finance culture: the pervasive atmosphere around campus that upon graduation, banking and consulting are the only “real jobs” and everything else is a failure. Whether in the dining halls, classes, or dorm rooms, many Harvard students make it all too clear they look down on job paths after college that don’t lead to the Emerald City of Wall Street.
There are a few generic examples of this that will probably sound familiar to many people. There are the students who adore mentoring and teaching at Mission Hill, yet when you ask them if they’ll do that post college, they reply, “That would be cool, but I could never have a real job doing that.” Or, for seniors, the conversation often goes something like this:
Senior with a “finance job” to a senior who has a job in a different profession: Do you know what your hours will be yet?
Senior with a different job: Probably eight to six or something like that.
Senior in finance: (sigh) Oh, that is not bad! You are so lucky! I wish my job was that relaxed. You’ll have so much more free time.
Such comments may seem innocuous but they veil a contemptible disdain: the belief that finance jobs are much harder (and therefore respectable) than other jobs in the “real world.” Yes, they tend to have much longer hours and perhaps more grueling business trips. But we seem to forget that the time sheet is not the only measure of success or indeed of value.  And, it is unfair to assume other jobs are easy because they have different standards. Setting the alarm for four a.m. is not itself proof that one job is more demanding or rigorous than others. While it would be hard for me to prove, I would guess a shorter day as a teacher in a middle school classroom is maybe ten times more exhausting than a longer day in a consulting firm.
By making these sorts of comments (and they are frequent on this campus, whether you are personally hearing them or not), graduating students are entering into the “real world” with an inherent bias towards other professions and a built-in pattern of patronizing that will not be appreciated or rewarded. By insinuating that someone’s job is less legitimate or respectable because it has fewer hours (and perhaps, many secretly think, less money) finance-seekers are putting themselves on a pedestal that is both unattractive and unfair. Plus, people from Harvard already have extremely large egos. By adding the cocky “finance rules the world” attitude into the mix, you will become an unbearable human being. Maybe people won’t tell you, but they will be thinking it.
I probably sound to many of you like the classic cranky English concentrator right now. But I have no desire to bear the cross of “Oh, why can’t the humanities be appreciated? Woe is me!” I understand full well that in this time of economic crisis, finance jobs offer a lure of stability that does not exist in many “humanities” jobs or public service positions. I understand too that work in the financial sector is attractive because many just enjoy it. But while I can handle the constant trashing of the humanities and I appreciate the draw of the financial sector, I can no longer take the innate condescension that exists in Harvard’s daily culture towards jobs that don’t fit the Wall Street mainstream. There is such a plethora of exciting career paths that are just as strenuous and rewarding. Just because some employees don’t have to walk around with a BlackBerry attached to their hand does not mean that their paths don’t deserve respect too.
I imagine it is very easy to fall into the trap that investment banker Sherman McCoy of Tom Wolfe’s “Bonfire of the Vanities” falls into when he thinks of himself on the way to work as a “master of the universe.” And yet, when this temptation gets too great, it is also valuable to imagine how Sherman’s story ends—broke, divorced, and in jail. I wouldn’t wish this on anyone, of course.
Isabel H. Evans ’14, a Crimson editorial writer, is an English concentrator in Adams House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Over 70 different libraries are now united under the Harvard Library Board. With the promise of “delivery of high and consistent standards of service University-wide,” HUL hopes to connect the resources of the Harvard College Library with those of Graduate Libraries. Harvard also engineered its Borrow-Direct partnership with the libraries of MIT and other Ivy League institutions. Combined with the nationwide scope of Interlibrary Loan services, Harvard students and faculty enjoy unprecedented ease of access to materials, books, and periodicals.
Hard to imagine now are the days when a library book had to be returned to the branch from where it was checked out. Harder still the days before the Hollis catalogue, Amazon, or Google Books.
Working in the library when not in class, I spend my days checking in and out devices like Nooks, Kindles, and MacBooks; I process scan-and-deliver requests for patrons based in Cambridge or abroad; I reshelf periodicals as commonplace as Wired or as intriguing as Acta Mathematica Hungarica. I’m grateful for and love my job as a student librarian. It’s enriched my time at Harvard and exposed me firsthand to new ideas in library and information science, even spurred me to research graduate programs in librarianship. I’ve been delighted to see new endeavors undertaken to keep Lamont open later during finals, to bring more poets to the Woodbury Poetry Room, to innovate new solutions at the Labrary (a short-lived experiment in library design housed on Mount Auburn Street, in the home of the former Globe Corner Bookstore), and to preserve books through digitization.
But I am worried. Harvard’s collection did not spring from nothing, like Athena from the pained skull of Zeus, but from 300 odd volumes from the Reverend John Harvard and the accumulated profit of 375-plus years of diligence, resourcefulness, and prioritizing.
We are in the early stages of a new Capital Campaign. From what has been reported, Harvard University intends to use this campaign to further its goals through investments in areas such as edX (an online university partnership offering massive open online courses or MOOCs), financial aid, the arts, and development in Allston. These are noble goals, deserving of funding, and deserving of prime attention in a campaign to raise funds for Harvard. Institutions like the School for Engineering and Applied Sciences and the Harvard Financial Aid Initiative changed the face of Harvard for the better, bringing greater diversity to the undergraduate population, and enabled more students to study in more disciplines. Expanding Harvard south into Allston, oftentimes a contentious proposition, likewise seems like a prudent investment in the future growth of Harvard as a university that produces cutting edge research in all fields.
But what of the library system? Surely something as central to Harvard as its libraries would merit top billing, coequal to the other mentioned fundraising goals? I am worried that the library system will be forgotten; I am worried that the restructuring of its bureaucratic and administrative functions (intended to cut costs) will have lead only to cut positions, more infrequent acquisitions, and fewer paper copies of new books and periodicals.
This fall, the History department offers a course on the history of the book and reading. Attending its lectures, I’ve learned that there may be a paperless future of e-books but there was also a paperless past of clay tablets. Content, ultimately, matters more than the medium of transmission. Tales of Gilgamesh still survive, and now survive in graphic novel form.
Though I have tempered my fears of a paperless future, I cannot shake my fears for the library’s future. For that very same class on books, a course reserve e-book has a single license, meaning it can be used only on one terminal at a time—a terrible skeuomorph; the paperless future should mean fewer limits on access, not more.
Libraries are now turning the page; they are facing the future and seek to provide excellent services and usher the scholarly community from the 20th to the 21st century. To do this, librarians will need support and adequate staff; administrators will need budgets. We must privilege the coffer and not the purse-string. Innovation is a problem that cannot be solved by cuts alone. Libraries represent accumulated intellectual capital; let them enjoy equal investment of human capital. As we contemplate the flood of riches that may be on the horizon, I believe Harvard University Library must be a top-tier priority for the sake of students, employees, scholars, and books.
Michael Thorbjørn Feehly ’14 is a History and Scandinavian studies concentrator in Mather House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Did you know that a detailed portrait of your doings can be generated solely by analyzing your Facebook friends? With this information, the government can pinpoint your exact location and gather information about your political and religious affiliations. In fact, analysis of the metadata of your interactions (a set of data attached to the content which provides simply details, like the recipients of your emails) provides, according to The New York Times,  “more complete and predictive of behavior than could be obtained by listening to phone conversations or reading e-mails.” According to newly disclosed Snowden documents, this type of data analysis has been employed by the NSA to mine its massive collections on Americans, generating sophisticated graphs of social connections that can not only generate profiles, but that can recreate and predict your behavior. While such a practice is legal, most privacy legislation pertaining to electronic surveillance is founded on practices of wiretapping and does not account for other types of communications such as online social networking. New legislation needs to be considered in order to protect an individual from such invasions of privacy; the current legal framework needs to be updated as our society undergoes a technological change.
In an age in which networks are on par with, or perhaps more important than, its individual constituents, a new question needs to be addressed with regards to privacy: Is our social network more telling of our person than our particular interactions with individuals? The Snowden documents, as well as experts, suggest it to be so. Karen Greenberg, director of the Center on National Security at Fordham Law School, said that the system employed by the NSA, “tells an extraordinary amount about who you are…To pretend that you have to read the information to be going into what a person is doing is making a false distinction." Her opinion echoes that of Orin S. Kerr, a law professor at George Washington University, who believes “Metadata can be very revealing…Knowing things like the number someone just dialed or the location of the person’s cellphone is going to allow them to assemble a picture of what someone is up to.”
If mining social networks through metadata is so telling of an individual, its practice needs to be reevaluated as a privacy concern. In 1967, Katz v. United States overturned the ruling of Olmstead v. United States (1928) by expanding the Fourth Amendment to include unphysical intrusion with regards to technology as unconstitutional, in effect extending constitutional protection to all areas in which a person has a "reasonable expectation of privacy." Current law has it that a warrant based on “probable cause” is required in order to access the content of email and telephone conversation, but that a court order based on “reasonable suspicion” needs to be elicited in order to access the metadata of such communications. While this appears satisfactory when applied to telephone conversations alone, it becomes less than satisfactory in its ability to protect an individual’s “reasonable expectation of privacy” with regards to social networks. While the effect of the consolidation of metadata was not taken into consideration in the ruling of Katz v. United States, technology has since changed. The, law now needs to consider not merely how information on an individual is gained, but also the kind of information obtained. If mining our social networks reveals our location, our beliefs, and our affiliates, then such a practice should be considered unlawful as blatant violation of the Fourth Amendment.
The new documents shed light on another worrying issue—that of data retention. Logging data pertaining to email and phone records can be stored for later inspection. Knowledge of the NSA’s methods of social network mining has the potential change and limit the behavior of individuals as they feel restricted in selecting their affiliates and as paranoia increases about government knowledge of their political and religious views.
While it can be argued that the NSA practices are imperative for issues of national security, changing the law to necessitate a warrant based on probable cause to perform metadata analysis would ensure that American citizens are reasonably protected while simultaneously safeguarding Americans from unreasonably monitoring. Another solution would be to revert to previous practices; before the November 2010 policy change, the NSA was not allowed to mine the metadata of American citizens. This overturned the established notion that analysis could only be performed on the records of foreign nationals.
The NSA’s newly revealed social mapping program, which allows for “contact chaining” is invasive of privacy; the government no longer needs just cause to generate personal information about an American citizen. While the NSA still needs a warrant to access the specific content of such data, it is problematic that the aggregation of metadata has been shown to provide a more holistic portrait of an individual than could be gathered simply from content viewing. As technology changes in such a manner that expands our connection to social networks, it is necessary to reinforce the constitutional protection that grants “reasonable expectation of privacy.”
Casimira S. Karunaratne ’15, a Crimson editorial writer, is an English concentrator in Lowell House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
We are expecting a lot of the next Dean of Harvard College. After a rocky year that culminated in the resignation of former Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds, interim Dean Donald H. Pfister has done an admirable job of bridging the divide of distrust between students and administrators. But the College needs a strong, permanent leader to build on Dean Pfister’s progress.
The new dean needs to be friendly and approachable to students and a powerful advocate for students’ interests. Small gestures—eating in dining halls, sending quirky emails, being visible at undergraduate events—make students feel like they know their dean. Those small actions also speak to a genuine interest in student affairs. The new dean should be for the College what Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman is for the freshman class—a booster, a capable administrator, and a warm presence.
The Dean of the College should also represent the needs of students in deliberations at the university level. Harvard is a complex place where the needs and desires of faculty of all stripes, students, staff, and the institution itself need to be reconciled. The Dean of the College must be a person who is willing to support undergraduates, even against other competing interests on campus.
More than anything else, the dean should have a clear sense of where the College is and where it should go. With the capital campaign and House Renewal underway, the College is potentially poised for a period of tremendous change. There are so many questions that the next dean must answer, both big and small. The new dean needs to have a vision of what the College will look like in 10 or 20 years, but he or she also needs to have a plan to build community, make Harvard a more welcoming place, improve the subpar system of freshman and sophomore advising, and so much more. The new dean should constantly ask, “How will this decision affect students? Will it make students’ lives better now and in the future?”
We are disappointed that Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith has excluded students from the search committee for the new dean. The student consultation has been reduced to four meetings around campus. There is no opportunity for students to be involved in deliberations or even to be consulted about certain candidates. Even as Dean Pfister has helped the College move beyond the events of last year, Dean Smith appears to be pulling us back towards an uncommunicative and closed-minded past.
Despite Dean Smith’s unwise search process, the prospect of a new dean is exciting. The fresh perspective of a new leader will allow the College to consider what it has done well, fix what it has done wrong, and chart a course for the future.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Harvard’s new capital campaign aims to raise $6.5 billion dollars, trumping Stanford’s previous record by a cool $300 million just because, you know, we have to be number one. This is great news for students! With $6.5 billion in the bank and about 6,500 undergraduates (give or take), we should each get our fair share of one million dollars. Here’s how to spend yours. Harvard, we take cash or credit, but prefer direct deposit.
1.  Pay tuition for four people for all four years.
2.  Try getting as much Harvard apparel as you can at the Coop only to realize that, even with $1 million, the prices there are absurd and out of your budget.
3.  Fund hot breakfast in the upperclassmen dining halls for a year. Then, invest your remaining $100,000 in the egg and sausage industries.
4.   Get more board plus because, let’s face it, you’ll run out by the second week of October. Then you can afford those 307,690 large lattes at Café Gato Rojo during finals period.
5.  Take advantage of Cambridge’s bumping night scene and lose $870,434 in four weeks at the Sinclair alone before returning to more affordable dorm parties.
6. Use the combined power of the undergraduate body to buy Mt. Auburn Street. Then take the Phoenix Club, and turn it into a ping pong room. And you thought Zuckerberg was kidding when he said he could do that in “The Social Network.”
7.  Visit Boston 250,000 times on the T as an undergrad. And no, not just to go to the airport during vacation.
8. Try something other than Rubinoff now that you have some money to spare, and realize that vodka doesn’t have to leave you with a burning, itchy feeling in your eyes. Then spend $1 million on a single bottle of Diva Vodka, just to prove you can.
9. Follow the Harvard Basketball team to every single game, home or away, in the hopes of  being that fan ESPN interviews at this year’s Final Four.
10. Buy 200 Segways and start the best Mather-Currier shuttle service ever.
11.  Order 200,000 $5 pizzas at Oggi’s one Monday. Don’t order ahead. Just wait in line and ask.
12.   Pool enough blocking groups together to consolidate Felipe’s, Chipotle, Qdoba, and Boloco into one Burrito Mega Store that monopolizes the Cambridge burrito scene.  Twist: sell only frozen yogurt.
13.    Buy 2,856 Premium Plus subscriptions to The Harvard Crimson. Throw out everything  except FM. They’re the best!
14.    Decline an invitation to join the Porcellian Club, since the only reason you’d consider joining in the first place would be to get that $1 million when you turn 40.
15.   Withdraw it all in singles. Roll in all that cash, baby.
Sections
Recently, Harvard announced the Nasir Jones Hip-Hop Fellowship in honor of the acclaimed rapper, Nas. Classics Professor Gregory Nagy teaches “The Ancient Greek Hero,” a popular course now offered on edX. This is their intersection.
Nagy
 Content is going on MOOCs.
Illiad.
Keeps it classic.
Has office hours.
Athens State of Mind.
In a non-publicized feud with luddites.
Nas
Content takes on mooks.
Illmatic.
Keeps it classy.
Has 13 Grammy nominations.
N.Y. State of Mind.
In a highly publicized feud with Jay-Z.
Both
Beloved by Harvard athletes.
Believe their arts are dead.
Love verse.
Sections
They performed at House of Blues, Yardfest, and on the streets of Harvard Square. They did a whirlwind tour of formals, playing at 11 of the 12 houses. Almost every Harvard student knew their Motown style, their robust, soulful sound. They were the Nostalgics.
Composed of 10 members, seven of whom graduated in the Class of 2013, the Nostalgics came to dominate the Harvard student band scene by their senior year. They played everywhere: at Stein Clubs, at battle of the bands events, at parties for student organizations, and even at Harvard alumni functions. But the majority of the band graduated this spring, leaving a hole in Harvard’s student band scene.
Harvard is a campus full of musicians; many students sang in musicals and choruses in high school, while others auditioned for all state bands or took private music lessons. Yet despite the brimming musicality of Harvard’s student body, the campus still has far fewer student bands than many other universities. There are some bands left behind in the wake of the Nostalgics: the Cantab Cowboys, Semi-Serious, Puttanesca, Birds out of Hand, and LA Jeff, to name a few. Yet members of these bands say that Harvard’s student culture isn’t as conducive to the formation of student bands as one would expect.
A Harvard Mentality
Axel K. Snow ’15 arrived at Harvard his freshman year knowing that he wanted two prioritize music in college. Bluegrass had been a huge part of his upbringing back home in Iowa, and he was determined to keep expanding his repertoire. But Snow soon noticed how small Harvard’s student band scene seemed relative to his expectations.
“We have all these groups like a cappella—there’s a huge music scene—and here we are in Boston, a great center for music in New England and also a center for American traditional music,” Snow says. He  explains that while there are some extracurricular musical opportunities at Harvard, he was disappointed at the school’s lack of bluegrass and “old-time music” performing outlets, and even more surprised at the small size of Harvard’s student band scene overall.
Snow believes that perhaps the dearth of student bands at Harvard stems from the fact that many Harvard students are so over-committed. “As Harvard students, we have some kind of mentality, like, ‘we’re so busy’—you hear that a million times a day—that prevents us from taking the initiative to do something like [starting a new band],” he says.
But Snow did not let a busy schedule dissuade him; he joined together with friends to form the Cantab Cowboys, a bluegrass, old-country band, in his sophomore year. “The Cantab Cowboys is a way for me to at least personally keep [bluegrass] alive, and I really enjoy doing that,” Snow says.
“Unless it’s sort of an institutionalized thing, people are hesitant to say, ‘Oh, I’m going to spend this much of my time a week with this group of people, just doing something for fun,’” explains Rachel S. Horn ’14. Horn was a saxophonist for the Nostalgics and is currently in the process of rebuilding the band under a new name: the Intrinsics.
Leah Reis-Dennis ’13, one of the graduated members of the Nostalgics, agrees. “The values Harvard rewards aren’t necessarily consistent with putting your time into a party music band,” she says.
Lacking a Stage
The “all work, no play” attitude of many students aside, a lack of university-provided performance opportunities can make it difficult for student bands to get their start. For the past two years a student band has opened at Yardfest, and formal season at the end of each semester continually proves to be a very active time for bands. But many Harvard musicians believe that the performing environment on peer campuses far outshines the opportunities available at Harvard.
Mike C. Slovenski ’15 and George G. Mills ’15 make up half of the alternative rock band Semi-Serious, which they formed in high school. The other half of the four-man band now attends Tufts University. Slovenski, a vocalist and guitarist, says that Semi-Serious prioritized breaking into the student band scene at Tufts instead of performing at Harvard.
“The Tufts music scene is more vibrant and there’s more of a band culture,” Slovenski says. He goes on to explain that one unique aspect of the performing culture at Tufts is that the school has music collectives, groups of student musicians who share best practices and help each other find the performing opportunities that will help the bands gain recognition. Tufts also has student organizations that organize shows for a variety of student groups.
Slovenski says that even though performing opportunities can be harder to come by at Harvard, they do exist and there are ways for student groups to create those performing opportunities for themselves.  He offers example of the Nostalgics: “One thing [the Nostalgics] did was put themselves out there and kind of create space for shows for themselves,” Slovenski says. Inspired by their example, Semi-Serious hopes they will be able to break into the Harvard music scene using a similar strategy this year.
Student organizations are also trying to offer more performance opportunities for student bands.  In 2011, the Leverett House Committee hosted the first ever Leverett Battle of the Bands in an effort to select a student band to open for their formal at the House of Blues, and this year they will repeat the event on Oct. 4. The House hopes that the Battle of the Bands will help shed light on some of the talented but lesser-known bands on campus.
Another emerging resource for student bands at Harvard is Quad Sound Studios, a student-run recording studio located in Pforzheimer House. Quad Sound Studios hopes to help facilitate communication and collaboration between musically-inclined students across the college, and many bands are excited about the recording opportunities that this new space presents.
The Search for Recognition
With growing resources and opportunities for performance, the conditions are right for new student bands to emerge this year. “There are bands out there—I think the issue is just getting recognized,” says Horn of the Nostalgics. “People need to know that they’re out there.”
That recognition will come, but it takes time.  The Nostalgics list commitment, persistence, work, and, most of all, passion, as the most essential qualities for amassing a following.
“The fact that we started together freshmen year and then we were very consistent was key,” remembers Reis-Dennis of her time with the Nostalgics. “We were all friends and really enjoyed spending time together, but we were also serious about having a successful band.”
Sections
 
Three massive paper lanterns crashed onto the rented tables, linen tablecloths, and china waiting below.
“Julia Frances Paterno Ostmann,” said my mother, kneeling on the piano bench. Uh oh. “Enjoy this, honey, because you are never hosting another birthday party again.”
Shakespeare himself couldn’t have given words to the mix of fear and despair that coursed toxic through my body at this announcement. I was addicted to planning parties.
Not rage-all-night-in-a-cramped-room-that-smells-like-body-odor parties. I’m talking about theme parties—and no, not the toga kind, either. Since the age of eight, I have taken advantage of my mother’s distaste for planning, my father’s childlike imagination, and both of their indulgence to throw elaborate birthday parties: intricately staged events that cohere thematically, mandate costumes, and require set changes, mostly employing my little sister and her friends as child labor. 
This particular party, of the paper lantern fiasco, occurred in the seventh grade. Forget the scarf-swathed tent my father and I had constructed in the living room for the Arabian Nights party; forget the vampire murder mystery game for which we had purchased a three-foot-tall vampire piñata. No, this year my newly-mature self would execute a pièce de résistance: “Totally Thirteen! All Around the World.” It would be the Best. Party. Ever.
The bad omen of the falling lanterns cast a pall over the hours to come. But if this party was to be my final legacy, I was determined to see the scheduled itinerary through.
The noncompliance began immediately: People were late. After enduring a brutal wait, the 12th and final girl arrived. She escaped murder only so that I could divided my guests into two groups, which would switch places after precisely 30 minutes. One half was meant to independently play a series of carefully-researched Native American games in the living room. I had placed printed instructions and a pile of multipurpose twigs. My mother would supervise.
In the front yard, I further subdivided the other half into two teams and guided them through the various regions of France for an exciting competition—I called it “Vive la France!” On the beaches of Normandy (alongside the garage), I instructed the teams to battle it out in a relay race.
The next stop was the front lawn. “The island of Corsica is wild, unique, and of course, surrounded by water,” I read to my no doubt rapt audience, before instigating a water balloon toss.
Before Provence’s game of “Beautify It!” could begin in the driveway, however, a disturbance occurred. Why were members of the Native-American-games group outside, trailing my teams through France?
Abandoning the compulsory Francophiles for a moment, I went inside to investigate. I discovered, to my horror, anarchy. Someone had turned off the orange-and-white boombox playing Native American chants. The twigs I had hastily gathered two minutes before the party were too flimsy to play games with. My mother was chatting with a parent, willfully ignorant of the catastrophe.
Frustrated, I returned to France with the dogged vigor of a professional tour guide. We were behind schedule. The Native-American-games group had nothing to do, so I quickly jettisoned some French regions and switched the groups. Gosh dang it, we would be watching “Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire” by 8 p.m. or someone would pay.
After the chili-pepper piñata, I had reserved ten minutes in the schedule for a costume change before dinner in Vietnam. In the welcome quiet of my bedroom, I pulled on the purple silk “ao dai” we had bought two summers previous, when my mother had been working in Hanoi. It always made me feel beautiful.
It is high time, I think, to mention that notions like “cultural appropriation” and “colonial legacy” and “unaware racism” are foreign words to little white girls growing up in Orange County, California. At age 13, my understanding of world cultures resembled the “It’s a Small World” ride at Disneyland: I was one twirling doll among many, all dancing along predetermined tracks and singing, in different words, of the same predetermined dreams. (Do not get stuck on the “It’s a Small World” ride. It’s a frightening place.)
Anyway, I strode out in my silks only to find that my father, a procrastinator like myself, was rushing to finish cooking a five-course dinner while simultaneously fulfilling his set-change duties. He conveyed his sour mood. Then, just past the kitchen, I discovered that some of my guests—who had been instructed to wait outside—had snuck back in and once again turned off the orange-and-white boombox (which was now set to traditional Vietnamese music). One guest even had the nerve to wait inside on the window seat.
I escorted her to the front door, opened it, and faced my assembled guests on the porch.
“What is wrong with you!” I exploded. My face had contorted into steamroller mode: eyebrows scrunched together, lower lip jutted out. There was no stopping the demolition.
“I’m gone for 10 minutes, and you mess everything up!” I shouted. “You need to get it together! When you’re supposed to wait outside, wait outside! When we’re doing an activity, do the activity! And puh-leese stop turning off the boombox!”
I don’t remember the rest of the party. But I do recall feeling distinctly that perhaps this had not been the first triumph of my teenage self, but rather a final adieu to the excesses and dreams of childhood.
Oh, and I did manage to wheedle another party out of my mother—with a caveat. Next year’s theme would be quiet, simple yoga.
 
 
Julia F.P. Ostmann ‘15 is a History of Science concentrator in Quincy House. Her birthday is May 19th  and you’re not invited. Don’t turn off her boombox.
 
Sections
If you, like us, were utterly confused by the recent e-mail blast ambiguously touting the arrival of Harvard’s “capital campaign” (or CapCam, as we like to call it), have no fear. We’ve read up on all things capital, from Das Kapital to the U.S. Capitol in search of what you need to know to impress even your economics concentrating blockmates. Here are the six things to know about Harvard’s capital campaign.
1. This is Harvard’s largest-ever fundraiser.
Harvard’s last capital campaign, completed in 1999, raised $2.6 billion. Years and a couple presidents later, Harvard’s back and ready to bring in more than double that: the new goal is a cool $6.5 billion—no cheap thrills to be found in Cambridge. Where will it come from? A certain illustrious individual with the initials W.(“B.”)G. was seen on campus promoting the campaign last weekend; however, the capital campaign will not in fact be funded by computer operating system profits. Harvard will be tapping alumni of all stripes willing to contribute funds that will be funneled into expanding the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, increasing the school’s reach via EdX and other initiatives as close as the Allston campus. Financial aid, the humanities, and faculty resources are other realms prioritized by the campaign, which officially breaks down to 45 percent teaching and research, 25 percent financial aid and the “student experience,” 20 percent capital improvements, and 10 percent flexible funding to foster collaborations and initiatives.
2. President Faust challenges Harvard to challenge Harvard.
A key part of the launch of the capital campaign was President Faust’s speech on the subject, entitled “To Seize an Impatient Future.” In it, she enumerated Harvard’s storied past, listing achievements, alumni, and the responsibilities to continue Harvard’s legacy into the future. Rather than providing details, President Faust raised more questions, challenging her audience and the wider Harvard community to consider what we stand for. “What institutional commitments will we make to define who we are and who we will be decades and centuries from now? … What is it that Harvard could be? What will we do to make it so?” she asked. With CapCam’s end-game slated for 2018, it seems that only time will tell.
3. A student center is in the works.
If you’re wondering just how much the “student experience” is worth at Harvard, your answer is, combined with financial aid costs, exactly $1.625 billion, according to a fundraiser breakdown that was released to the Boston Globe last week. Just how that money will be spent is as of yet unclear; rumors of a new student center in Holyoke have been spreading,  with confirmation only that a new student center is indeed in the budget, according to a Crimson article published September 13. Undergraduate Council Vice President Jen Q.Y. Zhu ’14, also a co-author of the UC report “The Case for a Harvard Student Center,” wrote in an e-mail that the student center-to-be “will significantly contribute to bringing together the Harvard community. It'll satisfy a need for not only more social space but more and different kinds of social interactions for students on campus.” Here’s hoping she’s right, and that it’s worth the hype, bringing “programming and other things to bring people to this central space for genuine and spontaneous interactions,” as Zhu says.
4. Research is still the priority.
Lest anyone forget that Harvard is a research institution (did you forget?), 45 percent of the money raised will be allocated for teaching and research. While those affiliated with the campaign contend that undergraduate teaching will be improved, most of the statistics released have been research oriented. According to the Boston Globe, the campaign will include “new construction and [renovation of] existing buildings for research facilities, the expansion of current research in fields ranging from the stems cells to the environment,” and the development of a “fledgling program to produce low-cost energy in developing countries.” Despite these ambitious projects, Harvard Provost Alan Garber insisted to the Associated Press that Harvard is “not trying to create another version of MIT.” With such lofty, research-oriented goals for an allocation of $29.25 billion, it is yet to be determined what portion of these funds will be used towards improving undergraduate education.
5. There is no end in sight for housing renovations.
Between the new-old, the old-new and the old-old, housing at Harvard has become even more confusing than usual. So which of the dozen adjacent, identical red-brick buildings do you live in again? Postmodern Quincy? It seems we’ll have to put up with Stone Hall-type nonsense for the foreseeable future, as money raised in the capital campaign will continue to fund House renovations. Who’s next? We’re waiting on the edge of our seats, or should I say bunk beds, Winthrop?
6. We’re almost halfway there.
While $6.5 billion is the official goal of the capital campaign, $2.8 billion has already been raised and some of that has already been spent. This money, raised quietly over the past two years through various gifts and pledges, has purportedly gone towards beginning the 10-year construction plan (1.4 million square feet!) that includes both the renovation of student housing and the expansion of Harvard’s research facilities. Further details on how the money has already been spent, and where the rest will go, have yet to be released, despite multiple interview requests with Campaign associates.
Sections
In this day and age, information abounds, but it is increasingly difficult to discern what information is accurate and reliable. What does this mean for the future of journalism? FM decided to ask the experts. Luckily, 24 of the world’s most accomplished journalists are right here at Harvard’s Nieman Foundation for Journalism, which celebrated its 75th anniversary this weekend. We asked some of the Nieman Fellows to describe in 100 words what they envision for the journalism of tomorrow.
PROFIT V. PURPOSE
The best way to understand journalism’s future is to remember its past (and present). While the business model that has been the mainstay for decades is broken, the craft is not. No matter the format, no matter the medium, no matter the business model, journalism will still be able to hold the powerful to account and aid the disadvantaged—as it long has. But that can only happen with a commitment to not just doing journalism, but doing it well. My biggest fear is that a model will emerge that puts profits above purpose. My hope is that there are too many smart, dedicated people in the industry to allow that to happen.
—Issac J. Bailey, columnist and senior writer, South Carolina’s The Sun News
EVOLVING TECH: APOCALYPSE OR ALRIGHT?
Recently in class, I was part of an interesting discussion about the future of journalism. The professor, Nicco Mele, the former webmaster for the Dean presidential campaign in 2004, argued that we have unwittingly exchanged one set of gatekeepers—editors in the newsroom—for a new gatekeeper: the algorithm. Historically it was the editor’s prerogative to decide which stories made the front page. Now it is Google’s algorithm. Place this in the context of authoritarian regimes. What happens when an algorithm is written to delete a whole swath of stories the government might find offensive? Which gatekeeper would you prefer?
—Dina S. Temple-Raston, counter-terrorism correspondent, National Public Radio
Semaphore, typewriter, telegraph, telegram, cablegram, facsimile, telefax, pantelegraph, telephone, radiotelegraphy, bildtelegraph, telegraphese, telex, teletypewriter, packet switching, Arpanet, Internet, email, cellphone, iPhone, Instagram.
Don’t panic, colleagues, it will be alright.
—Greg Marinovich, nonfiction author and Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist based in South Africa
THE READER OF THE FUTURE
Readers are no longer just readers—they are also content generators, bloggers, newsgatherers, pundits and disseminators of information. Some people use the Internet as a pulpit to denounce injustice or draw attention to important causes, while others use it as a soapbox for their lunacy, but either way it has given people instant access to an audience like never before…. So this might trend toward a strange situation where there are more voices and opinions available than ever before, but less tolerance for diversity, a shorter attention span for plurality, and less empathy for everything else. If the pendulum swings too far in that direction, I think that traditional news outlets—the ones that still exist at that point—might find new relevance among the ashes of the old media industry as readers try to make sense of all the noise around them by allowing the mainstream media to once again filter it for them. But then again, I’m probably being quaint.
—Tim Rogers, editor of The Nicaragua Dispatch, contributing writer for publications including the BBC
The newspapers and magazines of general interest will either die or become rare species, while the ones of special interest will survive if they can successfully find the “long tale” belonging to them. The content will never die but will be based more and more on personal brands, which are dis-aggregating and will continue to dis-aggregate traditional news organizations. We will be finally living in “holo-era” when everything around you is informative, whether it is a screen, a tree or even a part of your body. At that time, a new species of aggregating media (with strong “mute” function) will revive to help us select.
—Yang Xiao, Beijing correspondent and chief writer, China’s Southern People Weekly
FREELANCE IS FINE
People may be rueing the death of the newsroom and the corporate news landscape is changing, but having spent the past 15 years freelancing in the field, covering the Middle East, I see that for writers and reporters it feels like there are more platforms for content than ever before. Websites, whether attached to existing newspapers and magazines or new media, provide a forum for immediate blogs and for longer pieces. Amazon Singles and digital publishers like the Atavist and Byliner run features of up to 30,000 words (unheard of in print) and pay the writer according to sales, allowing for the occasional windfall. We may fear the cutbacks of staff positions, but from a freelancer's point of view, lots of new opportunities are opening up.
—Wendell Steavenson, Jerusalem-based staff writer, The New Yorker
Sections
Harvard students aren’t always inclined to look beyond campus parties, but Cambridge is hopping with bars and restaurants excited to serve of-age students. FM spoke to bartenders working in Harvard Square and near the Quad to get advice for students looking to break out of the college scene’s beer and liquor offerings.
Whether you’re looking for a sit down meal, getting drinks with friends, or craving a rich glass of red, here are the restaurateurs’ thoughts on the best wine deals in town.
UNO'S (22 JFK St.)
Manager: John D. Barisano
His favorite: The Tilia Malbec is “sweeter, not as dry.” $8.29/glass
House wine: $5/glass
Best deal: Get four glasses for the price of three when you buy a bottle.
 GRENDEL’S DEN (89 Winthrop St.)
Bartender: Dianna Goodenough
Her suggestions: House red (Cabernet) and house white (Pinot Grigio), $5/glass
 SHAY'S PUB & WINE BAR (58 JFK St.) 
Bartender: Dave A. Iacolucci
His favorites: The Zinfandel, $8/glass, is “heavy, sweet, good to have with meat, the boldest wine we have.”
The Côtes du Rhône, $7/glass, is “very mild, smooth.”
House wines: Montepulciano d’Abruzzo and Pinot Grigio, $6/glass
THE BOATHOUSE (49 Mt. Auburn St.) 
Bartender: Cory M. Templehof
His favorite: Vinho Verde: “It’s our version of Riesling—sparkly, kind of like Champagne but with a sweet wine taste.” $6/glass, $20/bottle
Best deal: Alias Cabernet Sauvignon, $6/glass, $20/bottle
 RUSSELL HOUSE TAVERN (14 JFK St.) 
Bartender: Frederic R. Yarm
His favorite: The Rosé is “popular for the summer, a touch sweeter and more casual.” $10/glass
Wines on tap: Riesling and Chardonnay, $6/glass
CHARLIE'S KITCHEN (10 Eliot St.) 
Bartender: Allison T. Connolly
Her favorite: Côtes du Rhône. $7/glass
House wines: White Wine Pinot Grigio and Uncle Charlie’s Merlot, $5/glass
 MAHARAJA (57 JFK St.)
Waiter: Uttam Limbu
His suggestions: Angeline Pinot Noir, $8/glass: “The ladies love this one… Perfect for the fall and when it’s snowing.”
 CAMBRIDGE COMMON (1667 Mass. Ave.) 
General Manager: Nicholas W. Emmons
His suggestion: Pinot Grigio, $8/glass. “Popular in the summer if you’re of legal age.”
His favorite: Fish Eye’s Pinot Grigio, $5.95/glass, is “really fruity, floral” and an “amazing line for that price.”
House wines: Chardonnay, Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon, $4.95/glass
(And for the real cheapskates, Charlie’s Beer Garden bartender Ganessa Moreno suggests cheap Pinot Grigio “for after a bar when you’re already shitfaced.” Connolly of Charlie’s Kitchen noted the infamous Three Buck Chuck sold at Trader Joe’s: It “doesn’t taste fantastic but it’s drinkable.”)
Sections
Try walking 10 feet across Harvard Square without seeing a froyo cup—whether spotted in the hands of a smiling pedestrian or found discarded in a gutter. Yogurtland’s opening in July brought the Square’s frozen-yogurt-exclusive establishment count to three, indubitably intensifying the acute rivalry between Square vets BerryLine and Pinkberry.
“It’s disappointing,” said BerryLine shift supervisor Brooke Evans, referring to Yogurtland’s opening. “I think the market is saturated. Even I roll my eyes when another Yogurtland is opened.”
BerryLine began its business in 2007, when two graduate students, Pok Yang and Matthew Wallace, decided to quit researching and pursue the creation of frozen treats.
According to Evans, the pair keeps in close contact with their stores, even working behind the counter when they have the time.Employees at Pinkberry, which opened in the Square three years ago, don’t feel too threatened by Yogurtland’s entrance onto the Harvard Square stage.
“I’ve known Yogurtland for years,” said Pinkberry store manager Frank Mendoza. “It’s just a different culture. That’s self-serve.”
Customers must now make a crucial choice. Should they trek to BerryLine, a Cambridge local, which commands the somewhat off-the-beaten-path Arrow St.? Should they choose Mass. Ave.’s Pinkberry, a considerably recent new location for a worldwide chain? Or should they eat at the Yogurtland on JFK, Harvard’s Square’s youngest yogurt shop? No need to fret—FM took to the streets to determine Harvard Square’s best froyo.
 SELF-SERVE VS. YOU-SERVE
Bigwigs in the froyo business often debate the overall quality of the self-serve model versus the employee-service model. Pinkberry and BerryLine employees serve customers their yogurt, pricing their froyo based on standard sizes with an additional fee for toppings. Yogurtland, on the other hand, allows customers to serve themselves yogurt from manually-operated machines. Employees weigh the final yogurt cup (toppings included) and charge 45 cents per ounce.
The employee-service model prioritizes customer service—BerryLine’s workers are even called “Yogurt Artists”— whereas self-serve gives customers greater control over their yogurt.
BerryLine’s Evans explained that BerryLine’s focus on service is especially important in this day and age of social media and rampant food photography. “It’s important to make something you can Instagram,” she said. “Every yogurt has to have a peak, and if it doesn’t have a peak, we have to make a new one.”
She noted that at self-serve places, most froyo creations end up looking like shapeless blobs.
Although it is true that customers have greater freedom to create their cup of yogurt at self-serve places like Yogurtland, the do-it-yourself process can get pretty messy. With discarded froyo pools under each of Yogurtland’s 16 yogurt dispensers and small children making messes of their own chilled treats, you’ll be bound to have a spill or two.
For this round, employee-service just beats out self-serve.
Pinkberry: 1 • BerryLine: 1 • Yogurtland: 0
 FROYO FREE-FOR-ALL
For the past few months, Yogurtland has been offering a storm of promo deals—your first three ounces are free if you present a Harvard ID, and in mid-August the store gave away free 5-ounce cups of froyo if you “liked” Yogurtland’s Facebook page. And again, it regularly charges just 45 cents an ounce. So how does Yogurtland even make a profit?
“I thought the same thing when I came here,” said Castillo, laughing. “But I’ve actually realized how smart it is because we’re giving the students three ounces of yogurt, but we’re not giving them free yogurt.”
He explained that most students purchase over three ounces of froyo, so the three-ounces promotion really just invites the “frenzy” of students to buy more and more Yogurtland froyo.
Unlike Yogurtland, BerryLine and Pinkberry have set prices. BerryLine’s micro cup, without toppings, costs $2.34, while its pint cup, which includes as many toppings as can fit, costs $7.24. Pinkberry’s prices range from $2.50 to $7.95 per cup, making it the priciest store of the three.
“Pinkberry’s always going to stand on its own,” said Mendoza, who previously worked at the original Pinkberry in West Hollywood. “I believe when you get [yogurt] yourself, you’re actually going to pay more than you do here.”
Evans shared a similar view with Mendoza. “We do multiple toppings, as many as will fit into the cup. People are often so flabbergasted because they’re so used to paying by weight,” she said.
Still, Yogurtland wins this round hands-down. If you plan strategically (i.e. make two 3-ounce trips in one day) you’ll never have to pay for your Yogurtland froyo.
Pinkberry: 1 • BerryLine: 1 • Yogurtland: 1
TELL ME WHAT'S YOUR FLAVOR
Pinkberry prides itself on having reinvented frozen yogurt by combining combining a tart base with fresh fruit toppings.
“It’s true yogurt,” said Mendoza of Pinkberry’s product. “It’ll be sweet and tart.” He added that Pinkberry buys all of its milk and fruits from local producers.
“People are always so excited to come in when they see Pinkberry’s here,” he said of the Harvard Square location. “It’s a culture.”
Yogurtland, on the other hand, prides itself on its creamy froyo.
“It’s almost like ice cream,” Castillo said. “All the yogurts, they’re not Greek. They’re from California.”
Unlike Pinkberry, which uses nonfat milk, flavorings, and a powdered base to create its froyo on site, Yogurtland’s froyo is delivered as a liquid. The employees load up a machine that does the mixing for them.
BerryLine carries more zany  flavors than the other two locales, offering yogurts such as Lavender Honey, Nutella, and Rose. It also offers “Belgium Waffles” at its Porter Square and Fenway Park locations, while their Harvard Square and Newbury Street venues serve baked goods, teas, and smoothies.
Evans noted that BerryLine’s smoothies are particularly popular among men, despite the beverage having a reputation for being coveted by tween girls at malls. She joked that her former General Manager, Dominic Sarcía, calls men who order smoothies “smoothie bros.”
In this final round, product variety and gender equality provide the most satisfactory results. With its quirky flavors and talented Yogurt Artists, BerryLine’s froyo dominates Harvard Square, a.k.a. the Land of Yogurt. The name will catch on soon enough.
Pinkberry: 1 • BerryLine: 2 • Yogurtland: 1
Sections
The first day of classes this year, I became confused when I tried to exit Canaday through the large semi-circular gates behind the dorm. The gates were locked. How odd.
Blair Kamin—Nieman Foundation Fellow ’13 and a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist—also finds Harvard’s locked gates peculiar.
“Drew Faust talks about ‘common spaces’ to bring communities together,” Kamin says. “And this ‘common space’ is locked.”
It’s now Sunday, September 29th—the last day in a weekend celebrating the Nieman Foundation’s 75th anniversary. Kamin has returned to give a tour of these under-appreciated entrances to the Yard.
Kamin’s Pulitzer Prize was awarded to him in recognition of his architectural series “Reinventing the Lakefront,” in which he discusses how architectural changes in Chicago could have far reaching social impacts.
“I’m an activist critic,” he explains. “You are not just looking at the aesthetics or the history. You are looking at things you should change.”
Kamin wears a blue blazer with gold buttons, and his round, tortoise-shell glasses clearly mark him as an academic. As we wait, he is excited to show off his Wintersession course’s e-book about the gates. He brings out his iPad, and swipes through its pages and pictures of 360-degree views of the gates.
Kamin is adamant that we wait until 12:07 p.m. to begin our tour, revealing his familiarity with the University standard. He taught a course on the history, aesthetics, and value of Harvard’s gates last Wintersession. Once a good group of Nieman Fellows gather for the tour, we set off to the Yard.
“Some of the gates are being treated with neglect,” he says as we walk towards the Johnston Gate.
He begins the tour by explaining that the gate marks a turning point in Harvard’s architectural history. Before the gate’s construction in 1885, the school’s architecture could best be described as a “crazy quilt” of mismatched styles, as Kamin puts it.
His face saddens as he tells us of the next gate, located behind the Holden Chapel, which was donated by the class of 1870.
“It’s small. It’s delicate,” he explains. “Almost like a delicate eyebrow which frames the blue and white gable of Holden Chapel.”
Hidden behind the closed gate is a quaint grassy area, with a proud sundial in the middle of the enclosure. It reads: “On this moment, hangs eternity.”
“There’s a dual identity in [the gate’s] intention. This gate is a beautiful little threshold… it has this great feel to it. And it’s locked,” Kamin says. Only those already inside the Yard have access to the courtyard it guards.
As we continue from gate to gate, Kamin continues to remark how many gates remain perpetually locked, to his own confusion. Both the Class of 1886 gate behind Lionel and Mower and the 1881 gate behind the Phillips-Brooks House Association building are locked.
The gates require significant repair and maintenance, which, according to Kamin, Harvard is not providing. The 1870 gate’s iron is breaking off in places, the McKean gate’s Veritas shield is crumbling, and the 1887 and 1888 gate (the large one behind Canaday) is in even worse shape, according to Kamin.
The ornate class medallions are falling apart, a granite lion fountain is filled with still, green water littered with leaves—Kamin says he found bottles of vodka tossed in the fountain last year—and there is a plastic bag hanging on the iron gate. We don’t bother to pick it up.
Kamin asks us to crowd around his iPad to see an old black and white photo of the gate from his e-book. Two majestic elm trees stand in front of a pristine gate. He says the image should break our hearts. There are no more majestic elms, and to say that the gate is “pristine” would be more than generous. He points to a sapling leaning against the backside of the gate. Kamin tells us that if the sapling is left unattended, it will damage the limestone of the gate. Already, weeds and dirt line the gate’s top.
“Harvard has every reason to be proud of these gates. Some of them are victims of neglect,” Kamin tells us at the conclusion of his tour. “As the University puts emphasis on ‘common spaces,’ it needs to look at the gates that form these portals to common spaces.”
“Some universities would kill for one of these gates.” Harvard has 25. Kamin asks, “What are they thinking?”
Kamin seems hopeful for the gates which he considers so dear to the Harvard community, and that change can be effected. In Kamin’s book, published in August, Harvard’s gates appear covered with rust. He notes, however, that they have since been refurbished.
“It’s not millions of dollars,” he tells me as we walk along Mass. Ave., referring to the cost of refurbishing Harvard’s gates. “This should be on the agenda. This is a great legacy and it’s being mistreated.”
Sections
Michael H. Suo ’15, can talk at a rate of about 300 words per minute. Brad G. Bolman ’15 chatters at an even faster 320 words per minute. As the lead duo on the Harvard Policy Debate Team, known simply as ‘Harvard Bo Su,’ they have employed various techniques to be able to speak with such rapidity. They speak with a pen in their mouth pressed against their tongue, over-enunciate, read words backwards, or insert an extra word between every other. This is what it takes to survive the intense, timed argumentation they must fire off during days-long national debate tournaments.
The Harvard Policy Debate Team is fundamentally different from the popular form of political debate that might come to mind—such as the 2012 presidential debate—which Suo referred to as “mostly fluff.” In this competitive realm, debate is a sport, or perhaps an art, in which a pair of debaters argue for, or against, an issue in a series of rounds over the course of several days.
Founded in 1892, Harvard’s team is one of the best in the country. Each year, it brings a handful of top debaters to national tournaments around the country to compete in grueling face-offs with rival teams on topics ranging from presidential war powers (this year’s topic), to the Arab Spring, to the size of nuclear arsenals.
According to the Copeland ranking, Suo and Bolman are currently Harvard’s top team and the number three debate team in the nation, following Georgetown University and Northwestern University which ranked as the number one and two teams, respectively. This year, the Harvard team is shooting for first place. Suo and Bolman talked philosophy and strategy over a Scorpion Bowl at the popular team hangout, Hong Kong Restaurant—or, as it is commonly known, the Kong. Suo came dressed in a conservative dark blue sweater and a light blue collared shirt; Bolman slipped in a few minutes later in a graphic T-shirt and thick-rimmed, Ray-Ban glasses.
Though the two debaters appear markedly different, they often seemed to think in synchrony. They easily answered questions directed at the other and provided running commentary on one another’s remarks.
Bolman initially laughed off the idea of debating in high school; it was his mother who pushed him into a debate camp. “She paid me $70 and a Mars Volta CD… and so that’s why I went to debate camp,” he recalled.
Suo started in middle school, along with a friend. “It’s kind of fun to just, like, argue with people,” Suo noted. The pair utilizes an unusual strategy in their debates. Rather than using typical policy technique—which is fact-based—Bolman and Suo use more theoretical, philosophical arguments. This tends to throw off their opponents, who are not used to this style of debate.
They practice in a small room at the Student Organization Center at Hilles, filled with fans, mismatched couches, and at least one crock-pot, and lined with plaques and trophies. The team members meet there with one or more of their nine coaches at a time, each of whom has various specialities. On Saturday afternoon, Yunhan Xu ’17  met there with two of the team’s assistant coaches, Harvard Medical School professor David J. Glass and Dylan N. Quigley, to go over the presentation of her argument. They worked with her solely on her delivery—timing her, having her try it slower, faster, with less breathing, and “a little bit of swag,” as Glass put it.
The head “Coach of Debate” is Dallas G. Perkins Jr., who has had this position since 1979. Suo and Bolman are full of stories about him, and shared a sampling of their repertoire with us—related through fond imitations of his hearty, Southern accent.
“Dallas Perkins is the last king in America,” Suo stated simply. The way Suo and Bolman tell it, Perkins came from a Texan family that opened one of the first liquor stores in the nation during the Prohibition era. After getting a degree from Harvard Law School, according to Bolman, Dallas won a one million dollar lawsuit, after which he went into coaching.
Perkins’s own take on his career was far more modest. “I have done some things to earn a living while I coach debate. None of them are particularly fascinating,” he said. In his version of the story, he debated during college for Harvard’s rival team, Georgetown, and won several major tournaments. He then got a degree from Harvard Law School and went on to coach former Harvard President Lawrence H. Summers as a debate coach at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, before being recruited as coach by the Harvard team. Perkins is effusive when he discusses the Harvard team. “Working with Harvard students is an honor and a privilege not to be sneezed at,” he said. “I love the game and argument of dialectic that we are playing.”
A game, perhaps, but one with high stakes. The Harvard Policy Debate Team has a proud legacy, but they have a challenging year ahead. Harvard has the chance to win the upcoming National Debate Tournament in March—one of the main debating events in the nation—for the first time in over twenty years. Last year, they were eliminated in the octofinals, behind rival teams Georgetown and Northwestern.
But their competition is not resting on its laurels. Georgetown coach Jonathan D. Paul said, “Our goals are simple. We want to win every debate we are in and we want to have fun in that process.” And they are most definitely looking out for Suo and Bolman. “It is always tough to debate Harvard and we really have to work hard to prepare for those debates,” Paul said.
Suo and Bolman’s coaches are filled with high hopes and confidence for the pair, however. “We have beat Georgetown before...and we expect to do so again. Regularly,” Perkins said emphatically. “I think [Suo and Bolman] are of the caliber of team that has the chance to win,” he added.

				On April 14, 2009, in the middle of the most difficult month of a very difficult academic year, Michael D. Smith, dean of Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences, decided to break with decorum. Instead of leading FAS's regular monthly meeting in the portrait-lined Faculty Room of University Hall, Smith announced that he would hold a town hall-style faculty meeting in Sanders Theatre to lay out, in as much detail as necessary, the implications of the financial crisis that threatened to upturn the biggest, richest, and most powerful division at a university defined by those superlatives.
				

				Dressed in shirtsleeves and armed only with a laptop and a stool, Smith confirmed in sober tones what everyone in the jammed theater had suspected for months: After years of dizzying endowment-fueled growth in the University's professorial and physical footprint, the bubble had burst. Smith's FAS, a body more reliant on the endowment than other parts of the University, faced a budget deficit that if left unchecked was projected to reach $220 million by the 2010-2011 academic year.
				

				Pressing priorities from the Allston campus to House renewal would have to be tabled, and across-the-board budget cuts would squeeze existing programs. But in just his second year as dean, the Stanford-trained electrical engineer realized he was going to have to go further. Smith informed the faculty gathered in the 130-year-old theater that nothing short of a re-engineering of the entire division, from undergraduate athletics to libraries to the size and scope of the faculty, would preserve the academic mission of the institution.
				

				“I do believe it is extremely important for us to think deeply about how we not only re-size our activities, which is most of what we've done today,” Smith told his colleagues with characteristic dispassion. “Now is the time to really start thinking about reshaping these activities.”
				

				Now, four years after announcing cuts, reorganization, and restructuring to the body he leads, Smith has proven himself a remarkably adept problem solver in navigating FAS through the financial crisis. But with the immediate budgetary threats receding and FAS on the precipice of launching the biggest capital fundraising effort in its history, the dean who found himself spending much of his deanship fighting behind the scenes to preserve the Faculty financially must become its very public advocate.
				

				He is undoubtedly among the handful of Harvard's most powerful figures, overseeing everything from undergraduate life to professorial appointments, but it is unclear what that advocacy will look like and who the advocate himself really is.
				

				Smith, who has recently drawn public scrutiny for his role in last spring's email search scandal, did not agree to be interviewed for this story. Ever since The Crimson instituted a new policy banning quote review at the start of the 2012-2013 academic year, the person with the most power at Harvard College has not agreed to fully on-the-record interviews with The Crimson, and has not met or spoken with the paper in any capacity this academic year.
				

				Smith's proponents describe him as a consensus-building visionary, and his detractors see him as a functionary in an increasingly corporate administration. But seven years into his tenure, many members of the community he leads still don't have a clear grasp on what drives Mike Smith.
				

				Broad-shouldered and barrel-chested, the 51-year-old Michael David Smith is not the Harvard dean you always imagined. Though he occasionally dresses in professorial tweed, Smith almost certainly spends more time each week in the Malkin Athletic Center than the Harvard Faculty Club. His square jaw and sharp blue eyes are commanding, and the relaxed, steady firmness of his voice suggestive of an enviously low resting heart rate. In 1999, Fifteen Minutes magazine listed the father of two among Harvard's 15 hottest professors, and more than 10 years later, only the slight recession in his hairline has altered his looks.
				

				One of the first things colleagues close to Smith mention is that he's a very good swimmer. As an undergraduate at Princeton in the early 1980s, he not only competed at the varsity level each of his four years, but won the program's top honor for freshmen and for seniors. While a graduate student in computer science at Stanford, he coached a team of 100 seven to twelve year olds in the sport. And for years, Smith has risen each morning at 5:30 a.m. to swim laps, finishing in time to beat most colleagues into his University Hall office.
				

				There is something about the sport, the quiet diligence and stamina it requires, that maps well onto Smith's persona. William R. Fitzsimmons '67, who works with Smith both as Director of Admissions and Financial Aid and on the FAS Standing Committee on Athletic Sports, said that he imagines competitive swimming taught Smith how to allocate his time and energy most efficiently, a skill he says is very useful for the FAS deanship.
				

				“Mike doesn't waste time on show. He has a remarkable ability to turn in the five directions at once that he needs to turn to, and he doesn't waste effort or time,” Fitzsimmons said. “It's like watching a great athlete. Most great athletes, there's no waste of motion, and he's not going to waste motion.”
				

				Former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis '68 once commented that Smith had “the soul of a swimmer.” The FAS Dean, he said, does not sweat.
				

				Indeed, Smith's position does not really afford any other option. Look carefully around higher education and within the University, and you will see that there is no real equivalent to the deanship of Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences. Smith has the last word on all budgets, appointments, academic planning, and personnel issues in an institution that is roughly the size of the entire Princeton University. Theoretically, no Harvard Ph.D. or A.B. can be awarded without his approval. Nor can a professorial hire, promotion, or tenure offer from Celtic to Geophysics, go through without his signature.
				

				Within the University, Smith's stature is unmatched by his fellow deans. Claiming the biggest budget and the highest profile, FAS forms Harvard's core, housing the College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, and the Division of Continuing Education. University President Drew G. Faust acknowledges FAS's centrality, claiming that no major University initiative can move forward without the involvement of the institution and its dean.
				

				Faust calls Smith a “partner” in running the University—the two have a standing meeting in Massachusetts Hall once a week to discuss the business of FAS. The computer scientist and the historian have remained closely tied to one another throughout their tenures as the two leading figures at the University.
				

				Smith was never supposed to be named dean of FAS. Faust reportedly first offered the job to geophysicist Jeremy Bloxham, the divisional dean for physical sciences. But Bloxham declined her offer, leaving Faust scrambling to find a replacement just six weeks before she took office as Harvard's new president.
				

				Critics of the appointment are fond of saying Faust's appointment of Smith a week later came out of nowhere. Indeed, before Faust's decision, Smith had kept a fairly low profile on the faculty political scene, only intermittently attending FAS faculty meetings and serving on two FAS committees, both of which concerned athletics.
				

				But if he was absent from mainstream FAS politics until his promotion to dean, Smith was rising quickly within the ranks of an institution that was itself becoming increasingly prominent within the University: the Division of Engineering and Applied Sciences now known as SEAS. Administrators were in the midst of placing increased emphasis and resources on the once underperforming stepchild of FAS, elevating it to school status in 2007, the same year they picked Smith for the FAS deanship.
				

				Smith arrived in Cambridge by way of Palo Alto in December 1992. First hired as an instructor, the computer scientist entered the prestigious FAS tenure track when he formally earned his Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Stanford the following January.
				

				As he moved up the tenure track—a process he would eventually oversee as FAS dean—the budding computer scientist quickly earned a reputation as a strong teacher and loyal advisor. In a department characterized by young, energetic computer scientists, former students said Smith was notorious for his long hours and even-keeled work ethic.
				

				Omri Traub '98 took one of Smith's courses his sophomore year and quickly became close with the young assistant professor, joining his research team and taking him on as a thesis advisor. Traub said he remembers several long nights working to debug code when Smith stuck around until two or three in the morning.
				

				“There was just an ethic [...] always put the student first, and if you do that even if it hurts your personal priorities in the short run, it really pays off in the long run, and I think it really did for him,” said Stuart E. Schechter, who worked on and off with Smith as a graduate student from 1996-2004.
				

				Smith did not have to wait very long to reap the benefits of his popularity among students and colleagues. He was granted tenure in 2000, one of the rare computer scientists to be granted the distinction from within the University. At the time, Smith joined a growing contingent of academics attempting to use their expertise in computer science outside of the realms of academia to cash in on the last legs of the dot-com bubble.
				

				“It was a way for these professors who obviously had very marketable skills to feel like they were a part of this movement that was taking place, to get some part of the action and also be in touch with what's happening in the industry,” said Traub.
				

				Drawing on his academic research in computer architecture and compilers, Smith co-founded Liquid Machines in the basement of his wife's Lexington brokerage firm in 2001. The data technology startup promised its customers computing security and later protection against leaks of digital information. Smith served as the company's chief scientist and chairman, and he and his colleagues raised $40 million dollars in capital for the company in the 10 years before it was sold.
				

				Like a number of other current and former colleagues close to Smith, Traub who went on to work for Smith at Liquid Machines thinks that his former boss's time in the private sector taught Smith valuable leadership skills.
				

				“Running a startup is a pretty delicate thing,” Traub said. “You have to be nimble, agile, willing to change direction when one idea or line of thinking doesn't turn out too well. And I think all those years of working with partners and other partners helped prepare him for the deanship.”
				

				Smith soon re-focused his energies on the University full-time, and as he did, his success and profile in the classroom began to grow. In the fall of 2002, he took over the now-celebrated CS 50: “Introduction to Computer Science I,” a course he taught five times. Along with high Q Scores, his course earned the allegiance of students that included the likes of David J. Malan '99, who would one day succeed Smith as the instructor of the popular course. In 2005, Smith was promoted to Associate Dean for Computer Science and Engineering.
				

				According to Schechter, rumors that Smith was being groomed for a different deanship, that of the Division of Engineering and Applied Sciences, were not uncommon, but Smith never addressed them.
				

				“Ambition seems sort of the wrong term for it,” Schechter said. “Ambition sounds like it is someone who is going to push other people out of the way. He is just the kind of person who is happy taking responsibility that folks hand to him.”
				

				“For someone as driven and successful, there are a couple ways to get there,” said Kim Hazelwood, another former Smith advisee. “One is to claw your way up. He's not one to do that. He just sort of excels and people notice. That is the main thing that has led to his success. He just excels.”
				

				From the moment he moved into University Hall, Smith faced a set of extraordinary circumstances that threatened the functioning of the institution no one expected him to lead.
				

				It is difficult to understate the magnitude of the financial crisis that gripped FAS from 2008 to 2011. Nearly every major aspect of Smith's deanship has been affected by it, from House renewal to curricular changes. So powerful is the crisis-management narrative that has come to animate his tenure, that many forget that Smith had a full year in office before the markets tanked. Much of that first year was spent rebuilding an administration and faculty fractured by the ouster of University President Lawrence R. Summers.
				

				“I think it's difficult to imagine, to come into this job and be hit by the financial crisis,” said Henry Rosovsky, perhaps FAS's best-known dean, who served from 1973 to 1984. “They really had no time to settle into the job.”
				

				In the fall of 2008, not long after students returned to campus, the bottom fell out of Harvard's financial foundation. The University saw its endowment drop by nearly 30 percent, and FAS's portion plummeted from $16.7 billion to just over $11.7 billion over the course of that year. As the Harvard Corporation—the University's highest governing body—cut back on endowment distribution, FAS, which relied on such distribution for 56 percent of its budget, was devastated.
				

				Smith, trained as an engineer, attacked the problem systematically, poring over budgetary details while trying to preserve his body's broader objectives.
				

				“As he always says, he's an engineer. So he studies the structure, the infrastructure, and he anticipates what will work. He studies the problems and also anticipates those problems,” said Diana Sorensen, the divisional dean for the arts and humanities. “Engineers also know that they have to work collectively to solve problems. No one flash of genius will solve a problem. It takes a team.”
				

				Smith relied on teams of advisors and colleagues in attacking FAS's budget catastrophe. He appointed six committees to study how various components under his leadership might be trimmed and made more efficient, eventually cutting budgets 15 percent across the board. Faculty searches were slowed, thermostats were lowered, positions were left unfilled, and hot breakfast disappeared in the Houses as Smith tried to meet immediate obligations.
				

				“I think he has had to set up mechanisms for establishing priorities,” Sorensen said. “We never wanted to say we're shutting down the shop, but we had to balance business as usual with restraint, while at the same time having some territory for innovation.”
				

				In private, Smith began to articulate a three-phase plan. First, ongoing cost reduction and enhancement of current revenue would help plug immediate holes, reduction and restructuring of the FAS administration would follow and reinforce initial cuts, and finally, a broad academic restructuring would put the body onto more sustainable footing.
				

				And, in short, the plan worked. In 2012, Smith announced a balanced budget. No professors had lost their jobs, though about 200 staff members had taken buyouts or been laid off. No academic departments or programs had been eliminated. Financial aid for undergraduates had been expanded, and the opening of Stone Hall this September, a project with which Smith was closely involved, marked the beginning of College-wide House renewal.
				

				“These were unusual times for Harvard after 2008, but we weren't on bread and water. We actually survived. People were paid salaries. We didn't dismiss large number of faculty as other universities did,” said William C. Kirby who served as FAS dean from 2002-2006. “So in fact, managing through all of that without any decline in standards, is really quite an accomplishment.”
				

				It would be shortsighted to say that there does not exist a long list of complaints about individual financial decisions. While Smith has indefinitely halted the growth of the entire faculty, personnel increases in SEAS and the physical sciences have left the humanities with disproportionately restricted resources.
				

				International and regional studies centers have also been hit hard, as cuts sold as temporary have become permanent. Last spring, government professor Beth A. Simmons resigned as head of the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs in protest of Smith's ongoing taxation of the institution's endowment.
				

				“My personal feeling is the financial crisis has been faced, and through a lot of hard work, things are much better so it would be time to start scaling back this process of reallocation,” said history professor Andrew D. Gordon, a former director of the Reischauer Institute for Japanese studies.
				

				All that effectiveness came at a price. For all of the credit professors and administrators will give him for weathering the storm of his early deanship, there exists a sense within much of the professoriate that Smith remains removed from the people and interests he aims to represent. Where names like Rosovsky and Knowles still inspire fierce loyalty and fond memories, Smith's is treated with a more Smithian dispassion.
				

				There is a sense among many that FAS's golden era, when professors set the institutional agenda and the dean held court at the Faculty Club, has been replaced by an increasingly bureaucratic one. Even Smith's strongest supporters acknowledge that as the FAS has grown and its administration swelled, the distance between the professoriate and its dean has grown.
				

				“He has a greater concern than other deans with making sure processes unfold smoothly and efficiently and setting those mechanisms in place, which means there is less that is arbitrary,” Gordon said. “It also might mean that there is less stuff and new, bold things being announced from above, which if it was your thing, was nice.”
				

				Smith's ability to interact with faculty and champion new initiatives was certainly not made any easier by circumstances of his deanship. Dealing with the immediate budget crisis and its ramifications, including the capital campaign, has occupied a disproportionate amount of Smith's seven-year tenure, but critical observers explain that Smith's distance is as much a matter of style as circumstance.
				

				“I never got a sense that he was able to articulate a passion for FAS and what that historically has meant, that this is the heart of the University, that amidst all the money and power and prestige of the professional schools, that the Faculty of Arts and Sciences was the core, that things flowed out from the FAS,” said Richard Bradley, a longtime outside observer of the University whose book “Harvard Rules” chronicled the Summers administration. “It sounds hokey, but that kind of passion is something professors want. They want to feel that their dean is on their side.”
				

				The distance seemed to grow largest last spring when, on the heels of the largest cheating scandal in the College's history, faculty members learned that Smith had authorized secret searches of the College's resident deans' email accounts in hopes of tracing a leak of confidential information about the case. The developer of a privacy protection software company stood accused of violating expected standards of privacy.
				

				In the days and weeks after the searches became public, members of the faculty voiced deep concerns about what they viewed as a betrayal of their confidence.
				

				“Such actions are incompatible with the climate of trust [...] upon which the university has been built and upon which its international reputation rests,” wrote 32 members of the History Department in a letter to Smith. “It points to a gap between faculty and administration understandings of our rights and responsibilities in an institution dedicated to fostering teaching, learning and the open exchange of ideas.”
				

				Initial concern over faculty privacy quickly morphed into a broader complaint about the faculty's communication and relationship with their administrators, Smith chief among them. In May, at the faculty's final meeting of the year, professors spent nearly an hour airing grievances to Smith. From the decision to move SEAS to Allston to the expansion of the University's online education initiative HarvardX, professors described a growing “alienation” between decision-makers and those they affect.
				

				Faculty members say that the distance they feel from Smith is exacerbated by poor communication. Faust, who was present at the May meeting, acknowledged that communication within a body as large as FAS is incredibly important especially given the level of change that has occurred in recent years. “There is a lot of anxiety and I think it makes people feel, ‘I need to know now, I need to know more.’ It elevates the need for communication,” Faust said.
				

				While the various challenges Smith has faced during his tenure have constricted his ability to devote significant time to faculty outreach, Faust noted that the implications of the changes that have occurred during Smith's tenure make effective communication crucial.
				

				“All of those kinds of questions mean that people want more information. They want more certainty, often in a situation when there isn't certainty,” Faust said. “I think that puts a big burden on any leader, be it FAS, be it me, be it other parts of the University to communicate as effectively and fulsomely as we can, as often as we can, but it still may not be possible to address everyone's concerns.”
				

				In his own effort to be more communicative, Smith launched a blog, “Diving In,” in early September on which he wrote that he hopes to share his observations, worries, and excitement about FAS.
				

				“I seem to attend countless meetings and events. Why do I feel then, you might ask, that it's so hard to communicate with our faculty, staff, and students?” he wrote in his first post. Thus far he has posted three times, most recently on Sept. 12.
				

				Standing at a podium in the Old Quincy courtyard on a sunny Friday afternoon in early September, Smith symbolically ushered in an era of growth and renewal for FAS. Four years after the House renewal project was nearly derailed by the financial crisis, the opening of the re-named Stone Hall marked a tangible step forward, out of the holding pattern that the Faculty had been forced to endure.
				

				Smith, dressed in a grey suit and Harvard tie, told students, Quincy affiliates, and donors gathered for the unveiling of Harvard's first renewed House that the project was a peek into the future of the House system, and what he imagines the undergraduate experience can be in years to come.
				

				Quincy House Master Lee Gehrke, who worked closely with Smith on the test project, said that the dean showed up to almost every meeting throughout the multiyear planning and construction phases of the project, playing a crucial role in honing and then defending the plans amid the financial crisis that threatened to halt them.
				

				“Through the events of today, I hope that you will come to believe, as I do, that House Renewal is our ‘once in a generation’ opportunity to re-envision that core experience while preserving all that the Houses are and what makes them so special and such a Harvard institution,” an animated Smith told the crowd.
				

				As the immediate threats of the financial crisis have faded in recent years, Smith has increasingly turned his attention to capital campaign projects like House renewal that have the potential to dramatically reorder the varied parts of the University he leads.
				

				Glenn H. Hutchins '77, a member of Smith's alumni council of advisors and a co-chair of the FAS campaign, described the dean as the FAS campaign's chief architect and lead promoter. “Mike is a very persuasive personality by his actions, not his words,” Hutchins said. “In other words, in these settings, Mike is not sort of classicly selling. What he's doing is telling people what his objectives are and what his philosophy is, what his actions will be, and that is very effective.”
				

				Vague campaign goals aside, just what that philosophy looks like and what Smith's vision is for Harvard's most prominent body remain an open question to many in the FAS community. The dean has righted the course, but will the management style that helped him do so be enough to move the Faculty forward?
				
One thing is certain: the answer will come in actions rather than words, and Mike Smith won't break a sweat.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Oct. 7, 2013
An earlier version of this article misstated history professor Andrew D. Gordon’s middle initial.

				Staff writer Nicholas P. Fandos can be reached at nicholas.fandos@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @npfandos.
				
				Background photo courtesy of Harvard Public Affairs and Communications.
				
Sections
The wide, low-slung streets of D.C. outside the bus window shape-shift into highway boulevards and then, eventually, massive blocks of gray and brown that intrude into the sky. As I exit the bus a neon buzz and swollen sidewalks greet me: Welcome to New York.
It’s summer, the time when kids who are almost college seniors try out the real world of gainful employment. For me, that means working in media in Washington, D.C., our nation’s capital. For many of my close friends, though, it means working in banking, private equity, or any company whose last name is Capital.
One such friend picks me up from the bus stop by Penn Station—he’s working at a large, well-known bank and has just left the office early (11 p.m. on Friday) to greet me. We both look sharp: me in a striped dress and blue blazer, he in slacks and a jacket, his tie hanging loose. Our friendship has never looked this put together.
Despite my heavy bags we walk the 30 blocks downtown and east to his apartment. On the way I hear about his work and the derivatives department where he’s interning. To me, derivatives are a way to find instantaneous velocity, but to him they’re a way to make money, grow capital. My friend tries to explain how derivatives are different from futures and options, which just makes me confused about all three.
As we near his apartment on the Lower East Side we pass by his office: a towering skyscraper. The white marble lobby is studded with columns and painted portraits of past presidents of the bank. I imagine this bank back when the heavy revolving doors opened into a lobby of shouting and rushing traders, men in suits who pounded the floors for the quickest sale, the best trade. Now computers do the actual trading. The empty lobby stands a tribute, in memoriam, to the wealthy gentlemen who scurried and succeeded at this institution.
We continue downtown to the Beekman Beach Club Beer Garden, an outdoor lounge where New York’s “young elite” spend their nights, according to my friend. As its name suggests, the beer garden is fashioned like a beach: It juts out on a pier, a thin layer of sand and white furniture hovering above the East River. Brooklyn is all lit up and blinking, glittering before us, stark against the black sky.
“I’m becoming part of the young elite now,” my friend grins, flashing a half-joking and adoring smile as he moves towards the bar to buy us drinks. It’s expensive here—too expensive for my meager intern budget—but he has too much money and not enough time to spend it this summer.
I first met him when we were both 18. He is from the rural South, a town so remote that the radio signal blurs into static near his house; his home doesn’t have a mailing address since the postal system doesn’t venture that far up into the mountains. At Harvard he prides himself on his humor, his inclusivity and humility, his literary interest and ability to write creatively. If he didn’t become a banker, he says, he would become a poet.
He returns with the white wine I requested. “Imagine the social capital in this place,” he mutters in my ear. We lean against the side rail and survey the crowd. It’s only a matter of time before these banking interns become VPs of something.
Maybe after graduation he will come back here to stay. He will talk about stock options and new types of funds and his weekend getaway in the Berkshires as he sips down drinks in New York’s most glamorous nightclubs. Then on Saturday morning he’ll be back at his desk by 9 a.m., ready to trade.
I hope we still talk about poetry after his ascent.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Applied economics professor David M. Cutler ’87 will serve as the third-party fact finder in healthcare deliberations between the University and the Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers, the two parties announced in a joint statement on Tuesday.
Cutler—a health care policy economist who helped craft the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration’s 2010 landmark healthcare law—will serve as fact finder during negotiations between the two sides regarding the implementation of a safety net for Medex, a retiree healthcare plan meant to serve as a supplement to Medicare.
HUCTW supports a safety net as a means of protecting economically vulnerable retirees, while the University has declined to publicly comment on the negotiations.
Cutler is tasked with making a non-binding recommendation about possible implementation of the proposed safety net at the conclusion of the fact-finding process.
While the union—which represents more than 4,600 of Harvard’s non-faculty staff—ratified a new contract this past April, it failed to resolve disagreements with the University about health care and union eligibility. Instead, the new contract referred these issues to special negotiating groups that, if unable to agree by this past August, would be assisted by third parties.
After the self-imposed August deadline passed, the search began for a third-party fact finder for health care, the first of the issues up for debate. HUCTW Director Bill Jaeger said that Cutler was an obvious choice.
“We were hopeful about what would happen if we got our advice from someone who is a very respected economist and is also trusted deeply by the administration and the union,” Jaeger said in an interview Tuesday.
Robert B. McKersie, professor emeritus at MIT’s Sloan School of Management, will serve alongside Cutler as facilitator of the health care fact-finding process.
University spokesperson Tania M. deLuzuriaga declined to comment Wednesday on Cutler’s appointment to the fact-finding position.
In an emailed statement to The Crimson last month, she wrote of the negotiations, “It is a shared goal of the University and HUCTW that these discussions yield agreements that benefit members of the HUCTW and the campus as a whole.”
McKersie, who also served as one of the mediators in HUCTW’s contract negotiations earlier this year, if the fact-finding process is successful, it could provide a framework for future negotiations..
—Staff writer Christine Y. Cahill can be reached at christine.cahill@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cycahill16.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack had been scheduled to give a public address at the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum on Wednesday evening. But when a federal budgetary impasse brought parts of the government machinery to a halt this week, Vilsack’s speaking appearance at Harvard was cancelled.
In Vilsack’s absence, a panel of experts gathered to discuss the government shutdown that sidelined the Institute of Politics’ designated speaker of the night.
Panelists Joe Klein of Time Magazine and Linda J. Bilmes ’80 and David King, both public policy lecturers at the Harvard Kennedy School, along with the event moderator, former Washington Post national political editor Maralee Schwartz, discussed the short-term future of the government gridlock, as well as the underlying issues that contributed to the shutdown.
The shutdown, which has suspended non-essential federal programs and services, follows a week of unsuccessful demands from congressional Republicans to tie the passage of the federal budget to the delayed implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Thus far, Democrats, including President Obama, have refused to yield to Republican demands regarding the now-enacted healthcare law, and the budget remains unapproved.
The debate over the Affordable Care Act, King said, is “about a fundamental view of what the government should or shouldn’t be doing.”
While supporters praise the law’s vast expansion of health care coverage, many congressional Republicans say that such sweeping legislation is beyond federal bounds, calling the law an overstep of government power. Because the debate is so deeply ideological, King said, Republicans are less inclined to negotiate and see no reason to bargain as they might if the issue were merely fiscal.
King said he did not expect any solution to materialize until the middle of next week, when the debt ceiling must be discussed.
“Congress is governing from crisis to crisis,” Bilmes said, alluding to regular disputes over budgetary and debt-related issues.
Fallout from these frequent disagreements is exacerbated, Klein said, when issues are being debated by Congress members who are pledged to the Tea Party, which he said has adopted confrontational political tactics.
King likewise laid blame on Congress’s Tea Party affiliates, who he said compose 27 percent of the House of Representatives. He added that their strong presence has pushed Republican House Speaker John Boehner to turn to “pandering” tactics to preserve his political position.
Panelists also said that partisan politics have been aggravated by gerrymandering, the strategy of mapping congressional districts along party lines. Klein pointed to the example of redistricting in the early 1990s in Atlanta, where he said that once-politically diverse districts were polarized. Some became suburban, white, and conservative, and others became urban, black, and liberal, he said.
According to Klein, this has given rise to a new breed of Congress members who can survive politically without appealing to broader bases of constituents and can instead represent more extreme opinions.
While panelists largely faulted societal problems and partisan discord for facilitating the shutdown, Schwartz also pointed to issues surrounding the Affordable Care Act.
“I hold [the Obama administration] accountable for inability to message,” she said, arguing that the the Affordable Care Act was poorly marketed by its champions. In turn, Schwartz said, Republicans were quick to counter-market what they called “Obamacare” using scare tactics.
For her part, Bilmes, a public budget expert, laid blame on the government’s “stone-aged” budgeting process, which she said was wasteful and inefficient.
“[There is] spending going under the table through the tax-credit system,” Bilmes said, attributing the problem to Congress’s propensity to avoid spending increases.
She also argued that the system of annual re-allocation was unnecessary and that less frequent budgeting was more preferable.
—Staff writer Steven R. Watros can be reached at steven.watros@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SteveWatros.
The caption of the photo accompanying this article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Oct. 3, 2013
An earlier version of the caption of the photo accompanying this article incorrectly identified an event panelist as a moderator. In fact, the speaker on the left is Kennedy School lecturer Linda J. Bilmes ’80, not former Washington Post national political editor Maralee Schwartz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Lee Kuan Yew was the first Prime Minister of the Republic of Singapore. He has served as a counselor to President Obama and Richard Nixon. Yet, most Americans have no idea who he is.
Harvard Kennedy School professor Graham T. Allison ’62 held a talk Wednesday night at First Parish Church that attempted to familiarize audience members with the man often identified as the Father of Singapore.
“Anyone who cares about the future of international relations has to care about Lee Kuan Yew,” said Allison, who served as Assistant Secretary of Defense during the Clinton administration. “He is the grand master of modern Asian politics.”
Much of the talk, which was organized by the Cambridge Forum, focused on a new book written by Allison and former U.S. ambassador to India Robert D. Blackwill entitled “Lee Kuan Yew: The Grand Master’s Insights on China, the United States, and the World.” The book, which was published in February, deals largely with Lee’s views on 21st century international affairs and specifically U.S.-China relations.
Allison warned the audience that many of Lee’s insights about the United States would leave them feeling uncomfortable.
“Lee Kuan Yew enjoys getting in America’s face,” he said. “He once said that his goal was not to be politically correct, but just correct.”
Many of Lee’s insights, as reported by Allison, were indeed highly critical of American politics and culture.
“Lee believes that the role of money in U.S. politics corrupts the political process here,” he said.
In a phone conversation with The Crimson, Allison also said that Lee would have deemed the current government shutdown to be “a sign of the dysfunction and shortsightedness of American politicians.”
Lee’s views on the broken state of American politics resonated with Germaine Chua, a Singaporean graduate student of regional studies in East Asia.
“Lee’s insights are really astute,” she said. “The government shutdown is an indictment of democracy and how the American system runs.”
Despite these criticisms, however, Allison reported that Lee remains optimistic about the U.S.’s future.
“Lee says that he is impressed with the U.S.’s ability to rebound,” he said.
Allison added that Lee’s thinking about this issue may be influenced by the belief in the importance of achieving a balance of power in international politics between the U.S. and China.
“Lee believes that Singapore needs the U.S. to act as a counterbalance to China,” Allison said. “After all, Singapore could be a small rowboat in a stormy sea.”
Allison has given previous talks to the weekly Cambridge Forum about his work, much of which has focused on nuclear disarmament.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A presentation of a $28 million community benefit package and an additional $10 million for a teaching and learning hub in Allston was bookended by arguments over how community members should address the University’s 10-year plan for Allston at a Harvard-Allston Task Force meeting Wednesday night.
The meeting started and ended with the Task Force’s comments on Harvard’s Institutional Master Plan, which charts a road map for the University’s developments in Allston over the next 10 years and includes nine projects, including a new hotel and conference center, basketball arena, and science center. Harvard intends to take that document to the Boston Redevelopment Authority for approval on Oct. 17.
At the meeting, Harvard’s Associate Vice President for Public Affairs and Communications Kevin Casey announced a community benefits package of $28 million, along with a “transformative suite of projects” that the University values at $10 million, which will be located at 224 Western Ave.
Casey said that a previous plan to move the Allston Education Portal to that location will go forward, but that it would be accompanied by an array of programming including job services and mentoring, performance space and arts mentoring, after-school programs, partnerships with local schools, health and wellness services, and connections with Harvard faculty, students, and staff.
“We believe that this can become a very new hub for teaching, learning, and enrichment,” Casey said, adding that while he did not think that the proposal included every idea put forth by the task force, it likely incorporated at least 80 percent of them.
The teaching and learning center will also incorporate a new program called AllstonX, a physical manifestation of HarvardX—Harvard’s branch of the online learning venture edX that was launched with MIT last year. Casey called the program a “21st century learning lab” that would target anyone from 12 years old to elderly and include digital literacy training, visits and assistance from professors, and teaching assistants to supplement online courses.
Harvard has also promised to create community benefits outside of its “transformative suite of projects,” including street and park maintenance and improvement, crossings of Soldiers Field Road, community outreach and programming, and extensions of the Allston Partnership Grant and Harvard-Allston Workforce Collaborative through 2024.
Casey also announced a $2 million public realm flexible fund that could be used for ideas that form later in Harvard’s development process.
“We know that there are always going to be other ideas that are not on our list, or maybe any individual person’s list,” Casey said.
The $28 million figure that Harvard referenced for its community benefits package includes $11 million that Harvard would have to pay to the city of Boston in order to develop, but Casey said the University hopes to direct that back into the community.
Casey’s presentation during the meeting laid out new information related to Harvard’s plans for Allston development. The vast majority of the two and a half hour meeting was spent discussing the Task Force’s revisions to a comment letter that the Task Force will send to the BRA before that body considers whether to approve Harvard’s IMP.
—Staff writer Samuel Y. Weinstock can be reached at weinstock@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @syweinstock.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Oct. 3, 2013
An earlier version of the headline accompanying this article incorrectly stated that the Harvard-Allston Task Force had finalized Harvard’s $28 million community benefits package, when in fact the full package was merely presented for the first time.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A crowd packed Sanders Theatre to capacity Wednesday afternoon as the University celebrated the launch of the Hutchins Center for African and African American Research by conferring the W.E.B. Du Bois medal on six celebrity recipients.
The event was presided over by professor Henry Louis Gates, Jr., and by Glenn H. Hutchins ’77, the donor whose $15 million gift established the Hutchins Center, which will be located on Mount Auburn St. and will house seven existing initiatives and four new initiatives devoted to African and African American studies.
Honored at the ceremony were U.S. Rep. John R. Lewis, Supreme Court Justice Sonia M. Sotomayor, senior advisor to President Barack Obama Valerie B. Jarrett, the playwright and "Lincoln" screenwriter Tony Kushner, film director Steven Spielberg, and National Basketball Association commissioner David J. Stern. Due to the government shutdown, Lewis and Jarrett remained in Washington, D.C., and were honored in absentia.
But while much pomp was directed at the honorees, the event was, at its core, a celebration of Africans and African Americans at Harvard, as well as of the new Hutchins Center. Gates kicked off the nearly two and a half hour program by detailing the long and ranging history of blacks at Harvard, and of the development of the African and African American Studies department.
“We have come so very far, so very far by faith, and lots of hard work, since those contentious early days when the fledgling department was so very vulnerable, its future deeply in doubt,” Gates said. “We need people like Glenn Hutchins, the person whose intelligence is a force multiplier. The person who doesn’t just have the vision, but who also has a way to make that vision a reality.”
When Hutchins took the the podium a few minutes later, he outlined the specifics of the new center and then cued a video featuring many of Harvard’s leaders--past and present--talking about their high expectations for the new center.
When it came time to award the medals, a lighter moment was had when presenter Mass. Governor Deval L. Patrick ’78 chose to make a joke out of the fact that he took the stage without a formal introduction before presenting the Du Bois medal to Jarrett.
“I will treasure this recognition, and pledge to earn it each day by promotion equality of access to opportunity through all,” Jarrett wrote in a note relayed by Patrick.
After Kushner, an award-winning playwright and the screenwriter for Spielberg’s acclaimed films "Lincoln" and "Munich", was given his medal, Celtics star Bill Russell came to the podium to introduce Stern, praising him for the league’s massive community-service efforts during his time as commissioner.
“In recognizing me, you’re recognizing the power of sports, my colleagues at the NBA, and the thousands of players who I’ve had the pleasure to see play while I’ve been associated with the NBA,” Stern said after receiving his medal.
After Stern, Harvard Law School Dean Martha L. Minow introduced Justice Sotomayor, who appeared emotional during her remarks.
“I [am] humbled because I am included in this company of co-honorees who have done such extraordinary things in their life, humbled because I am being given an award by a school and department and people who I so greatly admire in their endeavors,” she said. “I am always reminded and continue to remember that I never stand alone.”
After Hutchins took the podium again to recognize Rep. Lewis--who, like Jarrett, remained in Washington, D.C. due to the government shutdown--University President Drew G. Faust rose to honor Spielberg “for bringing us stories of Africans and African Americans, stories of struggles for freedom and justice that bond all of us in a common humanity.”
—Staff writer Matthew Q. Clarida can be reached at matthewclarida@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MattClarida.
This article has been revised to reflect the following corrections:
CORRECTION: Oct. 3, 2013
An earlier version of the caption of the photo accompanying this article misspelled the last name of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor.
CORRECTION: Oct. 14, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the number of initiatives that are being housed within the new Hutchins Center for African and African American Research. In fact, the Hutchins Center is uniting seven existing initiatives and four new initiatives, not nine initiatives total.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: October 4, 2013, at 4:33 a.m.
University President Drew G. Faust reaffirmed Harvard’s resolution against divestment from the fossil fuel industry in a letter to the Harvard community on Thursday afternoon. The letter serves as Faust’s first formal rebuttal to months of petitions and protests from both students and alumni groups pushing for divestment of Harvard’s $32.7 billion endowment from fossil fuel companies.
A University spokesperson previously stated that Harvard “operates with a strong presumption against divestment.” On Thursday, Faust set out to explain this position in a letter of more than 1,200 words posted on the Harvard website.
“Climate change represents one of the world’s most consequential challenges. I very much respect the concern and commitment shown by the many members of our community who are working to confront this problem,” she wrote. “While I share their belief in the importance of addressing climate change, I do not believe, nor do my colleagues on the Corporation, that university divestment from the fossil fuel industry is warranted or wise.”
Faust’s letter drew a terse response from divestment advocacy group Divest Harvard, which on Thursday posted on its website a short statement that it said it will later expand.
“Leadership requires courage and vision–President Faust demonstrated neither. Today, she chose the fossil fuel industry over her students,” the statement said.
In her letter, Faust argued that divestment would politicize the University’s endowment, potentially weaken its investment returns, and distract from Harvard’s other environmentally-oriented efforts. She also remarked on a “troubling inconsistency” between demands for divestment and Harvard’s reliance on the products and services of fossil fuel companies.
“Given our pervasive dependence on these companies for the energy to heat and light our buildings, to fuel our transportation, and to run our computers and appliances, it is hard for me to reconcile that reliance with a refusal to countenance any relationship with these companies through our investments,” Faust wrote.
Moreover, she stated that because Harvard holds relatively few shares in any given company, divestment would have little impact on the industry but hinder Harvard’s ability to influence how those companies operate.
“Generally, as shareholders, I believe we should favor engagement over withdrawal,” she wrote. “In the case of fossil fuel companies, we should think about how we might use our voice not to ostracize such companies but to encourage them to be a positive force both in meeting society’s long-term energy needs while addressing pressing environmental imperatives.”
Faust listed a number of on-campus efforts to address climate change in her letter to the community, even labeling “teaching and research on environmental and climate issues” as a “priority” in the University’s potentially record-breaking capital campaign, which launched in September. She referenced the Harvard University Center for the Environment as well as the Office for Sustainability as efforts to promote ecologically friendly activity on and off campus.
The University has made moves in recent months to address concerns about responsible investment. In February, administrators announced the creation of a Vice President for Sustainable Investing position at the Harvard Management Company, which oversees the University’s endowment. In the same month, the Corporation Committee on Shareholder Responsibility met with student members from both Divest Harvard and the Responsible Investment at Harvard Coalition.
In an interview with The Crimson on Thursday morning, Faust said that the letter’s arguments  should not be “surprising to anybody” and were “very much consistent” with what she and other University officials have said before.
"It seemed to me, and I discussed this with the Corporation at their meeting last week, that it was the moment in which we should make a statement about what we think about divestment,” she said. “We have been saying [we have a] presumption against [divestment], but it seemed that more clarity was a good idea."
The Harvard Corporation, also known as the President and Fellows of Harvard College, is the University’s highest governing body and includes Faust as one of its 13 members.
—Staff writer Nikita Kansra can be reached at Nikita.Kansra@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @NikitaKansra.
—Staff writer Samuel Y. Weinstock can be reached at Weinstock@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @syweinstock.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Chris Matthews, anchor of MSNBC’s “Hardball”, decried the House Republicans for causing this week’s government shutdown during a presentation Thursday at the Coop.
Matthews discussed his book, “Tip and the Gipper: When Politics Worked,” which examines the rivalry between former President Ronald Reagan and his Democratic Speaker of the House, Tip O’Neill, and how it was beneficial to U.S. politics.
Questions from the crowd, however, had less to do with topics explored in the book than issues facing the country at present—from partisanship in Washington, D.C. to the government shutdown, which occurred as a result of a failed budget deal between the House and the Senate.
“Most kidnappers grab the baby and ask for your money,” Matthews said of House Republicans’ attempts to end the Affordable Care Act by wielding it as a condition for acquiescence to the Senate’s budget plan earlier this week. “[House Republicans] took the money and are asking for the baby. It’s just not going to happen.”
He compared Obama and his health care plan to the civil rights and New Deal legislation pushed forth by Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson and Franklin D. Roosevelt, Class of 1904, respectively. “This is the reason why he’s in office; this is what he fought for,” Matthews said of Obama. “You wouldn’t ask LBJ to give up on the Voting Rights Act and you wouldn’t ask FDR to give up on Social Security.  He’s not going to give up on this.”
Matthews said that though he respects President Obama, he thinks the president still has not mastered negotiating with Republicans. He contrasted politics in the 1980s, when Reagan was president, to a more tense environment today.
“It was fierce competition, but it was never dirty,” Matthews said of O’Neill’s and Reagan’s relationship during the 1980s. “Today’s political atmosphere is explosive.” Matthews added that he thinks both parties today treat politics like a game. “They use the language of toughness, not progress,” he said.
Nancie Scheirer, tradebook manager at the Coop, said that it is an honor to bring speakers like Matthews to Cambridge, free to the general public. “We are always very conscious of the fact that we live in an extremely academic community,”  she said.
No Harvard undergraduates were present at the book talk, but Matthews attended a discussion in Quincy House Thursday night led by the presidents of the Harvard College Democrats and the Harvard College Republicans.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Oct. 26, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the class year of Franklin D. Roosevelt. In fact, he graduated with the Class of 1904.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The team was divided.
For 32 years, some variation of the same question sparked hundreds of Radcliffe rugby careers.
“You look like a badass, do you want to play rugby?”
It was a mantra that pervaded every aspect of the club, whether it was battling in a scrum or scratching together funds for the next road trip.
In 2011, the Radcliffe Rugby Club risked losing that persona.
Turning the club into a varsity sport would mean money for coaches, equipment, and travel. But it would come at a cost.
With no varsity counterpart, the Radcliffe Rugby Club competed at a national level, but members saw the group more like a family than a team. Transitioning to varsity would mean possibly losing what made the club special in the first place.
Proponents of the change believed they could get all of the benefits of going varsity while maintaining the culture that led them to join the club in the first place. They spoke in several team meetings in the fall of 2010. A Division II National Championship in the spring helped their case.
Eventually there was consensus, and the team wrote a letter in 2011 to the Athletic Department asking for varsity status.
Within a year, it was announced that women’s rugby would become Harvard’s 42nd varsity sport in 2013.
And on Sept. 17, the team took the field for the first time as varsity rugby players, attempting to prove that its new status hadn’t changed its fundamental identity: a team of self-declared badasses on the pitch and a close-knit family off of it.
A RUGGED START
Radcliffe Rugby’s past is the core of the team’s identity in the present.
But when the club was founded in 1982, the activity on the pitch was a far cry from the varsity team it is today. Before the squad took home national championships and practiced on its own fields, the Radcliffe rugby team practiced three times a week and served beer at its matches. In the team’s first game—a 10-6 win over the MIT Engineers—the club’s president missed part of the game to find a tap for the “traditional rugby keg of beer,” according to a Crimson report.
The team quickly became popular among high school athletes looking for another outlet. Its first meeting drew 40 women from all walks of sport, including an All-Ivy lacrosse player and high school All-American swimmer.
The team took home its first national championship in 1998, 16 years after its inception.
The championship team, the first fully female-coached team to win the title, sold raffle tickets and t-shirts to help pay for travel. At a time when the country did not have a single women’s varsity rugby team, the squad drove itself to games and worked without staff medical aid. In a 1998 Crimson feature, a player recalled one injured Dartmouth opponent who was denied access to the ice allocated for varsity teams.
Thirteen years later, when the team celebrated its second national championship in 2011, little had changed. That team, current co-captain Xanni Brown said, still used dues to pay travel fees and referee salaries. Team leaders had to scramble for field space, and nobody had access to a trainer.
“We practiced on the rugby field [with] goose poop all over it,” Brown recalled. “In the winter, [our only practice time] was from 10 to midnight on Wednesdays. Freshman year, when we qualified for nationals in the fall and had our competition in the spring, we got to prepare one night a week.”
A TRANSITION BEGINS
Despite the team’s national success, the transition to varsity was not a simple one. First, the ruggers had to decide amongst themselves whether they really wanted to go varsity.
For many players, the increased time commitment was daunting, and some were concerned with the fact that the team would lose its ability to construct its own schedule and pick its own coach.
“There were definitely people on both sides,” co-captain Ali Haber said. “People were excited, saying that we were a really good team and deserve to get support and continue our tradition of excellence. But then people were worried about losing our autonomy.”
Players also feared that, if the team moved up to the varsity level, the unique Radcliffe culture could potentially lose its centrality to the team identity. This concern drove much of the initial hesitation.
“I think it was more the worry about how the club would change,” said Janelle Lambert ’12, who captained the team beginning in the spring of 2011. “We were a very tight-knit community with a lot of support from alumni, and they all went through it as a club team. So we were a little worried about changing the spirit of the team.”
But when the team won its second national championship that spring, more players began to embrace the possibility of going varsity. The team had always been competitive, but the players wanted to take the next step. The varsity movement picked up traction.
“We spent a lot of time at the gym, we spent a lot of time on the field,” Lambert said. “We just spent a lot more time preparing and became much more competitive. I think we realized how much we wanted to be a seriously competitive team.”
CHANGE IN MOTION
With an emerging consensus among members about going varsity, the team decided to bring the topic up with the Athletic Department. Team leaders sent in a letter expressing Radcliffe Rugby’s commitment to becoming a varsity team and competing at the highest level.
Eight years after Eastern Illinois had become the first varsity women’s rugby team, the Crimson was aiming to become the sixth.
“We were traveling like a varsity team [at that point],” said former team president Marlee Morris ’12. “It was hard when we were at a club level and competitive and winning tournaments and doing well and [sometimes] we didn’t have the balls and the uniforms would go missing.”
A core group of players began to meet with members of the Athletic Department—including Assistant Athletic Director Tim Wheaton and Athletic Director Robert L. “Bob” Scalise.
In the discussions, administrators emphasized the many changes that come with a varsity transition. The team would work under a new coach selected by the Athletic Department and the expected time commitment to the sport would be ramped up.
From the perspective of the Athletic Department, there were more than just a few factors going into a complex decision.
“We wanted to know what this would mean for us,” Wheaton said. “We have a certain amount of fields and teams that need to use [them]. Can we make it work with the teams that we have, or are they at capacity? Same with the athletic room and the training room and sports information. You are going to those people and telling them you have one more thing to do.”
Indeed, both members of the Athletic Department and players on the rugby team methodically weighed different factors in the talks. Discussions proceeded slowly, and from time to time, players involved with discussions were not sure as to where they stood.
“There was almost a transition where they gave us a bit more of what we wanted from varsity status, like a trainer and fields,” Lambert said. “But we still felt going varsity was what we wanted even with those additions to our club privileges. And I think they really realized how serious we were about it after some of those things.”
Discussions became tense in October 2011, when then-captain Megan Verlage ’13 told the Crimson that the possibility of the team being promoted to varsity status was ruled out. According to the captain, the administration told the officers of the rugby club in the spring of 2011 that financial constraints prohibited the department from funding another varsity team.
“During the Athletic Department meeting they said, ‘No, you are not going varsity, and don’t spread rumors that you are,’” Verlage told the Crimson at the time. She continued, “I will [say] right now we have no intention of going varsity.”
There was never a timeline laid out in the discussions—no specific plan existed, at least to the knowledge of the team, concerning if or when the team would achieve varsity status. Eventually, the department and the team restarted talks and, on Aug. 9, 2012, the department announced that in 2013, the Crimson would become the Ivy League’s first varsity rugby team—the school’s 21st female varsity sport and 42nd overall.
Among the many to receive the e-mail alert was Sue Parker, the head coach of Navy at the time, who knew immediately what she wanted her future to hold.
“At that point, I knew I wanted to coach this team,” Parker said. “I wanted to coach these kids and be at the head of this program.”
Parker, who Wheaton said “lives and breathes rugby,” was hired by the team in May to replace then-coach Brian Hamlin. By that time, the team had access to the Murr Center training room and had added weight lifting sessions into its weekly schedule.
After moving up to Division I in the fall of 2012, Radcliffe Rugby finished its final club season ranked 23rd, third in the Ivy League.
The hiring of Parker was the final step. The move to varsity was complete. For the team, the process of examining the significance of the change came next.
TANGIBLE CHANGE...
Of course, the transition to varsity status does not just mean getting assigned more field time and receiving a new coach. While the most notable difference may be that the team’s schedule and roster is posted right next to those of the football, volleyball, and basketball programs on GoCrimson.com, the more significant changes run much deeper—starting at the bottom with the team’s daily routine.
As a club team, practice three times a week was not strictly mandatory and not always a first priority. Getting enough field time was also sometimes a struggle.
But at the varsity level, the time commitment is much more demanding—practices run for two hours each weekday, with an extra hour two times a week for strength and conditioning work. Players are encouraged to arrive at the field early for special skill work and receive treatment from trainers before and after practice. Under Parker’s regime, according to Brown, practices and workouts have become much more structured and more closely supervised.
“One of the things I most look forward to every day is getting out onto the rugby field and seeing my team,” Brown said. “Being able to do that every day and having such high standards for practice, something that [coach Parker] has brought in, is that we use practice time to the fullest. If we are going to be across the river, we are going to get the most out of it.”
In addition to the practices themselves, support from the Athletic Department, along with access to facilities, has skyrocketed. Currently, the rugby program operates out of a trailer across from the Murr Center. Players have access to locker rooms, ice baths, and training facilities—commodities they didn’t have in the past.
Additionally, players no longer have to worry about finances. No longer do yearly applications for grants have to be submitted—all administrative duties are handled by the Athletic Department. And for the first time, travel expenses are provided for. No more e-mails sent out the day before asking players to pitch in for tolls; the administration covers the team’s varsity travel budget.
For the players, perhaps the most appreciated of these amenities is the presence of a trainer at all practices and games. When a player gets hurt, they can receive an immediate status evaluation from an expert, along with treatment. In the past, players tended to their own wounds and made their own judgments about playing hurt.
...BUT IDEOLOGICAL CONTINUITY
With its inaugural campaign underway, such changes have been a source of excitement for members of the team.
“Even before we got onto the field, the enthusiasm was palpable,” Parker said. “[The players] had a balance of excitement and trepidation…. Their attitude and courage was fortifying because I knew these kids would take everything I gave them and ask for more.”
The privileges that come with varsity status, players say, will help the team perform and compete at a higher level. But in their eyes, that may not be what’s most important. Indeed, what alumni remember about their experiences on the team is not the practice time, who played where, or even who won. What always comes to mind is what it means to be a part of Radcliffe Rugby.
“The most amazing part of the team was [always] how much we all looked out for one another,” former captain Evan Hoese ’11 said. “We took care of each other on and off the field, and that was a huge aspect. There was never any real division between starters and non-starters. We were just players on the same team.
As far back as anyone can remember, there has been a unique identity associated with playing on the club rugby squad. Rugby isn’t a sport for everyone—it’s fast moving, loud, and intense. You will get dirty, and you will get banged up. For players, the entire team identity revolves around the feelings of toughness, grit, and resilience. Stepping on the rugby field presents a chance to step away from the daily stresses of Harvard life and enter a completely different world.
This year’s captains have attempted to maintain these themes, while redirecting them to reflect their new status as part of the Athletic Department. The team’s catchphrase of the past now reflects its identity of the present.
“We have built on that same self-image of strength and empowerment,” Brown said. “Now it is, ‘Hey are you a badass and want to play a varsity sport? Do you want to do something you have never done before and do it at the highest level it is played in the US?’”
—Staff writer David Freed can be reached at david.freed@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter          @CrimsonDPFreed.
—Staff writer David Steinbach can be reached at david.steinbach@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Before her freshman year at Harvard, Xanni Brown had never played a game of rugby in her life.
Now, as a co-captain of the Crimson’s first-ever varsity rugby team, the senior has a wealth of experience on the field. But in addition to her almost four years as a starter for the squad, Brown has the added experience of having played for the women’s national team in the summer of 2011, less than a year after attending her first rugby practice.
“It was a crazy summer,” Brown said. “It all happened very quickly. But it was a pretty cool opportunity I’m very grateful for.”
Rugby wasn’t on the Cincinnati native’s radar when she came to Harvard.
“I got into [rugby] very accidentally,” Brown said. “They kept trying to recruit me at the Activities Fair, so I thought I would come check out a practice.”
The Radcliffe squad welcomed Brown with open arms, and she quickly showed a knack for the sport. Her experience as a three-sport varsity athlete in high school carried over to the field, and a limited number of players on the team meant that the freshman quickly saw playing time in matches.
“In just my second game I was starting, just because we were pretty short on personnel at that point,” Brown said. “I just kind of got thrown into the fire.”
Brian Hamlin, the club team’s coach, saw Brown’s potential and approached her about trying for a spot on the All-New England regional team. The New England team had already conducted tryouts, and it was too late for Brown to join. But the news didn’t stop Hamlin pursuing an even better option—a spot on the national team.
“I was like, ‘Yeah sure, Brian. Just call the national team coach and tell them you have a kid who started playing rugby like two weeks ago. I’m sure my phone will be ringing off the hook,’” Brown joked.
Hamlin and the assistant coaches at Harvard sent in game tapes to USA Rugby, pushing for her spot at a tryout. For Brown, it all seemed like a nice but far-fetched gesture. That is, until she returned home for winter break to find an email requesting her presence at the national team’s tryout. That March, Brown was on a plane to Florida for the camp.
“I remember landing at the airport in Florida and just seeing these girls who were huge and seemed to know what they were doing and feeling totally out of my league,” Brown said. “I had been playing rugby for less than a year. But it was a really good experience to hear different coaching perspectives and to get to play with a whole new set of players. That was a very talented team, and it was a big boost to be around them.”
She left the tryout with a better grasp on the game—and a spot on the women’s national team.
That summer, Brown travelled with the U20 women’s national rugby team to the 2011 Nations Cup in Santa Barbara, Calif. The Americans hosted British, Canadian, and South African squads.
“Going on tour was awesome,” Brown said. “It’s three weeks where you eat, sleep, and breathe rugby. Getting the lineup and having them play the national anthem while you’re wearing a USA jersey is just a pretty unbelievable feeling.”
Team USA made it to the championship match of the tournament but lost 48-11 to England in the title game. It was a whirlwind summer for someone who had just recently picked up the game.
Now in her final season on the field for Harvard, the senior is relishing in the success of the Crimson’s varsity debut.
“It’s pretty amazing to be a part of,” Brown said. “But it’s been the product of coming into a very strong program. I wouldn’t have been able to get through the March camp without the seniors who took the time after practice to actually pass and tackle and do all the things I didn’t really know how to do. That’s the basis we built this varsity program on.”
—Staff writer Brenna R. Nelsen can be reached at brenna.nelsen@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter                         @CrimsonBRN.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
Hungry right now? You probably are. And if you’re not (weirdo), you probably will be within the next 20 minutes. As Harvard students, we are constantly running from lecture to meeting to section and don’t always have time for a full meal. And even if you do manage to squeeze in three a day, you’re probably still hungry from all those calories spent thinking and working out (our brains, that is...).
 
This is where snacking comes in. You sprint into the dining hall and grab the easiest item—if you’re smart, that’s an apple, but most likely it’s a bagel or cookie. But there are better foods to eat that will be delicious and keep you alert until your next food break!
 
1. Cherry tomatoes. Small, sweet, and bright, cherry tomatoes are basically candy in fruit form (yes, they’re technically a fruit). Also an easy snack to share so your friends won’t have to look on longingly as you munch. Optional game: try to convince an onlooker that M&M’s invented a new candy called the Mega M.
Where to buy: The Farmers Market on Tuesdays outside Science Center, or the Charles Square Farmers Market Fridays & Sundays.
2. Cereal and granola from breakfast. Put in a bag. Carry around all day to munch on. Foods that crunch are better, it’s pretty much fact. Maybe skip the Colossal Crunch and Marshmallow Mateys, and grab some Heart to Heart or Cracklin’ Oat Bran instead.
3. Nuts and seeds. You’ve heard it time and time again, but we're here to shell out a final word. Peanuts, almonds, sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds—all portable and high in protein, and none require refrigeration. Another plus—you can finally befriend the squirrel terrorizing Kirkland Courtyard!
4. Those flax seed-covered kale chips your roommate gets in her parents’ care packages from California. She probably won’t notice! Wait—she totally will. Californians protect their kale like no other.
Sections
As midterm season gets underway, students are once again searching for that perfect study strategy. You might be wondering, how can I most efficiently learn (read: cram) all of the required material without becoming a Lamonster or Widener Worm?
Fear not, dear reader, we at Flyby have you covered. Although psychologists may think that they have scientifically proven study strategies, we’ve compiled a list of our own time-tested strategies that are sure to keep you right in the middle of the pack.
1. As every student has heard over and over again, a good night’s sleep can help more than a couple extra hours of studying. Ever heard of diminishing returns, Ec 10 takers? Falling asleep during the exam after an all-nighter is clearly counter-productive. 
Who are we kidding? You’re probably reading this at 3 a.m. under the weight of approaching deadlines and 32 ounces of coffee.
If you’re not opposed to physical labor, it’s time to construct a standing work station. Pick up your chair and place it on your desk. Stand up and use the seat of your now elevated chair as your new workstation. Lamonster? More like La-Trend Setter!! If you fall asleep standing up, well, you’re dead on your feet.
2. Lots of facts to learn and not much time? Grab some classmates and form a study group! Just like the American Army in WWII, divide and conquer is the way to go. Divvy up the reading, make some flashcards and go over everything as a group. Seeing friends and getting work done, now that’s two adorable baby squirrels with one stone.
Sure, studying on your own might be more efficient than surrendering to the group’s rambling conversation. But remember, the reason you’re here is for the unplanned stimulating dialogue with a diverse array of friends—if you end up arguing about froyo culture in different American cities at 1 a.m., then you’re making use of every cent of tuition!
3. Never forget to give yourself a break. Put the pen down, and take a little bit of time for yourself. Throw on some Jack Johnson, let the music rain down on you and wash the stress away. Google inspirational quotes, Facebook stalk a high school ex, whatever gives you a little confidence boost.
Or if that’s not your style, may we suggest an alcohol-fueled rager accompanied by Yeezus or perhaps a leisurely jog along the Charles?
4. Mix it up—actual research has shown that studying different material in one sitting, or studying the same material in different places enhances recall. Having trouble with the CS50 pset? Supplement your learning with some Candy Crush!
Starting to lose focus and feel like everyone else in the library is working a lot harder than you? Then find a new location! We’ve compiled a list of a few under-the-radar study spots:
- Music practice rooms in your dorm basement—sound-proofing for zero distractions- One of Harvard Square’s thousands of cafes—Clover, Au Bon Pain, Starbucks, etc.- The T-stop steps—need a little white noise in the background? Want a bored tour guide to quiz you?- Felipe’s—Has it ever failed? It’s basically the Harvard Square Room of Requirement.
5. Avoid the kryptonite of all Lamonsters: the comfy chairs. “I’m just going to knock out my reading in a comfortable environment,” you say. No. A thousand times no.
6. And when in doubt, cite your sources.
Sections
Get out in the sun—for some reason it's warm out again today!
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
The hot streak continues with a high of 81!
IN THE D-HALLS
On the Lunch Menu:
Chicken Parmesan Sub
Cheese and Mushroom Quiche
Tofu Parmesan Sub
On the Dinner Menu:
Korean Pork Stir Fry
Moroccan Roasted Chicken
Roasted Sweet Potato Wedges
ON CAMPUS
Thursday Lunchtime Organ Recital Series
Enjoy a 30 minute concert on the famous 1958 Flentrop organ—weekly, promptly at 12:15 p.m. Bring your lunch! 12:15 p.m., Adolphus Busch Hall (29 Kirkland St.).
Joe Kahne: Redesigning Civic Education: Principles and Practices for the Digital Age
There is widespread concern that our national political system is often dysfunctional. Many youth report being turned off by the conflictual and seemingly ineffectual nature of the political process and express limited interest in elections and in the traditional political debates engaged in by politicians, interest groups, and elites. Professor Kahne argues that a redesign of civic education is required. Listen to his ideas on a redesign of civic education. 3:30pm, Gutman 305, Graduate School of Education.
Lessons from Education in Germany: Accidental Whole System Reform and the Long Digital Dawn
More than a decade after the first PISA study, both the U.S. and Germany face issues in education: The increased classroom heterogeneity corresponds with more and more bored pupils, rising cost and a significant remainder of underachievers.
Dr. Dräger puts a spotlight on how education in Germany has undergone an unplanned, but quite successful whole system reform since PISA 2001 cured both educators and policy makers from a long period of complacency. However, he argues, the big change is yet to come and makes the case for a digital transformation of public schooling on the both sides of the Atlantic. 4:00pm, Graduate School of Education.
IN THE SQUARE
Dinner Jazz Set at the Beat Hotel
Exciting and intimate, Beat Hôtel's live dinner jazz set features world-class musical artists as the perfect complement to a delightful meal or cocktails. 6:00pm, Beat Hotel.
Sections
 
You may have heard of the “government shutdown”—but do you really know what it means or how it affects you? And why it has replaced all the Breaking Bad posts of Facebook?
 
Others have already tackled many of the issues related to the shutdown, but Flyby is here to answer the questions that you were too embarrassed to ask. 
What is a shutdown?Republicans and Democrats in Congress could not agree on a spending bill, so they have put a freeze on some government services. Some federal employees were furloughed, others are working without pay.
 
Oh yeah, so is this why last weekend they tried to shut down the Owl?No.
 
So then is this why no one voted in the UC election?No.
 
So then how will the shutdown affect me?Well, emotionally it is quite demoralizing, and most national parks will be closed, so I guess you can’t go to the national zoo for a while.
 
I mean at Harvard?There might be fewer research grants, and there are concerns about student loans.
But, like, can I still place a grill order? And is my Science of Cooking midterm still happening?Yes.
And what about Facebook? Is Facebook safe?Yes.
Okay, I’m good. That’s all I needed to know.
 
 
Sections
With punch season now in full swing, it’s time to present the results of Flyby’s first-ever Final Club Survey. The online survey was emailed out last month to 4,838 sophomores, juniors, and seniors, and was partially or fully completed 1,927 times (though it should be noted that individuals could have taken the survey more than once). In the third installment of a six-part series on the survey results, we take a look at perceptions related to exclusivity and prestige.
It seemed clear to us that "prestige" and "exclusivity" are different—albeit closely related—topics. But it's harder to tease apart what exactly the difference is. For our purposes, "prestigious" measures how much it means to be a member of something, whereas exclusivity measures how hard it is to become a member. Things can be exclusive without being prestigious—just check out the U.S. Congress.
Harvard’s final clubs are traditionally considered to be both prestigious and exclusive, but our survey suggests that these perceptions are complicated.
IS CLUB MEMBERSHIP WORTH IT?
According to our survey, many Harvard students are uninterested in belonging to clubs at all. Among respondents to our survey, a plurality said they would not want to be members of any final club. When we asked men which of Harvard’s eight male final clubs they wish to join, 42 percent of respondents said they wouldn't choose any. Forty-nine percent of women said they didn’t want to join any club when asked the same question about Harvard’s five female final clubs.
What about those who say they do want in? Flyby asked these respondents how much they'd pay to be a member of the club they most want membership in. The vast majority—87 percent—said they would be willing to put in some money. Among those willing to pay, however, the vast majority said they would be unwilling to hand over more than $1,000 for semesterly dues. Interestingly, among those who wished to join a club, respondents who reported that neither of their parents had attended Harvard College were more likely than than their legacy counterparts to say they’d be unwilling to pay at all or would be unwilling to pay more than $500 per semester for club membership.
HOW IS WEALTH PERCEIVED?
On Wednesday, we told you that almost half of self-identified final club members who responded to our survey said they are on Harvard financial aid. But on campus, it seems, the perception is different. Across virtually all major demographic categories—gender, legacy status, final club membership status, Harvard financial aid status, and family income level—a majority of survey respondents said they believe that final club members come from wealthier families, on average, than the average Harvard student.
Responses broke down differently based on final club membership status and final club legacy status. Respondents who said they do not currently belong to a club were more likely than active club members to voice the perception that final club members are wealthier, on average, than the average Harvard student. And while parental legacy status at Harvard did not correlate with this belief, legacy status for final clubs did. Just 66 percent of respondents who self-reported as children of final club members said they thought club members generally come from wealthier families, compared to 84 percent of non-final club legacies.
SHOULD THE CLUBS GO CO-ED?
In recent years, final clubs have faced pressure to reverse their single-gender membership policies. But the majority of respondents to our survey said they think the clubs should stay segregated by gender.
Survey respondents were slightly more likely to favor the continuation of single-gender membership policies at female clubs than at male clubs. Seventy percent of respondents agreed with the statement that male clubs should continue to be male-only, while 74 percent said that women’s clubs should continue to be single-gender.
Respondents who self-reported as children of final club members were more likely than non-final club legacies to favor a continuation of current final club policies regarding gender. Eighty-six percent of final club legacies said that they do not think male final clubs should begin accepting women, compared to 62 percent among non-final club legacies. Likewise, 88 percent of self-reported children of final club members said that female clubs should not begin accepting men, compared to 71 percent among children of non-members.
