News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
At the beginning of every year, the Coop prominently displays books about the quintessential “Harvard experience,” implying that Harvard’s prestige makes it a mysterious, mythical setting on par with that of Hogwarts. These books, however, are usually meant to appeal to incoming freshman and those who haven’t gone to Harvard, who thus deem the books insightful, “tell-all” pieces. Here is the Arts Blog’s take on what’s worth reading and what’s best left behind in the bookstore.

“Penelope” by Rebecca Harrington '08This novel is about the titular character Penelope O’Shaunessy, “an incoming freshman of average height and lank hair” with below-average social acumen who tries to find her place in Harvard’s social jungle. Her goals are finding love and friendship but they prove harder to realize than getting decent grades and sufficient sleep. Chronicling the protagonist’s freshman year at Harvard, this book seems to be full of social stereotypes, from antisocial nerds to uber-ambitious climbers. A self-proclaimed geek, Penelope is sarcastic, observant, and most of all, unabashedly candid, making her a relatable character. Read this book for its wry humor and comedic episodes, most of which skewer every aspect of Harvard’s culture, from drunken escapades to pretentious, resume-building activities to a pervading desire to succeed.
 
“That Book About Harvard” by Eric Kester '08An odd mixture of poignancy and hilarity, this book recounts Kester’s first year at Harvard. Instead of glamorizing his college experience, he is brutally honest, with guffaw-inducing episodes scattered through the book. Breaking away from the Harvard student stereotype of a perfect human specimen, Kester is self-deprecating and wry, dispelling the myth of the demigod Harvard student. Although Kester offers a fresh perspective on Harvard, his point of view is distinctively male, so women might have a harder time sympathizing with him.
 
“An Expensive Education” by Nick McDonell ’06-’07This thriller is primarily set in two vastly different places: Harvard, the author’s alma mater, and the Horn of Africa. The novel features an assorted mix of characters, from a well-to-do Harvard professor Susan Lowell to David Ayan, her student who is attempting to join the elite Porcellian Club, to Michael Teak, a Harvard graduate who is dispatched to Somalia to work as an intelligence operative. On a side note, Ayan’s girlfriend, depicted as a shallow and condescending character who is a product of expensive private schools, writes for The Crimson. So how does the author weave together the hermetic, privileged world of Harvard with that of a war-torn African country? The connection involves a bombing, but read the book to find out more. However, be warned that several of the characters may get one-dimensional and contrived, rendering them thoroughly unlikeable. Ultimately, the book’s saving grace is the loveable Michael Teak, a character the author lavishes the most attention and time on.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On September 15, Nina Davuluri was named Miss America 2014. She was the first Indian-American woman to win the title. She ran on the platform of “Celebrating Diversity through Cultural Competence.” This is well-established.
What isn’t as well known, however, is that Nina Davuluri probably would not have won a similar competition in India, the country that gave her the culture she represents so proudly. Not because she isn’t talented enough, or Indian enough, but because she’s too dark-skinned.
If you look at the winners, and even contestants, of past Miss India pageants, you’ll notice that the majority are light-skinned. But this isn’t just the Indian pageant scene: The media and the film industry are also complicit. In India, there is a conspicuous bias towards those that are light-skinned to the point of “skin-tone selection”—marriage prospects are higher for those of lighter complexion. This extends back to when the caste system was still relevant. Those who worked outside (farmers and slaves) were undesirable to higher castes, and because they spent more time in the sun, they became darker. Thus, darkness became associated with the undesirable.
Unfortunately, this idea has been institutionalized. Those with light skin are considered more beautiful; they therefore win beauty pageants, which serve as feeders into massively popular Bollywood movies. Film stars achieve royal (if not divine) status, so these same “beauty” figures dominate the celebrity scene, convincing the rest of the country that light skin equates to greater attractiveness. Writer Tunku Varadarajan succinctly describes this phenomenon: “Ninety-nine percent of India’s movie stars don’t share a complexion with 99 percent of Indians.”
Our perception of “beauty” (internal and external) represents more than just an amalgamation of our opinions. Our definition of beauty, and any quality really, is a testament to our values, a reflection of each and every one of us. These values can also be seen as goals, for we push ourselves to achieve such qualities. Thus, those we consider “beautiful” become our role models, as we aspire to become more like them.
For example, I think it is admirable that Nina Davuluri, in the face of so much controversy, has handled herself with so much poise and class. I will try to emulate such behavior in the future because Davuluri has become one of my role models. Davuluri (who is also very beautiful on the outside) is a great person to respect because of all that she has accomplished and wants to do in the future.
Unfortunately, this process can also be harmful, especially when the “role models” all belong to one homogenous set. This is exactly the case in India. Because those with light skin are the only ones considered beautiful, the definition of beauty has become unfairly restricted, dangerous, and provincial—it automatically labels a good portion of the population unattractive without much hope of improvement. Such limited thinking can restrict the contributions of those who are different, since, if society encourages one “type” of beauty, what’s stopping society from promoting a single “type” of person.
I’m not saying that everyone in India believes that dark skin is unattractive. In fact, I’m sure many people in India are just fine with their appearances, and refuse to buy into the lightness bias. But enough people in India have an inclination toward light skin that those who fit the description can dominate entire industries. And America isn’t perfect, either. The Twitter hate that immediately followed Davuluri’s naming was less than reassuring, with people saying she didn’t deserve to win because she was an Arab, wasn’t American, or because it would not have been “classic.”
We should be more careful when considering why someone is worth admiring, and how it reflects on our character. In different ways, America and India are very diverse countries. They encompass several languages, cultures, and forms of beauty. But it is as unfair to cast away a single form of beauty as it is to laud one. What both cultures should do is work to accept all forms of beauty. Nina Davuluri’s success is an indication of both a willingness and necessity to do so. She did her part. Now it’s our turn.
Avi Saraf ’17 is a Crimson editorial comper in Wigglesworth Hall. 
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This year, November 28 marks something truly phenomenal. For fascinating reasons relating to the interaction of the Gregorian and lunar calendars, Thanksgiving and Hanukkah will coincide for the first time in over a century, and the last time for millennia. The holiday, in all its glory, has come to be known as Thanksgivukkah. Excitement has proliferated, with recipe contests, themed gear, and cheesy videos popping up across the Internet.
Personally, I cannot contain my excitement at the prospect of celebrating multiple great holidays on one magnificent day. To my dismay, however, Steven Colbert did not share in my enthusiasm. In a segment titled “Thanksgiving Under Attack,” he lamented Hanukkah’s invasion of Thanksgiving. And at the risk of seeming like I don’t get satire, I’d like to respectfully disagree with Mr. Colbert.
Perhaps I’m biased, as my birthday happens to fall on this day as well, but in my mind, Thanksgiving and Hanukkah coinciding will be nothing other than a blissful union of cranberry sauce and latkes (and birthday cake). The holidays are actually very similar, as both center around an idealized story embellished to make it seem more positive. Every year in elementary school I learned an over-simplified version of the peaceful coexistence of Native Americans and the Pilgrims, and every year in Hebrew school I learned about the incredible triumph of the Maccabees.
Additionally, as my family’s tour guide on a trip to Israel explained, every Jewish holiday can be summed up in three sentences: “They tried to kill us. We won. Let’s eat.”  I can’t think of any secular holiday that so perfectly encapsulates this Jewish idea of celebrating through food like Thanksgiving does. In fact, Buzzfeed has conveniently provided a list of recipes creatively merging traditional Hanukkah and Thanksgiving cuisines. Furthermore, both holidays are times in which we traditionally get together with our extended families to celebrate. The overall compatibility of the two is astounding, and, in my mind, if there’s more reason to celebrate, we can’t possibly complain.
However, while I don’t feel much sympathy for Steven Colbert’s inability to draw a “hand-menorah,” the idea of merging Thanksgiving and Hanukkah does bring up larger issues of Jewish culture in America.  A study released by the Pew Research Center at the beginning of the month found that the prevalence of religious Jews in America is declining.  Specifically, the study noted rising trends in intermarriage and in Jews who identify as having “no religion.”
My excitement over Thanksgivukkah arguably betrays my status as one of these problematic secular Jews. I see my Judaism as simply another part of my overall culture, capable of being molded to fit my life as a regular American in the most convenient way.  Thus, some might argue, it’s problematic that I get my ideas for how to observe a Jewish holiday from Buzzfeed instead of from the Talmud— that I see Jewish culture as so adaptable into secular American culture. However, just as I don’t view celebrating two holidays at once as an inherent problem, I don’t believe this study poses as much of an issue as it might initially seem.
The study cites a rise in “religion-less Jews” and a rise in intermarriage, but these factors themselves are not necessarily negatives. The only reason these phenomena are considered bad by some is because they signify declining Jewish religiosity in this country.  However, the United States is currently experiencing a decline in religious affiliation across all faiths. American culture is already wearing down on strict religious observance.
Moreover, intermarriage and purely cultural Judaism can actually serve to benefit Judaism as a whole, by making the religion more accessible in the first place. If we want more people to become involved in the Jewish religion, then we shouldn’t turn away people at the fringes. While we should continue to make an effort to promote more advanced Jewish education among American Jews, we must be careful; if we send the message that only strict observance of Judaism is acceptable, many people will not receive enough initial exposure to be able to seek this further education.
In fact, some have recognized the potential to spread and promote Judaism in none other than Thanksgivukkah, believing that the overlap will cause more people to recognize Hanukkah and learn about Jewish culture. Jewishboston.com even created a website dedicated to spreading the word about the holiday.  The impact may be small, but the message is the same—increased accessibility is a good thing.
Finally, the assimilated Jewish culture is still a valid one that ought to be appreciated for what it is. There is no reason to say one culture is more valid than another, and while it’s great to encourage religious observance, this shouldn’t come at the expense of those who choose to be less observant. The merging of Jewish and American culture is a complicated issue, but the experience this November is sure to be worthwhile.  And if it allows Jewish families to have twice the food this Thanksgiving break, then it certainly can’t be a bad thing.
Stephanie G. Franklin ’16 is a Crimson editorial writer in Dunster House. 


 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
So there we have it. Another fiscal cliff narrowly averted, another 11th hour deal— a Band-Aid on an open wound, and a two-week long government shutdown that cost taxpayers billions and benefited no one. Is this how democracy was really meant to function?
The public certainly doesn’t think so. The latest Gallup Poll gives Congress an approval rating of 11 percent, just one percentage point above the all-time low of 10 percent since polling began four decades ago. And with a lagging economy, soaring economic inequality and a grossly unbalanced budget, it is no surprise that the American populace is becoming disillusioned. One cause for discontent stands out far above the rest: Congressional gridlock and overall government inefficacy.
Yet this isn’t the first time a superpower struggled with the problems of partisan bickering, political deadlock and public discontent. Indeed, it happened long, long ago in the very system that our government was modeled after: the ancient Roman Republic.
We owe much of our modern democracy to our Roman predecessors, including the idea of representative government, separate legislative and executive branches, and the notion of executive veto power. Two Roman ideas in particular have transcended the ages and ingrained themselves within the American political system: the concept of checks and balances and a profound respect for law and protocol. Both are important elements of a fair and healthy government, but they can also be dangerous if abused.
That’s what happened in Rome. As the city grew increasingly prosperous and the stakes rose, the politically astute realized that the system of checks and balances could be easily exploited—all one needed was one of ten tribunes (a high-ranking legislative official), for example, to veto a bill to defeat it. Moreover, “respect for rules” became a euphemism for exploiting technicalities to get things (or prevent them from being) done. That meant that anyone politically powerful could effectively annul any legislative agenda he didn’t like. But since everyone was doing that, it meant nothing got done.
In light of Ted Cruz’s 21-hour non-filibuster filibuster before the government shutdown, it may be telling to note that it was also in Ancient Rome that the technique of filibuster was first perfected. The original master of the art of filibuster was a prominent conservative politician named Cato the Younger, who was famous for delivering speeches that lasted days to prevent issues from being voted upon. Cato has often been idolized for his principled politics and moral rectitude, but in reality his uncompromising attitude helped bring down the Republic.
There were other problems too, of course. A deepening ideological divide between the Optimates and the Populares, the two reigning political groups at the time, meant that partisanship and bickering were the norm, and cooperation a rarity. As money played a larger and larger role in elections, political alliances calcified and breaking ranks on important votes became more difficult, which further contributed to political gridlock. And as partisanship increased, routine votes and noncontroversial issues were politicized and exploited to harm political opponents—because, after all, it was always the majority faction and executive branch that were blamed for government inefficacy. When politicians start to see politics as a game, everybody loses.
Unfortunately, these problems will appear woefully familiar to the 21st century American. The current political climate is a maelstrom of filibuster, gridlock, deepening ideological differences and widespread public disillusionment that is reminiscent of Rome in the final decades of the Republic. Times change but people don’t—and that’s why the turmoil of our ancestors provides us with an invaluable lesson about our own troubled times.
Cato lived to see his beloved Republic collapse. As tensions rose and civil war loomed, the general Julius Caesar sent one final plea for compromise—one so reasonable that the Senate voted overwhelmingly in favor of it. But Cato, with his principled recalcitrance, exploited a Senatorial technicality to render the vote ineffectual, and no deal was reached. So Caesar crossed the Rubicon, and the rest is history.
We are the Romans of today. Like Rome, we face a battle—not for our safety or our livelihoods, but for the integrity of our system of governance. Rome lost that battle, because it failed to fix what was broken. But we don’t have to.
Part of the solution is adding a political price tag to obstructionist tactics that undermine the system. If politicians know that the public cares more about compromise to ensure a functional government than about Congressmen who are very good at refusing to negotiate, they may be more likely to cooperate for fear of retribution at the polls. A recent Gallup survey shows that public opinion is moving in that direction.
Another issue is tackling the system of campaign financing. Record spending during the last election cycle demonstrates the rising role of money in politics, a phenomenon that makes it more difficult for politicians financially reliant on their party to break ranks for a compromise. Indeed, a summer survey found that 42 percent of U.S. business leaders think that the campaign finance system is entirely broken.
So it’s time to reflect on our current political climate and recognize that we need to fix what’s broken. Because this isn’t the way democracy is supposed to function. In fact, it isn’t even democracy at all—it’s Cato’s Republic all over again.
Geoffrey B. Kristof ’17 is a Crimson editorial comper in Grays Hall.


 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Today, following a half-month congressional stalemate during which Republicans demanded amendments to or an outright repeal of the Affordable Care Act, perhaps the greatest challenge to that law comes not from a Senate filibuster or an impending debt ceiling crisis, but from its own website. Users have reported numerous glitches—associated primarily with registering accounts—after using the much-touted website, which, when functioning properly, would allow consumers to compare and purchase healthcare plans in a virtual marketplace during the enrollment period. Compounding the confusion caused by the glitches, the Obama administration has remained largely silent on the specifics of the malfunction amid congressional probes into the flaws of the nearly $394 million dollar website. This silence is unacceptable and marks a worrying lack of accountability on the part of the administration.
Barring an uncomforting reassurance from President Obama that “no one is madder” than he is about the website’s glitches, the administration—and most prominently Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius—has not only been less-than-forthcoming but has also avoided calls from Republicans to testify before a congressional committee. Instead, officials like Sebelius have defended the website from the sidelines, reaffirming the merits of the healthcare legislation and dismissing the complaints leveled against the ACA website as a worrying but fixable kink in the legislation’s implementation. In doing so, the administration has failed to address a single concern expressed by the ACA’s detractors that the website’s failed launch underlies more serious problems with the healthcare legislation.
This is not to say that we fear that a malfunctioning website will be the bane of comprehensive healthcare reform; nor do we believe that these issues portend disaster for the ACA in the coming months. But it is nevertheless frustrating that after the administration’s continued rhetoric asserting its commitment to the ACA in the face of a congressional Republican challenge, they have allowed website glitches to cast doubt on the policy merits of the legislation. What began as a lamentable technical error has demonstrated a lamentable accountability gap between the Obama administration and the American public.
Although it blundered in failing to address the problem of the website’s glitches head-on, the Obama administration has an opportunity to bridge the accountability gap moving forward. First, the administration must present to the public a plan to fix the website’s glitches (beyond its fragile promise to bring in the “best and brightest”). It must comply with those in Congress who have sought closely-guarded information about the website. And it must, most importantly, ensure that the “online marketplace” delivers on its promise to get people the coverage that they need, whether this means extending the enrollment period or devoting more resources to getting consumers insured by mail and by phone.
On March 31, 2014—the day the enrollment period for 2014 closes—the website glitches will hopefully be a distant memory of an unnecessarily frustrating first month of the online exchange. Hopefully, The Affordable Care Act, together with its vaunted online marketplace, will have succeeded in insuring many Americans. But in the meantime, the Obama administration must address these glaring errors and remain accountable to the American public.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
If the question “What are you being for Halloween?” has you breaking a sweat, then look no further than FM for an answer to your problems. Though the holiday is just a week away, have no fear—this quiz will match you with your perfect Halloween costume. Happy trick-or-treating! Because that’s what college kids do these days, right?
1. Last year for Halloween, you were:
a) A “tiger” (aka you wore animal-print lingerie).
b) Not dressed up. Isn’t that so high school?
c) Britney Spears, post-breakdown. Shaved head and all.
d) A hot Albert Einstein.
2. Your favorite class is:
a) Sexological Theories in the WGS department.
b) Ec10 or CS50 or Gov20 or LS1A – I can’t decide!
c) Your Brain on Drugs: Psychopharmacology.
d) Woman and the Body.
3. The best type of Halloween candy is:
a) Hot Tamales.
b) Nerds.
c) Any candy that’s small, round, and actually a pharmaceutical.
d) Life Savers.
4. Your friends would describe you as:
a) Like, totally hot!
b) Hard working.
c) Actually crazy.
d) Smart and attractive.
5. On Halloween night at 1 a.m., people will find you:
a) Scantily clad, hopping from the Phoenix to the Delphic.
b) Drafting a history paper in Lamont.
c) Twerking on John Harvard.
d) Playing a Bananagrams drinking game.
6. The morning after Halloween at 11 a.m., people will find you:
a) Scantily clad, hopping from the Delphic to your dorm.
b) Still drafting your history paper in Lamont.
c) They won’t.
d) Coffee-fueled at lecture.
7. Your life motto is:
a) Blondes have more fun.
b) Veritas.
c) Can’t stop, won’t stop.
d) Work hard, play hard, wear bunny ears.
8. Your favorite TV show is:
a) Any E! show.
b) Game of Thrones.
c) Skins.
d) Grey’s Anatomy.
9. This year, your friends are dressing up as:
a) What they were last year. Sexy animals.
b) Friends?
c) Life-sized stuffed animals.
d) Seductive defense attorneys.
10. If a Top 100 song were your theme song, it would be:
a) “Young and Beautiful” by Lana Del Rey.
b) “Work B**ch” by Britney Spears.
c) “We Can’t Stop” by Miley Cyrus.
d) “Radioactive” by Imagine Dragons.
Tally up your points: for every a) add 1 point, b) add 2 points, c) add 3 points, and d) add 4 points.
The results:
1-10 points: This year, dress up as every college boy’s dream: a Playboy Bunny! It should be an easy enough outfit to throw together, seeing as you’ll be wearing essentially nothing. Yes, you might freeze your little bunny tail off, but at least you’ll look hot, right?
11-20 points: You’d better just say you’re dressing up as a “Harvard Student.” As a real Harvard student, you obviously don’t have time to bother putting together a costume. Just throw on a sweatshirt emblazoned with the H-bomb and make sure you carry a backpack wherever you go. Maybe you’ll even score some candy from the admiring tourists walking around the Yard.
21-30 points: Congratulations! You’ll be perfect as Miley Cyrus circa 2013 this year. Get an edgy haircut, buy bright lipstick, and wear tight crop tops or body suits. Better yet, just go out completely nude. Extra points if you manage to ride around on a wrecking ball the whole night.
31-40 points: Ah, the Sexy Doctor. Wearing this costume, you’ll be sure to get any Harvard student excited about their pre-med requirements. This is a pretty easy outfit to master—just make sure you've got a stethoscope and notepad. The unflattering white lab coat is optional.
Sections
There is a palpable buzz in Boston this week surrounding the World Series, which will feature the hometown Boston Red Sox versus the St. Louis Cardinals. Here on campus, it’s not hard to guess who we’ll be cheering for. But statistically speaking, which team has the higher chance of winning? FM decided to talk to Carl N. Morris, statistics professor and sports analysis guru.
A member of the Harvard statistics department for 23 years, Professor Morris was introduced to statistics as a child, reading box scores of baseball games in newspapers. Along with teaching statistics, Morris is also the faculty advisor for the Harvard Sports Analysis Collective, a student group devoted to analyzing sports statistics and management. Throughout his time at the University, Morris has worked directly with many students, including Dan Kantrovitz, the current St. Louis Cardinals Director of Scouting, who received his master’s degree from Harvard in 2009.
Morris used an algorithm to determine the odds of each team winning the World Series. He began by visiting betting websites and recording the odds each site placed on the outcome. Most sites favored the Red Sox, with chance of winning ranging from 52 percent to 60 percent. Since each site had different methodologies and agendas in listing certain odds, Morris’s emphasis wasn’t strictly on the betting line.
To supplement the gambling odds, Morris observed each team’s regular season  records. Both teams won 97 games and lost 65, but behind those numbers lies a more telling story. While the teams may have had identical records, they played their games against different opponents. As the Red Sox played the majority of their games against opponents in the American League East—the winningest division in baseball—they had to overcome tougher opponents, in contrast to St. Louis which played in the comparatively weaker National League Central. Due to the srength of the Red Sox’s division, Morris gave them a leg up.
Morris also took into account home-field advantage. Since the American League won the All-Star Game this year, the Red Sox have home-field advantage for the Series, meaning if the best-of-seven series reaches a seventh game, it will be played in Boston. Statistically, Morris asserts that the home team in baseball has a 54 percent chance of winning a game (all else being equal), which once again favors the Red Sox.
After plugging in these numbers into his algorithm before the beginning of the Series, Morris gave the Red Sox a slight edge in the Series, putting their chances of winning at 55 percent.  But because both teams competing in the World Series are talented and pretty evenly matched, Professor Morris says, “I won’t be surprised if either team wins.” Like many of us though, he’ll be cheering for the Sox to win it all.
Sections
A Harvard rower a few days beforehand:
“You don’t understand how scary it is when you walk into the boathouse shower and see a giant Dutch Olympian standing there completely naked.”
 Spectator 1:
“I am 100 percent here for the baked goods. Nothing else.”
Spectator 2:
 “That boat is going so slowly…of course it’s MIT.”
A middle-aged woman:
 “Ooh, look at the men’s heavyweight eights! I love these perfect 19-year-old boys. They are just beautiful.”
 Announcer:
“It seems like today’s meant for tying your favorite sweater around your waist. Am I right? Look at all those sweaters tied around waists.”
 Spectator 3:
“Why does everyone here look like J Crew threw up all over them?”
 Spectator 4:
“The coxswain literally looks like a floating head in that boat.”
Spectator 5:
“I love the screaming and cattiness that ensues when girls’ boats crash into each other. I was hoping for more of that today.”
Sections
One Wednesday morning roughly halfway through my time in Paris, at what should have been the endpoint of your average laundry cycle, I went to open the washing machine and found I could not. The simple one-armed technique I’d usually rely on for such a purpose didn’t seem to be working, so I planted my feet and pulled with both hands. Space was tight in the laverie, and the women at the machines on either side of me quite naturally began to eye me strangely. I looked up and smiled, trying my best to be self-deprecating in a foreign language as I politely explained that it might be just me but it seemed that, well, ça ne marcherait pas. The friendly woman on my right, who looked to be in her mid-thirties and had her straight blonde hair pulled back, smiled back and tried to help. No luck.
Living alone in a foreign place inevitably involves an infinite amount of small trials and triumphs. For me, doing laundry inspired a particularly irrational amount of worry. After stuffing my laundry into a shopping bag, I had to carry it out of my apartment and down seven steep flights of stairs, then around a corner and through the tourists and lunchers lingering in the middle of the Rue de Buci. The duress was not only derived from the physical carrying, but also from the psychological stress of trying to carry off the appearance of competence with something like grace.
There is something quite vulnerable about carrying one’s bedsheets and undergarments through crowded streets, and I was constantly afraid I would embarrass myself by dropping something and having to stoop to pick it up off the street while the fabulous French women on their way to the laverie strutted past me in their heels, effortlessly concealing their lingerie from the masses. I knew I would never succeed at looking French, but I spent most of my time in Paris hoping to diminish my appearance of being totally out of place—my awkward laundry schlep, I was afraid, brought me precariously close to damaging any progress I’d made. By the time I got there, my arrival at the laverie itself was nothing short of triumphant.
Despite my uncalled-for anxiety about the whole process, I had never before had any such technical complications as those I was facing, with all my belongings on this side of the Atlantic literally locked inside a foreign machine. But, as even the French woman could not get the door open, I told myself that this whole situation was probably a result of bad luck and not a reflection of my incompetence, which was some consolation.
In what I interpreted as a good sign in terms of her faith in my French skills but a bad sign in terms of her faith that the door would ever open, the friendly blonde woman suggested that I call the laverie’s help line. Unfortunately, the man on the other end of the line (I imagined him to be some kind of French bureaucrat at the Bureau of Laveries), informed me he would not be able to send anyone to assist me until later that afternoon. Then, a flash of hope, as the kind woman to my right finally pried open the black door. I thanked the bureaucrat for his time and told him that the problem seemed to be resolved. This was wishful thinking at its finest.
Though the cycle had finished, the machine would not open because it was continuously, and for no apparent reason, filling itself with water, gallons of which now poured out onto the floor of the laverie and attracted even more stares, equal parts judgment and pity. This was clearly not something that happened every day, and though I’m still not sure what on earth I could have done to cause it, my fellow laundry-doers’ looks only confirmed my sense that this could only have happened to hopelessly un-Parisian me.
Thankfully, the saintly woman to my right had a plan. She marshaled the help of a somewhat-reluctant dark-haired woman nearby and secured the sympathies of an older gentlewoman who was able to cheer us on with her constant affirmations that what was happening was, indeed, an horreur, ooh là là, but that, as she repeatedly exclaimed, my neighbor’s plan was nothing short of génial! The older woman wore heels and a very Parisian-looking scarf tied perfectly around her neck. I realized with some amazement that while the real and flawless Parisian women whose judgment I’d so feared were here in the laverie watching my every move, only some of them were judging me. Others, particularly these three, were actually on my side. If anyone could help me out of this situation it was going to be them—certainly not the fictitious Bureau of Laundry, and certainly not myself.
The plan involved keeping the door of the machine just open enough for just long enough to pull my clothes out, then flinging them into a wheeled plastic container (a permanent fixture in the laverie whose purpose I had never understood) and shutting the door for good. Careful not to slip on the now-wet tiled floor, we subsequently wrung out each individual item of my clothing over the small plastic container. At one point, the dark-haired woman got frustrated and said something to the effect of “why don’t you know how to wring out clothes more efficiently?” but the kind blonde on my right came to my defense and reminded her that most people in the twenty-first century do not need to wring out their clothes by hand, which even the older woman had to agree with. I was still self-conscious of my clear lack of skill in the realm of clothes-wringing, but I continued to follow the women’s lead and do as I was told, though truthfully they did most of the dirty work.
I have never used the word merci so many times in the space of five minutes as I did then, watching in awe as two complete strangers sorted through my soaking underwear. Maybe the ability to deal with these things calmly, accept help, laugh, and move on, was exactly what I needed to master if I ever hoped to make progress in my quest to look like less of a non-Parisian. The kind woman’s response to my repeated remerciements made the moving on easy to do. What happens in the laverie, she assured me solemnly, stays in the laverie. Everything, that is, but the gallons of water I had to empty into the street.
Amy L. Weiss-Meyer ’15 is a history and literature concentrator in Kirkland House. She does laundry at Harvard more gracefully than she does in France, she promises.
Sections
Ever get the feeling during shopping week that you would be able to pick your classes so much more easily if you could just get a sense of the professor from a hamburger? Us too! Here are your favorite professors as Bartley’s burgers. Put a napkin on, this might get messy.
The Greg Mankiw
 (The guest lecturer) Offered seasonally (parent’s weekend) and every other leap year. Comes with a whole lotta green: lettuce, pickles, and green peppers.
The Micheal Puett
(The burger that will change your life) With lettuce, sauteed tofu, sesame seeds, and no midterm.
The David Malan
(The coolest nerd) Can only be ordered through a corresponding CS50 app, and served free if ordered at 4:00 a.m. during a Hackathon. Comes with chili and sour cream.
The Niall Ferguson
(No apologies, sorry) If ordered with the Barack Obama burger, this burger is topped with Tabasco to make for a heated argument. Otherwise, it comes with English Cheddar, because something something Imperialism makes everything better.
The Michael Sandel
(He’s huge in Japan) With tomatoes, onions or cheese. But you can only choose one, the other toppings will be hit by a train.
The Doug Melton
(Melts-on your tongue) This burger is made from cow stem cells. It costs $300,000 to make, but hey, if we can do it, why not?
The Steven Pinker
(Just like mother used to make) Made with chicken nuggets, fruit roll ups, lunchables, and a neglected childhood. Comes with a free cup, to fill with your tears for drink.
The Greg Nagy
(Our Greek Hero) A lamb burger served with feta cheese, olives, and tzatziki sauce. But if you only know what one of those things are, it’s okay, you get a pass for trying.
The Matthew Kaiser
(Let the juice drip down your chin) Served with plenty of saucy lubricant to help it go down easier. NOTE: this burger is no longer available due to popular demand.
The Amy Hempel
(Get creative!) Maybe you’ll put french fries and guacamole on it. Oh! Or maybe you’ll go with tomatoes and barbeque sauce! The possibilities are endless!
The Dan Gilbert
(As seen on TV) This award winning burger is famous for that one commercial it was in. You can have it with:
A) Swiss Cheese
B) Bacon
C) A and B and somehow F
D) all of the above, but you are going to fail the final anyways.
The Henry Louis Gates Jr.
(W.E.B. dulicious) Comes with lettuce, tomato, onions, and bacon. Goes well with beer from the White House.
Sections
“We went to the different agents & went over all the buildings, Randolph, Claverly, Russell & Westmorely. We saw many rooms but the pick was Westmorely, 1st floor corner, looking on the southwest […] The sitting room is large enough for two desks, & the bedrooms & the bath room light & airy. The ceilings are very high.”' —Franklin Delano Roosevelt in a letter to his parents, January 9, 1900
It cost $450 to rent the two person suite on Westmorely Hall’s first floor in 1900—three times Harvard’s $150 tuition cost. Franklin D. Roosevelt and his roommate Lathrop Brown, both in the Class of 1904, split the cost of their room right down the middle, paying $225.50 before utilities and maintenance for each year they roomed together. They both came to Harvard from Groton and would become roommates in Westmorely’s first floor room, now Adams B-17, from 1900-1904.
Crossing the threshold of Adams B-17 feels like walking into the Gilded Age. Ivory keys move on the player piano in the corner as it twinkles out a happy, Ragtime song, one of over 5,000 pieces the piano can play of its own accord. The curtain strings have tassels, the frames on the walls shine gold; plump cushions dot the couch and the armchairs that recline by the fireplace.
Michael D. Weishan ’86 sits at a desk by the corner window much like Roosevelt’s old one. Rays of sunlight stream through the glass onto his MacBook just as they may have illuminated Roosevelt’s papers and ink pens over a hundred years ago. An Adams House alum who helped spearhead the FDR Suite recreation, Weishan grins as he stands up from his chair and strides across the room to turn off the piano player and begin the tour of Roosevelt’s suite.
A Room Restored
Five years ago, Adams B-17 was just a white-walled, bare-floored dorm room; students lived in the room as recently as 2003. Adams House Masters Judith Palfrey ’67 and Sean Palfrey ’67—who is the great-grandson of Theodore Roosevelt—were the first to initiate an effort to restore the FDR suite to the condition it was in when Roosevelt inhabited it.
2008 saw the formation of the FDR Suite Foundation, a 501(c)3 that formed to expand Roosevelt’s legacy and preserve the historic nature of Adams House. Under the leadership of Weishan and Rev. George Saltzman, the Catholic Chaplain to the Harvard Graduate Schools, the FDR Suite Foundation raised money outside of Harvard’s standard fundraising channels and began working towards the Palfrey’s vision of recreating the suite that Franklin D. Roosevelt once called home.
The Foundation reimagined Roosevelt’s room using a time capsule found in the Harvard Archives that dated back to 1900, the very year that Roosevelt arrived at Harvard. The capsule included letters written by both students and professors from that year as well as photographs of 80 student dormitory rooms. “It’s remarkable because this is the only year when that happened,” says Weishan of the time capsule. “There are no photographs from the decade before, no photographs from the decade after, but for the very year [Roosevelt] came we have about 80 pictures.”
Even though none of the photographs show Roosevelt’s specific room, Weishan was able to take some cues from further historical research to carefully configure a suite similar to what Roosevelt’s may have been like. “It became a kind of obsession,” Weishan says of his drive to recreate the suite.
Weishan arranged to have the common room’s wallpaper recreated for around $20,000 based on a small shard of plaster painted in a faded purple and green pattern that he found behind the radiator. An authentic box that once contained Egyptian Deity cigarettes sits on a side-table—Weishan tracked down the brand after he saw it advertised in copies of The Crimson from Roosevelt’s years in school.
“You can find amazing things but need to know enough to ask the question,” says Weishan, referencing the many hundreds of items he has tracked down in an effort to restore the suite. He was ultimately able to acquire many of the items he was seeking online. “This is the museum that eBay built,” he proclaims.
School for Social Life
Only a quarter of Harvard students lived on campus when Roosevelt was at Harvard, and his “Gold Coast” suite in one of Adams’ most glamorous entryways included central heating, a fireplace, its own bathroom, maid service, breakfast in bed until 11 a.m., a solarium on the roof, and a beautiful pool next door. At this time, Harvard’s student body was almost exclusively white, Protestant men from New England. Beyond these demographics, students fell into one of two groups: the Digs or the Clubmen.
The Digs came to Harvard to study. The Clubmen, on the other hand, typically came from prestigious boarding and day schools, and their wealth enabled them to prioritize socializing, meeting future business partners, contacts, and friends, and, most importantly, finding wives.
Getting a degree was not a priority for the Clubmen—attending Harvard and making connections at the school was enough. As such, Brown maintained a D average while a Harvard student, and Roosevelt bested him only slightly with a C+.
The life of a Harvard Clubman was saturated with entertainment, festivity, and revelry. Weishan motions towards the walls of the common room to show off a poster from the Hasty Pudding production, “Boodle & Co.,” that Roosevelt wrote about in a 1904 letter to his mother, Sara. A frame on the opposing mantlepiece contains a photograph of John the Orangeman, Harvard’s mascot at the turn of the century who sold “fruit”—undercover booze, Weishan mutters—to all of the students in Cambridge.
Because Cambridge was dry at the time, students could not purchase alcohol legally anywhere near campus.In a dry Cambridge, final clubs were essential for buying alcohol covertly and facilitating the social experience for Harvard’s elite students. Clubmen also frequented social events throughout Massachusetts, making a full circuit of debutante dances in the suburbs, attending Saturday evening dance classes at the Somerset Hotel, ice-skating on Fresh Pond, rowing on the Charles, and shooting ducks on weekend hunting trips in Newburyport.
The students’ affinity for hunting is remembered in the FDR suite through the taxidermy animals that stand frozen atop Lathrop’s dresser and the common room piano. Weishan pats the head of a stuffed fox as he walks by.
“Lots of people say this [suite] is a monument to opulence,” Weishan says, swishing his hands as he gazes around the common room, “But we see this as a monument to change.” He pauses. “It is a monument to the Gilded Age, but also to the folly of the gilded age—to how much Harvard has moved on since those years.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following corrections:
CORRECTIONS: Oct. 26, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the class years of Franklin D. Roosevelt and his roommate Lathrop Brow. In fact, both graduated with the Class of 1904. The article also incorrectly stated the Hasty Pudding production featured in the poster about which Roosevelt wrote a letter to his mother. In fact, that poster featured the Hasty Pudding production “Boodle & Co.,” not “Hi-Ka-Ya.” The article also incorrectly stated the year in which Roosevelt wrote that letter to his mother. In fact, he penned the letter in 1904, not 1902.
Sections
In Lamont’s main reading room a student sits in an armchair and brings a small, cylindrical piece of plastic to his mouth. It looks like a cross between a cigarette and a pen, but the tip glows with a bluish LED light. He is smoking indoors. It’s an e-cigarette.
For years smoking inside has seemed like a relic of the past; scenes of people lighting up in hospitals, restaurants, airplanes, and public buildings appear in shows like “Mad Men” but not in real life. Smoking’s undeniable health problems have caused states to ban smoking in many public places, but recent months have brought about a resurgence of public smoking due to a new product: e-cigarettes. Tobacco-free, battery-operated devices that vaporize liquid nicotine for inhalation, e-cigarettes are becoming a trend nationwide—one that may make a dent in the traditional tobacco market and could return public spaces to the Mad Men smoking standard once more.
Gaining Popularity
Though their emergence in the American smoking scene has been recent, non-tobacco cigarettes that served as a safe alternative to smoking were first patented in 1963, before people viewed tobacco as harmful. The idea was only commercialized 40 years later after the dangers of tobacco use were revealed; the Chinese pharmacist Hon Lik was the first to manufacture the product. E-cigarette technology hit the U.S. market in 2007.
In the last few years technological advancements have led to superior battery capacity for e-cigarettes, more effective nicotine delivery, and better flavors—all factors that contributed to the proliferation of e-cigarette technology. The Tobacco Vapor Electronic Cigarette Association estimates that about four million Americans now use battery powered cigarettes, and e-cigarette sales are projected to cross the $1 billion mark by the end of this year.
E-cigarettes are cheaper than a cigarette addiction. The Tobacco Vapor Electronic Cigarette Association estimates that a pack-a-day cigarette addiction costs over $1,000 a year, whereas e-cigarette replacement cartridges are estimated to add up to only around $600 a year.
Originally, e-cigarettes were thought to deliver nicotine ineffectively, but technologies have improved and recently liquid-nicotine cartridges have started to come in a range of strengths so consumers can determine exactly how much nicotine they will take in. Some cartridges do not contain any nicotine at all.
This past summer, a store devoted entirely to e-cigarettes called VapeNY opened in the Lower East Side of Manhattan. “They have almost every flavor you can possibly imagine,” says Archie I .H. Stonehill ’17 who has heard about VapeNY and plans to visit. “It’s like ice cream.”
A Way to Quit
E-cigarettes are often considered a favorable alternative to smoking that can help wean people off of conventional tobacco, but many in the Harvard community believe otherwise.
Dr. Vaughan W. Rees, deputy director of the Center for Global Tobacco Control at the Harvard School of Public Health, researches how tobacco products are designed to produce and promote addictiveness. Rees’s work has been following the e-cigarette trend, and his research suggests that e-cigarettes in their current form are not a viable alternative to cigarette smoking and are not widely effective in helping people quit smoking tobacco cigarettes.
“Compared to conventional cigarettes, e-cigarettes have a lower potential for addiction,” Rees says. Although this may intuitively seem like a plus, Rees suggests quite the opposite.
“When we took conventional smokers and tried to get them to switch to an e-cigarette, none were able to switch completely. The reason is the e-cigarette just doesn’t deliver enough nicotine to a conventional smoker to be a viable replacement,” he says, noting that many smokers needed to keep smoking their conventional cigarette to avoid nicotine withdrawal symptoms.
But Rees still sees potential in the e-cigarette. If the FDA were to require a performance standard on e-cigarettes that made nicotine deliverance comparable to conventional products, Rees argues, then more cigarette smokers would be able to switch to e-cigarettes without any symptoms of withdrawal. The FDA has yet to regulate e-cigarettes, but has issued a notice of intention.
Stonehill began smoking e-cigarettes in addition to conventional tobacco products, as Rees says many smokers do, and the Stonehill believes that e-cigarettes “actually heightened [his smoking] addiction.” When he stopped smoking e-cigarettes he found himself craving a higher quantity of cigarettes.
Peter ’14, who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because of what he perceives to be a negative stigma associated with smoking at Harvard, had a different experience. With the hopes of quitting conventional cigarettes, Peter tried e-cigarettes at the recommendation of a friend and has since transitioned from smoking a half a pack of cigarettes a day to solely using e-cigarettes.
“It’s the most harmless transition ever,” he says. “It’s really nice to still be smoking but feel like I’m making success towards quitting.” Peter plans to start purchasing lower and lower levels of nicotine for his e-cigarette until he is free from nicotine dependence entirely.
Christopher Bullen, an associate professor at the University of Auckland conducted an experiment from 2011 to 2013 to compare the effectiveness of e-cigarettes and traditional tools to quit smoking. In his limited sample size, 7.3 percent of participants given e-cigarettes were able to quit, as compared to 5.8 percent who were given a nicotine patch.
A Way to Start
Rees also acknowledges that e-cigarettes could have the potential to act as a “gateway” drug that would lead non-smokers to try e-cigarettes and then transition to using normal cigarettes. “Now that they see e-cigarettes are a low risk alternative, [people] might actually decide to use those products,” he says. “They run the risk of developing nicotine dependence which might lead to the use of more harmful tobacco products in the future.”
Advertisements for normal cigarettes have been restricted on television and radio, but e-cigarette advertisement is currently legal, which might help convince more people to try e-cigarettes.
Stonehill has observed non-smokers trying e-cigarettes at Harvard, and says that at his high school in London e-cigarettes did act as a gateway to smoking, especially for younger students who he says “didn’t quite have the nerve to actually start smoking yet.” He says that he definitely sees this as a dangerous aspect of e-cigarette use, as smoking e-cigarettes can lead to a nicotine addiction.
Peter did not see e-cigarettes as a gateway to smoking traditional cigarettes. “For non-smokers, e-cigarettes are comparable to something like hookah—I don’t see many people worrying about hookah as a gateway to smoking,” he says.
A Question of Policy
The fact that e-cigarettes release only water vapor and thus eliminate the problem of second-hand smoke begs the question of what the policies toward public e-cigarette smoking should be, both within and outside of Harvard.
Stonehill says that airplanes are the only places he knows of that explicitly ban e-cigarettes. The ability to smoke e-cigarettes in more locations is the primary reason he and his friends smoke them, he says. In his high school, he even smoked in class without his teacher minding. “It was actually hilarious, the teacher would turn around and I’d be blowing smoke rings. It was really enjoyable,” he says.
At Harvard, as the policy stands today, smoking cigarettes is prohibited within 25 feet of any university building, in Harvard Yard, or in the Quad. But students agree that many people do not honor these bans. John ’17, who was ganted anonmiy by The Crimson so that his parents would not learn of his smoking habits, explains, “Everybody smokes in the Yard, no matter what time of day it is. Securitas doesn’t care—they just walk right by you.”
E-cigarettes, which emit only water vapor, open up the possibility of smoking beyod just designated smoking areas on campus—even inside buildings. John says he and his friend both smoked e-cigarettes in Lamont without anyone giving them a problem. Stonehill says he knows some smokers who bought e-cigarettes in preparation for winter, when it will be preferable to smoke inside a dorm or club rather than going outside to smoke.
Chris J. Taylor ’12 is a former member of the now defunct Harvard Institute of Politics Tobacco Control Policy Group. The group researched tobacco related issues on campus and took responsibility for updating the “archaic” smoking policies that had been in place at Harvard, replacing them with the bans that exist today. “We thought it was a little bit odd that Harvard was the place where medical research was done to show that smoking was essentially bad for people, but Harvard was behind in banning smoking on campus,” he says. “We wanted to update the policies to be consistent with other schools.”
Taylor believes that e-cigarettes should be treated on campus in exactly the same way that regular cigarettes are. Even if e-cigarettes do not have the second-hand smoke problem, he still worries about their implications for bystanders, he says. Seeing people smoking, even they are smoking e-cigarettes rather than traditional cigarettes, might encourage others to try. “It still breeds the ground that says this is okay,” he says.
The Cool Factor
Many students observed that there is a stigma associated with smoking cigarettes at Harvard. Students at Harvard have openly told Stonehill that they judge him for smoking, which he says came as a surprise to him because “it’s unusual if you don’t smoke in the UK,” his home.
Humberto J. Juarez ’17, an occasional smoker, concurs that smoking is looked down upon at Harvard even though it is not a big deal in Mexico City, where he’s from.
It is yet to be determined whether the stigma that surrounds cigarette smoking will extend to e-cigarettes as well. Though the “de-normalization” of tobacco use has caused cigarettes to no longer be considered as cool as they were before they were deemed a health concern, e-cigarettes may be different. “E-cigarettes could have the potential to change all of that. They could be seen in a completely different way by a new generation of consumers,” says Rees.
Stonehill believes that people at Harvard are less judgmental towards e-cigarettes.
John believes that though e-cigarettes may be appealing to addicted smokers who want a healthier alternative, for social smokers like himself the indulgent nature of a cigarette cannot be replicated by an e-cigarette. “The reason you smoke a cigarette is because you’re really drunk, and it’s really bad for you,” he says. “If you take the bad part out of the indulgence, it’s not a temptation anymore.”
But as far as the glamour of smoking an e-cigarette compared to a regular cigarette, the jury’s still out. “Cigarettes are so ingrained in part of being a cool cultural icon. Even though people now know that it’s very dangerous and the majority of people don’t smoke, there’s still a sense of, ‘You’re such a bad kid because you smoke, you’re so cool,’” John says. “E-cigarettes, in the way that they’re healthier, kind of take away that sort of bad-boy characteristic of cigarettes.”
Sections
Did you think revealing Halloween costumes were a fad popular only with kids these days? Think again. In this photograph taken on October 28, 1946, senior Anne M. Morgan shows off her costume as a can-can dancer.
Sections
A few days ago, one of my high school friends posted a BuzzFeed article: “36 Life Hacks Every College Student Should Know.” After skipping the tips for readable powerpoint fonts and going right to the section about making snack bowls from chip bags and cooking scrambled eggs in coffee mugs, I found myself clicking through all sorts of suggested articles. There were hacks for DIY manicures, hacks to survive delays at the airport, and even hacks for what to do when you just can’t finish those last three pieces of sushi (for the record, you put each piece in its own disposable soy sauce container). But in all of those articles, there wasn’t a single mention of computers or even technology—let alone a mention of cutting firewood or chopping things into pieces.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the word “hack” was first used around the year 1300, meaning “to cut with heavy blows in an irregular or random fashion…to cut or chop into pieces.” For the next several hundred years, the word didn’t evolve much, or shift in meaning, until 1963 when The Tech (MIT’s student newspaper) assigned the word “hacker”—perhaps a derivation of the WWII term “code cracker”—as a moniker for an unknown group of people that had been using computers to tie up the university phone lines. Although “hack” was not intended to have a negative connotation, it has often referred to those who used technology for malicious purposes; specifically, by gaining unauthorized access to certain computers and online information. However this wasn’t always the case, or the original intention of the word.
“Hacking has a storied history: it connotes the joy of tinkering, of exploration, of learning,” computer science professor Jonathan L. Zittrain wrote in an email. “Confusingly, it’s also come to mean breaking into restricted systems.”
The dual meaning of “hack” soon became a source of conflict within the technical community. While mainstream media uses the word in relation to cyber crimes and information leaks, computer enthusiast focus on the more positive definition. “Ideally negative hacking would earn its own word,” Zittrain said. “But in the meantime, we’re stuck with having to glean from context what someone means when it’s said.”
Although it’s easy to see how “hack” relates to both cyberattacks and computer enthusiasm, it’s a little more difficult to understand how the word came to be used in relation to improvised sushi containers. According to Wikipedia, “life hacks” were first used in the 1980s, and were a series of tricks used to deal with information organization and data overload in technological systems. But it wasn’t until 2004, when technology journalist Danny O’Brien used the term to describe shortcuts taken by IT professionals, that life hacks found widespread use in the non-technological lexicon. “Lifehack” was added to the Oxford Online dictionary in 2011, an informal noun meaning “a strategy adopted in order to manage one’s time in a more efficient way.”
So after efficiently scrolling through countless articles, I learned how to fix a broken nail with a teabag, find shorter lines at the airport, and fit all of my winter sweaters in a single drawer. And although these hacks take place in the real world they necessitate cleverness and innovation just like cyber hacks, just like chopping wood.
BY DEV A. PATEL AND SAMUEL Y. WEINSTOCK
A high school student submits an application to Harvard. An undergraduate at the College receives a prescription from Mental Health Services. A professor collects data on nuclear power for a research project funded by the Department of Energy. All of this information is recorded electronically and stored on Harvard University's computers and servers.
From Social Security numbers to health records to research, countless pieces of information valuable to faculty and the student body get stored in Harvard's computer system.
This very system undergoes a barrage of cyberattacks every single day.
What makes Harvard's technology infrastructure so appealing to hackers is not simply the information that passes through the system. If effectively breached, Harvard's servers are powerful enough to be used as a weapon against other cyber systems, can be repurposed to store outsiders' sometimes illegal data, and can be destabilized to shut down crucial components of the University's operations. And of course, if a hacker is simply looking to embarrass an American institution that is both powerful and prestigious, Harvard certainly fits the bill.
The types, targets, and sources of assaults on the University's system remain unclear, but one fact is certain: They are relentless.
“We're seeing things in the tens of thousands a day,” said Christian Hamer, Harvard University IT Department's chief information security officer.
What exactly those “things” are, and how many tens of thousands of them occur, are facts shrouded in mystery, as are many components of the University's apparatus for defending against them.
And while governments and corporations alike experience similar cyber threats, universities like Harvard face a unique test: how to balance an academic mission demanding an unfettered flow of information with the need to protect valuable data and computer systems. As the problem of internet attacks grows more formidable, the University will have to decide where to draw the line between securing the system and preserving an open campus.
One morning in September 2011, as high school seniors began thinking about their college plans, visitors to Harvard's website were greeted not with images of professors or students participating in community service projects, but rather a photograph of Syria's President Bashar al-Assad. The Syrian Electronic Army, a group of hackers that has gained notoriety by defacing prominent websites to show support for the Syrian government, had altered the University's website, so that it read “Syrian Electronic Army Were Here,” and displayed al-Assad's image.
While this particular incident may be no more than a minor embarrassment, it's a reminder of the constant attacks on the Harvard technology system, the number of which has been skyrocketing in recent years.
The first computer worm, created by a Cornell student and released from MIT in 1988, caused
                        thousands of dollars in damage and shocked the high-tech world. Twenty-five years later, the quantity and sophistication of cyberattacks have grown beyond anyone's imagination. As cyberwarfare extends from shutting down stock markets to destroying nuclear facilities, few of society's institutions have escaped the wrath of hackers around the world. Universities are no exception.
“The fact is that today versus 10 years ago, we are so much more connected, we are so much more networked, we have so many more assets in cyberspace communicating, moving, talking to each other, creating trails… They are vectors of engagement, of exchange, of commerce, and of exploitation and attack,” said Zachary Tumin, who manages a project on technology, security, and conflict in the cyberage at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.
Harvard has twice reported breaches of cybersecurity in recent years, both of which could have resulted in leaks of very sensitive personal information. In March 2008, an unauthorized person accessed a Graduate School of Arts and Sciences website that contained applicants' personal information, including Social Security numbers and test scores. Later that year, client data from a law school clinic was misplaced. The University was required by law in each instance to send a letter detailing the breach to the Office of the Attorney General of Massachusetts.
Though Harvard officials say their electronic systems are assaulted relentlessly, in the past decade just a handful of those attacks have been publicly acknowledged by the University or reported by mainstream media outlets.
Admitted leaks of personal information at Harvard have flown relatively under the radar, unlike some other American universities that have made national news after experiencing similar but perhaps larger data breaches. In July, an attack believed to originate overseas breached Stanford University's information systems, prompting administrators to ask all users of Stanford's networks to change their passwords. Emory University issued a similar directive in August after disks containing health records of 315,000 patients were misplaced. In both instances, university officials said that they did not think personal information had fallen into the wrong hands—but remarked that they could not be sure.
These recent incidents dragged the threat of cyberattacks from the depths of server rooms and IT Offices into the public eye.
“[Universities are] handling, developing, creating intellectual property that is potentially valuable,” said Ryan Ellis, a research fellow with the Belfer Center's project on technology, security and conflict in the cyber age. “They're handling health records and personally-identifiable information that we want protected.”
Tumin, who has held various technologyrelated positions in wide-ranging fields such as criminal justice, education, and financial services, has witnessed this rise in cyberattacks first-hand. “It's a new fact of life for us,” he concluded.
Hamer of HUIT agreed that cybersecurity presents a growing problem. “I think the most important thing about that is that it is certainly rising over time,” he said, while noting that cyberattacks had always been an issue of concern.
While Hamer declined to comment on the specific number of attacks that HUIT discovers, computer science professor J. Gregory Morrisett said that some of them—perhaps the most dangerous—could fly under even the IT Department's radar.
“That's what scares me,” Morrisett said. “The really smart attackers break into your system, own your machine, but don't let you know it.”
Rodney Petersen, director of the cybersecurity program at Educause, an IT-focused collaboration of schools and companies, said that the apparent escalation in attacks could be due, in part, to an enhanced ability to detect them.
“We have to be a little cautious to report what more attempts to access systems means,” Petersen said. “The reality is, we've changed our ability to monitor and detect those [attacks].”
Still, Hamer concedes that while detection capabilities have improved, the number of attacks is undeniably on the rise. “I think that some of the characteristics of the attackers may have changed and evolved over time,” he continued. “And certainly the tools have evolved, and I think that's a contributor to the increasing number [of attacks]. I think [those tools] are more accessible and available to people.”
Hamer and other Information technology experts interviewed for this story noted that unwanted intrusions into servers, computers, and websites could be divided into very different categories—some far more dangerous than others. Some attacks are designed to disrupt computer systems, some steal information, and some, such as the incident masterminded by the Syrian Electronic Army, simply adjust the content of websites to make a political statement or embarrass a target.
Lucas Kello, a fellow with the same Belfer Center project as Tumin and Ellis, said that the type of web defacement such as the Syrian Electronic Army intrusion signified “a very low-spectrum example of this attack,” particularly in comparison with cyberexploitation that involves stealing privileged information from a computer system.
“It's really kind of across the board: people just looking to send spam, people looking to compromise servers to send spam or to host malware, and sometimes people after specific information,” Hamer said, referring to the various kinds of attacks.
Though he refused to detail specific targets of the attacks, Hamer admitted that some intrusions have been successful. “We certainly have seen servers be compromised, and I think that's about as far as we can get into that,” he said.
Not only do these attacks come in a variety of forms with a range of intended effects, but also the parties responsible for launching the assaults are largely a mystery.
While media outlets have suggested that many of these attacks originate in China, Hamer remained cautious about implicating any particular country due to the difficulty of identifying perpetrators and the ease with which one user can pose as another. “The most sophisticated people are really good at that kind of thing, so it's a little hard to tell exactly where they're coming from,” he said.
Whether or not critical information has been taken from Harvard, people have undoubtedly tried. The goals of cyberattacks here vary as widely as their origins: stealing Social Security numbers, to hijacking Harvard's massive servers and bandwidth, to accessing research that could one day yield lucrative patents.
On the bustling, colorful streets of Harvard Square, the offices above Bank of America on Mass. Ave. are remarkably nondescript. With not a marker in sight other than the 1414 above the door, you have to know where you're going in order to end up there. But though HUIT's office lacks the grandeur typical of Harvard's campus, what goes on inside is nothing short of vital to Harvard's operations.
Of HUIT's 600 full time employees, 11 work within its information security department. Hamer and his team are assigned to secure information systems in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Harvard's central administration, and the Medical School, Dental School, and Divinity School, said HUIT spokesperson Kevin Donovan. The University's other schools handle their own IT security.
In the complex and covert world of hacking, with little information known about the hackers themselves and what they're after, it seems fitting that the University's security force is also an enigma. Hamer refused to give specifics on virtually any aspect of the University's cyberdefenses.
Some basic facts are clear. As the role of technology has rapidly evolved on Harvard's campus in recent years, the University has moved toward a centralization of its information technology. In 2011, FAS IT and University Information Systems combined to form HUIT. Since then, services at some schools, such as the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, have shifted to the central office. Still, there are a multitude of technology services groups across the University, and Harvard's size and segmentation may make fending off cyberattacks more difficult.
“Harvard has tried to make more of a push towards [centralization] with the formation of HUIT, but there are so many different systems and so many different administrators,” Morrisett said. “So there's going to be a lot more success for attacks in this environment.”
Beyond the University's sheer size and expanse, perhaps the greatest threat to security comes in the form of countless laptops and other devices connected to the network 24 hours per day, seven days per week, by students, faculty and staff. Every time a student connects to the Harvard University wireless network, he creates a pathway into Harvard's system, one that could be potentially exploited by a hacker.
“I'm more worried about the average student and average faculty staff member's machine, which isn't controlled by some central IT group,” Morrisett said.
In an attempt to plug the potential holes created by thousands of individual devices on Harvard's network, HUIT distributes advice on how to keep personal computers free from intrusions.
“Whether that's having strong passwords, keeping their operating systems and software up to date, making sure they avoid suspicious websites, emails, [and] links… I think those are really the most important things that the community can do,” Hamer said.
Although Harvard's information technology resources make the University's security systems among the top in the higher education sector, the effectiveness of these precautions and safeguards are effective remains unclear. The rapidly evolving field of cybersecurity, and the strong economic incentive driving increasingly-advanced attacks, create even tougher foes for Hamer and his team.
Morrisett offers a candid assessment of Harvard's ability to protect its computers. “It's a losing game in the long run, because the malware never goes away, and there are still versions of viruses from 15 years ago floating around that you have to protect against,” he said. “And the attackers get more clever about crafting the attacks so that they're not easily recognized by simple scanning.”
Some targets within the University are both more coveted and more protected than others. And in some cases, defending data is required by law. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), and the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) of 1974, contain strict requirements about securing health records and student records, respectively. Experts explained that health, student, and financial records—which can be kept under lock and key far more easily than a professor's research, for example—are generally safe.
“Things on that administrative side are pretty well secured,” Morrisett said. “Harvard would have a lot to lose in terms of face if it leaked information about [students], and there are federal laws and so forth to abide by.”
Petersen, the cybersecurity expert at Educase, said that universities are learning to separate data that most requires protection.
                        “First and foremost, institutions have begun to think seriously about the type of data that they need to protect,” Petersen said. “There are a lot of measures on campus to try to improve information security. I'm not entirely discouraged that we can't keep up.”
Along with securing personal information about students and faculty, HUIT must combat illegal uses of its technological infrastructure. In some cases, federal law enforcement can assist in that effort, especially when attacks might have some serious criminal element.
“We collaborate with them when we need to,” Hamer said, but declined to elaborate on the nature or frequency of that collaboration.
                        Morrisett said that the Federal Bureau of Investigation might be involved were a Harvard computer or server to be taken over and used for illegal activities. He recalled a specific instance where an old SEAS system had been taken over by intruders and used to store illegal files.
“There are a few things—child porn is a good example—where law enforcement would be called in right away, and a concerted effort would be made to identify who the perpetrators are and ideally trace it back to the originators,” Morrisett said.
The idea of Harvard's servers being used to store child porn might surprise the average student, but the servers' capacity to store huge amounts of data makes them ideal for such illicit purposes.
In the past 10 years, the FBI has angled for an increased presence in computer security among higher education institutions. Bureau Director Robert Mueller created the National Security Higher Education Advisory Board in 2005 to facilitate partnerships between law enforcement and universities. The FBI did not return repeated requests for comment on this story.
Despite the FBI's occasional involvement, Harvard must fend for itself when it comes to most threats. The distinction between academic research intended to be published and administrative data concerning individuals—which might even be legally protected—creates tensions between cybersecurity and open access.
Unlike the government or a typical privatesector company, Harvard's interest in fostering an open, educational environment make HUIT's job even more tricky to navigate.
Sitting in his second-floor office of the Maxwell Dworkin building, in the heart of Harvard's School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Morrisett pointed across his office to the large Apple computer sitting on his desk.
“It could get hacked, I'm sure, pretty easily,” said the chair of the Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences Standing Committee on IT, who is also a member of Microsoft's Research Technical Advisory Board, as well as the Intel/Berkeley Science and Technology Center for Secure Computing Advising Board.
Morrisett, perhaps unsurpassed in cyber-security expertise at Harvard, recognized “the futility of modern firewalls and other kinds of border defenses.” He noted that a hypothetical targeted attack by the Chinese or the National Security Agency, for instance, could easily access his machine.
Unlike a typical corporation, where management can impose top-down regulations on computer security, Harvard must grapple with the University's professed dedication to—and faculty's insistence on—an open flow of information.
“HUIT must contend with the fact that a university is meant to be a fundamentally open place, and a churn of new students and community members coming in, along with the mismatch of paranoid security practices (such as special twofactor security keys) to that openness, means that
                        the University must strike balances that private sector companies need not worry about as much,” Harvard Law School professor Jonathan L. Zittrain wrote in an email.
According to Morrisett, this distinction signifies one of the key differences between Harvard's fight against cyberattacks and that of private sector companies. While a business executive might be unable to access company data from home or abroad, professors generally have free reign over where and how they interact with their research.
“We're open as much as we can be,” Morrisett said. “The whole idea is to make information available. And so we can't afford to put everything behind a big giant firewall and impose dramatic security conditions....It just wouldn't work.”
Hamer agreed, saying that HUIT keeps those principles in mind. “In some corporate environments, it's easy to be very controls-focused and come up with a big list of things that people are not supposed to do,” he said. “That's not something that works well here, nor should it. It means we have to be more collaborative with folks and work with them and look at this as a shared responsibility.”
The very nature of a university requires that control over information cannot be exclusive to one office, or even the entire administration. “I don't believe there is any one person who brings the hammer down and says this is how we are going to do business,” Tumin said. “A university is essentially comprised of a faculty of scholars who must be involved in these kinds of deliberation.”
In many ways, Harvard's open research philosophy of publication means that professors are less worried about cyberattacks that target research, particularly given the security measures already taken—however basic they may be.
“We are mostly interested in sharing our data, so we're not actually concerned about information being taken,” astronomy professor Charles R. Alcock said. “There is some concern over someone going in there and corrupting the data. As long as there is good or even reasonable firewall protection, we feel fairly secure.”
Mitzi I. Kuroda, a professor at Harvard School of Public Health, said that she had never considered the possibility of an outside attacker breaking into her computer and accessing her research data.
“I guess it never really occurred to me that someone could make enough out of what we have in all of our files to reconstruct something useful,” she said. “So far we feel safe. In basic research, it hasn't been a big issue for us.”
The existing security precautions taken by Harvard's administrators interfere very little with the user experience, according to several professors. “Cybersecurity has not actually been much of an impediment to our research,” said Alcock, who frequently uses large data sets accessed online. “The ordinary institutional protections are adequate for our needs and have not really gotten in our way.”
Yet this lack of intense security oversight by the administration may leave individual computers more susceptible to attacks from the outside world. According to Morrisett, “Universities are target-rich environments because they're not so locked down and a lot of students' [computers] can be owned rather surreptitiously, and that leads to a problem.”
Given the decentralization of Harvard's information technology, Hamer said that individual community members must work together to protect the system. “Theres no one technical control or big thing we can throw at it; we all have to work on it together,“ Hamer said.
As attacks become more sophisticated, however, HUIT may be forced to implement more rigorous security measures to protect the entire system from the vulnerabilities of a single computer. Any step taken to combat potential attacks must be weighed in the context of Harvard's greater mission as an institution of higher education.
“This place should be open, and if security's getting in the way of me teaching, or you guys studying or doing whatever you want, then it's bad,” Morrisett said. “And I worry that we're swinging too much towards taking bureaucratic steps for compliance that don't really address real problems and yet get in the way of usability of the systems.”
—Staff writer Dev A. Patel can be reached at dev.patel@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @dev_a_patel.
—Staff writer Samuel Y. Weinstock can be reached at weinstock@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @syweinstock.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The second of two open meetings for the University’s electronic communication policy task force drew few attendees and fewer comments for the task force’s leader, Harvard Law School professor David J. Barron ’89.
A dozen people attended the forum, which was held in the Science Center on Wednesday afternoon.
Barron, who led the meeting, spent the majority of the time explaining the task force’s genesis, purpose, and method, before taking largely logistical questions from the audience. After several were asked and answered, Barron ended what was supposed to be a one-hour meeting around 15 minutes early, when no one in the room had anything else to say.
The content of Barron’s comments mirrored those from the first task force forum, which took place at the Medical School in Harvard’s Longwood Campus on Oct. 9. That event drew more than twice as many attendees as Wednesday’s.
The task force, a group of 14 professors and administrators from across the University, was commissioned by University President Drew G. Faust in May, with Barron, a former Crimson president, at its helm. Its creation followed national media scrutiny of Harvard’s email privacy policies after the Boston Globe reported that administrators searched the email accounts of resident deans last fall in relation to the Government 1310 cheating scandal.
The task force expects to submit recommendations to Faust by the end of January. 
In explaining the task force’s goal, Barron noted that that it concerned not only email, but any electronic communication that administrators could potentially access--a hard question to answer, he said, for any large organization.
“The main issue is... what kind of rules should there be to regulate when such access, if ever, can be attained,” he said.
He listed three examples of instances where such access would likely be appropriate: legal impetus in the case of a subpoena, the preservation of cybersecurity in the event of a data breach or compromised system, and the retrieval of information necessary for the functioning of an office if its owner leaves or becomes disabled in some way.
He added that a University is unique in that contains “really almost every type of imaginable human interaction,” which complicates the creation of policies governing access to electronic communication.
Responding to a question about the individuals who would facilitate access to communications, Barron commended Harvard’s information technology staff, saying that they were partly the reason that there are not controversies about email privacy all the time.
“I think in many instances the task force has been quite impressed by the way things are operating,” Barron said. “We have a very professional IT staff.”
In his explanation of the task force’s work, Barron said that the open forums were only one piece of the group’s outreach efforts.
He pointed to an online discussion board where members of the Harvard community can post suggestions. That website only showed one comment early Thursday morning.
—Staff writer Samuel Y. Weinstock can be reached at weinstock@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @syweinstock.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Six days after the conclusion of a weeklong shutdown of the United States government, former mayor of Los Angeles Antonio R. Villaraigosa spoke about the power of local political institutions to bring about effective and efficient change.
Villaraigosa, one of this year’s visiting fellows at the Institute of Politics, spoke Wednesday night in Kirkland’s senior common room as part of the “Conversations with Kirkland” series. The former mayor detailed his experiences in politics and answered questions posed by Kirkland House residents and other undergraduates in attendance.
“Cities are able to get things done, and mayors in particular do not act as partisans,” said IOP Fellows and Study Groups Programs Director Eric R. Andersen, explaining why he felt that Villaraigosa would be an inspiring speaker. “That resonates with students who are tired of government bickering.”
The former mayor of Los Angeles recalled the opposition he faced when trying to pass environmental reforms that would move the state away from coal dependency.
“There was a lot of pushback, but we just moved forward,” said Villaraigosa. “I didn’t blink. I didn’t let the cacophony of criticism or the editorials get in the way. I just said that we’re going to do it.”
The Democratic mayor also noted points in his career when he opposed members of his own party, such as when he pushed to establish charter schools to ameliorate overcrowding in public schools. At the time, Villaraigosa, who first entered politics through union organizing, spoke out against the powerful California teachers’ unions.
“I said, ‘Hey, you want more money—you have to show you that you’re doing more with the money,’” Villaraigosa said. “I feel very strongly that you’ve got to fund our schools, but you have to tie funding to success and accountability.”
The former mayor also spoke of breaking with the others in his party on immigration issues.
“There were a lot of Democrats voting for a wall,” Villaraigosa said. “While they were voting for that wall I went to Mexico and I said, ‘We don’t need walls, we need bridges.’”
Ken Liu ’14, visiting fellows student coordinator at the IOP and an L.A. native., said that he sees Villaraigosa as an inspirational figure in politics.
“For me, it’s incredibly exciting that this is someone I grew up admiring and seeing on TV,” Liu explained. “At Harvard, his energy and passion have been infectious.”
Villaraigosa’s fall fellowship will conclude on Friday, after which he will join Edelman, the world’s largest public relations firm, as a senior advisor.
At last night’s event, the former mayor shared an anecdote that exemplified his refusal to back down from a challenge. Villaraigosa said that every morning before his son left for school, he would ask him “Do you believe in you?”—a ritual his son found “corny.”
One day, when his son left the house without answering, Villaraigosa caught up to him and shouted out the question in front of the teenager’s friends.
“After that, he always answered right away,” Villaraigosa said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
According to a newly published study by economics professor Gary Chamberlain, having higher quality teachers in elementary and middle school predicts an increase in students’ college attendance and income.
“This study definitely offers suggestive evidence, certainly in a predictive sense, that teacher quality matters,” Chamberlain said in an interview with the Harvard Gazette, the University’s official news publication.
“What we’re trying to do is put numbers on the variation in teacher quality and how large an effect it has on test score outcomes, and later outcomes, like college attendance and income.”
According to Chamberlain, existing empirical evidence does not provide strong evidence for the effect of measured characteristics of teachers—such as their experience, education, test scores—in the determination of students’ academic strength.
In order to measure the importance of unmeasured characteristics, Chamberlain’s research focused on outcomes for multiple elementary and middle classrooms with the same teacher. He compared the average reading and math scores students received near the end of the school year with the fraction of the class attending college at age 20 and the average earnings of the class at age 28.
Using test score data as a proxy for teaching quality, Chamberlain found that a one standard deviation increase in teaching quality predicts a minimum 0.13 percent increase in college attendance.
When using college attendance to measure teacher quality, a one standard deviation increase in teacher quality predicts a minimum 0.79 percent increase in college attendance—a “large” effect, according to Chamberlain.
Chamberlain’s research also showed that students who had higher quality teachers earned approximately 200 dollars more per year—an increase of approximately 1 percent.
Chamberlain acknowledged, however, that many questions still need to be answered, including the effectiveness of different teaching methods, the effectiveness of different ways of training teachers, and the importance of the content and organization of teachers’ curricula.
“By observing a teacher in multiple classrooms, with data on student backgrounds before the class and outcomes after the class, I can make inferences on how much of the output variation is due to variation in teacher quality,” Chamberlain wrote in an email to The Crimson.
“But then one wants to try to measure the speciﬁc inputs that matter.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Scientists from Harvard and Yale came together to achieve what was once thought impossible: to fundamentally transform the identity and properties of an organism by re-coding its genome.
According to the study published this month in the journal Science, the scientists successfully developed a new genome for E. coli bacterium. By changing its genetic code, the scientists were able to incorporate non-standard amino acids, the building blocks of proteins, which allows for new and useful biological functions.
“This is the first time that a cellular genome has been designed and built in order to change the functioning of that cell,” said George M. Church, a Harvard Medical School professor who co-authored the study. “We did this in a cell that is considered very industrially useful.”
Marc J. Lajoie, a graduate student at HMS, added that the goal was to “create a new language that no natural organism or virus speaks.”
“We also want this new language to be better than the natural genetic code by adding new amino acids possessing useful properties,” he said.
To facilitate the creation of these organisms, Lajoie said that the group developed two new technologies that were capable of increasing the frequency of change in living cells and inducing the trading of genes.
After nearly a decade of method development, the project finally came to fruition. In creating such recoded organisms, researchers now have access to potent protein factories that may be useful in a myriad of settings.
“There has been a big push in synthetic biology to create organisms that can churn out biofuels and materials for industrial applications,” said Alexis Rovner, a graduate student at Yale University. “We need to expand the synthetic biologist’s toolbox.”
Church also mentioned such real-world implications can help to stabilize therapeutic proteins in human blood and develop mice strains resistant to viruses to make studies more productive.
Besides these applications, the researchers said that the ability to change the genetic code provides them with the opportunity to explore why most organisms share a common genetic code and how this code has evolved and can continue to evolve.
“From plants to humans, the language of the genetic code is universal,” Rovner said. “For the first time, we’ve changed that language”.
—Staff writer Fatima N. Mirza can be reached at fatima.mirza@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @fatimanmirza.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A committee has been convened to formally review the position of the resident dean, continuing a conversation about the dean’s role in Harvard’s administrative hierarchy that was reignited by last spring’s email search scandal.
Appointed by Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith this past summer, the committee will examine the deans’ “distribution of academic and administrative responsibilities, criteria for review and reappointment, and opportunities for training and professional development,” according to Nina Zipser, dean for faculty affairs and planning.
The committee will make recommendations to the Dean of the College, Zipser wrote in an email, although there is not a “specific timetable” for delivering those recommendations, according to FAS spokesperson Jeff Neal.
The review of the position comes months after news broke in March that administrators had secretly searched the administrative email accounts of the resident deans in connection with the Government 1310 cheating scandal. The revelations sparked controversy that was escalated in April when then-Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds announced that she had also searched the faculty email account of a single resident dean without Smith’s permission, breaking faculty email privacy policy.
In the wake of these revelations, administrators did not immediately clarify whether or not the deans are considered members of the faculty and fall under the FAS email privacy policy. Sharon Howell, the Adams House resident dean currently on sabbatical, said at the time that the deans are indeed faculty, a fact that was eventually acknowledged by Smith and Hammonds.
In an interview Wednesday, Sean Palfrey ’67, co-master of Adams House, suggested that last year’s email searches contributed to the decision to review the resident dean position. Neal did not confirm or deny that the committee was created in response to the searches, writing in an email that “the committee was formed because Dean Smith wanted answers to a number of questions,” citing the review areas named by Zipser.
As the committee moves forward with its work, it plans to consult with College administrators and House masters, Zipser wrote. The committee will also meet individually with resident deans, whose perspectives she called “vital to this process.”
The review coincides with transition in University Hall.
Interim Dean of the College Donald H. Pfister was appointed in July after Hammonds stepped down–some community members have said as a result of the scandal, though she has denied that claim–and Pfister has said he will serve in the role for no more than a year.
Palfrey questioned the review’s timing in light of the lack of a permanent College dean.
“I’m not entirely sure that it’s wise in terms of the timing, in that I would like the incoming dean to be a part of that conversation,” Palfrey said.
Palfrey said that administrators have been having a conversation about the proper role of the resident dean for years. Most recently, in 2009, the Committee to Review the Ad Board issued a report recommending a number of changes to the position, several of which were enacted as policy. Resident deans now have extended term limits and report directly to the Dean of the College, among other changes to the role. Resident deans also currently act as advisers in the Houses, sit on the Administrative Board, and teach academic courses, among other responsibilities.
–Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When the first batch of Schwarzman Scholars arrive at Tsinghua University in Beijing in 2016, any Harvard students among them might find their residential life strikingly familiar.
Designs for Schwarzman College’s forum were modeled after the Harvard Kennedy School’s John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum, and the program’s housing system is based off of the executive education residences at Harvard Business School.
Program Founder and Chairman and CEO of Blackstone Group Stephen A. Schwarzman, who himself graduated from the Business School in 1972, said that he envisions the program as comparable to the Rhodes Scholarship. Development for the scholarship started in 2010 and since then, Schwarzman has given $100 million of his own money to the program, which has also raised an additional $160 million in donations.
Schwarzman said that when the program opens its admissions in fall 2015, he hopes students like those at Harvard rank among its applicants.
“What we’re trying to do is take the best parts of Western education and bring them over to China so that a Harvard student would feel totally comfortable with the teaching style and the content at one of the world’s best universities,” said Schwarzman.
The groundbreaking for what will be Schwarzman Scholars’ campus took place Wednesday evening—the morning of Oct. 24 in China.
Two HBS professors, William C. Kirby and F. Warren McFarlan ’59, currently serve on the Academic Advisory Council of the program and are working on its design with education experts from around the world. Kirby, a former dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, said that among the Schwarzman Scholars’many goals is the enhancement intercultural understanding, primarily between China and the Western world.
“The program offers students from Harvard and other American and international universities a unique opportunity for an intensive experience in one of the world’s most dynamic societies,” he wrote in an email.
Schwarzman described the program as relevant to Harvard students because they typically develop into leaders within their fields on both a national and global level.
“Those are the type of people that I think are important to interest in China,” he said. “The world that they are going to live in for the next 70 years of their lives is going to be dramatically impacted by what happens in China.”
According to Christine Anderson, a senior vice president at Blackstone, the scholarship hopes to draw 45 percent of its students from the United States, 20 percent from China, and the remaining 35 percent from other leading economies from around the world. Schwarzman College courses will be taught in English and spread across three disciplines: Economics and Business, International Relations, and Public Policy. The program plans to add Engineering in the future.
Anderson said that the extent of China and the United States’s relationship adds to the importance of the scholarship.
“If both nations don’t learn how to interact with each other there could be grave consequences and greater instability down the road,” said Anderson. “A lot of students who are going to be in business, politics or other fields will intuitively understand that they need to understand China better.”
—Staff Writer Indrani G. Das. can be reached at indrani.das@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @IndraniGDas.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Oct. 26, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the monetary amount that the Schwarzman Scholars program has amassed in donations. In fact, that number is $160 million, not $156 million.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
Amid the 16-day government shutdown involving the Affordable Care Act, lecturers in public policy at Harvard Kennedy School, Sheila P. Burke and Elaine C. Kamarck, released a research paper last week suggesting that the long-term success of the ACA is highly dependent on the statewide programs established in accordance with the law.
 
“While there is no doubt that there will be many news reports related to early successes or failures, these authors emphasize that the most important metrics and outcomes will focus on the long-term implementation of the ACA and its effects on individuals, businesses, and public finances,” wrote Howard P. Forman, public health professor at the Yale School of Management, in an e-mail to The Crimson.
 
Both co-authors bring their past political experience to the table; Burke served as the Chief of Staff to former Senate majority leader Bob Dole, while Kamarck was one of the founders of the New Democrat movement that helped elect President Bill Clinton.
 
In their paper, Burke and Kamarck identify eight “key benchmarks” against which the long-term effectiveness of the ACA may be assessed. These points include the number of uninsured Americans, the cost of premiums on the exchanges and on the private market, and the number of people who are penalized for not having insurance.
 
In addition to providing a framework for judging the ACA, the authors of the paper summarized the political environment surrounding the newly implemented legislation.
 
Now that the ACA has taken effect, the states have to decide whether to create an insurance exchange for individuals and small business or to leave the work to the federal government, a decision Burke and Kamarck found to be “overwhelmingly partisan.”
 
Out of the 30 Republican governors currently in office, 24 have declined to set up an exchange, while 2 have opted for “partnerships”--health care exchanges run jointly by federal and state governments. By contrast, 13 of the 20 Democratic governors have decided to set up exchanges, and 5 have decided to set up partnerships.
 
States will also need to decide whether or not to expand Medicaid coverage, according to last summer’s Supreme Court ruling on the legislation.
 
“The law essentially provided for an expansion of the Medicaid program up to 133 percent of the poverty line. The perception at the time of passage is that all states would eventually expand…[but] the Supreme Court left it to the states,” Burke said.
 
In their paper, Burke and Kamarck found the decisions regarding Medicaid expansion to be “less partisan” than the exchange decisions. Nevertheless, the majority of Democratic governors have decided to expand the program, while the majority of Republican governors have decided against expansion, or are expected to do so.
 
Compared with previous health care legislations, Burke thinks that the especially bitter controversy generated by the ACA reflects a deeper political divide over the role of the federal government.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“If you and I met…you’d never guess my secret: that as a young woman I fell in love with and married a man who beat me regularly and nearly killed me,” wrote Leslie Morgan Steiner ’87, in her memoir “Crazy Love.”
Steiner,  a businesswoman, author, and journalist, discussed her experience with domestic violence with Harvard community members on Tuesday evening.
The event, “From the Ivy League to a Gun at My Head: Demystifying Domestic Violence Stereotypes,” is part of Harvard’s second-ever Sex Week, a series of programs that, according to its website, seek “to promote a holistic understanding of sex and sexuality” at Harvard.
After graduating from Harvard, Steiner worked as a journalist in New York City, where she met and fell in love with the man who would become her abuser, she said during the discussion.
“This man made me feel like I was the most special person on earth,” Steiner said, reflecting on the early stages of the relationship. “It felt great. It also created this illusion that I was in control of the relationship.”
Upon moving with him to a rural area, Steiner said that he began to assault her physically and psychologically. A particularly traumatizing fight, which occurred after the couple began attending the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, motivated her to finally leave the relationship.
After sharing her story, Steiner fielded questions from the audience, which ranged in topic from inquiries regarding her experience to requests for personal advice.
Steiner said that while there has been culture-wide progress in regard to domestic violence, society still has a long way to go.
“We have a lot of support for domestic violence victims—we have hotlines, shelters, and lot of money that goes towards training,” she said. “But, in some ways, we have a very surface awareness…[there are a lot of] really-well intentioned people who don’t know anything about how complicated domestic violence is.”
She pointed to the requirement in some states that health care professionals ask patients if they are being abused as an example.
“Quite often, you go to the emergency room or doctor’s office with your partner.… There’s nobody who is going to look at their abuser and say, ‘[they] are abusing me,’” Steiner said.
Among those who attended the discussion was Noel G. de Sa e Silva ’16, who said he knew very little about domestic violence until he came to Harvard.
“More people need to come to events like this. More people need to be aware,” Silva said. “[At Harvard] people believe that they are more sheltered, but we all need to educate ourselves and educate each other about [domestic violence].”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the unprecedented academic dishonesty case that rocked Harvard last year remains on the minds of students and faculty, a recently published article argues that cheating boosts self-satisfaction.
In a study recently published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Harvard Business School associate professor Francesca Gino, along with three colleagues, revealed a trend in which individuals who cheat to solve a problem “consistently experience more positive affect than those who do not.”
The group of researchers set out to address the incorrect assumption “that unethical behavior triggers negative affect,” Gino said.
“People predict that when they cheat, they will feel guilty,” Gino told The Crimson. “What happens instead is when people cheat they feel a boost in positive, rather than negative, affect. And we call this ‘the cheater’s high.’”
The team, which included Nicole E. Ruedy of the University of Washington, Celia Moore of the London Business School, and Maurice E. Schweitzer of the University of Pennsylvania, released its findings in an article entitled “The Cheater’s High: The Unexpected Affective Benefits of Unethical Behavior.
Although the results are groundbreaking, Gino said she anticipated the discoveries. “We expected to find what we found,” she said.
“I think the surprise was in the fact…[that] it seems to be an affect that is very robust and difficult to eliminate,” Gino continued.
Gino called her project “part of a broader research agenda” that she has been working on for years. “One of the areas that I did quite a bit of research on over the last few years is looking at ethical decision-making and more in particular how even good people, people who care about morality, end up engaging in unethical behavior,” Gino said.
Gino added that she and her colleagues hope that with continued research, they may be able to discover methods that encourage individuals to disengage from unethical behavior.
“This research is making me a little bit more reflective and thoughtful in trying to understand what kind of context I can provide to my students so that they are less likely to cheat,” Gino said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Political protests do not just show changing political preferences, but can actually cause political views and behaviors to change, according to a new research paper co-authored by assistant professors at the Harvard Kennedy School.
The researchers collated data on the first major Tea Party protests in April 2009 to conclude that initial attendance at the rallies impacted how conservatively citizens and elected officials voted afterwards.
David Yanagizawa-Drott, one of the paper’s co-authors and an assistant professor at the Kennedy School, said that in the past, political and policy changes have been associated with protests, such as during the civil rights movement. However, no one had studied whether the protests themselves contributed to the changes.
“The alternative hypothesis is that policy preferences change over time, and political protests are just a reflection of that,” he said. Yanagizawa-Drott also noted that there was too little data to empirically study the effect of protests in the past, but the abundance of data on the Tea Party has made this analysis possible.
The researchers found that there was a large multiplier effect, so that a growth from 440,000 to 810,000 protesters at the rallies translated to 3.2 to 5.8 million additional votes for the Republican Party in the 2010 House of Representatives midterm elections. Elected officials also voted more conservatively in response to the size of the protests.
Stan Veuger, a co-author of the paper and an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, called the research the first natural experiment quantifying the influence of political protests on policy and political attitudes.
“We picked areas of the country that had very similar demographic and local dimensions,” Veuger said. “We saw that in places where it did not rain, the protests were bigger, and there were greater impacts in things like local voting, in spite of the two counties’ starting point being the same.”
It is unclear how exactly the Tea Party protests created such change, though Veuger said that personal interactions and information handed out at these rallies may partially explain the results.
The paper’s findings have several implications for political science.
“It shows that grassroots movements can certainly be effective, and that it doesn’t have to be about SuperPACs and national politics,” Veuger said.
Yanagizawa-Drott also added that the results helped explain the current political polarization in Washington, D.C., which he said can be explained as a consequence of the rise in the Tea Party’s prominence in the Republican Party after the 2009 protests.
Although the researchers focused on the 2009 Tax Day Tea Party protests, they said they believe their findings can be generalized and that they plan to continue their research on the impact of political protests.
“I can see how similar mechanisms can be applied to movements on the liberal end of the spectrum, and my colleagues and I have begun looking into labor movements in Europe,” Yanagizawa-Drott said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Before an audience of teachers, students, faculty, and members of the community, Michele Cahill, a vice president at the Carnegie Corporation of New York, discussed possible paths for reforming American public education during the Harvard Graduate School of Education's Askwith Forum on Wednesday.
Cahill’s speech, titled “Transformative Change in American Schools,” dealt with topics ranging from science, technology, engineering, and mathematics education to the Department of Education’s Common Core State Standards.
In her discussion about the role of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics education,which—she referred to as “STEM education”—in classroom reform, Cahill called math a “barrier course” for many students and cited a Georgetown study that correlated mathematical proficiency with future earnings.
“STEM learning is one way of making real the things we talk about,” Cahill said, while also noting that there are many challenges to improving STEM education.
Cahill said it was encouraging that 45 states and the District of Columbia have agreed to adopt the Common Core, a program which aims to set clear expectations of what students are expected to learn in schools.
“I think this is an incredibly important time, and I think Harvard has a very critical voice on the Common Core through raising, with people who come and participate, how important it is that we have a total commitment to the equity that is represented by the Common Core,” Cahill said in an interview with The Crimson. “This is critically important for social mobility, and the Common Core is a pathway to it.”
Cahill added that the Common Core has encouraged states to take up the challenge of far more rigorous academic learning.
Cahill also reflected on her experiences in the New York City Department of Education, where she worked with some of the city’s lowest performing schools During her tenure in the department, she phased out 23 failing high schools created over 200 new schools called Small Schools of Choice.
Cahill said that graduation rates that started between 22 and 42 percent at the larger schools rose to about 70 percent in the smaller schools.
Audience members expressed mixed reactions to the speech.
Jennifer Hoyda felt that the speech was “very interesting” and that the speaker was “extremely knowledgeable,” but that “there was so much knowledge, maybe, that paring that down was difficult.”
Another audience member, Mekka Smith, said that Cahill’s speech revealed something new about the administrative and governance issues that she was unfamiliar with. However, Smith said that, as a teacher herself, she was already familiar with much of the information about the day-to-day operations of schools.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
UPDATED: Oct. 24, 2013, at 8:25 p.m.
The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid will launch a new digitally driven outreach initiative this fall in an effort to encourage low-income students to apply to Harvard and other selective institutions of higher education, the College announced in a press release Thursday.
The undertaking, called the Harvard College Connection, will seek to provide students with information about their options for college and financial aid by emphasizing social media and other online communications methods.
Harvard will hire staff members and launch a website to help implement the initiative, which will work in tandem with Harvard’s existing efforts to recruit students of diverse economic backgrounds. Harvard admissions officers have traditionally sent admission information via mail and traveled to cities nationwide to meet with potential applicants.
“To ensure that talented low-income students understand their opportunities, we need to meet them where they are,” Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 said in the press release. “To date, that has meant literally traveling to meet them in cities and towns across the nation. Going forward, we will meet them both in person and online.”
Thursday’s announcement comes several days after the Admissions Office released a 16-minute video that, according to the YouTube description, lets viewers “experience undergraduate life at Harvard through the people who know it and love it.”
This wide integration of social media and web-based platforms with traditional outreach is “of the moment and of the future,” said Bari Norman, president of New York City-based college counseling firm Expert Admissions.
“I do think that young people are more tech savvy and more plugged in,” Norman said. “I don’t know if across the board or across income levels that it’s true or still the same.”
Anna Ivey, founder of the college admissions consulting firm Ivey Consulting, said she believes the Harvard Connection will help solve problems of access for high-achieving low-income students, even if it does not solve all problems.
“I think it’s going to be much easier to connect with them and reach them through social media or on Facebook or Instagram than at the college fair,” Ivey said.
“The financial aid resources that Harvard has already put into play make a big difference, but that assumes that low-income kids know to approach Harvard in the first place,” Ivey said. “Often, nobody in their orbit has ever even gone to college, let alone Harvard, so it's really quite brilliant to use social media to reach them. Because their real worlds may not be nudging towards college, but many of them do have lives online. Why not meet them there, and make the experience as personalized as possible?”
Harvard Chief Digital Officer Perry S. Hewitt ’87-’88, who will work on the Harvard College Connection initiative, said in the press release that there is still “much to learn” about harnessing social media’s potential.
“Certain media may work better with some students than others—and we may also find that some ‘old-fashioned’ outreach such as mail, telephone calls, and travel is more effective—or can be enhanced by new approaches,” she said.
Christopher N. Avery ’88, a Kennedy School professor who is working on the project, said in the press release that the initiative is a “natural way” to expand Harvard’s existing financial aid efforts.
“I am particularly pleased that the Harvard College Connection will encourage students to apply to selective colleges in general, and not just to Harvard. If Harvard College Connection is successful, it could change the lives of many talented students across the country,” Avery said.
A paper co-authored by Avery and published by the National Bureau of Economic Research this past spring found that an overwhelming majority of very high-achieving, low-income high school students choose not to apply to the nation’s most selective colleges every year.
—Staff writer Zohra D. Yaqhubi can be reached at zohra.yaqhubi@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @zohradyaqhubi.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Part IV of a five-part series on Cambridge City Council election issues. Read each installment on the Fridays leading up to the Nov. 5 election. Part I ran on Oct. 4, Part II ran on Oct. 11, and Part III ran on Oct. 18.
Kristen von Hoffman is generally reluctant to field questions about marriage and raising children in Cambridge, let alone bring up the topics herself. But when the issue of housing and development arose in a conversation with The Crimson earlier this month, von Hoffman, who is 29 and unmarried, opened up about her future plans. 
“As a young woman who is hoping to start a family of her own in a few years and just from having heard so much from all the doors that I’ve knocked on, universally people are saying, ‘We wish that there was room for families to stay, places for families to live in,’” von Hoffman said. 
Over the past three decades, as Cambridge has emerged as a leading center for biotechnology research, rental prices in the city have soared; young, unmarried professionals have moved in; and the number of families residing in the city has markedly decreased. And these demographic changes have not gone unnoticed by local residents. 
Scores of Cantabrigians crowded into City Hall in April 2013 to voice concerns about rising rents and overdevelopment when MIT petitioned to build a new set of facilities in Kendall Square. Ultimately, the Council approved MIT’s petition, but only after requiring that MIT increase its number of affordable housing units. 
As a new slate of candidates vie for seats on the City Council, many are campaigning on the premise that Cambridge has changed too much in the past decades and that there is a need to reassess the pace of development. While all the candidates interviewed by The Crimson agreed that rental rates in Cambridge are exceedingly high and that the housing stock needs to increase, they clashed over where and how to implement changes. Some suggested increasing graduate student housing, while others sought to increase the affordable housing requirements for developers. One candidate proposed a return to the days of rent control.  
‘THE RENT IS TOO DAMN HIGH’
The Kendall Square of 1980 is virtually unrecognizable to today’s Cantabrigians. Over the past 30 years, numerous science and technology companies—notably Pfizer, Novartis, Google, and Microsoft—have set up shop, transforming a once barren area into a vibrant city center. 
But this 30-year stretch has also seen a decline in the city’s overall socioeconomic diversity. According to 2010 U.S. Census data, the per-capita income in Cambridge rose from $21,910 in 1979 to $45,521 in 2009, with the values adjusted to 2009 U.S. dollars.
As incomes have risen, so have the city’s housing prices. From 1987 to 2009, the median sale price of a single family home in Cambridge doubled in real terms, according to a 2010 Housing Profile released by the Cambridge Community Development Department. That same report found that, from 1995 to 2009, the median sale price of a Cambridge condominium unit had increased by roughly 50 percent in real terms. 
“I pay an exorbitant amount of rent,” said City Council candidate Logan E. Leslie ’16. “I live in the community and have a family. It’s extremely high.” 
U.S. census data suggests that families and senior citizens—who are feeling the brunt of Cambridge’s housing pressure—are increasingly choosing to relocate from the city to the suburbs. 
According to the 2010 Census data, from 1980 to 2010, as Cambridge’s total population grew by roughly 10.32 percent, the number of families with children under 18 decreased by approximately 11.84 percent. Cambridge’s population over 65 has seen a similar decline, trending down by roughly 8.57 percent.
By contrast, the number of residents between ages 20 and 29 has increased by nearly 13 percent over the same period of time. 
This influx of young professionals, together with the flight of families and the elderly, has left many City Council candidates concerned for the future of Cambridge. 
“We are in a place where in the next few years it’ll become a rarity for seniors to afford to live here,” said City Council candidate Jefferson R. Smith. “What we should be doing is looking a little bit deeper into where that senior housing can be located, and what are good, cheap, affordable options, and what the city can be doing to make sure that seniors can stay in their homes.”
NO SILVER BULLET 
While the issue of affordable housing has recently been a cause for debate within the Council, in part because of the Kendall Square rezoning, Cambridge has struggled to provide affordable housing to low-income residents for decades.
In 1971, a grassroots coalition of tenants gathered on the steps of Cambridge City Hall to call on the City Council for the implementation of rent control. Their demands were met, and for the next 24 years, the city enforced strict caps on rent increases. In 1994, after intense lobbying from landlords, Massachusetts residents voted to abolish rent control in cities and towns across the state, including Cambridge. The end of rent control resulted in an upsurge of property value in Cambridge, adding almost $2 billion to the value of the city’s housing stock over the next 10 years, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research. In a 1995 Crimson article, former City Councilor Anthony D. Galluccio called these prices “artificially inflated.”
According to candidate Elie Yarden, rent control can “make an orderly market for people who need a place to live, who need shelter.” Yarden said he supports the return of rent control. 
Although rent control established affordable housing for Cambridge’s low-income residents, other Council candidates say it disincentivized development in the city and hindered the increase of housing stock. 
“[Rent control] introduces so many distortions to the market. It incentivized landlords to not upkeep on the properties–to not try to benefit their properties,” Leslie said. 
The end of rent control opened the city up to developers, but some councillors said that the new housing favored wealthier residents and pushed low-income families out of the city.
“What happened in Cambridge since the abolition of rent control has been an enormous new supply of condominiums that cater mainly to singles,” said candidate James Lee.
After the abolishment of rent control, the Council implemented the Inclusionary Housing Program, which requires that developers set aside 15 percent of a building’s proposed units as affordable housing units. Since its inception in 1988, inclusionary zoning has created more than 450 units of affordable housing.
Leslie called the Inclusionary Housing Program a “holdover from rent control” and said that the program should be considered a “tool in the kit bag” for alleviating Cambridge’s housing pressures. 
According to Leslie, the issue of affordable housing in Cambridge is one which, in the end, offers no obvious solution. 
“There’s no silver bullet,” he said.
INCREASING HOUSING STOCK
For many of the candidates, the responsibility for the lack of affordable housing in Cambridge falls on the city’s two largest universities: Harvard and MIT.
“The city has failed to put pressure on the universities on key issues, especially around housing,” candidate Nadeem Mazen said.
According to candidate James Williamson, MIT and Harvard house only 38 and 45 percent of their graduate students, respectively. 
“[The universities] should have a goal of housing 100 percent of their graduate students,” Williamson said. “They own the land. They have the money.”
Harvard’s Institutional Master Plan for development in Allston, which was approved by the Boston Redevelopment Authority last week, provides graduate school housing units within a planned basketball facility. Another Harvard project in Allston, the residential and retail development at the corner of North Harvard Street and Western Avenue, will also include housing units. 
Candidates say that the spillover of graduate students from university housing to rental units puts pressure on low-income families in Cambridge competing for cheaper rents and shrinks the already constrained housing stock.
“Two or three students can pay more than a low-income family for rent,” said candidate Dennis Carlone. “This is adding a real burden to the [area around MIT].”
With the election less than two weeks away, candidates disagree on the steps that must be taken to improve the stock of affordable housing in Cambridge. While some candidates support an increase in the required percentage of affordable housing units within a building from 15 to 18 percent, others are wary that such a measure would provide a further disincentive to housing developers, similar to the effect of rent control. 
Williamson spoke of the opportunity to increase the inclusionary housing percentage while the market is “so hot.”
Leslie, however, said he is less supportive of an automatic hike in the required inclusionary housing percentage and said he has no plans for pushing for its increase. 
“It’s an oversimplification to think that raising the inclusionary zoning is going to increase affordable housing without any side effects,” Leslie said.
Leslie touched on a housing paradox that has beset Cambridge since before the advent of rent control in the ‘70s—with rising housing prices, the city’s low-income families require regulation to guarantee affordable housing options, yet excessive regulation deters development and leads to a stagnation of the housing stock.
“The only way to truly bring down all rates is to hurt the economy, to make it less attractive to live here,” Leslie said.
What the candidates do agree on, however, is that housing represents a problem that must be addressed.
“If we don’t start investing now and working on a master plan for Cambridge, then we’re never going to achieve anything, and income disparity will become larger and larger,” said Smith.
—Antonio Coppola, Nikki D. Erlick, John P. Finnegan, Caroline C. Hunsicker, Jennifer Leung, Anja C. Nilsson, Laura K. Reston, Henry Shah, and Maia R. Silber contributed reporting to this story. 
—Staff writer Marco J. Barber Grossi can be reached at mbarbergrossi@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @Marco_JBG.
—Staff writer Sonali Y. Salgado can be reached at sonali.salgado@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @SonaliSalgado16.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Roughly 1,000 donors, administrators, and other Harvard affiliates will gather in Cambridge beginning Friday evening to formally launch the Harvard Campaign for Arts and Sciences, the largest piece of the University’s $6.5 billion capital campaign that was unveiled in September. 
With big-ticket items like House Renewal and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences expansion falling under FAS’s purview, the Campaign for Arts and Sciences is expected to be the largest sub-campaign of several that will be unveiled in the coming weeks and months. FAS received roughly 40 percent of funds raised in the University’s last capital campaign, which ran from 1994 to 1999.
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith is expected to unveil the total fundraising goal as well as a more holistic vision for the campaign in an address Saturday morning in Sanders Theatre.
In his annual report to faculty released earlier this month Smith identified six broad fundraising priorities for the campaign: Financial Aid, House Renewal and the Student Experience, Leading in Learning, Faculty and Our Scholarly Enterprise, SEAS, and the Dean’s Leadership Fund. The University is expected to announce how much they anticipate raising for each of these priorities this weekend. 
Though each of the priorities proposes new or expanded developments, FAS is also looking to the campaign to shore up its basic budgetary sustainability in the wake of the financial crisis. In the annual report, Smith and Dean for Finance and Administration Leslie A. Kirwan ’79 wrote that FAS has had to use its reserve funds at an “unsustainable rate” in recent years to keep from running large deficits, and that the body’s financial situation remains “precarious.”  
Still, despite FAS’s sobering financial situation, this weekend will be a celebration of the University's largest faculty’s many diverse parts and interests.  
The festivities will begin Friday evening with an invitation-only reception in Annenberg Hall, followed by a dinner in the Science Center Plaza. Saturday’s program will begin early with an 8 a.m. breakfast in the Plaza to be followed by remarks from Faust and Smith’s keynote address in Sanders Theatre. Also speaking at Saturday morning’s ceremony will be FAS campaign co-chairs Paul B. Edgerley, Sandra M. Edgerley ’84, Glenn H. Hutchins ’77, and Carl J. Martignetti ’81.
In addition to the co-chairs, a group of 35 of the University’s most prominent alumni and donors are serving on a steering committee for the FAS campaign. 
After Saturday’s speeches, guests will disperse across campus for a series of eight symposia hosted by Harvard faculty, administrators, and students, on topics ranging from digital education to residential life to financial aid. Those discussions, which are scheduled to begin at 10:30 a.m., will be followed by a luncheon in the Science Center Plaza and the Harvard vs. Princeton football game. 
“We have designed the Campaign for Arts and Sciences to ensure that Harvard continues to be a place of discovery for people leading positive change in the world,” Smith said in a statement. “I hope Saturday’s launch events in Sanders and across the Yard will grow enthusiasm for our campaign and deepen our commitment to Harvard’s future.” 
The University was in the quiet phases of a campaign for several years before the Sept. 21 launch. Its $6.5 billion campaign goal is the highest in the history of higher education. 
—Staff writer Matthew Q. Clarida can be reached at matthewclarida@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MattClarida.
—Staff writer Nicholas P. Fandos can be reached at nicholas.fandos@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @npfandos.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cold temperatures and strong winds failed to deter visitors to Harvard Square from attending the third annual National Food Day celebration in Brattle Plaza. The event is held each year to promote sustainability practices in the food industry and the community and includes free tastings from restaurants in the Square.
With Thursday’s high attendance, some restaurants—like Sandrine’s Bistro—found themselves running out of offerings shortly after the event began. 
“We served pumpkin crème brûlées last year, and they went out in twenty minutes,” Amy Nomejko, the General Manager of Sandrine’s, said. This year’s pumpkin crème brûlées, with an updated hint of maple flavor, were gone just as quickly, she said.
Hosted by the Harvard Square Business Association, the food tasting also challenges participating restaurants to incorporate ingredients sourced within 20 miles of Harvard Square. This year, restaurants used ingredients from local purveyors such as Wilson’s Farm in Lexington, Charlie’s Red House Farm in Winchendon, and James Hook and Company in Boston.
While restaurants such as Sandrine’s Bistro had participated in the food challenge in previous years, other restaurants were new to the event. 
“We opened less than a year ago, so this is our first year presenting,” said Christophe Muller, the owner of O-Sushi Restaurant and Bar on Eliot Street. O-Sushi’s booth served a variety of sushi rolls, including spicy tuna and salmon.
Other Harvard Square staples participating in the food challenge included Russell House Tavern, which served its locally farmed deviled eggs, and Boloco, which handed out pot roast burritos. Square newcomers like Summer Shack and The Sinclair were also present, serving bite-sized samples to a long line of attendees. 
 “I got a text from our friend saying that there was free food here, so we came,” Brandy A. L. Machado ’14 said. 
In an emailed statement to The Crimson prior to the event, Denise A. Jillson, the executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, said the organization expected 300 to 400 people to attend yesterday’s festivities. At least 200 people were present and checking out the food offerings event even before the event began. 
“The Harvard Square Business Association is pleased to be on the forefront of the Food Day movement,” Jilson wrote in the email. “The concept of fresh, locally grown and produced food going from farm and ocean to table in a matter of a day or so, and in some cases just hours, is an idea that we embrace and celebrate.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After several schools delayed their early application deadlines in response to technical glitches on the Common Application website, Harvard’s Office of Admissions and Financial Aid has decided against changing the date, according to Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Jeff Neal.
Schools that have extended their deadlines include the University of Chicago, Columbia, Northwestern, Tufts, Duke, Dartmouth, and Yale. Harvard’s deadline remains November 1.
A new version of the Common Application website was unveiled in August of this year, and users began to experience technical issues in October.
On October 14, many of the millions of students applying to colleges were unable to access the site. Others faced extreme delays after clicking the “Continue” and “Save” buttons. The crash especially affected students applying to the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, whose original early application deadline was October 15. UNC extended its deadline to October 21.
Jack Dummer, a senior at Edina High School in Minnesota, said using the Common Application site on October 14 went smoothly until the last step. Upon submission, the site stopped responding. Dummer called the Common Application Help Center and received word that the submission would have to be delayed until the following day, when the site could process his applications.
Senior Alex Lyass, from Marlborough High School in California, also said she had a frustrating experience. She was unable to log in for most of October 15. After trying multiple times, it granted her access, only to reveal that all of her activities had been deleted from her profile.
Lyass said that when the website finally started working again, all but one of her activities had been restored, although this was not the same for some of her friends.
Both college counselors and high school seniors said they are anxiously waiting to see how the site fares on the eve of October 31, a crucial date because of the many November 1 deadlines.
Megan Harlan, the director of college counseling at Groton School in Massachusetts, said she worries that if application delays continue, colleges may not have the manpower to effectively review each application before decisions are set to be released.
As colleges assess whether to move their deadlines, Peter Quagliaroli, associate director of college counseling at Groton, said he is grateful for those that have adjusted.
“The real saving grace has been the understanding of a fair number of Common App colleges and universities to be somewhat flexible in their published early decision and early action deadlines,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
From the beginning, it has seemed as though Harvard’s quarterback situation has been up in the air. Just days before its Week 1 game, the Crimson still lacked a definite starter.
But the transition from last year’s experienced quarterback in Colton Chapple to a relatively untested play-caller in junior Conner Hempel, whom coach Tim Murphy named as the first-string quarterback prior to Harvard’s contest with San Diego, appeared seamless.
Hempel led the team to back-to-back wins over the Toreros and Brown, tossing for 641 yards and five touchdowns with just one pick in his first two collegiate starts.
Then, minutes into the team’s Week 3 contest with Holy Cross, things went wrong. Hit hard on a sack, Hempel was forced to leave the game with a knee injury. But with the Crimson down by a score and the offense failing to move the chains in the fourth quarter, Murphy elected to put Hempel back in.
Harvard would eventually pull out a win in triple overtime with Hempel at quarterback, but the hit impacted the junior’s knee more than he had first thought. The torch was passed to senior Michael Pruneau, who had originally competed with Hempel in the preseason for the spot.
After a lackluster performance at Holy Cross while filling in for Hempel, Pruneau held his own at the position, quarterbacking the team to a win at Cornell. The following week, although Hempel had few lingering effects, Murphy called on the senior to step up again.
“I think [Hempel] probably could have played against Lafayette, but I think it was probably a smart decision by our sports medicine staff to hold him out,” Murphy said.
According to Murphy, Hempel received “all the [first-team] reps this week,” and will likely be starting against Princeton. Murphy notes that the experience Hempel has built up should help the junior shake off any rust from being sidelined for two games.
“He’s now a proven player,” Murphy said. “He’s got a good body of work behind him to rely on, he’s been taking a ton of reps between last spring and preseason and the three games [that he was in], so he’ll be ready to go.”
Despite the uncertainty under center, Harvard has remained undefeated through five games and is now tied atop the Ivy League with Princeton and Penn. This Saturday against the Tigers, the team that broke the Crimson’s unbeaten streak last year, Hempel and company will attempt to take the team to 6-0 for the first time since 2004.
“We didn’t finish our game last year, and that’s been our focus all year—finishing the play, finishing the drive,” Hempel said. “We have a lot to prove.”
—Staff writer Samantha Lin can be reached at samantha.lin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @linsamnity.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Had the 1,785 fans who crowded into Lavietes Pavilion last weekend for Crimson Madness never seen the Harvard basketball team in action, they would not have been surprised by its size.
But for those who followed the Crimson through its second straight NCAA tournament run in 2012-13, a full bench of 20 players in uniform was a whole new world.
Last season, there was little to speculate about as Harvard coach Tommy Amaker set his starting lineup with each game. Now-sophomore point guard Siyani Chambers would pair with top scorer Wes Saunders in the backcourt—joined by co-captains Laurent Rivard and Christian Webster ’13—with some combination of bigs Jonah Travis, Kenyatta Smith, and Steve Moundou-Missi in the post.
When the Crimson and Black took the court for its third annual intra-squad scrimmage, any one of the ten starters could theoretically be called upon to start during the regular season. And with a bench so deep, Amaker’s ability to juggle last year’s breakout stars, this year’s touted freshmen, and familiar faces returning to Harvard after a year could very well make or break this season.
Because if the Crimson—picked unanimously in first place in the Ivy League Media Preseason Poll—fails to live up to its monumental expectations, it won’t be for lack of talent.
After winning the Ivy League crown outright and earning a tournament bid for the second-straight year, Harvard returns its major building blocks to the court in 2013-14. With the exception of Webster—now an assistant coach for the Crimson—Harvard is stacked across the board.
Players like Chambers and Saunders saw significantly more playing time than they would have had last year’s team been complete. Both averaged over 37 minutes per game, an unlikely leap for a freshman and a sophomore who saw 14 minutes per game just a season before.
Last year they played out of necessity. This year they will play as proven veterans, vying for minutes alongside seniors Kyle Casey and co-captain Brandyn Curry, returning after a yearlong absence. Though Chambers and Saunders were an effective 1-2 punch last season, Amaker chose to start Chambers and Casey against Curry and Saunders in the Crimson vs. Black scrimmage.
It will remain to be seen whether the starting lineups at Crimson Madness are indicative of the season to come, but its clear Amaker is still weighing his options. There is no assumption that playing time last season will correlate with playing time this season or that experience and seniority will be a decisive factor.
Amongst the tried and true, new stars shone for Harvard. Freshman forward Zena Edosomwan—Amaker’s first top-100 recruit since joining the Crimson in 2007—started off his inaugural season with a bang. The rookie brought the crowd back to 2000 with a Vince Carter-esque dunk, hanging from the rim by an elbow. On the court, Edosomwan took the lead, netting 16 points with dominant post play that led to a win for the Crimson squad.
Individual performances shone far brighter than team play on either side, which is to be expected from a team playing together in the public eye for the first time. Sloppy turnovers and inconsistent defense punctuated an otherwise impressive evening as new combinations of players found their rhythm with one another.
Last season, lacking a true center and consistency in the frontcourt, Amaker played small-ball because he had to. He relied on the hot perimeter shooting of players like Rivard and Webster and quick ball movement from Chambers, using the team’s athleticism to tire its opponents.
Now the options seem almost endless, affording Harvard a newfound flexibility to adapt to its opponents. The Crimson can go big up front or load the perimeter. It can spell players like Chambers, Saunders, and Rivard, who often played more than 35 minutes two nights in a row. For the first time since losing Casey and Curry at the beginning of last season, the Harvard men’s basketball team has the opportunity to select and to tailor its lineup from a vast number of options and combinations.
Which means Amaker has some difficult decisions to make. Should he start a proven duo that carried the team in Curry and Casey’s absence? A freshman prospect with limitless potential but no intercollegiate experience? And what of the trio of junior bigs whose ups and downs led to split playing time last season?
At Crimson Madness, Harvard basketball displayed a talented group of individuals, pieces in the puzzle that will define the 2013-14 season. There is no doubt that the Crimson has the potential to reach its lofty expectations—if the pieces fit.
—Staff writer Hope Schwartz can be reached at hschwartz@live.com. Follow her on Twitter @HopeSchwartz16.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard field hockey team (5-7, 1-3 Ivy) challenged No. 7 Boston College (12-4, 1-3 ACC) Wednesday night at the Newton Field Hockey Complex, keeping the game interesting for the first 50 minutes of play before ultimately succumbing to a superior opponent.
A win for the Cimson would have marked the team’s first victory against the Eagles in the last nine contests between the teams. However, the Eagles were ultimately able to best Harvard, 5-2.
“The game was much closer play-wise than the score reflects. We came out really hard, and we were able to get the first goal. We definitely gave the BC players a run for their money,” junior Noel Painter said.
In this regional matchup, the reigning Ivy League Rookie of the Week winner, Crimson freshman forward Marissa Balleza, once again displayed her abilities.
Within the first three minutes of the game, Harvard was granted a penalty stroke for BC misconduct in its defensive circle. Balleza, the leading scorer for the Crimson, found the back of the net for the seventh time this season in her one-on-one opportunity against sophomore Eagles goalie, Leah Settipane, giving Harvard an early lead.
“[The freshmen] have added so much talent to our team,” sophomore back Elizabeth Jacobson said. “We have a lot of respect for them on the field. It’s great to have some strong, competitive new players.”
Balleza and classmates Sarah Finnemore and Sophie van Weede have together accumulated 13 goals and three assists so far this season. Finnemore also earned an Ivy League Rookie of the Week honor this season.
But the Crimson’s 1-0 lead was short lived.
BC responded three minutes later when midfielder Emma Plastera took the ball downfield and drove towards the goal into the anticipating stick of AshLeigh Sebia. Sebia, who finished with a hat-trick, deflected the ball high over the shoulder of Harvard goalkeeper Jenn Hatfield.
“BC was a very fast, physical, and on top of the ball team. They were able to connect well,” Painter said. “But I still think that we held our own…we were able to get the ball out into the midfield and to the forward line to get opportunities, shots [and] corners.”
After a successful transition of the ball into its offensive circle, the Crimson was awarded another stroke early in the second half. Balleza, Harvard’s go-to stroker, was once again able to take advantage of the chance. Her second goal reduced the deficit to one, but it was the last score for the Crimson.
After BC midfielder Katlyn Soucy scored her first goal of the year, extending the Eagles’ lead to two, Harvard head coach Tjerk van Herwaarden relieved senior Jenn Hatfield from her goalie post. Sophomore Issy Davies replaced Hatfield for the rest of the match.
“Issy had an amazing game,” Jacobson said. “She had some really impressive saves.”
Davies totaled a season high of nine saves in her 35 minutes of play. However, strong goaltending was not enough. The Eagles continued to put pressure on the Crimson defense, ultimately outshooting Harvard, 21-11.
“We came out into the game with a great attitude,” Painter said. “Our goal was just to go out there and play and hopefully have fun while matching up against a really good team. We need to keep practicing high ball speed and taking a lot of shots and getting a lot of corners.”
The Eagles scored on two of their 15 corner shots of the night.
“We took a lot of hits on the defensive corners. We definitely have to work on those,” Jacobson said. “BC is used to competing with some of the best schools in the country, and I think they were a little frustrated that they couldn’t get more goals on us.”
In last year’s meeting against the Crimson, BC downed Harvard 3-0.
“We’re all very happy with how we played,” Painter said. “BC is a highly ranked team, and this game has given us a huge amount of momentum going into Saturday when we will play a very good Princeton team.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
Just in time for the World Series, Norwegian band Ylvis has released a perfect paean to the Massachusetts loyalty that Harvard students harbor. In their new music video for “Massachusetts,” the long-tressed, Euro-pop trio—famous for their zoological philosophizing in “What Does the Fox Say?”—go on a Bay State road trip that takes them to the Boston Library, Nelson Mandela’s home, and a homoerotic moment in a truck near Massachusetts Bay.
 
We were pleasantly surprised by this sudden Scandinavian interest in Massachusetts, and Flyby couldn’t help but be touched by Ylvis’ tribute to the state we know and love. Here are a few lyrics that caught our attention:
 
 
1. “Far away across the oceans / An undiscovered paradise / Forget New York and California / There’s a better place—now close your eyes.”
 
This speaks to the anxiety shared by Pilgrims in 1620, fleeing religious persecution for the “undiscovered paradise” of Plymouth, Massachusetts. It’s also a familiar feeling for California-born Harvard students as they make their yearly pilgrimage from home to Cambridge. As we know from the story of Thanksgiving, all the Pilgrims needed to do was “close [their] eyes,” and Squanto appeared, saving them from imminent famine due to their lack of farming skills. At Harvard, we close our eyes and HUDS appears with three meals a day, shielding us from imminent malnutrition due to our ability to cook only ramen.
 
 
2. “Just four hours from New York / Read amazing books for free at the Boston Library or try the local brie.”
 
This first line speaks to a fact that many NYC-born Harvard students treasure, as it allows them to go home on weekends to sleep soundly in their brownstones, have their parents do their laundry, and catch up with their prep school friends that go to Columbia. While we may not have to ride the T all the way to the Boston Public Library for access to “amazing free books,” we appreciate the luxury of having the 16 million books of the Harvard University Library available to us, even as we trudge over to Lamont at 2 a.m. in pajama pants. As for the local brie, one trip to the weekly farmer’s market in the Science Center Plaza will have you convinced of the superb quality of local dairy products.
 
 
3. “I can’t believe this place is real / Massachusetts / Can’t describe the way I feel / I live with Steve and John / Mark and Christopher and Tom / Teddy P. and Bruce.”
 
This captures pretty accurately the feeling of showing up for move-in day freshman year. For those of us assigned to a suite, the prospect of living with Steve, John, Mark, Christopher, Tom, Teddy P., and Bruce was all too real. It was difficult to “describe the way [one felt]"—that sharp mix of curiosity, giddiness, and dread. Yes, it was a relief to leave our parents, but how would we get along with our roommates? Would Steve play his rap music too loud? Would Christopher shower more than once a week? What if Teddy P. sexiled us during midterm season? Ultimately, of course, it turned out alright.
4. “Just because you’re kissin’ a man doesn’t make you gay / Confused / 1620 - the pilgrims came to town / Mayflower / Sometimes I watch 'The Lion King' and I cry when Mufasa dies / Prudential Tower.”
 
You really can’t get more universal than these themes. Sure, Massholes might judge you for a vast array of personal reasons, but sexual orientation sure isn’t one of them. As for "The Lion King," who hasn’t shed a tear when Simba’s dad dies? Bravo for the rhyme scheme between “Mayflower” and “Prudential Tower”—a juxtaposition that unites the old and the new in a progressive state rooted in cultural history.
 
 
5. “M-A-S-S-O-C-H-E-I / Massacheichei / Doesn’t sound right to me / Makkakoko / That’s way too many K’s.”
 
We’ve all been there. There’s no doubt that Massachusetts ranks next to Pennsylvania and Mississippi as the hardest state to spell on a fourth grade geography test. Now that we live here, let’s hope that we’ve all learned to spell the name correctly.
Yes, Ylvis, you've outdone yourself with this soaring anthem. Next time, come pay us a visit in Cambridge! (Yardfest, anyone?)
 
Sections
Go Sox! Fall weather continues today as the Red Sox line up for the second game of the World Series.
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
Fall has arrived—today promises a high of 56 and partly cloudy skies.
IN THE D-HALLS
On the Lunch Menu:Roasted Honey Lime ChickenGrilled Cheese Sandwich with Tomato and Red OnionTofu, Broccoli, and Walnut Stir Fry
On the Dinner Menu:Carved Whole Murray ChickenSpinach Gnocchi with Sage
ON CAMPUS
Thursday Lunchtime Organ Recital SeriesEvery week at 12:15pm, there is a thirty minute concert on the famous Flentrop organ. Bring a lunch! Adolphus Busch Hall, 29 Kirkland St.
"Programming the Fetus: Metaphor, Technology, and Population Health in the Postgenomic Age"A talk by Miranda Waggoner of Princeton. 5 p.m. - 7 p.m., Plimpton Room, Barker Center 133 (12 Quincy St)
Love Your Body DayHarvard's Eating Concerns Hotline Outreach (ECHO) is asking students to celebrate their bodies today. Show your body some love by attending this study break, which will feature free massages from Stressbusters hip-hop tutorials from Expressions Dance Company. Part of Sex Week at Harvard. 7 p.m. - 9:30 p.m., Ticknor Lounge.
IN CAMBRIDGE
Cheese Cave ToursCelebrate Food Day by taking a free tour of Fromaggio Kitchen's cheese caves. Tours will run all day, roughly every half hour until 6 p.m. Sign up here. 244 Huron Avenue
How do I choose a teacher for my teacher recommendation letter?
It's always best to choose someone who really knows you, someone who has, perhaps, seen both your strengths and your weaknesses. Then, your teacher can attest to your strengths and maybe even write about times when you've overcome your weaknesses. If you choose someone who knows you on a superficial level just because you think they're considered to be the best teacher at your school, then you might not get the same in-depth recommendation letter that someone who knows you well can write.
Another possible way to go about choosing is to ask someone who teaches in the field that you're interested in pursuing. For example, if you're interested in math, having a math teacher talk about your passion for the subject and give concrete examples can be very helpful to your application.
Typically, colleges also want more recent teachers, as opposed to someone who taught you freshman year. Asking a recent teacher allows colleges to see a more up-to-date image of you.
