News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Emmy Award-winning actor Kiefer Sutherland defused a costumed bombshell Friday night while being roasted as the Hasty Pudding Theatricals 2013 Man of the Year.
Sutherland, best known for his portrayal of counterterrorism agent Jack Bauer on the Fox television series “24,” was required to “disarm” a bombshell—a Pudding cast member clad in a blonde wig and minidress, strapped with three multicolored wires—to earn his traditional Pudding Pot.
Sutherland was honored Friday in front of a packed audience in The Regattabar, a jazz club in The Charles Hotel. The festivities had originally been scheduled to take place in Farkas Hall, the home of the Pudding Theatricals, but it was relocated after Harvard shut down operations at noon on Friday due to Boston’s fifth biggest snowstorm on record.
As the snow swirled outside, Sutherland disarmed the bombshell with the assistance of a variety of colorful characters, all played by Pudding actors, who instructed him which color wires to snip.
First, he planted a kiss on Crimson business editor and Pudding cast member Adam J. Conner ’14, who played Cardinal Richelieu, the villain in Sutherland’s film “The Three Musketeers.”
Next, he helped his “The Three Musketeers” co-star Charlie Sheen, portrayed by Phil M. Gillen ’13, round up a pair of Pudding performers in garb as drugged cows.
Finally, Sutherland, an avid guitar player and collector, played a riff on an electric guitar to win the help of the late rockstar Freddie Mercury of the band Queen, played by Pudding cast member Ethan D. Hardy ’14.
When he succeeded in defusing the bombshell, Sutherland was presented with his award, though not before cast members donned him with high heels and a bomb-strapped bra.
Pudding producers Tyler R. Lewis ’14 and Peter M. Riley ’14 began the roast by poking fun at a few of Sutherland’s early-career films, including “Mirrors” and “The Right Temptation,” which were widely panned by critics.
Riley quipped, “[‘24’] marked the point in his career when our Man of the Year began disarming bombs rather than starring in them.”
Sutherland took the jabs well. “I could have made more fun of myself than you did,” he said.
Sutherland praised the Pudding, saying he was impressed with the performers he had met that day. “The people here have been so gracious, and I have so much respect for all of you to even get into this goddamn place,” he said.
The Harvard Krokodiloes also performed for Sutherland after he received his award. Though Pudding members had intended to debut their 165th production “There’s Something About Maui” in Farkas Hall following the roast, they instead gave the crowd a preview in The Regattabar. They performed a few numbers from the show, wearing only the headpieces of their costumes.
Sutherland's roast follows that of actress Marion Cotillard, who was honored on Jan. 31 as the 2013 Hasty Pudding Woman of the Year.
—Staff writer Elizabeth S. Auritt can be reached at eauritt@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @eauritt.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Let's be real, this is the most snow we're going to have for a while. So ditch your real to do list, bundle up, and head outside. We at Flyby have created your Snow Day itinerary.
1. Sled down Widener Steps. We just might have enough snow that the steps will have turned into a perfect hill for sledding—almost as if we have a real hill here at Harvard. Side note: this is probably a bad idea. Be careful and, whatever you do, don't try and stop yourself halfway down…
2. Sled down the ramp outside the Carpenter Center. Almost definitely off-limits, but oh-so-fun, and relatively safe at that.
3. If you're stranded in the quad, try sledding down the small hills outside Cabot d-hall. You, too, will come to the sad realization that it turns out we have a pretty flat campus.
4. Trek off campus to Fresh Pond or Danehy Park in Cambridge, or head to Corey Hill Outlook in Brookline (admittedly a long haul on a day like today). Worth it, we promise.
5. Get creative right here at home. Check out the seam tunnels. Really—there's no better day than today to explore the underground world of Harvard. We don't know where the entrances are, but if you do get in (and avoid the police chasing you), you'll be the warmest student on campus.
6. Primal scream. Do it.
7. Whatever you do, we want to see it. Don't forget to tweet and Instagram your adventures using the hashtag #flybysnow!
Sections
Flyby found Dean Thomas A. Dingman '67 swiping students into lunch today at Annenberg, which was short on staff in the wake of Nemo.
Rock on, Dean Dingman. You win.
Sections
Undergraduate Council (UC) voting ended at noon on Friday, just as Harvard suspended school operations in preparation for the snow. The UC Election Commission counted the votes and tallied the results later that day and the results are in.
13 UC seats were to be filled, representing more than a fourth of the total number of seats in the organization. Two write in-candidates made otherwise uncontested races in Adams and Cabot Houses competitive.
Here are the results:
Adams
Tonatiuh M. Lievano Beltran '13 (write-in)
Cabot
Larson C. Ishii '15 (write-in)
Currier
Rishi Goel* '15
Dunster
Joshua B. Scott '15
Sheema Golbaba '14
Eliot
Megan B. Prasad* '15
Tyler R. Kugler** '15
Kirkland
Matthew R. Marotta '14 (uncontested)
Mather
Jonathan Y. Li '14
Quincy
Michael C. George** '14
Nicholas W. Galat '13
Florence Y. Chen '15
Winthrop
Cindy W. Shih* '15
Congratulations to the new representatives.
*Candidate is an active Crimson editor
**Candidate is an inactive Crimson editor
Sections
Unless you've been under a rock, you probably already know that HUDS and FMO workers basically saved the day today.
Essentially, these people are heroes, and we couldn't have made it through Nemo without them. As of lunchtime on Saturday, some dining hall workers had been on campus helping feed students since early Friday morning. Similarly, Harvard Facilities Maintenance Operations staff worked night and day throughout the blizzard to keep pathways clear for us.
Be sure to extend your thanks to FMO and HUDS if you haven't already done so. Here's our tribute to their extraordinary efforts to keep us safe and sated.
