Sections
Cayla C. Calderwood ’14 had been playing wing for all of two minutes when the other team punted straight at her. After a moment of panic, she caught the ball, and then, she explains, “Everything sort of went blank. It was as if it was a giant game of octopus.”
Calderwood was a freshman, having joined the rugby team only two weeks prior, when she was promptly “wiped out by one of their best tacklers,” she says, and got immediately hooked on women's rugby.
First game stories like this tend to be the norm rather than the exception for the Women’s Rugby seniors. Despite their remarkable athleticism (most played two or three sports in high school) none had any experience playing rugby before joining what was then a club team. As a result, freshmen would be thrown into games with just enough knowledge to stay safe. They’d figure out the “game of octopus” as they went.
Three years later, it’s hard to recognize those freshmen in the women who played on a National Championship-winning squad in 2011, guided their team to varsity status over the past two years, and recently won their first Ivy League Championship.
Take, for instance, co-captain Xanni F. S. Brown ’14. She started playing rugby in October her freshman year, by December was invited to the under-20 national team tryout camp, and by summer wore a USA jersey in games against British, Canadian, and South African squads. She’s the first Radcliffe rugby player to ever play on the under-20 US national team.
Then there’s Ali R. Haber ’14. Co-captain since her sophomore year, Haber helped direct the discussions with the athletic department that led to the team’s first varsity season this fall and steered her squad through the rewarding and challenging transition.
The team had to up practices from two to five times a week, add new strength and conditioning training, switch coaches, and (most contentiously) change their name from Radcliffe to Harvard. Becoming varsity has brought the players increased University support, but it has also demanded far higher levels of commitment both on and off the pitch.
The team didn’t even know of the impending promotion to varsity—it seemed like the talks with the athletic department had stalled until teammates received a surprise email announcing the change over the summer in 2012.
“We found out from the press release,” remembers co-captain Brandy A. Machado ’14. “Our coach found out from the press release.” Some of the players thought the email was a prank from the Men’s rugby team.
But pranks aren’t really the seniors’ style. When discussing rugby culture, they’re more likely to point to exceptional levels of support, even beyond those of other sports teams they’ve played on.
“Because it’s so physical,” Haber explains, “you sort of form this more intense bond with your teammates because you’re literally protecting them with your own body on the field.”
While the sport itself encourages this community—it’s traditional for teams to “social” with each other over pizza after games—the seniors have taken extra steps to promote it.
As they head to Nationals this spring for a chance to reprise their 2011 victory, the team will be singing a hymn, an old tradition that’s been reinstated this year. It goes: “We don’t play for admiration. We don’t play for victory. We just play for recreation. Fifteen fit señoritas are we. Here’s to [opposing team]. Here’s to [opposing team]. We will play you evermore. We will play you evermore.”
The seniors may have outgrown the times when they would gather outside Grays before walking over to practice, but their legacy doesn’t just point forward to championships and greater athletic prowess. For Rachael X. Y. Foo ’14, the hymn “reminds every member on the team that even though we’re varsity now, we’re Harvard now, we’re still Radcliffe underneath.”
Sections
Daniel W. Erickson ’14 swivels his gaze to meet mine as I walk into Café Pamplona. “Who are you?" he asks with wide eyes, as I extend my hand.
Confused, I introduce myself as a writer for The Crimson. Didn’t we have an interview scheduled? Erickson cuts me off with a laugh. He leans forward, voice booming, “No, no. I know that. You fool!” A warm, toothy smile emerges from his beard. “Who are you? I want to know who I’m talking to. That’s why I asked you.”
Eventually, we begin to discuss who Erickson is. He spent his childhood in St. Cloud, Minnesota training to become a classical pianist (you may remember his performance in the Freshman Talent Show). Now a philosophy concentrator in Dunster House, he dedicates most of his time to theater. Erickson is first and foremost an actor and director, although he’s done almost everything from lighting design to working with professional directors to serving on the board of the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club. This past September he wrote, directed, and starred in the well-received “Here Comes Everybody,” a one-man production in which Erickson spent an hour presenting his thoughts on James Joyce’s "Finnegans Wake."
“Over the last four years I’ve been trying to get better at taking what’s incredibly complex material, abstract material, and making it comprehensible.” He tugs at his wavy brown hair as he says this, making it stand on end. “I see the act of performing a role as very much analogous to interpreting a philosophical text. Just taking something that works in one medium and shifting it into another.”
Most people would have trouble navigating such mission statements without sounding pretentious, but when delivered in Erickson’s careful, earnest manner, it’s nearly impossible not to find yourself nodding along in agreement.
It helps that Erickson doesn’t take himself too seriously. I take advantage of a lull to make sure the conversation is being recorded, and he immediately riffs to fill the silence. “Is it working? Am I talking loud enough? Too loud?” He chuckles and draws out his words in a goofy voice, his volume increasing with each syllable. “TOO MUCH SOUND!?”
When Erickson talks, people listen. It’s a skill that he’s spent a lot of time cultivating. “You have to teach people how to pay attention to certain things” he explains. “If you’re not thinking about how you’re telling the story, then what are you doing? You’re going to give into your worst, most obvious impulses.”
Telling me about the time he read Descartes’s "Meditations on First Philosophy" at a scary story night hosted by the Harvard College Voice Actors’ Guild, Erickson grows excited and goes on a lengthy tangent explaining the French philosopher’s search for truth. “And he comes to realize that we can doubt everything! We can’t be sure of anything! And that’s a really horrifying thing if you’re in a specific mindset,” he says.
Erickson’s hand absentmindedly reaches into a pocket and pulls out an invisible text, which he cups in front of his face. “Other people were telling stories of ghosts and goblins and evil doll houses. And I read this little thing from my book…and people paid attention!” he says. At this point Erickson falls uncharacteristically silent. His eyes stare, unfocused, at something past my shoulder as a smile creeps onto his lips.
In that rare moment of calm I can’t help but wonder what new idea has seized control of him, and what form it will take when he decides to share it. “I want to make things,” he continues. “I don’t really care what medium I’m working in. I just want to create experiences for people. And I want to travel. I think that’s enough.”
Sections
One spring morning of her junior year, Avia Tadmor ’14 rose at five a.m. to listen to the songs of mockingbirds. It was an assignment from professor Jorie Graham, who sent the students in her poetry workshop out into the early morning darkness to hear the mockingbirds and to write about it. “[Graham] said, ‘You never know if you will live to see another spring,’” Tadmor recounts. “Which is incredibly true… It was just a very, very exposing and stimulating experience.”
In her time at Harvard, Tadmor, a psychology concentrator, has been “dealing a lot with the end of life.” She works in the Cancer Center at Massachusetts General Hospital, alongside a team that treats terminally ill patients and their families, “looking at quality of life towards the end of it.”
“Thinking a lot about death makes me actually think a lot about life,” Tadmor says.
Tadmor has devoted her energies at Harvard with equal fervor to the study of clinical psychology and to the writing and reading of poetry. “Clinical psychology and poetry are very different axes to the same ambiguous and complex human experience,” Tadmor says.
Tadmor, who is Israeli, wrote mostly in Hebrew before coming to Harvard. As a high school student at the United World College boarding program in New Mexico, she dabbled in writing English poetry to share with her then-boyfriend—his first language was Spanish, so English was their common tongue.
In Hebrew, Tadmor “wrote on the whim of emotion, whenever it came to mind or to heart,” she says. “But when I came here, I started writing in English… in a more aware way.”
As a sophomore, she took her first poetry workshop with Henri Cole. “That changed my life—I really try to not say ‘changed my life’ about things too easily, but it really has changed my life,” Tadmor says. “I think the workshop was really a space to explore raw emotions…Henri himself said once that poetry feeds him more than love or sex. I think that was really beautiful and curious and invited us to explore what it is about poetry that made him feel that way—and I think some of us could…a little bit relate.”
Today, Tadmor has published poetry in H BOMB Magazine and has won the English Department’s Charles Edmund Horman Prize for her creative writing talent. She spent last summer at the Iowa Writers’ Workshop with poet James Galvin. “I was writing with a lot of bunny rabbits around and thunderstorms, a few tornadoes—and silence, at the same time, which created a lot of productive tension between the silence and the thunderstorms,” Tadmor says.
Coming to Harvard was “definitely a twist in the plot” for Tadmor. After finishing high school in New Mexico, she returned to Israel for mandatory military service, while most of her friends from the U.S. began studying at American colleges. Following the “very, very intense experience” of service, working as a waitress, and taking acting classes, Tadmor applied to Harvard largely because she was drawn to the flexibility of the liberal arts, in comparison to the more strictly professional programs at Israeli universities whose approach, she says, “comes at the expense of asking questions and of tolerance for the unknown.”
Tadmor cites a comment from a professor that has left an indelible mark on her consciousness: James Engell, whose class on British Romantic poets she is now taking. “He said, ‘Poetry is not an escape; poetry is the truth as we see it.’ That sentence really resonated with me. That’s exactly what it’s about—poetry or academia. It’s about stopping to think and to ask questions and holding what Keats would call ‘negative capability’: being able to hold the unresolved and the undetermined, the unclear…Not knowing everything, but knowing enough to be trying.”
“I kind of like the excitement of not knowing,” Tadmor confesses. She does not yet know what she will do after graduating and is still searching for a way to continue writing poetry and exploring clinical psychology without having to compromise either.
“I might stick around for a while before I go back [to Israel], you know...” she says. “Trying to hold the unknown.”
Sections
Growing up in Boulder, CO, Ben S. Raderstorf ’14 was naturally a big mountaineer, he says, and  trips with what he calls an eccentric family were as commonplace as the outdoors. But Raderstorf didn’t anticipate that his love of travel and the outdoors would play as large of a role on campus in Cambridge too.
The former President of the Harvard Outing Club and a First-Year Outdoor Program (FOP) leader, Raderstorf speaks excitedly about his “passion for getting people outside.” The Outing Club is larger than it’s ever been. He has also been working on a project developing adaptive hiking trips for children with developmental and physical disabilities.
Raderstorf says he’s learned to appreciate “the importance of the informal interaction and unstructured time” on campus, but recognizes that even he could have taken more time to do so. After joining “your standard extracurriculars” when he first got to campus, Raderstorf explains, he realized they weren’t making him happy; he felt the outdoors missing from Harvard’s culture. “People don’t have opportunities to get off campus,” he says, “and that’s something I really wanted to create here. It’s a really nice balance to the stress and rat-race of Harvard.”
Raderstorf’s decision to act on this realization has turned into advice he now offers his own FOPpers: “Everything you do should be something supporting and enriching for who you are and who you want to be.”
A Social Studies concentrator, Raderstorf is equally enthusiastic discussing comparative politics and Latin America: He has served as a program chair for the Harvard International Relations Council, is a board member for Harvard Association Cultivating Inter-American Democracy, participated in Model UN, and is writing his thesis on Argentinean politics.
In middle school, his parents took him and his two younger brothers out of school to travel the world for 6 months. Ben has since traveled to an array of Latin American countries: Mexico, Costa Rica, Panama, Ecuador, Chile, Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay (”I think just those,” he jokes as he lists them off).
This early exposure to Latin America developed into a passion on campus, where Raderstorf is working with government professor Steven R. Levitsky on his thesis examining clientelism in Argentina, or how parties buy votes or persuade voters, he explains, “a relatively new area in comparative politics.”
To students like Harleen Gambhir ’14, whose friendship with Raderstorf began in a discussion group on the first day of Freshman Urban Program, Ben’s thoughtfulness and maturity makes him stand out among his Harvard peers. “When we started school, he acted like he was much older than anyone else,” Gambhir says. “I used to call him ‘professor,’ because he would fall into this oratorical voice, and we’d have to poke him to remind him to act younger and do crazy stuff because we were in college.”
After graduation, Raderstorf hopes to spend time working or studying abroad. “The biggest lesson for me is that you don’t have to do one thing with your life, you can do many things,” he says. “I don’t ever want to do one singular thing with my life, and I don’t see any reason why I can’t at some point spend three months hiking the continental divide trail and then go off to work in Washington, D.C.”
His response to the question, “What do you see yourself doing in 15 years?” is in keeping with this vision. Raderstorf pauses before answering—a rare deceleration in thought—as if he doesn’t already know what to say. “Can I have multiple ones?” he asks after a moment. “Trekking the Andes or negotiating a trade summit. Is that ridiculous enough?”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: December 7, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated Ben S. Raderstorf '14's leadership position in the Harvard Outing Club. In fact, Raderstorf is the club's former president, not its current one.
Sections
At first, Rainer A. Crosett ’14 sounds like he has familiar story, as far as student musicians go. He started playing piano at age five, picked up the cello (his instrument of choice) at nine, but waited until he was 13 to seriously apply himself. Since then, he’s excelled at the latter instrument.
You might expect that he’s self-obsessed. You could be forgiven for assuming that he’d be content, in future years, to be ushered about from concert hall to concert hall like some automaton, regurgitating symphonies on command. As it turns out, though, he’s an activist-cum-artist with an indomitable will to serve.
By attending a liberal arts college, Crosett rejected the traditional first step in the career of a professional musician.  (He’s currently pursuing a joint degree at New England Conservatory, where he’ll spend next year finishing up his studies.)
“I think it’s so enriching for musicians to have this liberal arts education,” he explains. “What you get at conservatory is so much more limited, in terms of the opportunities to explore and to meet and learn things from people who aren’t just doing their art seriously.”
Over the course of his Harvard career, Crosett has played in the Harvard Radcliffe Orchestra and the Brattle Street Chamber Players.  Despite this consuming focus on music, his interests are hard to deal with summarily. For instance, he’s a philosophy concentrator, a member of the Signet Society, and was elected a member of Phi Beta Kappa Junior 24.
He’s also rabidly interested in human rights. During his freshman year, Crosett helped found the International Women’s Rights Collective and served as its vice-president for two years, before focusing his attention on human rights in North Korea. He took a summer internship in South Korea, working at an NGO that primarily helps defectors from North Korea assimilate into South Korean life. He organized a fundraising concert that raised ten thousand dollars.
“That was the first moment I realized that doing music can be really powerful in terms of connecting with people and starting a conversation about things they might not know, or things they might have a different perspective than you about,” he says of the experience.
Back at Harvard, he joined (and later directed) Harvard Human Rights in North Korea. The group campaigned for a year, gathering funds for a North Korean patient stricken with tuberculosis. Again, Crosett organized a resoundingly successful recital.
Crosett is not an artist in isolation, content to play his music, refusing to engage with the world around him. Take, for example, his role in founding the Boston Philharmonic Youth Orchestra, which traveled to Amsterdam’s world-famous Concertgebouw last June to play Mahler’s second symphony.
“By the end of the concert, everyone was just so overwhelmed by emotion,” he says. “Just to have that experience, and to finish that with that group—there was not a dry eye in the orchestra.”
Post-graduation, Crosett doesn’t want to stick to a single passion. “Some people might say, well, you just simply have to pick one, but I don’t think that way,” he adds.
Crosset is interested in combining social change and classical music. Referencing Venezuela’s youth orchestra program El Sistema, he says, “I think it really shows how music education can have a profound impact on people’s lives, and inspire them, and create opportunities. I would love to be involved in something like that.”
Crosett hopes to emulate his favorite philosopher, Immanuel Kant. He explains, “There’s something so ambitious about his project—to really, in every respect, create a moral theory—that is so inspiring. Maybe it’s just because I’m idealistic.”
If Rainer Crosett is idealistic, it’s forgivable. He couples ambitious dreams of synthesizing diverse interests with an insatiable desire to act.
Sections
In conversation at Harvard, be it over a dining hall meal, a problem set, or a drink, it is not rare to learn that your fellow interlocutor is an athlete. Of the many responses or follow-up questions that might arise, a natural one is whether the person walked on or was recruited.
“I don’t like it when people ask me that question,” says Nephat K. Maritim ’15, sipping his tea in the Barker Center Cafe. Maritim walked onto the track team his freshman year after arriving from Kenya while taking courss in departments ranging from Romance Languages and Literatures to African Studies, to Computer Science. Maritim doesn’t want to resign himself to the perpetuity of the stereotypes surrounding athletes. “You don’t need to choose between being an athlete and being a student,” he says, “You can be a student-athlete.”
Maritim remembers feeling frustrated with a culture of categorization he found pervasive his freshman year. “Usually when I was among athletes on my team who were doing very well, I felt like I constantly needed to prove myself,” Maritim says. “Whenever I crossed the river to come to this side, I also felt I had to constantly prove myself. If you’re a walk-on, you’re left in this middle ground between these two opposing social groups that deny your place. But I don’t feel it anymore.”
“Running had been such an important part of my life,” he says, “and I just wanted to continue.” He spoke to Harvard’s coaches when he arrived on campus, hoping to join the varsity team. “They didn’t seem very eager to have me join,” he adds. “I told them that I was capable of being 48 seconds for the 400 meter. Of course I didn’t have any proof.” They let him try out anyway.
Try-outs that September for about 10 hopeful sprinters ended with a 300m race. Maritim came in second, and he and the student who came in first place made the team.
Each Harvard team takes a slightly different approach to the walk-on process, requiring different levels of skill and experience. As many as 30 or 40 people might walk on to a section of the varsity crew team, for example, though sometimes as few as five of that class remain on the team until they graduate. The current ski team holds 12 students total, three of whom walked on.
“I don’t want to say that athletics is the reason that recruited kids got here because it’s obviously a combination of a lot of things,” begins Neal, who walked on to two different teams since he arrived, and was granted anonymity by The Crimson because he did not want to speak publicly about stereotypes surrouding athletes. “But for me, I really appreciate the fact that I’m able to do it, because it’s not why I came here.”
Though for Neal, sports were “basically all [he] did in high school,” he says, he planned to focus on academics here at Harvard, until he found that neither academics nor athletics were as intimidating as he expected. Neal says he appreciates his teams but isn’t as obvious about being a member of DHAS as others.
“I don’t figure myself as a jock, but I think a lot of kids that do athletics here probably do,” he explains. When asked what he identifies with, he responds, “Nothing. No social description.”
Before Neal joined the team, he remembers walking into Annenberg, seeing the first two tables full of chummy athletes, and feeling like he was missing out. “Now that I’m on the team,” he says, “I see the different side of that. Which is, you know, the people sitting at those two tables are just like most people.”
Maritim also disagrees with confining athletes to a particular box. “I just think that these stereotypes are totally unnecessary,” Maritim says. “We need to be working with each other, collaborating, learning from each other.”
Much of the basis for negative stereotypes about athletes lies in the recruiting process, which results in perceptions that athletes are not as academically qualified as their Harvard classmates. Many recruits begin conversation with coaches of university teams their junior year of high school, and have begun receiving likely letters by October of their senior year. They still have to go through the application process, “but it makes things a lot less stressful, a lot easier, so it is sort of unfair,” says Mimi M. Tanski ’15, a pre-med student recruited to the women’s heavyweight crew team.
On account of this diffrent admissions experience, recruited athletes can be associated with stereotypes that are not applied to walk-ons. “Probably the most obvious stereotype is that the athlete kids aren’t as smart as the rest of Harvard kids,” says Neal. “I think everyone is aware of that stereotype. I think anyone would be lying to you that would say that’s not true at some level, because from my experience, it is a little bit.”
Maura D. Church ’14, a joint Applied Math and Music concentrator who walked on Radcliffe’s heavyweight crew team her freshman fall, is aware of the stereotypes. “You’ll hear, ‘Oh you know that’s an athlete class.’ And so, I kind of prefer to disassociate myself from that.” She mentions that she has never felt stereotyped, acknowledging that she feels “pretty far away from the athletic identity at Harvard.” “I don’t go to class in my DHAs,” she adds.
Church believes the stereotypes are based on misconceptions. “People devote their time to different things,” she says. “I think there’s sometimes a targeting of like, ‘Oh because you do [sports], that’s less smart.’”
Harvard provides a space to excel and fail at things with which students have all kinds of degrees of experience, harvesting pre-existing skills and investing in new ones. Mary M. Carmack ’16 knew nothing about rowing until she walked on to the heavyweight team last fall. She raced in the first varsity boat at this year’s Head of the Charles. In high school, Carmack was involved in sports, community service, clubs, academic teams, and music, but in college she chose to focus on rowing and leading FOP. When she measures that time against now she says, “I feel like I get a lot more out of the few things I’m doing.”
“If it’s what you find you are enjoying and want to continue with, and are excited to do each day, then it’s like, ‘I should definitely stick with this,’” she says. “Why wouldn’t I?”
For many walk-on athletes, the learning curve has dissolved palpable feelings of inadequacy that distinguished them from recruited teammates freshman year. “I didn’t feel yet that I was good enough, or that I had as much ownership over the team to really say, yeah I’m a part of this group,” says Church. “Now, I feel like I have full ownership over the team, that I’m a senior and a leader, I feel like I can really say, ‘Yeah, I’m on the varsity crew team.’”
“If someone walks on who improves and is better than someone who is recruited, they’ll 100% be in ahead of them.” says James E. K. Croxford ’16, an Australian heavyweight crew recruit. Especially in such measurable sports as crew and track, opportunities to compete can be clearly based on merit, so hard work and persistence pay off, regardless of how a person got onto the team.
Maritim also describes the athletic system as being meritocratic. “If there’s a big race and I’m trying to decide between five of you guys and I want two of you who are going to race, it’s very simple,” Maritim explains. “Based on how you’ve been training and how you’ve been racing, I can tell that you are in better shape than this guy. At that point, it really doesn’t matter who’s where.”
This is part of what makes Croxford appreciate those who walked onto his team. “It just ends up making the whole team stronger,” he states. He believes that when the walk-ons improve, everyone wants to step their game up, because they don’t want to lose their spot in the boat. “It’s a chain reaction,” he says.
“Generally,” Church says, “the attitude within the team is like who cares? You know, like we don’t need to prove ourselves, we’re smart we know we’re doing incredible things on this team, within this sport, and that’s kind of an outdated stereotype that is just going to exist.”
“It’s really stressful, but it’s really rewarding,“ Tanski, the heavyweight recruit, says. The four hours or more of practice six days a week mandate patience, dedication, and passion. “I can’t imagine my life without it.”
“The team is something that I cannot live without right now,” James Lim ’16, a walk-on sprinter says.
“I don’t know what I would do with myself,” Neal says.
“It’s definitely a lifestyle,” Emma R. Payne ’16, a track distance walk-on says.
Lim, who says track and field would definitely come first or second in terms of his key traits as a Harvard student, has no regrets about his choices about how he has chosen to spend his time here.
“You had the guts to decide, I want to try and do this thing,” he says “which is not an easy task.” Walk-ons, Lim supposes, tend to think more about the option of leading the non-athletic life at Harvard, but made the conscious choice to seek out the opportunity to play. “We somehow managed to make it, and I think that speaks towards our true passion for the sport.”
Back at the Barker Cafe, Maritim is about to finish his tea. Tapping the cup on the table rhythmically, he shares how he has chosen to deal with Harvard’s categorization culture. “I never ask anyone whether they were recruited or not.”
“Cause once we are done with college, for example, we will be working with people who both walked on and didn’t walk on,” he continues, “and be expected to perform the same way.”
Sections
Every other Friday night, Roland Yang ’14 hosts what he calls “a post-dinner, not a pre-game.” He gathers his close friends, serving them wine and freshly-baked cake in a room decorated with flags: Nigerian, French, Chinese, Indian, Kuwaiti, and rainbow.
Yang has a knack for bringing people together.
He’s currently Chief Operating Officer of Harvard Student Agencies, which employs over 450 students. As a freshman, Yang enlisted three Holworthy entryways to hang Christmas lights that spelled out “Ho Ho Ho.” Elected a Class Marshal this fall, he helps organize activities for more than 1600 seniors.  And when asked what he does for fun, Yang lists event-planning in the same breath as baking and traveling.
Oh, and he was named one of Phi Beta Kappa’s “Junior 24” for exceptional academic achievement.
The road to social and academic stardom began with a little boy obsessed with trains, living on the outskirts of Paris.
Growing up in France, China, and the U.S.—and these days Kuwait, since his father moved there for work—has led Yang to identify with people across boundaries and cultures.
“I’m a French and American citizen of a Chinese ethnicity and then some Middle Eastern flavor sprinkled on top,” he says. (When speaking, Yang has a habit of pulling together the strands of his life, just like he thrives in pulling together people.)
Coming to Harvard, Yang sought out global opportunities, in part because of an interest in international diplomacy. Freshman year he worked for Let’s Go (a travel guide company operated by HSA) with the hopes of getting hired to travel and write in the summer. Soon Yang was jetting off to France and Turkey. He’s kept up the trend: last summer, Yang worked for Harvard Business School’s European Research Center in Paris.
Yang is still considering an international diplomacy career but is focusing on the business world first. “It’s the same playing field, which is working internationally and working to create relations among people,” he says. “And then you can scale up to among states.” Next year, he’s thinking about taking a consulting job in Dubai.
But Yang hasn’t only worked to cultivate international connections—he has built community at Harvard, too. Last year he was co-chair of Queer Students and Allies, an organization that he says introduced him to “people who could relate and who could support and be allies.” He adds, “For me that was a very important part of widening the world.”
“Widening the world” might well be Yang’s life philosophy: It incorporates his global view and interpersonal focus, his appreciation for difference but love of community.
In the middle of our interview, Yang takes a call from his roommate to discuss their plans to help sophomores fill out Kirkland House’s elaborate Secret Santa forms. (Yang is not on the House Committee but just likes to lend a hand, he says.) Afterwards, listening to Yang enthuse about the way Secret Santa intimately acquaints Kirklanders, or the loyalty that the IM Crew team inspires, it’s hard to think of a group Yang doesn’t embrace.
On that rare occasion when Yang isn’t surrounded by people, he’s probably rowing.
“I love just taking a single out on the river and being there—just you, a small boat that’s barely wider than you, and the water,” he says. “And a goose or two.”
Even a quintessential people magnet needs his solitude. “If you take yourself and put yourself in the Charles River,” he says, “no one can get to you.”
Sections
“Something that I’m really proud of is that bamboo right there,” says Zamyla M. Chan ’14, nodding her head to the grass shoot potted beside her laptop. “I’ve been taking care of it since sophomore year. It started off really short and it’s grown a lot.”
Chan’s manner is a mixture of cowboy and comic book chemist. Her dark, wide-open eyes are distinctive; it’s hard to imagine them looking doleful or unhappy. It’s only when I mention that bamboo is meant to grow three feet every 24 hours that her lips upturn in disappointment—though only for a moment—before retreating into unaffected grin.
“Oh yeah, I’ve heard that. It’s still alive anyway.”
A Vancouver native, Chan is fluent in French (“and Dim Sum”) and likes to think she has an English accent like her UK-raised father; she says she wants to learn Spanish, but feels like a failure for forgetting her mother’s native tongue of Cantonese and for neglecting to live out her girlhood dream of playing in the FIFA world cup. As much as she likes talking, she often interrupts herself to ask questions: “Do you do that too?… What’s your plan in life?… Have you ever organized your chocolates according to type?”
Chan is an S.B. environmental engineering concentrator living in Winthrop, a Water Fellow with Harvard’s International Security Initiative, and a lauded Latin ballroom dancer (she’s doing belly dancing these days, too). Most famously, though, she is CS50’s “walkthrough girl.” For every week’s problem set she films a video that breaks the problem set down into manageable pieces and gives hints on how to get through it. It’s a role that’s fashioned Chan into something of a heroine to the hundreds of undergraduates who’ve struggled through the introductory CS course these past two years.
“Definitely people approach me in the street that I don’t know,” says Chan. “They might say, ‘Hi Zamyla,’ or ‘Thank you,’ or something. I love that I can make them love CS the way I do.”
The—love?—in Chan’s gaze is none other than the glowing pride of a scientist rejoicing over a laboratory crammed with potential experiments. Chan has me sitting in her private office beside the NOCERA lab in Lowell Lecture Hall. She’s been working at NOCERA since early in her junior year and is now conducting thesis research through the lab’s facilities.
“I’m making a device that takes in solar energy and converts it into storable fuel by splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen.”
“Like electrolysis?” I ask.
“Exactly,” she says, clarifying that it’s an improvement upon an already existing model.
“I’ve always wondered how you manage your time,” says Chan’s NOCERA colleague Michael J. Mellas ’14, having interrupted the interview to ask if Chan had heard about a new whirlwig something-or-other. “She’s doing like Engineering S.B. with her thesis and, like, one of the main people behind CS50, and lab, and everything, and salsa. Like what the hell?”
Chan also leads a study on institutional corruption at the Safra Center for Ethics at Harvard Law School, builds fuel-efficient cars with an Echo Marathon team, and bakes. She serves me a homemade stained glass gingerbread cookie (“my uncle’s and my specialty,” she says) that crumbs over some schematic-looking papers on her desk as I take tiny bites so as to be able to tell her how delicious it is—very mellow, not so spicy like other ginger cookies tend to be.
“I’m definitely very passionate about water,” Chan continues. “My sophomore year I was selected to be a water fellow for Harvard’s International Security Initiative. We traveled to the São Francisco River Basin, and studied the water transportation... This was so great because you’re talking about diverting water, mostly gravity led, through a gigantic country. We got to visit one of the biggest dams in the world,” she pauses, “It was perfect.”
Chan guides me through the many doors to exit, and apologizes when her swipe takes multiple tries. And at the end of our meeting, she says, with a hint of resigned moxie, “I only wish I could’ve organized a series of salsa dance flash mobs all across campus.”
Sections
I started out by running 1/26th marathons in high school gym class. As fulfilling as those 3.5 laps around the track were as I overlapped an old woman doing walking arm workouts, saying “I just ran a 1/26th marathon” didn’t have the right ring to it. I wanted to run something that sounded impressive. Thus, I have landed on the half marathon, or as I call it “the mara”, as the answer to my problems. Imagine: when I talk about it all the time, people widen their eyes, let out an involuntary gasp, and think: “God, I wish I could be like her. For so many reasons, but mainly because of this running thing.”
However, my journey to loving the mara was not a straight path. Nor was it circular around a track. It was more like running on a treadmill but also having to avoid obstacles at the same time. For a while, I admit, I was misguided. The solution at first seemed clear—all bad ideas are at first, like actually doing the reading for section or writing about not doing the reading for section. I thought I would run a full, 1/1 marathon. However, do you know the story of what happened to the first person who ran a marathon? Well I do. The first step to running a marathon is reading about the history of marathons. The guy collapsed and died. First time I tried to run a 1/1 marathon, same thing happened to me. The only full marathon I’m okay with is one that involves Law and Order SVU and back massages from my mom, Alice.
This evidence leads me to my conclusion: the mara, i.e. the 2/4th marathon, the 300/600 marathon, is the perfect combination of feasible and impressive. I’m often asked if I’m a glass half full or half empty person. My answer: I’m a marathon half run kind of person. Figure out what that means while I continue running because I’ve got places to go. You’re welcome that I stopped at all. Running half marathons makes me twice the person.
Sections
My hate/hate relationship with running began in High School when I realized that I was never going to be fast and that my playlists would never be good enough to make me fast. At first, I tried my best putting on a brave face while being lapped by six-year olds and paraplegics. Then I hung up my running shoes for good, and began getting my daily intake of endorphins from thinking about exercising and actually eating cupcakes. After all, running is supremely boring. The only thing more boring than running a mile is running two miles, which gets me to perhaps the most dull pursuit of all: running a half marathon.
Running a full marathon shows the world “I can push my body to the limits of my species’ capabilities.” A half marathon says “Well, I’m halfway towards doing something impressive.” Have you ever gotten a “half haircut”? Do surgeons perform “half heart transplants”? I think not. If you’re doing half of something then you’re not really doing anything.13 miles is just so arbitrary. Why not 12 or 11? Wait, why not avoid running at all, and instead use that valuable time to do well, practically anything else? It takes about two hours to run a half marathon, which coincidentally is how long it took Einstein to finalize E = MC2. Imagine if he had used those two hours to run around and liveblog his progress on Facebook. You make the judgement call.
It would be one thing if people ran half marathons quietly, perhaps in some sort of half marathon ashram in Cambodia. Instead, there are the Facebook statuses, the Instagrams, the Snapchats, the email blasts. We get it, you can run half as well as someone who is actually a runner. You’re in shape, I’m not, pass me another cupcake.
Sections
We’re about to wrap up a year of recovering from Miley Cyrus, celebrating celebrity babies, and grappling with government hysteria. In honor of our namesake, we compiled a list of the fifteen minutes—some historically significant, others not much more than a filler story that ended up dominating national news—that defined 2013, to read and remember before we ring in the new year.
February 3, 2013, 8:11 P.M. ET – Following the lip-syncing scandal at the 2013 Inauguration, Beyonce’s halftime performance at the Super Bowl sets a new record for the most-tweeted-about event in Twitter history. The show also includes a Destiny’s Child Reunion, fulfilling the dreams of millions of Americans.
 February 28, 2013, 2:00 P.M. ET – Pope Benedict XVI becomes the first Pope to willingly resign since 1294, an event that captured national attention without being something anyone actually cared about.
 March 5, 2013, 6:47 P.M. ET – Following nearly two years of mass killings and destruction, the London-based publication The Daily Telegraph announces that Syrian rebels have captured the governor of Raqqa Province, fueling what is to become a long, heated debate over whether or not America ought to intervene.
 April 8, 2013, 7:47 A.M. ET – The Press Association releases the news that Margaret Thatcher, Britain’s first female prime minister and the original glass-ceiling shatterer, passed away at 87.
 April 15, 2013, 2:50 P.M. ET – The first of two bombs detonates near the finish line of the Boston Marathon. With three dead and nearly 300 injured, police and the FBI spend the next four days engaging in a city-wide manhunt of the bombers; on April 19, one suspect is killed and the other is captured by FBI agents.
 April 24, 2013, 6:25 A.M. ET – The Daily Telegraph reports the collapse of the Rana Plaza in Bangladesh. With 1,129 dead and thousands more injured, the collapse is the deadliest garment factory accident in history, prompting national criticism of loosely-regulated North American companies. Fifteen of these companies, including Walmart and Macy’s, refuse to sign an international accord to expand factory safety in Bangladesh.
 June 5, 2013, 7:04 P.M. ET – The Guardian publishes an article detailing Verizon’s excessive access to personal data, the first article of the so-called NSA Files. Edward Snowden becomes a household name, only to spend about a month chilling in a Russian airport.
 July 3, 2013, 2:00 P.M. ET – After several hours of military deployment and an increasing armed presence throughout the capital, Egyptian Defense Minister Abdel Fatah al-Sissi announces his intent to oust Egypt’s first democratically elected president, Mohamed Morsi.
 July 13, 2013, 9:50 P.M. ET – Florida jury acquits Trayvon Martin’s murderer, George Zimmerman, of second-degree murder and manslaughter charges.
 July 15, 2013, 5:34 A.M. ET – Kim and Kanye beat out Kate and William following a tense, nine-month maternity race with the birth of their baby, North West. But props to the royal couple, who welcomed their son a week later, for choosing an actual name.
 August 25, 2013, 9:23 P.M. ET – Yeah, you already know what this is: Miley’s VMA performance (which becomes one of the new most-tweeted events in Twitter history). It unites people of all races, genders, ages, and sexualities in their horror. There’s only so much twerking America can take—please, please stop.
 September 8, 2013, 2:45 P.M. ET – Serena Williams, one of the only names in pro tennis that the average American even recognizes, wins her fifth U.S. open title and 17th major singles title.
 October 1, 2013, 12:00 A.M. ET – The United States Government shuts down for the first time since 1995 amidst a congressional temper tantrum regarding the implementation of the PPACA. 17 days later, Obama signs the bipartisan agreement that ended the shutdown—but it expires this January. Get ready, 2014!
 November 1, 2013, 4:45 P.M. ET - After dropping more than 50 percent over a 17 month period of recession, the Dow Jones Industrial Average sets its 39th record close, at 15,963.21.
 November 6, 2013, 3:00 P.M. ET – With winds up to 235 mph, history’s fourth strongest super typhoon touches down near Guiuan. Typhoon Haiyan leaves in its wake entire cities without food or water and a climbing death toll that is likely to make Haiyan the Philippines’ deadliest natural disaster on record.
Sections
Reading period is a great time to do in a week what you should have been doing all semester. Whether you need to catch up on reading or drinking, FM created a game that suits both. Here are the rules:
1. For every lecture you missed, dump a shot into your venti caramel frappucino while you watch it online.
2.  Take a shot for every other reading you didn’t do this semester. This could escalate quickly.
3. Every time a friend comletes his semester before you do, toast him with champagne and then down the rest of the bottle out of self-pity.
4. For every question you get right on a practice exam, open your most expensive bottle (or box) of wine and feel good about yourself while contemplating the luxury you’ll bask in once you land that cushy i-banking job, you smart cookie, you.
5. Every time that kid you secretly hate in your Ec study group corrects you, slip a shot of vodka into his/her eco-friendly nalgene and then challenge him/her to a hydration game.
6. Each day, take the number of hours you spent in the library and compare that to your friends. Drink proportionally. If that’s too much math, just estimate. When you start getting delirious later, wonder whether you’re feeling the buzz or are just dazed from reading an entire textbook in one night.
7. For every shower you miss while in the library, pour a shot of Captain Morgan directly onto your skin—this way you won’t have to taste it and maybe it’ll have a deep cleansing effect. Alcohol’s hygienic, right?
8. Each time you read a BuzzFeed article instead of studying, mix yourself one of their “13 Cozy Cocktails To Warm You Up”, cuddle with your pillows, and avoid all responsibilities.
9.  Down a skinny margarita in preparation for Primal Scream. This counts as dieting after a week of stress eating.
10. Every time you look over at the productive person next to you in Lamont, accomplish something youself by taking a shot of Rubinoff.
11. Every time you contemplate changing careers and question your ability to get into grad school, make yourself a margarita, put on some party music, and nostalgically remember those days when you considered opting out of college. How soon is Spring Break?
12. Drink an imported lager every time you make a cross-cultural comparisonin a research paper. Then switch to your favorite American-made beer and consider switching concentrations. Isn’t Gov supposed to be really easy?
13. Every time Netflix automatically starts playing a new episode of the show you’re binge-watching, match your drink’s alcohol content percentage to the percentage that your final exam counts for your grade.
Sections
Harvard can claim the largest university library in the nation, multiple companies around the world, much of Boston and Allston, and lots of money. But the University also owns some bizarre things thanks to past bequests by donors. FM researched some of the most shocking and peculiar donations made in the history of the University to learn more about their origins and how they came under Harvard’s possession.
1.  The Falik Men’s Room
When Berkeley Law Professor and HLS Alumnus William A. Falik (yes, pronounced just like “phallic”) donated $100,000 to the Law School for a public interest law fellowship to commemorate his father’s 100th birthday, he suggested that Harvard name a newly-built restroom after him. Surprisingly enough, then-Dean Elena Kagan supported the idea; as a result, male students, faculty members and visitors of the Wasserstein Hall at HLS may now take care of their business in the ‘Falik Men’s Room.’ Apparently this was not the first time a restroom has been named after Mr. Falik—University of California, Berkeley also has a “Falik Gentlemen’s Lounge” after another previous donation he made to the school. Maybe smart people can be funny after all.
2. Dining Hall Tray designed by Walter Gropius
This cream-colored, circular dining hall tray was used between the 1950s and 70s and is currently on display outside the Harvard Archives in an exhibit about Harvard’s dining history. Walter Gropius, the German architect and theorist who founded and directed the Bauhaus school until he fled Germany shortly before World War II, was the chairman of Harvard’s Department of Architecture from 1936 to 1952, and designed this tray with the Architects Collaborative while in Cambridge. The tray stopped being used everyday in the late 1960s, and soon came to be called the ‘trashcan lid.’
3. Gore Vidal’s Fortune and Assets...All of it.
Gore Vidal, renowned American writer known for his essays, screenplays, and novels, left his multimillion-dollar fortune to Harvard University. “Did he even go here?” you ask. Nope, he didn’t—he was accepted here but opted to join the Army and become a writer instead. Harvard isn’t just getting Vidal’s fortune, but also has claim to future profits from ongoing sales of Vidal’s books. Now Vidal’s half sister is challenging Vidal’s will based on the claim that he was not mentally competent when he changed the terms of his will in the year preceding his death (he suffered from alcoholism and dementia in his final years).
4. Keep Women in the House
Former Massachusetts Attorney General A.E. Pillsbury bequested Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and Columbia $25,000 each in 1931. But there was a catch: The money had to be used to combat the feminist movement that had “begun to impair the family as the basis of civilization and its advance.” Pillsbury wanted the bequest to be devoted to creating or developing sound public opinion and action on the subject of “anti-feminism”—in other words, to keep women in the home. Harvard refused to accept the bequest.
5. Name Scholarships
Most scholarships are granted based on citizenry, grades, residency, financial need and even academic interest. But some donors have left scholarship money to future Harvard students with particular last names. From Thayer to Downer, these scholarships target specific descendants with these surnames. There are also scholarships based on other unusual requirements, like those that give preference to students pursuing studies related to Confucius or sons of employees of Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc. Try checking out some of them—who knows, your last name may be more useful than you think.
6. Free Boston Symphony Orchestra Tickets
Before Government Professor Arthur A. Maass passed away in 2004, he left a provision in his estate plans that established a free-ticketing program which would provide seven to eight free tickets per week to Harvard students for the Boston Symphony Orchestra. Students can pick the tickets up on a first-come, first-serve basis at the Office for the Arts. Thanks to Maass, Harvard students have been able to secure tickets to hear quality musical performances by one of the nation’s most renowned orchestras completely free of charge.
7. Real Estate
Harvard owns a lot of real estate outside of Cambridge like summer houses, observatories, and boathouses, mostly thanks to generous donors. These properties are all owned and managed by Harvard Real Estate, Inc., and are located all over the world. Most of these properties are used as academic study or research centers for university fellows and faculty members, some provide extra benefits like gorgeous views and tremendous collections.
One such property is Villa I Tatti, a 16th century Italian estate in Florence, Italy bequeathed by art scholar Bernard Berenson, class of 1887, in 1959. The villa, also called Harvard Center for Italian Renaissance Studies, is home to tens of thousands of photographs, books, and pamphlets, as well as additional luxuries like grand cypress trees, and fountains surrounding the estate. The estate serves high quality food and wine, and scholars are allowed to stay at the villa during their studies.
8. A Mystery Collection
George Andrew Reisner ’89, renowned Egyptologist, bequested an extensive collection of thrillers and mystery novels to Harvard. Apparently around a fifth of the novels have grades on them (rated A through D) by Reisner himself. Some rare novels were graded ‘X’ if they were particularly bad; others earned an A+ grade. Most of the books Reisner donated can be found in the Widener Library amidst the other detective novels and fiction in the PZ section.
9. Two Forests
Black Rock Forest located in Cornwall, New York is one of two forests the University owns. At 3,800 acres, the forest used to belong to an alum from Harvard’s Class of 1908 named Ernest G. Stillman; Stillman conducted his private research in the forest until he bequested the property to Harvard in 1949. Many research and class field trips venture to Harvard’s other forest, the Petersham in Worcester County, which was gifted to Harvard by James W. Brooks in 1908.
10.  More Money than You Have Ever Imagined
Hansjörg Wyss is the man who broke records in 2008 by donating $125 million, the largest philanthropic gift ever received by Harvard. Wyss donated a second $125 million last year to Harvard’s Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, which was named in his honor after his first donation. Wyss also gave $25 million to Harvard Business School in 2004, having received an MBA from the school himself back in 1965. Wyss made much of his wealth through his careers as an entrepreneur and businessman, and currently has a net worth of $8.7 billion.
Sections
Hania S. Chima '14 remembers she was 15, maybe 16, when she was the lead in "Burqavaganza." A satire on the traditional Islamic veil, the play featured both men and women wearing burqas. The show had been banned in Pakistan. She performed it there anyway.
For seven years, Chima, a Quincy House resident originally from Lahore, Pakistan, has acted in plays with Ajoka, a Pakistani theater group whose goal is to promote social change. Ajoka plays have dealt with issues ranging from women's rights to religious intolerance. "Some of them are very disturbing issues to talk about in Pakistan," Chima acknowledges.
After performances in India and Pakistan, Chima would interact with the audience and recalls how a performance could influence their attitudes. Over time, audiences appeared to become mroe attuned to Ajoka's messages. Audience members no longer kept their cell phones on, talked during the shows, or left in the middle. "It sounds like a very small change." Chima says. "But I think it reflects on a lot more."
Nearly 7,000 miles away from Lahore, Chima has had to reduce her involvement with Ajoka, now only attending meetings whenever she is home. In Cambridge, Chima has transitioned from theater to filmmaking as a medium. "Films can reach out to more people," she says.
Chima still finds ways to remain involved as a Harvard student. Her sophomore summers, she worked on the pre-production of the Bollywood film "Lunchbox." Junior year, she took a full-year Visual and Environmental Studies course with Philippe Grandrieux, a visiting lecturer.
Chima is quick to express gratitude for the people who have been important in her life. She emphasizes that Grandrieux, like Madeeha Gauhar (one of Ajoka's two founders), impacted her life in a significant way. She credits Grandrieux with helping her to see the value in making films that are "more honest than sensational" and "for the sake of art," Chima says.
Her first film, "Mirror on the Wall," which she made in Grandrieux's class, "wasn't made to communicate," she asserts. "It wasn't sensationalizing. It's a banal kind of film about a banal lifestyle."
The film follows a cleaning woman in America who goes unnoticed by the people she works for. Chima's inspiration stemmed from what she had observed in some households in Pakistan. "The film comes from that sympathy for people who are almost invisible," she says.
Chima shrugs as she recalls the negative reactions of some of her friends. "I think it very close to [what I wanted my film to look like], so if anyone has an issue with the film, they would have an issue with the way I perceive films and the way I write films," she says. "The film is a state of existence."
Wearing a gold jacket and her black pulled back, Chima mentions that she has an idea for her next film. Yet she gestures with her right hand and then makes a flicking motion, as if to bat away the topic. She does not want to discuss the idea, revealing only that she plans for the film to be set in Lahore.
Sections
With the holidays just around the corner, winter cheer has begun to parade across campus, and yet anxiety as to what to get your Secret Santa abounds. This year, to help you brainstorm what to get your gift exchanging boo, FM imagines what members of certain student groups on campus give each other.
REPUBLICAN CLUB
For the Harvard Republican Club’s Secret Santa, not all members can get a gift—there are no free handouts here. Rather, each gift is sold on a sealed bid auction so that the goods are acquired by those who value them the most. The secrecy tradition is maintained, of course, as each seller of the gift is under a strict “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy so that their identities remain protected.
FLY CLUB
Rather than completing their exchange in person, the Fly members slip the gifts with calligraphed envelopes under their assignments’ doors. Popular gifts include (and are limited to) taxidermy, port, and salmon pants.
THE CO-OP
Because the term Secret Santa assumes that the participants identify as Christian, the Co-opers instead have titled the practice “Anonymous Solstice Symbolic Figurehead.” Gifts are often food related, such as kale candy canes and hamless holiday ham. Also popular are soap boxes in preparation for Occupy Harvard revivals.
THE ADVOCATE
The Advocate gift exchange takes place, pro forma, Advocate style—in a dark room filled with cigarette smoke. Last year, we imagine one member was especially excited when he received a year-long New Yorker subscription, exclaiming that the magazines will look great on his elm wood coffee table. Another member decided to help his Secret Santa with an early New Year’s resolution and gifted a nicotine patch. Maybe this will be his lucky year.
FOP
FOPpers exchange gifts in the place they feel most at home: in nature and stuff. They organize a weekend hike to the mountains, and around a crackling campfire they exchange horror stories, exotic varieties of fruit, and limited edition L.L. Bean woolen socks.
Sections
 
On one of those cold November days when the Cambridge wind leaves most students with pink cheeks, a runny nose, and hat hair, Mariel N. Pettee ’14 glides into the Quincy dining hall looking perfectly put together. She slips off her winter coat and sits down at a window-side table, smoothing her sparkly silver skirt and adjusting her hair, pulled back into a neat half ponytail.
The joint concentrator in physics and math has a secondary in dramatic arts and has produced and performed in shows with the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club and the Harvard Modern Dance Company. A founder of The Generalist and the current president of The Signet Society, Harvard’s society devoted to those involved in the arts and letters, Pettee also works as a CA for the math department and a proctor for the Freshman Arts Program.
She pulls off this hectic schedule with the poise of a dancer.
"I just love running on full speed," Pettee says. "I’ve done this since I’ve gotten to college and I get such a rush from it."
Pettee, who describes her younger self as "that nerdy kid who lived space," arrived at Harvard with both an interest in astrophysics and several years of training in modern dance. She has since shifted her academic focus to quantum mechanics and particle physics.
At the same time, Pettee threw herself into the performing arts scene at Harvard, beginning with a position as an assistant stage manager in her first production here.
"My job was basically putting eye shadow on someone to make it look like they had a black eye," she says. "I enjoyed that almost as much as anything else that I’ve done."
Since, Pettee has produced, choreographed, danced for, and acted in a number of shows, her most recent being this fall’s HRDC production of Antigonick, an adaptation of the Sophocles classic. This year, Pettee has been working on a creative senior thesis that fuses her two passions: a performance centered around the recent discovery of the Higgs Boson particle.
She found the inspiration for this project when studying at CERN over the summer. "The discovery of the Higgs Boson was announced on my third day of work," Pettee explains. "I arrived in this whirlwind and got to witness this phenomenal event, and since then I’ve been really fascinated by how the Higgs Boson has changed the way we perceive ourselves in the universe."
Pettee described her performance as an installation piece, which she plans to put on in Farkas Hall. "My hope is to take over the building and let the audience wander between floors," she says. "I say installation rather than play because I don’t think there will be a strictly linear plot. There will be a lot of scenes—one might be a physics professor giving a lecture and another might be a modern dance piece."
As different as science and the arts might seem on the surface, Pettee explains that she sees a connection between the physicist who spends his lifetime studying a subatomic particle that he will never see, touch, or smell, and the dancer who spends hours in the studio perfecting a single move.
"I can’t quite put my finger on it, but it’s something I really admire," she says. "Whenever it happens to me I’m really excited—when you’re so invested in a project that it takes over your life."
Describing a favorite dance move, she extends one arm to the ceiling and another to her black tight-clad knees.
"There’s this prize in dance that for the past three years has gone to a physicist," she says, elaborating on the link between her two passions. "There’s balance, rotation, thinking about how you hold your weight. For me it’s about wanting to understand the fundamentals of how we move and how we fit into space."
Pettee, who says that CA-ing for Math 110 and Math 121 has been one of her most valuable experiences at Harvard, also described the connection between performance and teaching.
"In the context of a single performance, you connect to a specific audience, and whether it’s implicit or not they shape the way you perform," she says. "In class you’re doing that for an entire semester, you shape the way that you perform for your students."
Though she still describes her future as "open-ended," Pettee says that she can see herself teaching or working in education reform, perhaps by using arts as a new lens through which to introduce students to the sciences. Next year, she will most likely pursue further study in physics; she has already been accepted to a masters program at Cambridge University.
For now, Pettee will spend most of her senior spring wrapping up her thesis—with the fervor of a scientist and the grace of an artist.
Sections
PBR:
High alcohol content
Sometimes on tap
People don’t know what it stands for
One must sacrifice good taste to drink it
High success rate when used in pick-up line with hipster
Drink more than four to feel its effects
Enjoyed by fraternities
PBK:
High GPA
Sometimes tapped
People don’t know what it   translates to
One must sacrifice social life to earn it
Terrible success rate when used in pick-up line with hipster
Get it once to feel its effects
Sounds like a fraternity
Both:
After age 23, only mentioned in nostalgia
After two weeks in the library, smell slightly stale
The earlier, the better
Grey Goose is better
Sections
 
Among all the factors that distinguish Michael S. Segel ’14 from the typical college student, his sleep habits are high on the list. After goading from a friend, he finally admits that he’s asleep by 10:30 p.m. every night.
With his days spent frantically riding his bike between Professor of Molecular and Cellular Biology Douglas Melton’s Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology lab, the Advocate, Pfoho, and the Signet Society, though, the early bedtime is more understandable. "My bike and huge amounts of coffee are the only way I can sustain my lifestyle," says Segel, who goes by "Mikey."
A native of Brookline, Mass., Segel has been working for the Melton lab since his senior year of high school. The lab focuses on stem cell solutions to diabetes, a disease in which certain cells in the pancreas stop functioning. After years of repeated experiments, Segel was able to create viable versions of these "pancreatic beta cells" in a petri dish using human embryonic stem cells, and saw that they were able to survive in diabetic mice. Segel presented his findings to Melton.
"He was shocked, and I was so shocked that he was so shocked. I thought he would punch a hole in it, like say it was just an artifact of the way I did it," laughs Segel. His findings were, in fact, correct. Recently, Segel has met with patent lawyers and pharmaceutical companies to discuss the implications of his discovery. A Human Developmental and Regenerative Biology concentrator, Segel hopes to attend graduate school for a doctorate in stem cell biology, possibly at a British university such as Cambridge, where Melton earned his degree.
When not patiently studying mice or feeding embryos, Segel can be found at the Advocate tending to his other love: design. Segel was entirely unfamiliar with design before coming to Harvard. But after meeting members of the Advocate’s design board at the freshman activities fair whom he found to be "really cool and encouraging," he decided to try the Advocate’s design comp.
"I dropped out after the first two weeks, but for some reason they let me keep going," he muses. "I spent hours in Lamont, teaching myself Adobe."
Segel is now in his second year as Advocate Design Chair. Within his first few months on board, he was given the chance to design the upcoming issue’s cover. While the Advocate had tended toward the intricate and ornate, Segel chose to simplify the design to "white...on white...on white."
The arts and sciences in Segel’s life are connected by more than just a bike path. "Over the summer, Doug gave a talk to the International Society for Stem Cell Research," says Segel. "There were 4,500 people there, and I got to make some of the figures. For presentations in my lab, I get to make some of the illustrations in Adobe Illustrator. I go beyond the PowerPoint. "
Segel also helps run an online literary magazine, Nat. Brut, with two friends from high school. "It was kind of a silly thing we started, but Dave Eggers wrote a thing on it in McSweeney’s," says Segel. "It’s been really exciting."
Despite his in some ways disjointed lifestyle and early bedtime, Segel still manages to run five miles every morning around Fresh Pond, something that, once, again, he only mentions casually at the prodding of a friend.
"My whole life has been defined by two polar opposites," he says, shrugging, "and always frantically running between the two."
Sections
 
When he lunges towards the ball, the white rubber soles of his shoes squeak against the hardwood floor. Ali A. Farag ’14 is lanky and agile; he strides around a boxy squash court at the Murr Center, stretching out his racquet to send the small ball ricocheting off the front wall at calculated angles.
"The thing about Ali is that he starts moving towards the ball before the other guy even hits it," a teammate says as we watch Farag hit at Monday evening practice. "[Ali]’s just really efficient [...] He can use minimal effort to get perfectly to the ball."
Exiting the court, Farag greets me with an enthusiastic grin. He is genial and chatty as he leads me to a sitting room beside the courts. On the way we pass beneath a banner of Harvard’s Men’s National Squash Champions: Farag is listed on the 2012 line.
"I don’t even remember the first time I picked up a racket. I was probably six or seven," he says as we sit beside a coffee table adorned with the "H" athletic crest. He took up the sport to follow his lifelong role model: his older brother Wael. Since picking up squash, Farag has practiced every day and sometimes twice a day, basing his training out of Cairo’s Heliopolis Club. He was winning national tournaments in Egypt by age 10.
When Farag considered quitting squash as a teenager, his brother encouraged him to persevere and volunteered to become his coach: Wael believed Ali could be a world champion. "To see someone who believes in you that much and loves you that much and cares about what you’re doing—because it’s you—just adds a lot to your self esteem and your confidence," says Farag. Under his brother’s coaching, Farag went on to place second in the World Juniors tournament. In 2011 he won the British Junior Open, an equally prominent international tournament.
Farag began college at American University in Cairo, but when the Egyptian revolution broke out and his parents requested he leave the country, he transferred to Harvard for sophomore year. "My goal in being here is to help Egypt after I graduate," Farag says. He repeats this phrase throughout our conversation. It seems to be his credo, his driving philosophy.
"Everyone is depressed now with what’s going on [in Egypt]," Farag says. "I have a very different feeling. I’m very optimistic about what is happening." He mentions the French Revolution, noting that full recovery from that conflict took time and that the same will be true of Egypt. "We’re not on the right track right now, which is kind of worrying, but we’re going to get there."
Farag says Egypt’s recovery depends on the country’s most educated committing to solving the nation’s problems. "If every one of the educated people in Egypt—which is no more than 10 percent of the country—does something in his own field, then Egypt will bounce back," Farag says, his voice unwavering.
Farag has already started planning the contribution he plans to make back home. A "science-y person" who has always adored math and physics, Farag is pursuing an Engineering S.B. degree specializing in Mechanics and Materials Science. His demanding course schedule has necessitated taking four engineering classes some semesters, atop his varsity squash commitment. But Farag is unintimidated.
Farag plans to put his engineering studies to work in Egypt by developing what he calls the underutilized resource of solar power. His thesis uses MATLAB to model hydro storage data about the way that solar energy is stored overnight, which Farag hopes will uncover paths to cheaper and more efficient hydro storage methods.
After graduating in May, Farag will return to Egypt for 13 months of mandatory military service. He will also coach squash for a while—it’s good money for a 22-year-old and will help him become financially independent. But his long-term plan is engineering; he’s already researching the paperwork he will need to get his U.S. degree to meet Egyptian accreditation standards for engineers. "Someday, something will happen," he says. "Together we will lift up the country."
Sections
From far away, the picture may appear like any other painting: colorful, bright, and, like all other images, flat. But stepping closer, strange things begin to happen. Images appear to merge outside of the frame, bodies and faces protruding from the canvas. Details are everywhere, every inch of the tableau helping to illustrate the scene. Nose against the frame, you realize it is three-dimensional: a technique created by George O. Pocheptsov ’14.
“I love when people get lost in my drawings,” Pocheptsov says, his voice slightly above the din of the Saturday afternoon crowd at Lamont Café. “You can use modeling paste to mold unstretched canvas into a shape or a face, and if you paint on top that, you end up with this three dimensional type of canvas piece.”
Pocheptsov started to paint before he could walk or talk. After his father passed away from brain cancer when he was a toddler, Pocheptsov kept himself occupied with colored pencils and paper. When he was one, he drew a replica of an antique car across the street, which caught the eye of a gallery owner, who started selling his work. “I’m very fortunate that I was introduced to the right people at the right time,” Pocheptsov acknowledges. “Nobody in my family really had professional advice, so it’s been a wild ride.”
Twenty years later, Pocheptsov has reached a level of recognition that few artists ever do. He has been labeled a child prodigy and compared to a young Pablo Picasso. He has received commissions to paint for Hillary Clinton, Michael Jordan, and even the United Nations for their 60th anniversary. He has donated eight million dollars to charity solely from the money earned through the sale of his artwork.
Pocheptsov has not limited himself only to art. Since freshman year he has played on the Harvard polo team, which he joined with minimal previous experience. He has created two paintings depicting the polo team, one of which was presented to Tommy Lee Jones ‘69, a team sponsor.
Pocheptsov acknowledges that polo is a unique example of art and his other interests merging. “Most people assume that an artist ties everything back to artwork,” he says.
But instead of concentrating in Visual and Environmental Studies, Pocheptsov pursued a joint concentration in statistics and slavic languages and literatures.
Faced with the impossible task of balancing a full college course load and an art career, Pocheptsov acknowledges his commitment to painting sometimes comes second. “It’s hard to not turn in a problem set,” he says. “It’s a bit easier to postpone an art project for next month.”
Still, he maintains there’s ample free time for art, most notably during vacations. “If I have time to do an artwork, I’ll do an artwork,” Pocheptsov says. “If you really love something, it’s easier to find time to do it.”
Sections
In March 2004, Harvard’s Calendar Reform Committee released a report recommending that the Faculty of Arts and Sciences move exams to before winter break. Gone would be the days of returning to campus for final exams barely a day after the ball dropped for the new year. Instead, FAS would allow for 62 days of classes each semester, five to eight days of reading period, and eight days for exams. It was suggested the longer winter break this schedule opened up could potentially house its own mini-term.
A NEW CALENDAR
When the University Calendar Committee first convened to discuss a potential calendar change, the Harvard community had mixed feelings about incorporating a January term into the schedule. In a Crimson poll of 391 undergrads in October 2004, 77 percent of students said they would be in favor of moving exams before break, but the faculty was divided.
Faculty members who opposed January term worried that students wouldn’t have enough time to digest course material with a shortened fall semester, while those in favor believed that a more concise schedule would encourage students to be more diligent with their academics throughout the semester.  January term supporters also argued that a “real break” free of preparation for upcoming assessments would give students time for much-needed rest and lead to improved mental health.
In January 2008, the University voted to proceed with their new schedule proposition, which would be effective in the 2009-2010 calendar year. This meant the advent of a January term, as well as a school year that started and ended earlier. The new calendar left plans for January unclear, to be determined individually by each school, and many FAS faculty and administrators worried about whether the time would be put to constructive use.
“I would say that [the] most critical issue is whether [January term] will be something serious or something Mickey Mouse,” Kenan Professor of government Harvey C. Mansfield ’53 told The Crimson in 2004. Mansfield’s own opinion was that the term would become the latter. “Harvard is already easy enough. We don’t need more of this.”
Much Ado about January
Peer colleges like MIT and Williams set the precedent for developing January programming. MIT’s optional 4-week Independent Activities Period offers around 600 non-credit courses taught by alumni, faculty, and student groups and 100 for-credit faculty-led courses, as well as time for students to engage in internships or travel opportunities. Winter study is mandatory at Williams, which makes January a time for students to take accelerated, for-credit classes.
But  Harvard’s program for January would differ from its two predecessors. Tom Conley, visual and environmental studies and romance languages and literatures professor and Kirkland House master, chaired a 2004 committee tasked with designing a potential January term for the College in the event that the new calendar was adopted.
“Our J-term [plan] had students going to centers and sites all over the world, from Beijing to Dakar, from Santiago to Mumbai; staying at home to do inventive and concentrated film analysis; language study; preparatory work for dissertations; trips to archives,” etc. Conley wrote to The Crimson in an email. He wrote that the University welcomed the committee’s report, but ultimately could not entertain many of its recommendations because of unexpected financial constraints.
In April 2009, less than a year before the first January term, the administration announced that after the 2008 economic crisis the College would not offer any winter programs. Only varsity athletes, thesis writers, and international students with demonstrated need would be allowed to stay on campus between the semesters.
This damper on the vision of a lively January campus lasted for only one year. In April 2010 the College announced that in a new seven to 10 day period before the beginning of the 2011 spring semester, all students would be welcome on campus and student groups would have the chance to host activities. They called this mini version of J-term Optional Winter Activities Week (OWAW).
OWAW and its 100 programs hinted at an evolution toward a more structured J-term. Programming grew to 140 offerings in January 2012 as the period was renamed Wintersession, and Wintersession 2013 maintained that same number of programs. In addition to student groups, many of Harvard’s associations and offices sponsored original programming during January.
The Wintersession Solution
This coming January, Wintersession will proceed similarly to past years with unique programming by both student groups and Harvard offices. Arts @ 29 Garden will offer a seven-hour per day seminar called “Activist to Craftivist” which simultaneously explores “the philosophy behind a knit and stitch,” and its influence on basketball, while the computer science class “Intensive Discrete Mathematics” will cover some of the material from Computer Science 20 necessary for higher level CS courses. Student initiated offerings this January include Music Education Week at the Quad Studios, the Harvard Outing Club’s Cabin ski trip to New Hampshire, workshops in spoken word poetry, making handmade mugs, education reform, and crash courses in quantitative finance and origami.
Whether interested in Wintersession activities or not, students are using January for many different purposes—traveling, staying home, preparing summer applications, studying for non-Harvard assessments—and many students appreciate the discretionary nature of this time.
Preetha Hebbar ’14, a returning board member of Wintersession’s Harvard Wellness Conference and inactive Crimson editorial writer, believes that the structure of Wintersession perfectly suits the nature of her conference by providing time and space for reflection. “A lot of what we talk about is how  environment influences the way that students shape their stresses and shape their lives here,” Hebbar explains. “To be on campus and dealing with those problems is really helpful.”
Other students agree that J-term is a time to take a break from the craziness of campus. “I’m not interested in taking classes over J-term, because this is my time for vacation,” says Gabriella R. Herrera ’15 bluntly. “Why am I going to come back and take classes?”
Vanessa D. L. C. Martinez ’15 feels the same way, but understands the potential appeal if courses were to be offered for concentration or Gen-Ed credit. “I feel like the benefit [of being on campus] would have to outweigh the cost,” she says, and she believes for-credit classes would be a big benefit. Martinez is skeptical about the popularity of not-for-credit offerings with a more exploratory purpose. “You can get freedom off of campus,” she says.
J-Term Moving Forward
While many students seem to be happy with J-term’s current flexibility, Conley would like to see more definition. “Students, as far as I can see, don’t want to be away from Harvard for too long, nor do they want simulation of unemployment to be at the core of the ‘January experience,’” he wrote.
Perhaps the answer lies in the “optional” clause written into the MIT Independent Activities Period, which provides flexibility not only in learning and teaching, but also in how students can take advantage of the time.
When asked how he would like to see J-term evolve in the coming years, Conley shared a simple wish. “I’d like to see it involve the ideas that we had proposed almost ten years ago.”
“I believe that the economic crisis really put a curfew on invention,” wrote Conley, noting that he saw little implementation of the Committee’s original proposals for a January term. But this dearth of programming need not endure. “We are now beginning to think creatively again,” he says.
Sections
As the wise and respected social leader on campus, FM was inevitably going to be asked how to be “cool” one of these days. Recently, a first year we’ll call “Josh” (because his real name is Josh) came to us asking how to survive the brutal social life of a male Freshman on campus. Four of FM’s best weighed in to turn Josh’s social woes into social woooooahs.

1) With final clubs and sport team parties out of the picture, where can a typical freshman boy party on a weekend night?
FM1: Ah the ol’ “I’m a social pariah on campus and can’t find a place to party” question. Two answers come to mind, Josh. 1) Make your own party. Yes, hard to do in a “dry” freshman dorm, but there are time-tested ways to pass beer cans through the gates behind Mower that will guarantee successful booze smuggling in times of need (note: method may be time tested, but it does not provide any guarantees). 2) Sigma Chi. Frats are neither of those two things you mentioned, so I’ll call that a loophole and tell you that frat parties are where it’s at for youngin’s like yourself. 3) Yes I know I didn’t mention a third option, because I was honest and said that two real answers came to mind. The third option is a last-call move of desperation, so use it only when you’re absolutely starved for party nourishment. I’m talking, of course, about dhall parties. Too large of a space, too few people, and too many youtube ads interrupting the music the shitty DJs are trying to pass as dance anthems. But, if you’re like most freshmen, you’ll be showing up to the party in a crowd of 20 to 30 people anyway, so you can really take it over if you want a place to show your moves.
FM2: You might not think so now, but soon enough you are going to fondly remember the days when you wandered in large groups in search of a party. In fact, you might go so far as to think that this wandering was the party itself. And it is! So enjoy it while you can. Open liquor laws don’t apply to minors and Freshman year is the only time you can get away with shotgunning a beer in the alleyway behind the Signet.
FM3: Wait, really? Just join some clubs. Do a club sport or a capella or a PBHA program. They’ll all have parties and you’ll actually know the people at them. Otherwise, just follow the music from the courtyards. It’s pretty likely you’ll feel pretty weird if you don’t know anyone there, though. Just keep standing in that corner and telling yourself you’re having a good time.
FM4: Josh, it’s going to be hard finding parties as a freshman guy. Don’t go looking for the parties; instead, make the parties come to you. How do you go about doing this? Well, (presumably) you’ve got a contact list on your phone full of college co-eds, all of whom, believe it or not, are as bored as you. Text them something along the lines of “My roommate’s out of town haha so bored haha,” and, eventually, one of them will swing by. It’s a numbers game: if you’ve got 20 contacts, all of whom have a 5% chance of accepting your invitation, chances are that one lucky lady will spend the night with you in Greenough. Go get ’em tiger!
2) Is it possible to move beyond a pre-game without going off campus?
FM1: Josh, I’m going to be honest here: I have no idea what you’re asking. I should hope it’s possible to move beyond a pregame without going off campus, as I have not been off campus for a party more than twice in my entire time here at Harvard. So either I’ve never “moved beyond” a pre-game, or you’re one of the most outgoing and adventurous students on campus when it comes to venturing into the urban jungle of Boston clubs.
FM2: The better question to ask, is it possible to pre-game while moving off campus in search of a better party? Yes. Keg stands on the T. Post-game in the Cambridge Police Department.
FM3:. It is not at all outside the realm of possibility. Real talk, going off campus is a pretty weird idea. Is there even anything past Darwin’s worth going to?
FM4: Yes? Sorry to answer your question with another question but it is possible to move beyond a pregame without going off campus. Refer to our answers for question (1).
3) What lies can you tell older guys to keep them from swooping the Freshman girls?
FM1: “She’s got a boyfriend who got kicked out of the marines for excessive violence. I wouldn’t go there, bro.”
“Listen man, maybe some other night. I know for a fact that she had explosive diarrhea earlier, and you don’t want to be there when that comes back.”
“Dude, she’s only 15.”
“She keeps her nail clippings in a jar by her bed and calls the collection ‘Jerry.’”
“In my entryway, we call her the ‘scrotum scraper.’ You know, just FYI”
“Oh, you’re going after _____? Interesting. What? Oh no reason…no reason at all…”
FM2: It might also be good to consider what lies you could tell a freshman girl to keep her away from seniors. For example: “Isn’t that your PAF?”
On second thought, that might just encourage her. My PAF was kind of hot.
FM3: Honesty is always the right move. Tell the older guy how you feel. He probably won’t respect you afterwards, but he’ll pity you enough to let you be.
FM4: There are two ways to handle this situation. The obvious one is to pretend you’re a senior and swoop in yourself. The only problem with this tactic is that some douchebag seniors with Harvard Facebook access may go ahead and debunk your claim. You can avoid this if you choose the other option: take it one step further and pretend you’re a graduate student. It’s the perfect cover-up; you’re suddenly the most interesting person at the party, and no one is there to verify your claim.
4) A whole slew of questions around the girl that thus far has kept her boyfriend from high school… How does a freshman boy go about anything with this girl? Is the Turkey Dump a thing? Worth investing in a long-run game with this kind of girl?
FM1: Step one: Don’t do anything. Step two: Really, don’t do anything that might be a problem for a girl in a relationship. Step three: Now that we’re on the same page here, I’ll say that the Turkey Dump is kind of a real thing, and that most long-distance relationships just don’t make it in the end. Sorry, couple-who-swears-they’re-different-from-everyone-else-because-they-really-really-really-love-each-other-and-know-they-can-overcome-the-long-distance-thing. In the meantime, I’m not sure what your “long-run game” is, but definitely don’t pretend to be this girl’s friend if you’re just trying to stay close so you can subtly drive her relationship into the ground and be there to pick up the pieces afterwards. Not cool, bro.
FM2: I say go for it! Her boyfriend can’t compete with you. Is he at Harvard? No. Is he near Harvard? No. Do women look for any other qualities in men? Probably, but according to my real estate agent (who is also female!) it’s all about location, location and hardwood flooring. You, my friend, are a winner.
FM3: I mean if you say hi to her in Annenberg that probably falls under doing “anything” with her so that’s fine by me. And yes, turkeys poop. How long is this run? 5k? Half marathon? Really it depends on what kind of shape you’re in, you really don’t want to lose to a girl no matter what kind of racing game you’re in.
The j-term dump is probably more common. After that break, it’ll be another semester slog of weekend trips and videochatting. Most couples can’t get through that. Don’t be creepy, though, Josh. Respect their weird choice to think that they’ll be the couple that “makes it” and “proves everyone wrong.” We all know it’s not true, but still, if you are too forward, it’ll only backfire.
FM4: If you’re really serious about this girl, I would wait until Thanksgiving. The Turkey Dump is a thing; either she’s single after Thanksgiving (at which point she’s fair game), or she’s taken (meaning she’ll end up marrying the guy). Either way, if you can wait it out until Thanksgiving, you’ll have your answer. As for the last question, if you really want to know about investment and long-run scenarios, I would suggest taking Ec 10 since it looks like you’re the only freshman not enrolled in the class.
5) Which extracurricular groups does a freshman boy join? What is the difference between social life in different groups? Does it really make a difference whether or not the group has a house?
FM1: Just going by previous years’ trends, seems to me like you should join the following: freshman lightweight crew, On Harvard Time, Sigma Chi, Crimson Key, or an a capella group of your choice. And yes, having a house matters. On a campus where dorm parties get shut down either at 2am or when your room gets too loud (or “too awesome,” as some say), having a space that no proctor, tutor, or Cambridge police officer can challenge is pretty valuable.
FM2: I’m gonna go with FM1 on this one. As a freshman girl I joined On Harvard Time and the basement of Sigma Chi. I have no regrets. Or memories.
FM3: Really, it’s about the list-servs you join. Get on a whole lot of lists. You’ll be up-to-date on all of their events with barely any effort.
FM4: You’ll never know what your life would be like if you had made different decisions. What if you turned left at that corner instead of right? What if you had joined this club instead of that one? What if you had simply let that kid keep his candy instead of stealing it, eating it in front of him, and then throwing the empty wrappers back in his sobbing face? We’ll never know, so just live with your decisions and make the most of them.
Sections
The year was 2012 and, as Election Day nestled into nighttime, ImeIme A. Umana ’14, her friends, and dozens of other students flocked to the Institute of Politics’ John F. Kennedy, Jr. Forum. Votes rolled in and the result was clear: “Four More Years.” Overwhelming tears matched the celebratory balloons that dropped from the Forum’s ceiling. Five days later, Umana would go on to win the IOP Presidency, but for this result, she would not cry.
“I only cried for Obama. You can only cry in public a few times a year, right? There’s definitely a cap, or else people think there’s something wrong with you,” Umana says with an affable laugh.
Umana pauses while she speaks, letting the weight of her words sit on her tongue before casting them off. The native Pennsylvanian shows a level of selfassuredness and worldliness that could only be gained from experiences like the one she had this past summer, when she worked for DC’s Public Defender Service as a criminal law investigative intern.
Examining cases on the ground, Umana interviewed witnesses, served subpoenas, and took statements, among a whole range of investigative tasks. Unfortunately, due to the nature of the internship, Umana cannot disclose more than what you would find on a synopsis of a Law and Order episode.
A joint government and African American studies concentrator, Umana recognizes how, before her internship, she was distanced from issues she cared about, like mass incarceration, welfare, and voter identification laws.
“It’s very easy to presume that you know a lot about urban communities and the troubles they face,” she explains. “I read ‘The New Jim Crow,’ and I read ‘Sister Citizen,’ and I read ‘Killing the Black Body,’ and I’ve watched all of these documentaries, and I’ve written all these papers, but the internship, really, in just a few days, showed me how little I actually did know about the realities of the situation and urban America.”
Besides her work as IOP President, Umana has been working at Harvard’s own Hiphop Archive and teaching fifth graders civics classes through the IOP. She calls the latter “the best hour of [her] week.”
Umana recalls a moment last year that reiterated the importance of reexamining her assumptions. While she was teaching a class on the Second Amendment, one of the students, “very casually” revealed that her cousin had been shot a few weekends prior. For Umana, that made teaching the Second Amendment “a whole different beast.”
“I didn’t realize [civics] could be so personal and so alive for a lot of the students,” she reflects. “It taught me sensitivity in teaching but it also taught me, like the public defender’s service, to not assume certain backgrounds, certain reactions, certain lived experiences.”
Umana mentions that, above all, her internship taught her about tackling these immense issues with “a humble attitude.” She believes that, even though these overwhelming issues are easy to get angry about, they’re even easier to brush aside. However, in Umana’s eyes, getting mad leads to being constructive.
“I’m definitely mad; I’m definitely angry about the criminal justice system and angry about the racial components of voter ID laws,” she asserts. “I’m angry about these things, but I’m also hopeful that with enough angry people and enough committed people we’ll start to address these issues in an honest and productive way."
Inspiring people to think, then, is Umana’s gateway to change. Much of her passion, she claims, stems from classes she’s taken during her time at Harvard. She highlights African American Studies 178: Health, Society, and Subjectivity in the American Context, for showing her just “how passive racism, racial prejudice, and stigma can be.” Because of its passivity, she elaborates, “it’s able to permeate society, and that’s a problem, and that’s why you have to actively engage with it and actively go after discussing it and doing something about it.”
Now, Umana is mainly working on her thesis, which deals with the racial components of voter identification laws. Using the distance of ID granting institutions as a proxy for burden, she wants to explore the quantifiable aspects behind trends suggesting that these laws are disadvantaging Hispanics, blacks, and people of low income.
After graduation, Umana sees herself pursuing criminal law and public policy, whether that entails taking on an investigative job, going to law school, or conducting more research on criminal justice.
Before offering the professional answer, however, she replies, “Changing the world. Trying to change the world. But realistically… Oh, wait—that is realistic.”
Sections
“This is so awkward. Like what? I love cats? What do you want me to tell you?” Erin D. Drake lounges outside Quincy Grille, her legs tucked up into the space next to her on her bench. She’s unsure why she’s been selected as one of the seniors to meet this year, but as she details her deep commitments to her chosen communities, it becomes clear that few students have had as much of an impact on those around her as Drake has.
Drake, a history and literature concentrator from Nashville, Tenn., started her Harvard experience with the First-Year Urban Program, where she was attracted to the openness and challenge the program presented. “It’s the conversations where you’re talking about people’s theories of change, which isn’t easy,” she explains. “It’s not supposed to be easy. Often times, it’s not supposed to be comfortable either. I found that very much in [the FUP] community, I felt challenged, and I liked that.” She pauses, adding, “And I also found some hilarious people. I love people.”
Indeed, Drake loves people in a truly genuine way. Her freshman year, she signed up for an Alternative Spring Break (ASB) trip to New Orleans through PBHA. “With FUP, you have a week with these [freshmen]. With the ASB trip, you had a week. And I thought, that’s not it. It’s not necessarily about that week. It’s about what happens before that week and it’s about what happens after that week.”
True to this vision, Drake has since served as a directorfor the ASB program, been on the FUP leader Steering Committee, and was elected as the Student Development Chair within PBHA. She has been an active participant inthe Harvard Public Service Network, City Step, The Athena Program, and the Summer Urban Program as well.
Drake has shown her signature care in the black community at Harvard as well. She was a Freshman Representative and the Publications Chair for the Association of Black Harvard Women. Her sophomore year she joined Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Incorporated, a Cambridge-wide historically black sorority “steeped in public service, and also steeped in cultural relevance.” She became president of the chapter her junior year. She has spoken at the Class of 2017 Convocation, was part of the 1000 point club for high school basketball, won the Barrett Wendell Prize for a paper she wrote her sophomore year, and is one of the 2014 Class Marshalls.
But none of these accomplishments means as much to Drake as her relationships with others. “That’s why I do what I do. It’s because the experience matters to me. The process,” she says, “it’s not about the result.” Drake knows exactly what’s important to her: “To see a person enjoying what they’re doing, and really grasping the moment that they have,” she says. “We’re all between the ages of 17 and 24, and for whatever reason, we’ve ended up here, with each other. And we’re all figuring it out: who we want to be, how we want to treat others, how we want to love others, how we want to learn, what kind of contributions we want to make to society.” Drake explains that her experiences at Harvard have not necessarily provided clear answers to her questions, but have complicated her original views.
“That’s fun for me,” she says. “It’s in all these things, tangible and not, that force you to ask yourself questions about yourself, and how aware you are of the people around you, and where you put yourself. How aware do you think others are of you?” Well, it’s fair to say that she’s made herself known, even if she’ll never admit it.
Sections
When Cassandra E. Euphrat Weston attended her first poetry slam in ninth grade, she loved it—but believed she’d never perform herself. “I thought, ‘This is something I cannot do,’” Cassandra says over coffee at Simon’s, near Porter Square. “It involves performing your own words, and that is inherently terrifying.”
Today, Euphrat Weston’s clear-eyed confidence belies her former timidity. Arriving at our interview in a head-to-toe dragon costume (a woman stops by the table to gush, “That fabric is beautiful!”), she speaks in measured tones, her head cocked slightly to the right while she discusses the nuances of performance poetry. “It’s terrifying,” she repeats, about performing her words on stage. “It’s also very powerful.” After getting involved with Youth Speaks, a spoken word nonprofit in San Francisco’s Bay Area, she began to participate herself.
During her freshman year at Harvard, Euphrat Weston, along with her friend Kyra A. Atekwana ’14, was disappointed by the lack of spoken word groups on campus. The two applied for funding to run a program over Harvard’s first Optional Winter Activities Week. That spring, they founded Harvard’s first spoken word organization, Speak Out Loud. To date, the organization has collaborated with a number of other clubs on campus. Euphrat Weston says she enjoys broadening Speak Out Loud’s reach and audience, because, as she puts it, “If our words are beautiful and well-crafted, but in an echo chamber—that’s not helpful.”
Indeed, for Euphrat Weston, spoken word is intimately tied to activism and social change, particularly regarding issues of identity. “One of the first, powerful things that spoken word can do is give people a tool to understand and claim their own identities—including the ways identity can shift,” she says. “And that’s fundamentally important to making other kinds of change happen.” A Youtube video from April 26 shows Euphrat Weston dressed in gray jeans and a vest, seated in front of a blackboard, performing “Letter to my Next Door Neighbor.”
“Did you read the news?” she says, her hands clasped together. “A teenager was set on fire for being gay. Which at least is proof to rally around, right? See, that’s what words like dyke can do—right, Patricia?”
Euphrat Weston admits that there are limitations to this kind of activism. And she’s acutely conscious of her own relationship to spoken word—“I grew up with a lot of privilege,” she says, and since part of spoken word, to her, is about giving voice to those without one, she’s struggled to figure out where her own voice can be useful. Spoken word is only one part, she says, of understanding and then addressing structural issues of inequality. But she’s convinced that spoken word can play an integral role in articulating what needs to change.
As a member of the Dudley Co-op, Euphrat Weston spends much of her time “eating other people’s delicious food,” she says. She’s also been a staff writer for Manifesta Magazine and volunteers with PBHA’s Athena program.
But she made the “conscious choice,” she says, to avoid the resume-stacking that she sees as part of Harvard’s culture, and to concentrate on a few chosen activities instead. Elected to Phi Beta Kappa as one of this year’s Senior 48, Euphrat Weston is also deeply committed to her studies in literature. Her thesis focuses on the intersection of spoken word and gender. “To no one’s surprise whatsoever,” she says, with a shrug and a laugh.
Sections
When you grow up 16 months younger than your brother, competition and emulation naturally ensue from an early age. When he learns to eschew the diaper for the toilet, you, within weeks, do too, age difference be damned. You argue heatedly over the important stuff, like who knows more baseball trivia, and those verbal spats not so infrequently lead to physical ones. You continue to shove each other in pursuit of that elusive front seat for the four-minute drive around the corner well into the time you’re both legal adults. Video game losses are due to technological malfunctions, board game defeats because it’s a stupid game, and he knows he just got lucky. And, maybe, a golf club gets broken over your leg from time to time.
That’s not to say that we didn’t get along. We did, much of the time, and we rooted for each other. Oh, and it goes without saying that we’re the only ones allowed to lay a finger on one another or give the other shit. But growing up, the competition is certainly still there, even when you’re on the same team or same newspaper.
***
When I chose to go to the same college as my brother Ben, I imagined there would be some of the same, and to a certain extent, there was. Even the competition—my older brother was already an active member of The Crimson and didn’t exactly encourage me to join, though that advice obviously went unheeded. Later, when it looked like only one spot remained on the football beat for my sophomore year, it was he and I who duked it out (though, ultimately, more spots existed than we realized).
When you go to school with your brother, you’re asked, quite naturally, “How often do you see each other?” And slowly, that answer began to change. Driving up and down the highlights of the East Coast together, from Worcester, Mass. to Easton, Penn., covering Harvard football will do that to you. What was once one to two times a week my freshman year easily doubled in that first half of my sophomore year.
And then, as we both moved up the ranks in 2012—he to President of The Crimson, me to Sports Chair—we found ourselves together every day.
But this time, the heated arguments had abated, the punches were left unthrown and the golf clubs unsmashed. Maybe it was the drives to the Eastons of the world that did it. Or the fact that we now had the opportunity to work together and, though we may’ve disagreed at times, in the grand scheme of things, we realized we saw eye to eye more with each other than with almost anyone else, as siblings often do.
And that, mixed with a jolt of brotherly pride, made seeing him every day in the president’s office running the ship, working with him for a year, one of the highlights and most gratifying parts of my four years at Harvard.
***
About a year later, I was running to become the next President, following in his footsteps. The Friday morning before Thanksgiving, at around 4:45 a.m., I got a late-night phone call from my brother to deliver the results, good or bad. He had, of course, recused himself from any sort of voting or taking part in the selection process of his successor, though it was agreed he’d be the one making the phone call.
When I saw that he was calling, I picked up and could quickly hear that he was talking through a smirk. We exchanged the usual 5 a.m. pleasantries, and then he asked me: “You ready to make your mother very happy?”
The next few weeks were chaotic, as I tried to cram knowledge in about all facets of the organization. But perhaps the most meaningful part of it all was one of the final things my brother passed along. Recalling that night, he told me, “I was happier when you won than when I did.”
***
As my three-and-a-half years on The Crimson wind down, a bit (or a lot) of nostalgia kicks in. It’s been roughly a year since that 5 a.m. phone call, and a crazy year it’s been.
The job of Crimson President is shockingly all-consuming. Nothing I’ve ever done (or, from what I’ve heard from predecessors, will likely do again) requires such total devotion and energy, merging the time commitment of an investment banker with the lifestyle of a monk. It’s something you don’t really realize when you take the role, that things like classes—or, the ones you go to—become 53-minute distractions from the only thing you actually want to do.
But it makes the ride a helluva lot easier when you have someone there who’s been through it before, who you trust and respect immensely, and who you can lean on for advice.
The fact that it’s been a year since I became President also indicates, though, that I have fleeting few days (as of press time, 26 of 1124 total) left in an organization that I’ve come to love and has done a tremendous amount for me. But nothing more so than the remarkable (and perhaps once-in-a-lifetime) pleasure of getting to work so closely with my brother, of sharing this experience with him, and the relationship that’s helped to forge and solidify. That growth—more than the articles written, the supplements produced, the products launched, the list goes on—will stick with me, long after my share of this funny slice of history at 14 Plympton Street has wound to a close.
Robert S. Samuels ’14 is an Economics concentrator in Leverett House. Master has given him a sock!
Sections
When I first met Wolfgang, who sells second-hand books on second-hand tables outside the Humboldt University in Berlin, he was matted and cross. He had been looking for something—poking under tables, shuffling books. I was leaning off one side of a too-tall rental bike, examining the book covers on a table dominated by classic East German fiction: Christa Wolf, Günter de Bruyn, names familiar to me only from other reading. What do you want with all that, he grumbled, in English. Trash, trash, the lot of it. His English was good, but overeager; he replaced his w with a predictable v.
We were standing on the Unter den Linden, an expansive tourist-packed boulevard that travels East to West across Berlin. This street was named after the Linden trees that line it; they were replanted in the 1950s, but in this vast construction site of a city, they might as well have been eternal. We were standing on the eastern side, but only just. Ich kann Deutsch, you know, I told him, but he refused to speak in German to me. All of it, trash, he said, I don’t know what you want, all of you, with this trash.
By “all of us” I assume he meant the thousands of young people who flock to Berlin nowadays: the gentrifying legions of artists, art admirers, lost souls, and students. Do we know what we want? We go there, the most of us, to explore the crumbling structures of a fallen down city. Adrienne Rich has a poem where she says that being young is about learning to live in someone else’s house. We who traipse about Berlin in the summer—we go there to play in someone’s ruins not our own.
Wolfgang, I found out, hates this city. But he grew up here, and it is home. He has never thought of leaving.
As Wolfgang talked me out of the books he was selling, I thought of a news piece that I’d read once for a class: when the Berlin Wall came down, and East Germans were free, they went and threw out books en masse, giant piles of books which gathered in yards and in landfill. All of these, it seems, were tied up, either with memories of oppression or cringes of embarrassment, maybe even both. Wolfgang hasn’t condemned his stuff to recycling, at least. But he still sees a case to insist on my caution.
When I talked to Wolfgang that day, we were just a few blocks from the Bebelplatz memorial, which commemorates the book burnings under the Nazis. For a moment, I wondered if there was some kind of connection. But then I thought—no, I’m just a tourist here, these are not my fights to fight.
~
It is just a few weeks until I graduate. I am doing fine about it, really, just fine—there are only occasionally moments when it feels like the milestone it is. One of those moments came the other day, when I was planning what to do with all my books. I live on the other side of the world; to take them all with me would be impractical. When I arrived freshman year, I didn’t bring any books with me: If there was one thing there would be enough of at Harvard, I thought, it would be books. So I didn’t bring any.
But the Harvard books weren’t my books, and having my books in my bookshelf has been a source of delight to me. Trying to hazard through which ones to keep, which ones to sell, which ones to give away—and which people I have to ask to get my books back from them—has been properly unsettling.
I always used to be frightened of books, in school. Big books, I mean, not the little ones; the little ones never frightened me. Magazines, novellas, TV guides, promotional leaflets—all of these, no worries. But big books, really big ones, the ones you need a whole hand to carry. Those ones freaked me out.
I had a friend who liked books before I did, a skinny bloke with a ponytail who wore denim on denim way before it was cool (it’s cool, now, I swear). When he picked up a book, his whole body received it. Sometimes he cradled it like a child; sometimes it sat in the crook of his knee.
I was always scared to start a novel, or a history. I was worried that I wouldn’t be able to finish, or that I wouldn’t be able to stop, which was much more often the case—I would stay up all night on my back turning pages after pages, before finally with a sigh throwing the bloody thing across the room and falling asleep. Then, when I was eyeing up the next book, the same trepidation would come.
The first novel that I really enjoyed in high school was called “Cloudstreet.” I finished it on the way to a family holiday, all alone in the back of the car. I was pretty much nauseous, and I was bewildering my family, and I loved it. This book thing, I thought, this book thing was mine and mine alone—and it was dangerous.
Now, I’m fairly comfortable with books. One should hope so, after majoring in History & Literature. But though the thrill of the objects is gone, I find it terribly hard to get rid of them. Is it too much to say that they have character, I wonder? With their coffee stains, the bends in their spine, their absurd marginalia? Or is it their there-ness, the way you might forget that you own a book until it shows up again, the way you never know what’s in there really until you open it up and look?
I think my attachment might be to the danger, to the same kind of danger I used to sense as a teenager. This danger of surplus, I mean, when books are big enough that you can’t entertain all the things that are in there. This danger being that they’re too big to keep all their contents account in focus. And the other kind of danger—that you’ll come back to re-read and find it’s you who’s gone and changed in the meantime.
A friend of mine suggested that I photograph my bookshelves. So now I know I won’t forget what books I had. But I think what worries me is that those books will only be there when I look for them, now—they won’t just be there any more.
And if I’m frightened about graduating, then maybe it’s about the same thing: now everything, and everyone, will only be there when I look for them.
Alexander J.B. Wells ’13-14 is a History and Literature concentrator living in the Dudley Co-Op. After college, he’ll be working on his German-indie-folk outfit, “Wolfgang of One.”
 
Sections
From artists to scientists, public servants to community leaders, these are the seniors to meet before they graduate. You may already know a few, but if you don’t, get on it. Time's almost up. These will be the future shakers of the world, assuming they haven’t shaken it already. Or at the very least they’ll make good conversation partners over some dining hall chicken. Without further ado, FM’s 15 Most Interesting Seniors, 2014 edition:
Zamyla M. Chan
Hania S. Chima
Rainer A. Crosett
Erin D. Drake
Daniel W. Erickson
Cassandra E. Euphrat Weston
Ali A. Farag
Mariel N. Pettee
George O. Pocheptsov
Ben S. Raderstorf
Michael S. Segel
Avia Tadmor
ImeIme A. Umana
Roland Yang
The Women's Rugby Team
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: December 5, 2013, at 5:09 a.m.
After Tuesday’s disclosure that the median grade at Harvard College is an A- and the most commonly awarded grade is an A, a Harvard official said Wednesday evening that that distribution holds true for undergraduates across each of Faculty of Arts and Sciences’s three divisions—Social Science, Arts and Humanities, and Science—as well as the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
The new information challenges the belief held by some that grade inflation is less prevalent in courses in the sciences than in the humanities. The mean grade for undergraduates, as well as the breakdown in each of the divisions and at SEAS, has not been made public.
Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris first revealed the overall distribution of grades at the College during Tuesday’s monthly FAS meeting in response to a question from government professor Harvey C. Mansfield ’53. 
“Isn’t it time to think about doing something?” Mansfield asked University President Drew G. Faust at the meeting. “Many remedies exist. Others can be found. But perhaps above all what we need is a change of attitude.”
News of Harris’s disclosure, which provided new ammunition for those who allege that grade inflation is rampant at Harvard, quickly gained national traction Wednesday. In an interview Wednesday, Mansfield reaffirmed his criticism and called on Faust directly to address the issue. 
A longtime professor, Mansfield has publicly attacked what he considers grade inflation at Harvard for decades. In 2001, he began to give students in some of his courses an official grade for their transcript that conforms to Harvard grading trends, and an unofficial, “true and serious” grade, that reflects his expectations. 
Neither Faust nor other top FAS officials have commented on the disclosure. In a statement Tuesday night, FAS spokesperson Jeff Neal wrote, “We watch and review trends in grading across Harvard College, but we are most interested in helping our students learn and learn well.”
“I feel surprised,” Daniel M. Lobo ’14 said Thursday evening. “I think classes are plenty difficult as it is.” Lobo added that he would be interested in knowing the breakdown of grades by department and year.
Ren Jie Teoh ’16 said that he “was surprised that the most common grade is A.” He added that “Most of us are trying to find out what classes are the ones giving those grades.”
Some students said they were concerned that outsiders would view their academic records differently in light of the news, hurting their chances of getting a job or into graduate school.
With final exams approaching, other students wondered whether the news would affect the way their teaching fellows and professors will grade their final assignments.
“I don’t think the news would change the way things get graded that much, and if they did, we wouldn’t know,” Mayumi Cornejo ’15 said.
—Check TheCrimson.com for updates. 
—Nicholas P. Fandos contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Matthew Q. Clarida can be reached at matthew.clarida@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MattClarida. 
 —Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The last time the Harvard men’s basketball team faced off against Northeastern, the year was 2008 and the contest resulted in a double overtime victory for the Huskies. Then-second year coach Tommy Amaker was coming off an 8-22 rookie season of and Jeremy Lin ’10 still donned a Crimson jersey. But that was then.
On Wednesday night at Matthews Arena, Harvard (8-1) bumped up its win streak to four with a 72-64 victory over local rival Northeastern (2-6). The win nudged Amaker into a tie for third place on Harvard’s career wins list with 120 victories to his name.
“I thought it was just a gritty effort by both teams,” Amaker said. “We knew that we were going to get an incredible effort out of [Northeastern] this evening and I thought they played with a great deal of energy and passion.”
While Harvard held the lead for 37 minutes of the game, the Huskies put up a fight down-low with strong post-play. After a season-start riddled with early-game foul trouble, senior forward Kyle Casey played a clean and tight first half to lead the team with 12 points at intermission. Casey was crucial from the inside and at the line, where he knocked down all four of his foul shots.
“My teammates found me in open spots,” Casey said. “I thought I was pretty efficient tonight getting to the basket, knocking down some mid-range [shots], and just playing within myself.”
Casey and junior guard Wesley Saunders led the team with 17 points apiece. Saunders who was named the Most Outstanding Player at the Carrs/Safeway Great Alaska Shootout last week, provided reliable shooting over his 38 minutes of play and closed the first half with a buzzer-beating dunk.
“We want the ball in his hands to make plays, for himself and for his teammates,” Amaker said.
With junior center Kenyatta Smith out on injury and classmate forward Steve Moundou-Missi called for early fouls, sophomore Evan Cummins stepped up to defend a Northeastern offense led by two big men, 6’8” Scott Eatherton and 6’6” David Walker. Eatherton, who led the Huskies with 17 points, stumbled at the charity stripe, going 3-for-11, while Walker struggled to find open looks from deep and converted just two three-point attempts.
Cummins, who had six blocks in Saturday’s win over TCU, chipped in 10 points for the Crimson, adding six boards and two of the team’s six blocks, including a vital swat of Eatherton in the final minute of play. Cummins was joined on the glass by junior Jonah Travis and his six rebounds, and played the pick-and-roll with Saunders throughout the contest.
“With Jonah coming off the bench and now Evan coming off the bench, we’ve got a lot of bigs,” Casey said. “We were in foul trouble tonight—what Evan can do for us brings another dimension to our team.”
While Casey and Saunders powered Harvard to run the floor over the first frame, the squad allowed an 8-0 Huskies run that nearly squandered the Crimson’s lead.
Emerging from the locker-room break, the Crimson consistently forced the ball down low, leading to a number of lay-ups, and shifted to a zone defense. Following these adjustments, Harvard extended its lead to as large as 11.
“Sometimes you just really see if you can change the rhythm of the team,” Amaker said. “We’re not a zone team but we’ve used it in stretches and sparingly. Sometimes it works for us.”
Despite talent behind the arc, long-range looks were few and far between, as the Crimson took just seven shots from deep, making three. Sophomore guard Siyani Chambers, a trademark three-point shooter, handed out a team-high eight assists.
After playing the Great Alaska Shootout averaging a field goal percentage under 50 percent, Thursday’s efficient shooting enabled the team to climb to 56.5 percent, its second highest mark of the season. The game was its fifth in a six-game road-trip that will end this weekend across town at Boston University.
“It’s a tricky time of the year for students in college,” Amaker said. “You’ve got to stay focused and stay disciplined…. I’m pleased and proud of our guys.”
—Staff writer Cordelia F. Mendez can be reached at cordelia.mendez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CrimsonCordelia.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With 40 seconds left in the contest and 15 points already to his name, six-foot-eight Northeastern forward Scott Eatherton put his head down and drove into the paint, pushing Harvard sophomore Evan Cummins towards the basket. Just as he had done all game long, Eatherton came up strong with his right hand for the layup attempt.
But this time Cummins was there and adjusted perfectly, jumping straight up before swatting the Husky’s leading scorer’s shot out of bounds.
Looking towards his bench, the Crimson forward pumped his fists in celebration while Eatherton was left picking himself off the floor.
“We certainly felt that [the Huskies] were going to go inside, being a team that had a kid, Eatherton, [who] is a tough kid up front,” Amaker said. “We certainly knew we needed to play well in the post defensively, so we weren’t surprised at that.”
And in what evolved into a war of attrition down low, the Harvard frontline emerged battered, but victorious.
Although Eatherton met his season averages with 17 points and 11 boards—and the three Crimson forwards guarding him were whistled for 11 fouls on the night—he was met with physicality each time he touched the ball. And though Eatherton managed to make seven field goals, the tag-team trio of forwards Steve Moundou-Missi, Jonah Travis, and Cummins didn’t let him get many buckets without a challenge at the rim.
COMING HOME
Cummins’ record breaking 10 point, six block performance in 15 minutes off the bench against TCU last weekend earned him some more floor time in the Crimson’s return to Massachusetts.
“Evan played well for us in Alaska,” Amaker said. “It’s nice as a coach when you see kids make the breakthrough, make the jump, make the strides. You can see the confidence growing.”
With juniors Moundou-Missi and Travis in foul trouble on Wednesday night, Amaker pinned the tough assignment of guarding Eatherton on the sophomore.
And in the Crimson’s first tilt in a Boston area arena since Nov. 20, the Westborough, Mass. native did not disappoint, turning in another solid effort with 10 points, six rebounds, and two blocks.
“He’s bouncy, he’s active and blocking shots, and he has a really good feel for what we want to do on the offensive end,” Amaker said. “Certainly, it was a needed effort for our team here this evening.”
Though this two-game stretch isn’t a large sample size, efficiency is becoming the forward’s middle name. After shooting four-of-six from the field against TCU, he shot four-of-five at Matthews Arena.
More importantly in this contest, Cummins managed to check Eatherton on defense down the stretch, finishing off the night with the exclamation point block.
HACK-A-SCOTT
Coming into the home game, Eatherton was averaging 16.3 points and 10.6 rebounds per game. Though he scored 17 against Harvard and notched his sixth double-double of the season, he could’ve tallied at least a few more points.
A near-70 percent free throw shooter prior to Wednesday’s matchup, Eatherton finished 3-of-11 at the charity stripe in the contest. Midway through the first half, he air-balled one foul-attempt and walked back on defense, muttering to himself.
Eight free-throws missed, eight-point loss.
Though Eatherton was the biggest culprit, both squads had their woes at the line. Harvard shot 17-of-27, while Northeastern was 12-of-23 in its worst free-throw shooting outing of the year.
“Both teams shot poorly from the foul line, which could’ve been a big difference,” Amaker said.
EIGHT IN THE CHAMBER
Though the Crimson missed more free throws than it would’ve liked, the team shot an efficient 26-of-46 from the field, led by sophomore point guard Siyani Chambers.
While the Golden Valley, Minn. native took only six shots on the night, his second fewest on the season, he also tied his season high with eight assists.
The six-footer got his teammates involved all evening, helping junior guard Wesley Saunders and senior forward Kyle Casey score 17 points apiece on over 50 percent shooting.
Perhaps Chambers’ best feed came as he weaved through the Husky defense with the first half clock winding down. Faking an overhead pass, Chambers put some English on a bounce pass to a cutting Saunders, who threw down a two-handed jam at the buzzer.
“I think Siyani does a great job getting us into our sets,” Saunders said. “[He keeps] us organized when it [gets] tough.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Throughout his soccer career, Pieter Lehrer has done nothing but win.
Over the course of his 14-year coaching tenure with teams like Stanford, Cal, and the Los Angeles Galaxy, Lehrer has won three Pac-12 championships, an MLS Cup, and an Open Cup. In addition, he has made five appearances in the NCAA Tournament and three in the NCAA College Cup.
Therefore, when Lehrer took the job as the head coach of the Harvard men’s soccer team last spring, he was entering uncharted territory. After posting back-to-back 0-6-1 records in the Ivy League in 2011 and 2012, Lehrer’s newly inherited Crimson had hit rock bottom.
“People were pretty frustrated,” senior co-captain Kevin Harrington said. “After three straight years of disappointment, it just gets tougher and tougher each year to pick yourself back up and put yourself on the right track.”
Lehrer immediately got to work. Just days after receiving the job, the coach packed his bags for Cambridge to begin overseeing Harvard’s offseason workouts. After the team surrendered 30 goals during the 2012 campaign, Lehrer made the defense his primary focus.
“Coming out of [last] season, things were very negative,” Harrington said. “The way that Coach Lehrer came in with a lot of energy and this absurd optimism really invigorated the program and got people hopeful again.”
Implementing his defense-first system proved to be a challenge as Harvard got off to yet another poor start, opening the season 1-6-2, but Lehrer still continued to show what one of his captains called “his undying commitment” to the team.
“I put everything I have into it, and I expect [the players] to put everything they have into it,” Lehrer said. “If [you] don’t want to put everything in, you’re in the wrong place. You should just be a regular student at Harvard.”
The players answered his call. Beginning with an upset win on the road against defending champion Cornell, the Crimson earned victories in six of their last eight games, missing out on the Ancient Eight title by just half a game. The team’s 5-2-0 Ivy League record was its best since 2009, the last time the Crimson won the crown.
This unforeseen success can largely be accredited to Lehrer’s affinity for analytics. The coach spent hours analyzing film and statistics trying to help his team gain a tactical advantage over the competition. As a result, Lehrer got what he was looking for in one area in particular—set pieces.
“I thought the difference maker this year was our set pieces,” senior co-captain Ross Friedman said. “We were constantly talking about the process of set pieces.”
Prior to the season, Lehrer found a study showing that corner kicks have a higher rate of success in producing goals when they are kept low. Friedman, Harvard’s primary taker of corners and free kicks, bought in to the advice and saw immediate results.
Sixty percent of Harvard’s goals this season came off set pieces, half of which came off corner kicks. In perspective, the Crimson scored more goals off set pieces (12) and corners (six) this year than in the last three seasons combined.
Furthermore, Harvard converted over six percent of their corner kicks into points this year. From 2010-2012, the team found the back of the net on less than two percent of these corners. Therefore, Lehrer’s excessive work helped stimulate over a tripling in scoring production.
“It’s really inspiring to see a coach who’s willing to just lay it all on the line and do anything to win,” Harrington said.
Lehrer’s desire to be the best can be traced back to his playing days. In 1984, his first year with the UCLA soccer team, Lehrer was named Bruin Rookie of the Year. One year later, he helped lead his team to an NCAA championship.
After graduation, Lehrer spent six years playing internationally. He played for teams from Italy, Austria, and Scotland, among others.
Nevertheless, despite all of his accomplishments on the pitch, the star’s greatest athletic feat has nothing to do with soccer. After being cut by the U.S. national soccer team in 1988, Lehrer set his heart on one thing—making it to the Olympics.
Initially, Lehrer figured that his best bet to become an Olympian would be through white water canoeing or kayaking. However, he struggled to find a good coach. That is, until he came across Andy Toro.
Andy Toro was a four-time Olympian who had represented both Hungary and the United States. At the time, he was a coach for sprint canoeing, which Lehrer admittedly knew very little about. Nonetheless, he decided to give it a shot with brother Jacob and sister Heidi.
“I said, ‘Andy we’d like to train with you,’ and he said, ‘I don’t train amateurs,’” Lehrer recalled.  “So we said, ‘Okay, no problem,’ and we kept showing up every day. He eventually took us on, and we just would progress and progress and progress.”
Lehrer quickly propelled himself into national contention. After a few years of training, the three siblings were confident in 1995 that they could qualify for the Olympics at the Pan-American Games.
But confidence swiftly turned to despair. In the middle of the race, the boat sank, leaving the Lehrers with only one remaining chance to qualify—the World Championships.
“[Andy] pulls us aside after the thing and we’re all crushed and he says, ‘You’ve got a one in five million chance of getting to the Olympic Games,’” Lehrer said. “I said to Andy, ‘You know, honestly, I like my chances.’”
However, Lehrer overcame the odds, and the team posted a personal best at the Championships. The performance was enough to send the Lehrers to the Olympics, the culmination of his taxing journey. Although the squad did not medal, Lehrer said the experience was a positive one.
“My most valuable skill set in my life [is] how I talk to myself when [things get] stressful,” Lehrer said. “I have a good internal dialogue to take me where I want to go when my mind is saying, ‘I don’t know if I can do this. It hurts too much.’”
Going beyond his job as a coach, Lehrer has utilized his own experiences to also serve as a mentor to his players. Immediately upon arriving in Cambridge, he installed an open-door policy, encouraging all his players to come talk to him about anything.
“A lot of my best memories with [Coach Lehrer] consist of my sessions in his office maybe not even going over soccer, but even more importantly my life goals and about what I want to do with my life,” Harrington said.
It is one thing to turn around a soccer team, but it is another thing to leave an impact on a group of players beyond the pitch. The transformation of the Harvard men’s soccer team under Coach Lehrer has officially begun.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s hockey team has yet to string together two wins in a row this season. The Crimson looks to change that trend and return to .500 this weekend when it faces conference rivals Brown and No. 8 Yale on Friday and Saturday night in its last conference matches of 2013.
Harvard (4-6-1, 2-5-1 ECAC) enters this weekend’s competition after a 2-1 loss to Dartmouth on Nov. 30 that came down to the final minutes of play.
“I think during practice this week we have been stressing that our power play needs to be better,” sophomore forward Jimmy Vesey said. “We were 0-for-6 against Dartmouth. We had one with about five minutes left when it was 1-1, and if we scored on that power play, the game could have turned out differently. That can be a huge difference for us this weekend.”
With its performance in Hanover, the Crimson fell to 13 percent on the power play—last in the conference and seventh-worst in Division I. Two seasons ago, Harvard boasted the best power play in the country, scoring on 27.3 percent of its man advantages.
On Friday night, Harvard will take on the Bears (3-6-1, 1-4-1 ECAC) in Providence for the first time this season. Last year, the teams split their matchups, and the last time the Crimson traveled to face Brown in Providence, the team fell, 5-2.
The Bears’ season has followed an arc similar to Harvard’s, starting the season in a winning fashion but then tapering off as of late to fall to three games below .500. Brown sits 11th in the ECAC, two points behind the Crimson.
“Right now this year we have been a little inconsistent in our results,” captain Dan Ford said. “We had a good win last week against New Hampshire and then a loss against Dartmouth, so we are trying to find some consistency here and trying to win some games in a row, so that’s what we are working toward.”
Offensively, the Crimson and Brown both look to their younger players to contribute. Bears sophomore forwards Mark Naclerio and Nick Lappin lead the team’s scoring chart with 13  and 11 points, respectively.
For Harvard, the majority of its goals this season have been scored by either freshmen or sophomores. Vesey and fellow sophomore forward Kyle Criscuolo lead the team with seven goals each. Sophomore Brian Hart is the team’s leading set-up man with six assists, followed by freshmen Luke Esposito and Sean Malone with five.
“[The underclassmen] are going to continue to play a really pivotal role for us,” Ford said. “Those guys have stepped in and performed really well, and we are going to count on them to continue to do so.”
On defense, Harvard boasts the third-best penalty kill in the country with a 90.5 percent effectiveness rate. In goal, senior Raphael Girard and junior Steve Michalek have combined for a .929 save percentage.
On Saturday in New Haven, Conn., the Crimson will take on the defending national champion Bulldogs (6-2-2, 3-1-2 ECAC) for the first of three games the teams will play against each other this season. Yale is Harvard’s most contested opponent in program history, and Saturday will be the teams’ 240th meeting.
Last year, the Crimson dropped both its contests with the Bulldogs, though Harvard leads the all-time series, 138-81-18.
Yale sits sixth in the ECAC standings and three points ahead of Harvard. The Bulldogs have dropped their only two games to fellow Ivy League opponents Brown and Cornell.
“We all know that Yale is a good team, they have been for the past five or so years,” Vesey said. “They are a fast team; we know that and are preparing our front for them. After Friday’s game against Brown, we will be able to focus more on Yale.”
Unlike Harvard’s, Yale’s offense is more spread out, with 19 players contributing at least one goal this season. Senior forward Jesse Root leads the team with six goals on the season. Time in net for the Bulldogs is split between freshmen Alex Lyon and Patrick Spano, who have posted a save percentage of .917 through ten games.
“It will be a really exciting game because it’s the first time we will be able to play them since they won their national championship,” Ford said. “We are looking forward to that as a bit of a measuring stick for us going into the break.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a sea of fans dressed in white, the Crimson women’s hockey team will hope to stand out against fellow Boston foe Boston College (12-4-1, 7-1 WHEA). Coming off several convincing wins, Harvard is looking to continue its winning ways in front of a large home crowd as it heads into the winter break.
The Crimson (8-1-1, 7-1-1 ECAC) is seeking to break its record for single-game attendance of 1,921, which was set in 2004 against Dartmouth. The program is sponsoring a “White the Bright” event, an annual affair that encourages fans to dress in all white.
So far this season, the team has done well at home, with a record of 5-0-1 when it plays at the Bright-Landry Center. Conversely, the Eagles have struggled away from their home rink, with a 4-3-1 away record.
“Whenever you play BC, it’s a really good game,” junior forward Samantha Reber said. “It’s kind of like that Boston battle…. We’re hoping to get a lot of fans to get a good atmosphere and get us excited and pumped up.”
In addition to being Beantown rivals, BC is also Harvard’s fourth ranked opponent thus far this season. Although they were once ranked second, the Eagles are currently ranked sixth in the nation, while the Crimson sits at fourth and fifth in the two major polls. BC is also coming off several games against ranked opponents, as it split two games against No. 3 Cornell last weekend.
The goalie matchup of Harvard sophomore Emerance Maschmeyer and BC’s Corinne Boyles will be a key storyline to watch throughout the game. Both have been having strong seasons statistically. In the two games against Cornell, Boyles had 65 saves with a 1.51 goals against average. She was named last week’s Hockey East Defensive Player of the Week for the effort.
In Maschmeyer’s most recent game against Dartmouth, she saved 25 shots and recorded her fourth shutout of the season. Three more shutouts would put her fifth in the Harvard record books, as she currently has nine shutouts in her career since joining the team last year. The sophomore is one shutout away from tying her season-high with 19 games to go.
The Crimson defense in front of Maschmeyer has also been crucial to Harvard’s winning ways. The team leads the country in penalty kills, as it has only allowed one power play goal in 52 opportunities. The Crimson has only allowed 10 goals in 10 games so far in the 2013-2014 campaign, with freshman defenseman Briana Mastel leading the defense with 22 blocked shots.
However, BC is known for having a potent offense that will challenge the Harvard defense. Through their first 17 games, the Eagles have eight skaters with at least 10 points. They have outscored opponents, 63-36, and average 3.7 goals per game. The Crimson on the other hand is averaging an even three goals per game.
The Eagles have also been outshooting their opponents, 597-455. The Crimson, meanwhile, has been outshot in all but two games. Despite the lower shot count, it has been connecting on more shots than opponents, with a scoring percentage of .127 compared to its opponents’ conversion percentage of .036.
The Crimson offense has been spread out amongst several players. Four people have registered at least four goals. While Reber leads the team with six assists, four other players have dished out at least five.
Going into their two games this weekend against Boston College and New Hampshire, the Crimson is unbeaten in its last seven games, a statistic that puts it second in the country behind Wisconsin, who went unbeaten for 12 consecutive contests.
“Consistency is pretty big for us right now,” Reber said. “We’re having a really good season so far, so we just want to keep it going.”
This is not the only time the Crimson will face BC this season. The next time will come on a much bigger scale.
“This will be a good preview for the Beanpot,” freshman defenseman Robyn White said. “It’s a good rivalry we’ve had for a lot of years.”
The last time the two teams faced each other, the Crimson was unable to hold onto a 1-0 lead in the first period as the Eagles recorded three unanswered goals to secure a spot in the NCAA quarterfinals.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After St. John’s snapped its six-game winning streak in a loss last weekend, the Harvard women’s basketball team will have motivation to make a strong showing at the Arizona State Classic in Phoenix, Ariz., this weekend.
This tournament is special for some of the players as they return to their home state of Arizona.
“We’re excited to go out to Arizona because we have sophomore [guard] Shilpa [Tummala]’s family out there, and [co-captain] Christine [Clark]’s family is out there, so we’re excited to go out to their home turf,” Harvard coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said.
Up first for the Crimson (6-2) will be an unfamiliar team.
“Our first game is Long Beach State, and then we don’t know who we’re playing next, so really, we’re just preparing for Long Beach State right now,” Clark said.
But Harvard, despite never having seen the 49ers (4-2) before, will be able to find success if it follows the game plan on Saturday, according to Delaney-Smith.
“[Long Beach State is] going to play something that we haven’t really seen, but they’re probably also going to zone us,” Delaney-Smith said. “We’re a hard team to zone if we’re shooting anywhere near how we should shoot.”
The 49ers currently boast a four-game winning streak after losing their first two games of the season.
“I think that we’re perfectly capable and should beat them,” Clark said. “We just have to make sure that we execute our game plan and the scout’s [game plan] and follow that.”
Averaging 12.7 points per contest, Long Beach State guard Lauren Spargo will be looking to break through the Crimson’s defense and post another high-scoring performance. Fellow guard Raven Benton has been another offensive weapon for the team, averaging 11.2 points over Long Beach State’s six games.
“Defense is always our number one priority,” Clark said.  “We’ll just make sure to try to make them feel uncomfortable on the defensive end and make sure that we pay more attention to those scorers.”
Harvard also has its share of offensive firepower.  Though Clark scored just 12 points in the loss to St. John’s, the co-captain has tallied at least 20 points in each of the Crimson’s wins, including tying her career-high of 28 in a win over Northeastern.
Junior forward Temi Fagbenle netted a career-high 20 points in Sunday’s loss and has averaged 10.3 rebounds per game. Standing at 6’4”, Fagbenle presents a unique defensive challenge to teams taking on Harvard. In contrast, the 49ers’ tallest player is listed at 6’3”.
“[Temi] will have the advantage against Long Beach State for sure,” Delaney-Smith said. “I don’t know what they’re going to do to play her. I suspect they’ll try to smother her inside, so that’ll change her role. She’ll have to do something a little bit different.”
On Sunday, the Crimson jumped out over St. John’s to head into halftime with a 36-30 lead, but ultimately Harvard fell to the Red Storm, 81-76. St. John’s notched 11 steals and outscored Harvard in the second half, 51-40, to overcome its slow start.
“I think that we learned a lot from it as a team, and we definitely don’t think we should have lost that game,” Clark said. “We’re excited to play again and be able to kind of redeem ourselves.”
Guard Aliyyah Handford led the offensive attack for St. John’s against Harvard, recording 25 points off of 11-for-17 shooting.
“I’m disappointed that we lost but proud of how we played,” Delaney-Smith said.  “It was just a very smart, very athletic player who stripped us, and that led to some uncontested layups. It was the swing in momentum, and we were not able to recover.”
The Crimson dominated the boards against the Red Storm, outrebounding St. John’s, 48-25, but turnovers plagued the team once more. Harvard averages 18.9 turnovers a game this season and coughed the ball up 24 times while playing the Red Storm, something Delaney-Smith noted the team has been working on in practice.
Depending on the result of Saturday morning’s game, the Crimson will face either Arizona State (6-1) or Sacred Heart (2-4).
The Sun Devils most recently competed in the Cancun Challenge, winning all three of their games against Arkansas State, Illinois, and North Carolina. Should the Crimson face Arizona State on Sunday, it will be the first meeting between the two teams.
The Pioneers enter the tournament off of their second loss in a row, losing, 86-62, to Iona on Tuesday night. Sacred Heart last played Harvard in 2010, downing the Crimson, 69-60.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
Though the temperature outside has changed, the temperature inside a sweaty House or off-campus party has stayed the same, if not gotten even hotter because of heating. You don’t want to lose your nice winter coat, though, after you leave it in a huge pile, so it’s about time that you start thinking about what you’re going to wear out to the Owl in the snow. Thus, Flyby presents: The Fracket.
 
Typically found in Forever 21 or a consignment shop, The Fracket serves a dual purpose of keeping you warm when you go out in the winter and saving you the trouble of an awkward phone call to your parents alerting them that you lost the new Patagonia they bought to prepare you for your first New England winter. Our diagram aims to guide you in your quest for the perfect fracket. 
 
Sections
 
By now everyone's heard the news: A's are the most commonly awarded grade at Harvard. Dining halls are alive with the sounds of students wondering who is getting all of these apparently ever-so-abundant As.
 
Now you can finally find out what your grade would be if you attended that magical “Harvard” place you keep hearing about in the news. Just visit the brand new website "What Would My Harvard Grade Be," and there it is! You've found the A that's always seemed just out of reach!
 
If that answer doesn't seem to line up with reality, you could always head over to the Princeton GPA converter site, which seems to have more basis in fact. Created last year by Princeton students seeking to comfort themselves about grade deflation, the converter used each school’s GPA percentiles to let Princeton students know what their GPA could have been had they gone to Harvard.
 
The converter, with its statistical comparison method, showed a maximum GPA increase of only 0.16, suggesting that instead of tolerating mockery for our “easy” classes, we should be laughing at those who exaggerate the disparity between Harvard grading and that of peer institutions in order to start internet flame wars. 
Plus, who's to say a student smart enough to chose Harvard over Princeton isn't also smart enough to get better grades?
Sections
It's officially reading period! Enjoy the break from classes and get ready for finals.
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
With a high of 54, it won't be too cold! Do pack an umbrella, though.
IN THE D-HALLS
On the Lunch Menu:Classic Kotopoulo Yiouvetsi: Chicken Casserole with OrzoPhilly Cheese Steak SubEthiopian Vegetable Stew
On the Dinner Menu:Cajun SalmonMesquite Rotisserie ChickenSavory Baked Tofu
ON CAMPUS
Perceptions of Muslims in the West: Discourses after the Boston Bombings and the Woolwich MurderA public forum hosted by The Alwaleed Islamic Studies Program in collaboration with the Middle East Initiative and the Shorenstein Center, The Religious Literacy Project at Harvard Divinity School, and the British Council. Tsai Auditorium, CGIS South 010, 4 p.m.
Playing with Design: Cultivating Childhood Creativity in Postwar AmericaThe inaugural lecture of the Ludics Seminar at the Mahindra Humanities Center. Room 133, Barker Center, 5 p.m.
Sections
 
The end of the semester is a stressful time, and we all need to remember to relax every now and then. Flyby is here to help! This is the first installment in our Seven Days of Reading Period series, inspired by "The Twelve Days of Christmas." Stay tuned for more!
On the first day of reading period, Flyby gave to me a (very real) reading period itinerary.

Morning9:00 a.m. - Alarm goes off. Snooze alarm.9:07 a.m. - Repeat snoozing process.10:03 a.m. - Actually wake up.10:15 a.m. - Shower. Or think about showering and decide you’re actually too lazy and will do it later.10:30 a.m. - Decide which sweatpants and hoodie you’re going to wear.10:31 a.m. - Check BuzzFeed. (Preferred: Check Flyby.)12:24 p.m. - Computer battery is low. Plug-in and go to lunch.
Afternoon12:29 p.m. - Lunch. Spend way longer than you mean to talking to friends.2:20 p.m. - Walk back to dorm. Check the 63 unread emails in your inbox.3:00 p.m. - Head to the MAC. You need to stay healthy.3:11 p.m. - Return from gym.3:12 p.m. - Check reddit. (Preferred: Check Flyby.)4:30 p.m. - Attend a review session. Take at least 7 Snapchat selfies with the caption “BOOORRREEEDDD :((“5:30 p.m. - Go to dinner. You need a break after all your hard work at that review session.
Evening7:16 p.m. - Choose a nice, quiet study area to work with friends.7:22 p.m. - Start talking with said friends.9:56 p.m. - Take a snack break.10:47 p.m. - Return to studying.10:49 p.m. - Watch a random YouTube video.10:52 p.m. - Begin the endless spiral of watching all related YouTube videos.12:22 a.m. - Take another snack break.12:56 a.m. - Return to studying.1:48 a.m. - Wander back to your dorm and promise yourself to study hard tomorrow.Rinse. Repeat.
Sections
There may be new hope for those still lamenting the loss of the Harvard Square movie theater.
Moviegoers and fans of the film "Good Will Hunting" will be excited to hear that during a recent interview with Boston Magazine, actor Casey Affleck expressed his desire to reopen the theater that he and his brother Ben once frequented.
“So many Harvard Square landmarks are gone...and of all the places there should be a theater, it should be Harvard Square,” he said in the interview. “And so I’m rallying people I know from Cambridge, Matt and my brother and a couple others, and trying to find someone who would partner with us to reopen that theater as a not-for-profit place.”
The theater closed in July 2012, and Richard Friedman, president and CEO of the business that currently owns the theater, told Boston Magazine that the space would require expensive renovations to bring it up to code before it could reopen. He added that Affleck has not yet reached out to him to discuss the theater’s future, but he would certainly be willing to speak with the actor.
Here’s hoping Affleck’s rallying cry will become a reality.
Sections
If you haven't lost your keys by now, you're probably in denial. Losing one's keys is a mishap that every Harvard student has surely overcome. Flyby charts the emotional roller coaster here.
Click image to enlarge.
