News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
What has three letters, one syllable, and a history of being excluded from every inaugural address before this January? “Gay.”
President Obama broke a longstanding taboo by inserting the word into his speech to the nation after his second public swearing-in. “If we are truly all created equal,” the president continued, “then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal as well.” Obama may have a penchant for talking big and acting small, but his administration filed a brief last Thursday that added a little bite to the presidential bark: The White House will fight for marriage equality and against California’s Proposition 8, the state’s ban on same-sex marriage, in the Supreme Court this month.
The Obama administration argues that laws that treat gay citizens differently from straight citizens violate the Constitution’s equal protection clause. As a result, according to the White House, those laws should be subject to a heightened form of review known as strict scrutiny. And in order to pass strict scrutiny, a law must serve a compelling government interest. But what compelling reason, asks the White House, could California possibly have for denying homosexual couples the right to marry when those couples receive the same privileges and benefits as do heterosexual couples through civil unions?
The White House points to seven states whose civil union provisions mirror those of California: Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Nevada, New Jersey, Oregon, and Rhode Island, and its argument applies only to those states. Critics complain that the White House has not gone far enough, that the Obama administration should ask the Court to acknowledge a constitutional right to gay marriage. But today’s generally conservative Court surely will not take so dramatic a step. The administration recognizes this truth and has offered the Court—or, more specifically, swing-vote Justice Anthony M. Kennedy—another possible option for a ruling.
That ruling would still mark a major advance for gay rights. Strict scrutiny is a stringent test, difficult for any law to pass. If the Court sided with the federal government, all laws that discriminated based on sexual orientation would undergo such heightened review, making it close to impossible for them to stand. What’s more, one small step today would pave the way for a bigger leap tomorrow.
Tomorrow could not come soon enough. When our Founding Fathers wrote the Constitution in the voice of “We the People,” that people may have included only rich, white, straight males. And when slaveholder Thomas Jefferson penned the Declaration of Independence, the “truth” that “all men are created equal” may not always have been entirely “self-evident.” But as time has passed, so has some of our prejudice. The crusade for gay rights is another stage of our nation’s journey toward fair treatment under the law. Before the civil rights movement and the women’s rights movement, equality in the United States existed only in theory. For decades, we have been fighting to turn it into reality.
We’re not there yet. But every moment, support for equal rights for same-sex couples increases. In October, a Pew poll revealed that 49 percent of Americans think gay marriage should be legal. In 2008, only 39 percent were in favor. And a Gallup poll from November showed that 73 percent of the people between 18 and 29 years old want gays and lesbians to be allowed to marry legally.
Young people aren’t the only ones exhibiting a shifting attitude toward gay marriage. Over 200 companies, including big-league players like Citigroup and Apple, have signed onto a brief in another Supreme Court case arguing against the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act. Even a group of prominent Republicans have spoken out against Proposition 8.
One day, “liberty and justice for all” will be more than just a mindless refrain schoolchildren chant as they raise the star-spangled banner every morning, before turning a blind eye when they see their peers mercilessly ostracized and bullied, lampooned on Facebook, and stuffed into lockers in the halls as punishment for the crime of being different. The rising generation, corporate organizations, and members of the conservative GOP have recognized the need for this day to come as soon as possible. The Supreme Court should recognize it, too.
Molly L. Roberts ’16, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Holworthy Hall. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For almost two weeks now, transformative energy has swept our campus on the topic of mental health at Harvard. On February 22, Undergraduate Council representatives attended a rally to stand in solidarity with our peers in response to the poignant anonymous op-ed published the previous day. As representatives, we felt that it was our responsibility to understand student sentiment on this issue.
We recognize that student groups, including Student Mental Health Liaisons and peer counseling groups, have been working in collaboration with University Health Services to improve mental health in our community for years. The gravity of their work cannot be overstated, and our peers, trained multiple times each year to navigate mental health concerns, cannot be ignored as invaluable resources.
The UC has also worked to improve student mental health by empowering students to directly interact with UHS. These interactions have occurred primarily through the UHS student-faculty committee and the Peer Patient Advocacy student-faculty committee. Appointed representatives to the UHS student-faculty committee pushed for the creation of a peer health advocate program in each dorm.
Peer Patient Advocate positions were created this past year to solicit student feedback on experiences with UHS and direct those patients to the Patient Advocate, Linda Cannon, who is charged with investigating negative experiences and planning solutions. Though the structures exist to facilitate communication between student and Harvard’s health care providers, Peer Patient Advocates have found students generally unaware of the Advocate program, wary of reaching out, and hesitant to give specific information to work toward solutions.
The Student Health Planning Committee worked to improve communication to students. Thanks to their work, this fall students received emails indicating their personal physician team, contact information, and name and information of UHS' Patient Advocate; all Houses and freshman dorms were sent a list of the physical and mental health resources available. The committee also focused on making UHS voluntarily compliant with the Affordable Care Act, such as by expanding the number of therapy visits to 24 and covering the cost of medications.
As a result of a specific recommendation of the Mental Health Task Force citing a need for greater communication for mental health resources to students, the wellness tutor program began in 2004. However, despite the progress made, lack of required training and disparities in tutors’ interests lead to inequalities in quality of mental health care support and resources on campus.
Students have been able to impact Harvard policy to improve student health in the past, and we hope that the current campus energy around mental health can stimulate further discussion and improvements.
Harvard's services are strong relative to peer institutions, and there is no doubt that we have dedicated professionals, administrators, and peers working to improve campus mental health. However, as a community, we must avoid complacency on this issue. We should strive for the improved mental health of each Harvard student; mental health should not fall prey to the institutional comparisons that Harvard favors. This is not about Princeton or Yale—this is about Harvard and what we can do better to benefit our students.
Over 150 students attended the rally on February 22. The rally had no organizer, and word spread in under 24 hours. Regardless of the strength of our services, getting 150 Harvard students anywhere on a Friday afternoon without months of planning is a statement we cannot ignore.
The UC heard our peers at the rally, and we have not ignored the call to action. We are hosting a town hall discussion this evening from 7-9 p.m. in Emerson Hall 105. The panel will feature Katherine Lapierre, Chief of UHS Student Mental Health Services; Sally Donahue, Director of Financial Aid; Brett Flehinger, Associate Secretary of the Administrative Board and former Resident Dean; Nancy Turnbull, Senior Lecturer on Health Policy and Associate Dean for Educational Programs at Harvard School of Public Health; Angela Lee ’14, Co-President of Student Mental Health Liaisons; and Rishab Mehan ’14, former Co-Director of Room 13 and a Peer Advising Fellow. We have been soliciting questions and have also made time for open discussion. We ask you to come and voice your opinions so we can improve the resources available at Harvard and make communication between the administration and students more clear.
Mental health is an issue that is relevant to every Harvard student, and it demands an urgent call for attention. It is important to raise awareness and encourage discussion among the greater Harvard community. We must capitalize on this moment on campus.
We look forward to our future action. We have started fruitful collaborations with other student groups, and we plan to extend this conversation—beginning with tonight’s town hall—to other pockets of the Harvard community, including Houses and classrooms. As we learned two weeks ago, this issue is multifaceted, and the discussion should reflect that. We must answer questions about financial aid and the Ad Board, listen to the feedback surrounding mental health services, and work as a community to dispel misinformation and find solutions. Every interested voice should be included in these conversations. Together we can strive for a healthier Harvard.
Megan B. Prasad '15, a Crimson magazine editor, is an economics concentrator in Eliot House. She is a representative on the Undergraduate Council. Tara Raghuveer ’14, an inactive Crimson magazine editor is a social studies concentrator in Currier House. She is the president of the Undergraduate Council. Jen Q. Y. Zhu ’14, an inactive Crimson photo editor, is a government and sociology concentrator in Quincy House. She is the vice president of the Undergraduate Council and a Peer Patient Advocate.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editor:
I am disappointed that The Crimson has not apologized for but instead continues to defend its juvenile editorial warning conservatives not to enroll at Harvard. Although The Crimson claims that the article’s purpose was to highlight the hypocrisy among alumni who wish to “score political points by maligning Harvard,” the article fails to actually make this argument.
Instead, The Crimson explicitly warns conservatives to stay away from Cambridge on the grounds that students who are critical of Harvard should “neither apply, enroll, nor graduate from this fine institution.” The article’s logic is embarrassing, and the belittling and disparagement of conservative students is repugnant.
The editorial rests on the false assumptions that solely conservative students disagree with the University and that dissent is inherently problematic. There are countless examples of Harvard’s liberal students and alumni expressing discontent with the University. By its own logic, The Crimson’s message should also apply to Al Gore, who has praised the student campaign challenging the University’s investment in fossil fuels. Furthermore, the editors surely recognize that criticism can play a valuable role in righting wrongs. They certainly wouldn’t condemn alumni who disagreed and criticized Harvard for its past exclusion of women and minorities and much less deem them “episodes of treachery.” As a Hispanic female, I might not be studying at Harvard today were it not for vocal critics of past Harvard policies.
Perhaps the most arrogant and disrespectful claim in the article is the characterization of conservatives as “anti-intellectual.” The name-calling itself reveals the real anti-intellectualism at Harvard. It is not typically found among its conservatives, whose ideas and arguments are sharpened by constant scrutiny and criticism. Rather, it is found in the intolerance toward conservatives on campus and in the failure to engage the arguments and principles that guide conservative beliefs.
In this respect, this editorial is not an outlier, but only the most brazen recent example of the preference for mindless bullying over authentic discussion. Many of Harvard’s students recognize the value and necessity of intellectual diversity, but it is discouraging to see that our campus’s newspaper does not.
In a few weeks, students from across the globe will find out whether they have been accepted into Harvard’s Class of 2017. I urge The Crimson to reconsider its welcome message. Conservatives remain an integral part of Harvard, and they are encouraged to apply and enroll.
Luciana E. Milano ’14
Cambrdge, Mass.
To the editor:
I teach an upper-level undergraduate statistics class, Statistics 123: “Applied Quantitative Finance on Wall Street,” which has averaged an enrollment of approximately 100 students a term. The course is substantive and difficult (I demand Statistics 110: “Introduction to Probability” as a prerequisite), introduces subtle and elegant theory, and challenges students to tackle new ways of thinking. The midterm and final exams (closed-book, proctored) are demanding and stretch students’ mastery of the material.
In my class I have met varsity football players, computer science prodigies, a gifted conductor now at Juilliard, a European math Olympiad finalist, writers for The Crimson, cross country runners, violinists, golf stars, and fencers, among a wide range of Harvard students.
These students all share the drive and motivation to add knowledge, to understand the subtleties of complex concepts, and to tackle difficult topics head on. They do not want to shirk the acquisition of knowledge for an easy grade. Rather, they are motivated to master the most challenging material they can, and they take delight in their own intellectual progress. It is an unqualified joy to teach such students and to see them respond to and engage with demanding subject matter.
There is much we can all do better. But let us not be afraid to say, clearly and loudly, “academics flourish at Harvard.”
Stephen Blyth
Cambridge, Mass.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears, and sweat,” Churchill famously declaimed, in a staunch metaphor of national and human resolve. For over seven million American men, however, the U.S. Food and Drug Association has left item number one off that list.
In a policy that has persisted since 1983, the FDA has maintained a lifetime ban on blood donation by men who have had sex with other men. Before improvements in HIV detection, FDA censorship may have made scientific or actuarial sense, but that erstwhile rationale gave way some time ago. Encouragingly, anti-ban opinion has gradually snowballed with support: A recent letter-writing campaign, spearheaded by the Harvard College Queer Students and Allies and the Harvard Libertarian Forum, is an especially bright embodiment of that trend.
Their voices follow a growing chorus from the field of medicine itself. The American Medical Association, America’s Blood Centers, and the Red Cross itself, to name three particularly weighty examples, have formally endorsed removing the lifetime restriction. Modern technology now permits effective screening of blood for HIV within 10 to 21 days of disease contraction, and although the FDA cites worries regarding this “window period,” a human lifetime is a draconian confidence interval to enforce. A robust slate of nations worldwide—England, South Africa, Japan, and many more—agree, and have no lifetime ban in place.
The proscription, of course, might be justified even in the face of inefficacy. The Hippocratic maxim, “Do no harm,” would seem to justify caution. Except that the ban does do harm. For one, it limits the scope of blood donations. Ending the restriction would not spur a long-term effusion of blood donors, but it would provide badly needed help. One study predicts an increase as high as 1.4 percent in the effective donor pool. That may sound on the paltry side, but with the Red Cross reporting its lowest blood donation level in 15 years last summer, any meaningful increase in donations is sure to translate to real results at the human level. It is a bitter, ironic scene: a medical establishment scrambling to combat a donation shortage, while a dusty government ban outlaws charity to ameliorate it.
And even beyond the utilitarian math, the policy is simply discriminatory. Shorn of its scientific basis, it serves only to limit a historically marginalized cohort from a basic, noble exercise in freedom and dignity. As we wrote on the issue over a decade ago—even then, the ban was a vestige—yet still must reiterate today, “Personal history is the pertinent information; blind predetermination based on orientation is not.”
The picture does have its bright spots, however, albeit not in the FDA’s interdiction itself. The Harvard campus displayed an episode of broad-based fervor and effort, in a campaign that elicited letters for the FDA from roughly one-fourth of the College’s student body. It also marked a potent case study in cooperation among student groups: Its success came as the fruit of collaboration between the Harvard College Queer Students and Allies and the Harvard Libertarian Forum. The spirits of cooperation and working together may sound trite or simplistic. But 1,624 letters say otherwise.
We hope that efforts like the joint one on campus and its national counterparts will engender an end to the FDA ban. In the telling (if understating) words of an independent panel commissioned by the Department of Health and Human Services, the current blanket policy is “suboptimal.” The FDA should make it optimal.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Friday Night:
I start off Friday night right: with a two hour phone call to my mom. I am fishing for sympathy, perhaps a care package or two, but when I tell her I am too stressed to binge drink this weekend I get nothing. “Good” she says, “go study.”
Taking her advice, I start on my government readings.
One hour later I am at a Highlighter party. I have no idea how I ended up there and no idea where to stash my backpack—I would hate for someone to steal my government readings, or my laptop.
One kid compliments my dress. The second tries to put highlighter “black light” goo on it. I slap him away: It’s dry-clean only.
The kid who complimented my dress comes up to me and tries to say something witty, “Wow we are running into each other a lot tonight.”
I am unimpressed and preoccupied by the fear that there is goo on my dress.
He starts to introduce himself, “My name is-”
I walk away. I am too sober for this.
I go back home and finish reading The Federalist Papers. That Madison has a way with words.
Saturday Night:
Hearing rumors of another highlighter party I promise my mother that I am going to lock myself in my room and study.
I’m pretty faithful to my word until about 11 p.m., when a 10 minute study break transforms into me lying about my nationality at an international party. The good news is that I remembered to leave my backpack at home; the bad news is that my Canadian accent sounds like a pirate’s and no one believes that I am from British Colombia.
One kid, potentially an actual Canadian, asks me to dance. I ask him if he is a freshman. He says, “yes,” so I say “no.”
I am too sober for this.
I go for a drink, but instead the bartender lets me pocket a Smirnoff nip for later. Success! I take my drink and head to my highlighter party. I spend the wee hours of Sunday morning reviewing my seismic imaging notes for my environmental science class.
Sections
Somewhere past the impending midterm season is the heavenly, sun-tanned mirage of Spring Break 2013. Not sure about what you’re going to do this year? Take FM’s quiz and find out how you should spend your week-long vacation.
1. Who are your friends?
a. 	Hitchhikers.
b. 	Think Theta!
c.	Laurent Rivard, Christian Webster, and Wesley Saunders.
d. There were these cute white mice, but I had to sacrifice them.
e. 	Jose Cuervo.
2. What’s your food of choice?
a. 	Applebutter.
b. 	Body butter.
c. 	Buttered popcorn.
d. 	HUDS bag lunches.
e. 	Peanut Butter.
3. What’s your drink of choice?
a. Cold water from a spring in the Catskills.
b.  Coconut Water.
c. Very small bottles of vodka from the flight attendant.
d. The ethanol under my lab bench.
e. The “more” part of the saying “one tequila, two tequila, three tequila, more.”
4. Which is your jam?
a. 	“I’m gonna be (500 miles)”—The Proclaimers.
b. 	“That’s What Makes You Beautiful”—One Direction.
c. 	“Whoomp! (There It Is)”—Tag Team.
d. 	“Just like a Pill”—P!nk.
e. 	“I’m on a Boat”—The Lonely Island.
5. What are you wearing right now?
a. 	I’m naked except for my hiking boots.
b. 	My bikini. I wear it under all my clothes, just in case.
c. 	One of a thousand “Harvard Basketball” t-shirts I own.
d. 	Lab coat.
e. 	Brotank and beer goggles. But actually, I have beer 	goggles.
6. What shoes are you going to pack for Spring Break?
a. 	I sold my shoes to pay for gas.
b. The cutest strappy sandals you’ve ever seen.
c. 	Jordans.
d. 	Close toed shoes.
e. 	Flippy floppys!
7. What are your hobbies?
a. 	Making beef jerky in my dorm room and collecting bluegrass vinyls.
b. 	Yoga.
c. 	Writing a blog about the stats of little league basketball teams.
d. 	MCAT prep! (Or at least that’s what I tell my parents.)
e. 	Doing my laundry and going to the gym. It’s very soothing.
8. Ideally, what’s the most awesome thing you’re going to do this spring break?
a. 	Fight off grizzly bears.
b. 	Swim in an infinity pool.
c. 	Chest-bump Tommy Amaker.
d. 	Tent in the Yard in anticipation of Oprah’s arrival.
e. 	Stand atop Mayan Ruins while hungover.
9. What’s the worst thing that could happen this spring break?
a. 	Lose a fight with grizzly bears.
b.	Can’t get out of the infinity pool.
c. 	Men’s basketball loses to Princeton for Ivy League title.
d. 	My post-doc decides not to go on break.
e. 	Montezuma’s Revenge.
10. How are you going to document Spring Break 2013?
a. Disposable waterproof camera.
b. 	Instagram.
c. 	Tweeting everything at Drew Faust.
d. 	Lab notebook.
e. I’ve got a feeling I shouldn’t document, just in case I run for office someday. I’ll just have to be careful and untag myself from everything on Facebook.
SCORE!
Points Awarded:
a—1
b—2
c—3
d—4
e—5
If you scored between 10 and 18 points, you should go on a Road Trip! Fill her up and take to the highway, see the sights—The Grand Canyon, Mount Rushmore, Half-Dome, Old Faithful, The Golden Gate Bridge. Drive into the sunset. Build bonfires. Sleep under the stars. visit every 7-11 from here to San Francisco. Gas prices are high right now, but a long drive will satisfy your aching wanderlust like Lamont never could.
If you scored between 19 and 26 points, you should hit the Spa! Relaaaaaaax. Breathe easy for a while, take some yoga classes, and spend a little time and money on yourself. We won’t tell anyone about that $200 mud bath if you won’t.
If you scored between 27 and 34 points, you are hoping and praying that Crimson men’s basketball makes it to the NCAA! You should start making tributes and sacrifices to the appropriate god(s) now. Work those connections to get a ticket and fly out to the playoffs. If we’re not a part of March Madness this year, cuddle with your bracket in front of the TV and dream for next year.
If you scored between 35 and 42 points, you should get out of your research! We know it’s scary, but there’s a world beyond thesising and experimenting. You’re pastier than Gollum, you should probably step outside and get some sunshine. Experience Cambridge, man! It’s beautiful in the spring—especially as the crew sculls start skimming along the River again.
If you scored between 43 and 50 points, you should take the traditional route and go to Cancun! Traditional in the most flexible sense, here. Go see many bikinis, drink many beers, and party it up like the champion you are. You’ll come back crispy and tan, but that will be the only proof you have of your adventures—you won’t remember any of it.
Sections
George Saunders’s “Tenth of December,” his latest short story collection, was hailed as “the best thing you’ll read this year” on the cover of The New York Times Magazine. His agent has agreed to give FM a strict 30 minutes of his time, but Saunders, with his Chicago accent and self-described “Pollyanna-ish” familiarity, isn’t a stickler; we’re pushing 90 when he requests a two-minute break to chase his runaway dog.
1. Fifteen Minutes: In many of the stories in “Tenth of December,” you place your characters in moral dilemmas and watch as they puzzle through them. How do you embed explicit moral structures without condescending?
George Saunders: The thing is to come up with a dilemma that’s really complicated, so the reader goes, “Hmm, I don’t know what I would do.” Then just let the story be one answer to the question. The technical difficulty lies in posing a moral question that’s really interesting. So you come up with this idea that there’s a couple named Romeo and Juliet, and they’re really hot for each other. That’s not a story yet. But then you see yourself looking for an obstacle or an obstruction because that’s where the interest lies. If you claim that this couple is in love, for me it goes, “Oh, really? Then prove it.” Then you go, “Oh, I can prove it, I’ll make it difficult for them.” Their families hate each other. That’s how what people call the moralizing element gets in there.
2. FM: Did you always write that way?
GS: Yeah. When I was younger, I used to make more of an attempt to have more of a conceptual underpinning for what I was doing. But then I got into a fix where nothing I was writing was any good. I wasn’t even interested in it. I came around to this more radical way of thinking: The way to get your best self into a piece of fiction is to really really concentrate on the line-by-line charm of your prose. The whole world is contained in your first sentence, and that’s a little bit too much pressure, but it’s true. Everything you’re going to bring to a story as a writer, the only way you’re going to do it is a sentence at a time.
3. FM: Do you have a favorite first sentence from your writing?
GS: Not really. I’m big on functionality, so in the first sentence all I’m trying to do is get you to take one step into the room. The only way anyone ever reads a story is a sentence at a time. It’s like a linear, temporal experience. So you just try to keep the reader feeling honored and continuing to read, and that approach for me contained everything that there was—all the politics, all the themes.
4. FM: Politics are central to much of your work. Why?
GS: I’m a pretty straight up liberal and so I’ll have all the usual reactions to Republicans, but at some point you get bored with that and wonder, is there a more sophisticated answer? I’m trying to get to the more human aspect of it. Opinions are what we do to assure ourselves that we are alive.
5. FM: So how do you try and understand other opinions?
GS: I think that’s fiction. Let’s put these people in stories. Al Rooster is a guy like that in “Tenth of December.” I wouldn’t like him naturally, but then I got to be inside his head for a year. You start digging around and seeing the ways that you are similar, which is not surprising because you are inventing him. Even liberals have conservative impulses. Let’s say you are a liberal person and you meet a girl at a party who’s had nine abortions and is like, “I don’t give a shit.” You’re going to respond like, “what!?” Part of you even wants to abolish abortion so that someone like that can’t live that way. That’s a conservative impulse. You just think “Oh I’m George, and I’m a liberal, so when I have a conservative thought I squash it.” But as a fiction writer you have the incredible liberty to not have to do that.
6. FM: You wrote a “Shouts and Murmurs” humor piece for the New Yorker earlier this year from the perspective of Ayn Rand’s former lover. You mentioned in an interview that before you took to mocking her, you were a fan. How did your politics evolve? Is Rand still an influence in any way?
GS: No, I can’t stand her. I was trying to decide whether to go to college through Atlas Shrugged. That was the first novel I’d read in many years, and I really loved it. That was very intoxicating stuff—that following your own impulses was the most holy thing in the world. What 18-year-old doesn’t want to hear that? I was just a working-class boy, and I hadn’t done very well in high school so my options for college were very limited. It was nice to hear that I was right all along after all. I’m grateful because I wouldn’t have gone to college if I hadn’t read that book. I was just sort of re-energized the way I thought about myself. I thought, “I, Me, George, could be on a college campus with friends!” So even though it was kind of a hateful book, I think, and completely, completely wrongheaded, it came to me at the right moment and made a big difference.
7. FM: “Tenth of December” has been called more mature and less zany than a lot of your earlier work. Do you think that’s accurate?
GS: I’m a little less zany than I used to be. I think it’s more like focused zaniness. You go to a party, and you have 12 beers, and you say something stupid. Then, at the next party, on beer eight, you go, “Huh, I remember that 12 was a bad decision; maybe I should stop.” I think art is like that. You write four or five books, and every time you’re wearing out certain approaches and trying out new ones and refining those.
8. FM: You use a lot of ready-made structures—list form, letter form, journal entries. How do you think they help you tell stories?
GS: Fiction thrives on constraint. If someone says to me, “Write a story from the point of view of a kitten at a waste dump,” I go “Ooh” and get excited about it. Whereas someone says, “Write a story that describes your relation to life,” and I go “Oh, God, that sounds impossible.” That it’ll-be-fun feeling is really key to me doing anything. Partly, it’s just a matter of learning to put yourself in a box. I did an exercise in my MFA class where I found 15 examples of genuinely weird writing, like wanted ads, or a really cryptic diary, or medical instructions. I just told them to write a story in the voice of one of the pieces of writing. It’s amazing—the students responded really well to that. Just giving them a little restraint verbally is a little exciting. I just do that to myself basically just to get things going.
9. FM: What other types of exercises do you use with your students?
GS: I have one that’s really weird: The assignment is to write a 200-word story. It can’t be 199, and it can’t be 201, and you’re only allowed to use 50 different words to do it. I give that assignment in class with pretty tight time constraints, letting them know that they’re all going to read them out loud at the end, so there’s this weird performance pressure. People always write wonderful little pieces during that exercise. Often, they end up overcoming whatever their big writing issue is.
10. FM: Do you make a point of making your fiction accessible to the general reader? Is that the point of that exercise?
GS: I’ve always thought that fiction should be pretty accessible. I never had any problem with that idea so long as you aren’t being sloppy or sentimental or stupid. It’s a strange, fairly recent idea in postmodernism that if art is good it has to be hard. I’m all for communication. The idea that the profundity of a piece of art is not necessarily the height of the wall that you build between writer and reader. I try to not have too many preconceptions about difficulty. Sometimes it will be difficult, sometimes it will be easy, and sometimes it will be easy to read but difficult to bear. I’m pretty much open to however it comes out.
11. FM: I’ve noticed you write in shorthand a lot, truncating sentences to create a rushed or informal feel. What are you trying to do there?
GS: We think good writing is eloquent and uplifting and big, but you could have a totally different poetics, which says efficiency and speed is desirable. The idea that all the language you hear naturally at work is totally unliterary seems nuts to me. You get people walking around an office all day talking in that truncated corporate diction, and even when they want to communicate something profound, they’re in a hurry. It just seems beautiful to me. It’s the constraint. There’s some deeper truth in there about the fact that none of us are 100 percent communicative. Here we are talking, and I’m doing my best to communicate but I’m somehow not doing it as well as I want to. That’s very human, this idea that we’re beautiful, beautiful creatures with these clogged openings.
12. FM: You begin “Victory Lap” in the voice of an 14-year-old girl, and you have sentences like “Sorry, no way, down he went, he was definitely not {special one}”. I’d never seen curly brackets used that way before. How did you decide to use them?
GS: I’m a pioneer of the curly brackets, for sure. I remember I imagined that to be almost like an echo: “that special oneoneoneone”—and how do I convey that? You know, it reads differently when I say “the special one.” That’s no weird punctuation. Or you could capitalize the S and the O, so, Special One—that’s not bad, but I do that too much. You could italicize it—that’s okay.  You can bold it—meh. I just ran through those possibilities in my head and somehow those brackets just said, “Hey! Use Me!” When you’re reading it, you see those curly brackets, and you go, “What the fuck’s that?” And it’s almost like you go on full alert, like, what do you mean by that, and then, when you read the rest of the phrase you go “Oh! I see what you mean!”
13. FM: Do you ever make some sort of stylistic innovation and feel like you’re being heavy-handed and tone it down, or do your best bits start out sounding natural?
GS: I think you’re always feeling heavy-handed. That’s part of the process: have an impulse, try it, look at it and go, “Do I want that to stand or not?” So much of it is intuition. It’s hard to teach, and it’s hard to talk about it, but most of the writers I admire are always doing something like that. Like David Foster Wallace has all these strange little innovations that you can’t quite defend, but you feel him enjoying it. Part of the reason we turn to art is for those little spontaneous expressions of fun that aren’t exactly rationally defensible.
14. FM: You knew Wallace, right? Do you see your type of fiction as related to his work?
GS: I can’t speak for him, but my sense was that we both basically agreed about the kind of work we thought fiction should do, and both probably were a little bit shy about saying it because it sounds so corny. What we talked about was that we did think emotion was important in writing, but that it wasn’t a given how you would get more emotion in.
15. FM: What’s the thing fiction is supposed to do that “sounds so corny?”
GS: It’s supposed to move you. When you read it, even though you’re a young woman and I’m an old dude, it’s supposed to dignify you by saying, “Yes, dear reader, we are living in the same world and we’re having a lot of the same experiences and they’re not all easy, but some of them are beautiful.”
Sections
Students admire their professors, but professors have professors they admire, too. This week, FM wrote to Professor Daniel T. Gilbert asking him to name three colleagues from other Harvard departments who he thought were neat, and then asked those professors the same question. The chain continued, resulting in a graph of cross-disciplinary respect and admiration.
Sections
I don’t remember how the scars started. I’ve never been able to  actually see or touch them, but I’ve carried them for as long as I can  remember. Sometimes I forget they’re even there, but I can never quite  escape them.
Maybe it has something to do with the city, and how, late at night,  the ohsoquiet doesn’t let me forget about the ceaseless, clear coquí frog sounds that would sing me to sleep. Maybe it’s related to the  borderline panic attacks I get when it’s been days since I’ve said  something, let alone had a thought, in Spanish.
Maybe it has more to do with our different perceptions of beaches.  For most of my friends here at school, they’re the quintessential  indicators of paradise. Apparently, if you live close to one, all you  ever do is work on your tan and sip on piña coladas. Don’t forget about  grinding to reggaetón. (Daddy Yankee, yo!)
To these friends, beaches aren’t hidden sanctuaries for broken  bottles and shards of glass, cigarette butts, or used syringes. They  aren’t places that shock them into remembering how small they are, but  rather places that allow them to disconnect from their “real world” in  the States.
That real world isn’t as far away as they might wish it to be. It’s here as well, just a few miles away from my San Juan home.
The  summer before we all left for college, a group of friends and I went on  a road trip, determined to find one of the island’s hidden gems: an ice  cream shop that serves flavors like sweet plantain, cod fish, and rice  pudding.
I was dubbed the designated driver, even though I had no idea how  to get there. After we all crammed into my lime-green Volkswagen Beetle,  we were off, serenaded by the likes of bands from ‘N Sync to Major  Lazer. No regrets.
The road signs gave distances in kilometers. We, however, were  brought up under U.S. customary units. As a result—and with Google Maps  on the fritz because even it finds nations in political limbo  trifling—it took us a while to understand the labyrinthine mountain  roads.
Several hours later, we made it to Lares’ town square. After taking  a solid 15 minutes to parallel park my car into a space that could have  easily fit two vdub bugs, we ran to the store, where we proceeded to  sample one of almost everything. One of my friends treated herself to a  dulce de leche/coffee combo, I indulged in a cinnamon-flavored  coquito/corn concoction. We both rolled our eyes at the endearing  environmentalist smoker in our group, who wondered if the shop promoted  humane food production policies.
Right before leaving, we walked around the plaza and, like your  typical prematurely nostalgic teenagers, took pictures throughout the 20  minutes we spent in town. Slightly embarrassed, I couldn’t help but  look at the locals between shots.
I could feel their friendly, yet distrusting gazes reflected on my  thin, black-rimmed glasses. Chuckling at our own witticisms while  photographing what we thought were community oddities, we were  inadvertently making a spectacle out of their day-to-day lives. I gulped  dryly at that realization—I was no better than the Coppertone-smeared  tourists who show up in Old San Juan dressed like they’re about to go on  safari.
Now that I go to Harvard, a high school parent’s wet dream,  presumably, I don’t feel as guilty keeping tabs on the Isle from afar.
And  yet, when I pull up my local newspaper’s homepage, I read the  headlines—Gang Violence Rises, Innocent Bystander Caught in Gunfire (a  six-year-old, this time), and JLo Shares Table with Marc Anthony’s  Girlfriend—and the scars start to sting again.
Puerto Rico, my heart’s de-vo-tion. Let it sink back in the ocean.
What am I doing here? Where do I fit in all of this?  Shouldn’t I be home, trying to accomplish something more concrete than  turning in some bullshit research paper? Why did I leave?
As  vapid as I’m aware it might sound, I was worried that I would be missing  out on an opportunity, whatever that’s supposed to mean, by staying in  San Juan. Worried that I wouldn’t grow if I did not physically remove  myself from a relatively insular culture. All that worry, it seems,  became a spineless feeling, a sense of cowardice. One that, over time,  dug into my skin, hardened into these scars, and almost immediately  became invisible to those who haven’t looked closely enough.
But these scars aren’t something to be ashamed of. They’re here for me to keep, and hey, scars make me look like a badass.
Valeria M. Pelet, 2015, is a History and Literature concentrator in Winthrop House. Her “real world” is way better than MTV’s.
Sections
“I want to know what happened in that room when they were making a decision that changed my entire life.”
 
Julie, an undergraduate, says she will never understand why the Administrative Board decided in its closed deliberations in the Forum Room on the third floor of Lamont Library to allow the student who sexually assaulted her to remain on campus. 
 
Julie, who has been granted anonymity by The Crimson because she fears retaliation from her perpetrator, initially felt optimistic about the College’s response to her sexual assault. After reporting the rape, Julie felt encouraged by the responses of Harvard University Police Department and the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response. Assured that there was significant evidence to build a case against the perpetrator, Julie took her case to the Ad Board.
 
In light of this, she said, the Ad Board’s ultimate decision not to require the perpetrator to withdraw was particularly disheartening. 
 
Paola, another College student who was sexually assaulted on campus, also found OSAPR to be a helpful resource. Yet she expresses deep disappointment with the way that administrators respond to students coming forward with experiences of sexual assault. “They question the event so much and ask if you were in the wrong so many times that, after a while, one begins questioning if it even happened,” she writes in an email to The Crimson. Paola, who has been granted anonymity by The Crimson to protect her privacy, decided not to pursue her case with the Ad Board in part because she knew the perpetrator. 
 
For a growing number of students on campus, stories like Julie’s and Paola’s highlight what they describe as a disparity between Harvard’s many resources for the victims of sexual assault and the policies that govern the ways in which incidents of sexual assault are investigated and adjudicated. These critics, who include sexual assault survivors and campus activists, say that the Ad Board’s written policy language is not favorable to victims of sexual assault, and that the Ad Board’s lack of transparency about its processes intimidates students who bring their cases before the Board.
 
Harvard is currently conducting an ongoing review of its sexual assault policies across its various schools and has recently hired its first ever University-wide Title IX coordinator, who begins work this month. Still, some students feel that these efforts are not enough. They say that changes in the way administrators handle cases of sexual assault at the College level are progressing too slowly, and are not sufficiently responsive to student concerns.
 
It Happens Here
 
Several nights a month, Julia F.P. Ostmann ’15 staffs an anonymous desk in Lowell or stays by the phone from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m.. Ostmann is a Response Peer Counselor, and she spends her late nights waiting for fellow students to contact her with their concerns about relationship problems, intimate partner violence, harassment, and sexual assault. 
 
Despite increasing national and campus conversation about sexual assault, Ostmann says there remains the perception among some students that sexual violence is not a problem on Harvard’s campus.
 
“There’s this rhetoric that, ‘We’re the best and the brightest. How could someone here do this to another human being?’” says Ostmann, who is a Crimson magazine comper. Yet, she continues, sexual assault “is one of the major issues that we handle at Response.” 
 
In 2011 alone, 26 Harvard students reported a rape or indecent assault to HUPD, OSAPR, or Harvard University Health Services, according to statistics published under the Clery Act, which requires colleges and universities to disclose information about crime on their campuses. And 85 to 95 students—60 to 70 percent of them undergraduates, the rest graduate students—worked with OSAPR to confidentially discuss experiences of sexual misconduct, ranging from harassment and stalking to dating violence and rape, according to Sarah Rankin, the director of OSAPR.
 
Harvard is not alone. According to a report released by the National Institute of Justice in 2011, between 20 and 25 percent of women, and approximately 6.1 percent of men are victims of an attempted or completed sexual assault while they are in college.  
 
Members of Harvard’s prevention community say that, even with current discussions about sexual assault, there remains a persistent attitude that rape doesn’t—and can’t—occur at Harvard.
 
From 2005 to 2010, eight cases of sexual misconduct went in front of the Ad Board. As a result of these investigations, three perpetrators were required to withdraw from the College, meaning they were asked to leave the College for a period of at least six months. The Handbook of Students stipulates that “a student who commits rape, sexual assault, or other sexual misconduct is subject to severe penalties.” However, no students received a “recommendation to dismiss,” the Ad Board term for permanent expulsion, for sexual misconduct during this period. 
 
“In the last few months, there’s been a lot of talk about sexual assault on campus, both in publications and in referendums. But a lot of people still don’t understand the extent or severity of exactly what’s going on on campus,” says Jonathan K. Stevens ’14, a member of the Consent Assault Awareness & Relationship Educators (CAARE), an OSAPR-sponsored student group that that works to educate Harvard students about domestic and sexual violence. “Nothing in the Harvard selection process selects out the kind of issues that we have to deal with when we talk about sexual assault,” Stevens says. 
 
Campaigning for Change
 
The referendum of which Stevens speaks, a piece of student legislation passed in November, directly challenges the College’s current sexual assault policies. The vote on the issue was initiated by Our Harvard Can Do Better, a campus group that advocates for reform of the College’s policies and practices regarding sexual assault.
 
This fall, 3,066 undergraduates—85 percent of those who voted in the Undergraduate Council election—voted to approve the referendum asking Harvard to re-examine its policies related to sexual violence. In December, the Undergraduate Council officially endorsed Our Harvard Can Do Better’s platform.
 
According to Kate Sim ’14, a founder of Our Harvard Can Do Better, part of the campaign’s mission is to bridge the gap between policy and practice in terms of administrative response to sexual assault at the College.
 
“Harvard is one of the few colleges with a center like OSAPR,” Sim says. “Most colleges don’t even have that, so I’m grateful that we have that.” But this, she continued, is not adequate. “Having a little bit better system doesn’t mean you have the best system.” 
 
Particularly, she says, this discrepancy applies when it comes to the College’s hesitance in adopting an official standard of affirmative consent. Harvard’s current policy defines rape as “any act of sexual intercourse that takes place against a person’s will or that is accompanied by physical coercion or the threat of bodily injury,” stating that “unwillingness may be expressed verbally or physically.” In contrast, an affirmative consent policy defines sexual assault as occurring in the absence of enthusiastic verbally or physically expressed consent. 
 
A number of colleges and universities throughout the country, including the University of Iowa and Antioch College, have official policies of affirmative consent.
 
In addition, the campaign’s platform criticizes the current standard of evidence required by the Ad Board, which mandates that Board members must be “sufficiently persuaded” that an incident took place in reaching a verdict about sexual assault or any other case. Many believe this standard of evidence to be unclear and, perhaps, to place the burden of proof disproportionately on the victim. 
 
Instead, many suggest the “preponderance of the evidence” standard, which requires simply that an incident is more likely than not to have occurred. 
 
National discussion about the “preponderance of the evidence” standard came to the fore after the Office for Civil Rights released a “Dear Colleague” letter delineating Title IX expectations for university response to gender discrimination, particularly regarding sexual assault. The letter suggested that colleges and universities adopt the “preponderance of the evidence” standard.
 
In June 2012, in response to the Office of Civil Rights investigation following a Title IX suit, Yale changed its policies to reflect the “preponderance of the evidence” standard. This legal pressure came in the wake of an incident on Yale’s campus in which fraternity brothers chanted “No means yes! Yes means anal!” outside of a dormitory during an initiation event the previous fall. 
 
Yale’s decision leaves Harvard and Princeton as the only two Ivy League schools that have not adopted this standard.
 
For Julie, the wordings of policies are more than just semantics: They have a real impact on how cases like hers are decided by the Ad Board. 
 
Julie felt that there was a lack of clarity in what the “sufficiently persuaded” standard meant. “I thought that they were ‘sufficiently persuaded,’” Julie says. From her perspective, it seemed, “Everybody...was not just sufficiently persuaded, but convinced.”
 
Julie says she believes the results of her case represented a fear of action on the part of the institution.“I think it’s just that they’re scared. I really do think that they are afraid that, if they make the wrong decision...they’re going to get all this legal action,” she says.
 
Liz Canner, a filmmaker currently documenting the epidemic of sexual assault on college campuses, also points to fear of legal action as a potential reason why universities in general are hesitant to punish perpetrators.
 
“There have been lawsuits against schools around sexual assault and how it’s handled, not so much from the victim…but it tends to be that it’s the perpetrators and the perpetrators’ family that take out law suits against the school,” she says.
 
This threat of legal action, says Canner, means that university decisions often favor assailants over victims. “A lot of universities are risk-averse, and because it’s perpetrators who are suing, in some ways things are leaning towards the perpetrators,” she says.
 
Working Towards Reform
 
After the results of this fall’s referendum indicated widespread community support for the changes proposed by Our Harvard Can Do Better, the Office of Student Life established a Sexual Assault Resources Student Working Group at the behest of Dean of Harvard College Evelynn M. Hammonds. But, according to Emelyn dela Pena, Assistant Dean of Harvard College for Student Life and the College’s Title IX coordinator, this working group is not a direct result of the referendum.
 
“What I think we need to know is whether or not students feel that the kind of services they get from OSAPR and the Office of Student Life are sufficient or really address the concerns that students have when sexual assault happens,” says Hammonds of her reason for calling the working group. 
 
The group consists of students representing a variety of organizations on campus, including Our Harvard Can Do Better, the Undergraduate Council, the University’s new Office of BGLTQ Student Life, fraternities, sororities, and male and female final clubs. Dean Hammonds does not sit on the committee. 
 
According to dela Pena, policy change is outside of the limits of the committee established by Hammonds.
 
“The policy in place is faculty legislation. The Dean of the College could not alone make changes to the policy; all changes to faculty rules must be voted by the faculty, which would first require a much broader conversation that would certainly involve the new Title IX coordinator and many others," dela Pena writes in an email. 
 
Jeff Neal, spokesperson for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, writes in an email that policy change is an extensive process. “Changing Harvard’s policies around sexual assault would require a broad conversation that would certainly involve the new Title IX coordinator and many others at the College, FAS and the University,” he writes. With possible new federal legislation on the horizon and Title IX discussions between the University and the Office of Civil Rights ongoing, he writes, “I think we don’t know yet what changes might occur in the future.”
 
Neal writes that the goal of the working group is “to assess the resources that are already available, how we communicate them to students and what additional resources or communications might be needed going forward.” Right now, he adds, “It is not clear that students know what resources are available to them or how to access them.” 
 
For Sim, however, a focus on resources, while important in highlighting potential inadequacies, is not enough. “If this group is indeed strictly [focused] on the resources, then we haven’t sufficiently addressed the problem,” she says.
 
Tara Raghuveer ’14, Undergraduate Council president, says that students are concerned with policy. “We’ve heard from multiple people that there needs to be a discussion of policy in this working group, and thus far it’s only been about resources, and the agenda hasn’t been set by the students involved at all,” she says.
 
According to dela Pena, it is the responsibility of student representatives to reach out to their communities to solicit concerns. “We have not dictated how this needs to happen,” writes dela Pena. “With that said, members of these organizations may also independently contact their representatives to forward ideas or concerns to the Working Group.”
 
Yet, says Raghuveer, the mission of the working group limits the scope of what actions students may request. “I strongly believe that if students feel that they need to be talking about policy and the potential for policy reform, that discussion needs to be engaged, and we will definitely be working towards that in the future,” she says.
 
The students in the working group contacted for this article all expressed that they had been forbidden from discussing certain aspects of the working group.
 
According to dela Pena, this policy is in place “in order to protect the integrity of the working group process.” 
 
But for Sean M. Khosravi ’13, a student member of the Sexual Assault Resources Student Working Group representing campus fraternities, this requirement for confidentiality is unsettling. “People were like, ‘We can’t tell anyone? This is not at all what we asked for.’”
 
Khosravi worries that the current working group is structured to appease student concern, rather than address it. “I had a lot of high hopes,” Khosravi says of his thoughts going into the working group. “And then I show up to the meeting and I was like, ‘wow, I’m just a show right now, the administration is trying to use me as a show.’” 
 
According to Raghuveer, student action to call for specific policy reform is complicated by administrative response. “Our actions are limited by the fact that Dean Hammonds immediately responded with this working group,” she says.
 
Khosravi feels that this group’s approach feeds into a pattern of inattention towards this issue on campus. When it comes to sexual assault, he says, “I think the term that would most describe the administration is negligent.” Surrounding the issue of sexual assault on campus, he claims that “the administration obviously wants to keep it quiet.”
 
The Politics of Prevention
 
While perpetrators and victims of sexual assault can be of any gender, the vast majority—nine out of every 10, according to anti-sexual violence organization Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network—of rapes that occur in the United States involve a female victim and a male perpetrator. 
 
These statistics signify that conversations about sexual assault necessarily entail consideration of gender dynamics.
 
Schuyler H. Daum ’12, who was a member of the OSAPR Student Alliance, now CAARE, while she was a student, found herself drawn to the group initially because of her frustration with gender issues on campus. 
 
“One of the things that I found especially jarring at Harvard was the dichotomy between the capability and the independence of a lot of my friends, but then this sort of disconnect between advocating for yourself in the classroom and advocating for yourself in relationships,” Daum says. 
 
While Harvard women are taught to be aggressive in the workplace or the classroom, she suggests, in many cases they are hesitant to assert clearly what they want in social situations. “It’s something that women are taught not to do because we want people to like us,” Daum says.
 
For Daum, this fear of advocating for oneself, coupled with the fact that sexual interactions on campus often involve alcohol, creates blurred lines of communication even in consensual relationships. “As a result, that hides or camouflages the behavior of genuinely predatory people,” she says.
 
Daum’s critique evokes a broader discussion about the connection between sexual assault and male-dominated social spaces.
 
Referencing sociological research, Canner says, “There’s a direct correlation between competitive all-male institutions—sports teams, frats, that kind of thing—and sexual assault.” In the course of making her film, Canner spent a semester documenting a course at Dartmouth examining campus norms surrounding sexual violence. 
 
“Men in those kinds of organizations are more likely to engage in these kinds of behaviors,” Canner claims. “That’s because these kinds of institutions support a certain kind of misogynistic behavior.”
 
These dynamics, says Canner, are apparent in social spaces on campus. “Looking at the spaces where social life is taking place, where the party is taking place,” she says. “How does space play into it, or control of social space? Are we getting free alcohol? What’s the unspoken economic agreement when we’re getting free alcohol and party spaces?”
 
Whether fair or not, at Harvard, the discussion about male-dominated party spaces tends to focus on men’s final clubs, unrecognized social groups with off-campus real estate known for hosting parties.
 
“My attack happened in a final club,” writes Paola, the student who was sexually assaulted by an acquaintance whom she describes as “just disgustingly drunk” at the time. “I spoke to friends and I found out he had attacked or been a little too forward with other women as well.”
 
Jack J. Holuba ’13, a final club member and a member of Harvard Men Against Rape, acknowledges the potential dangers—and the resulting necessity for intervention—of male-dominated party spaces.
 
“Most assaults are hetero, male with female, usually in a male-dominated space, frats, whatever it may be,” Holuba says. “So it is important to keep everyone, I don’t want to say on their toes, but just aware of what’s important in our social space.” 
 
Prevention groups on campus are attempting to address the safety risks that can result from these kinds of atmospheres. On an invitation basis, OSAPR conducts trainings with social groups—both recognized and unrecognized, including fraternities and final clubs—regarding sexual assault prevention.
 
To Khosravi and other men at HMAR, the mission of male-targeted prevention is to reach out to those men who are not perpetrators, but who may be complacent. 
 
“19 out of 20 men will never commit an assault,” he says. “It’s only five percent of men who are doing these things. The vast majority of men are not. For those of us who are not, it’s not enough to say we’re not doing anything.”
 
Kevin Murt ’14, a fellow HMAR member, agreed. “Silence is not appropriate,” he says. “A community that is silent is allowing or enabling something as awful as this to persist.” 
 
Dela Pena emphasizes the necessity of cultural change, pointing out the pitfalls of a student approach that just focuses on policy. “I know that there are people on this campus who are hungry for cultural change, a cultural shift in the way we talk about sexual assault,” she says. “And cultural change happens through so many different layers. Just changing the policy—that’s not going to bring about cultural change. That needs to come from the ground up.”
 
But many critics say cultural change is not enough to create a safe campus.
 
Moving Forward
 
Throughout the Ad Board process, Julie says she felt intimidated by the Board’s staunch confidentiality policy.
 
These confidentiality rules, stated on the Ad Board’s website, require students “to refrain from discussing the case or any of its details with anyone other than those who have a need to know.” In addition, the rules state that “all confidentiality obligations remain in full force even after the conclusion of any case.”
 
For Julie, who felt that the policy had not been made clear to her, confidentiality restrictions led to a feeling of isolation. “I didn’t know what to tell my friends, I didn’t know what to tell anybody,” she says. “So one of the things they could do is make it even clearer—what does it mean, somebody who ‘needs to know’?” 
 
“If I say the wrong thing, someone could discipline me for that,” she says. “That doesn’t seem right.” She continued, “I felt very trapped during the whole Ad Board process.”
 
Even after the case, Julie says, the verdict left her feeling threatened. “What I was concerned about, what I wanted, was to have him not be here,” Julie says about her aims in the Ad Board case. “I just wanted to feel safe.”
 
Victims of sexual assault must adjust their own schedules or change their housing if the perpetrator is allowed to remain on campus, and not the other way around, she says—one of the many reasons why she believes that Harvard should be more willing to punish students accused of sexual assault.
 
“If they’re not kicked out, they’re given the same rights as you,” Julie says. “And that was really shocking.”
 
According to Diane L. Rosenfeld, a lecturer at Harvard Law School, the implications of policies like these extend beyond the rulebook and into students’ daily lives.
 
“If women on campus know that a rape survivor has been silenced somehow by the administration or by the school or by just not having a process that has given her any kind of relief, then it’s entirely possible that they are not enjoying equal access to educational opportunities because they know that they too could be victimized with no recourse as well,” Rosenfeld says.
 
For Paola, cultural change among the student body does not necessarily equal institutional support.
 
In light of recent attention surrounding the issue of sexual assault, Paola writes, “Students are talking about it more and being increasingly sensitive about the subject. People are realizing that it happens a lot on campus and they are fighting more visibly to end our rape culture. They are more open to conversations on the matter and are not afraid to stand up for other students who have suffered abuse. I feel in a more supportive atmosphere now than I did my freshman year.”
 
In contrast, she writes that she believes the administration “is still a bit more antiquated and hostile.”
 
Even as students advocate for what is, to many, much-needed culture shift, frustrations remain for those who have already been the victim of a sexual assault.
 
The worst frustration among these, according to Julie, is the knowledge that she is not the only person on campus to have an experience of this kind. “What hurts me the most is to find out that there are so many cases like mine here.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: March 7, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the class year of Jack J. Holuba ’13.
Sections
You’ve heard it before: Student enrolls at Harvard, student develops business idea, student drops out.
But the story runs differently for Sujay Tyle and Connor Zwick, formerly of the classes of 2013 and 2015, respectively. Unlike their predecessors, they were given $100,000 and some of the best connections in the business world when they left Harvard. Each applied for a Thiel Fellowship and was among the fewer than five percent of applicants accepted.
In 2011 and 2012, Tyle and Zwick packed their bags and joined the ranks of the 20 individuals under the age of 20 selected annually by billionaire Peter A. Thiel, founder and CEO of PayPal and first external investor of Facebook. They launched their careers as entrepreneurs—with Thiel’s help, of course.
Along with co-founder James O’Neill, Thiel developed the fellowship to encourage young entrepreneurs to consider routes that are alternative to traditional forms of higher education. “What we want to suggest,” Thiel explained in a 2011 interview with the National Review, “is that there are some very smart and very talented people who don’t need college.”
But Tyle and Zwick’s diverse experiences suggest that a college education may not be dispensible, even for a Thiel fellow.
Sujay Tyle:
Tyle describes his experience with the Thiel Fellowship as “kind of cool and crazy and wild.” Although few of his classmates were aware of his true age, Tyle started as a freshman at Harvard when he was 15 years old. By the time he dropped out as a junior, he had found a blocking group of close friends, gained membership into the Owl Club—and engaged in six years of groundbreaking biofuel research.
When he first left Harvard for the fellowship, Tyle was eager to gain real-world experience at Scopely, a Silicon Valley mobile gaming startup. He discovered that, for the first time in his life, he wasn’t always the youngest person in the room, and that his status as a dropout was immaterial to his co-workers.
Yet as Tyle searched for engineers for Scopely, he realized the recruiting process needed to change. After finding like-minded entrepreneurs at a conference in Ireland, Tyle left Scopely to start a business designed to fix the problems he encountered, looking to “revolutionize the world of… technical recruiting.”
The fellowship provides him with an incredible support system that allows Tyle to be in constant communication with Thiel. “We’re on a texting relationship,” Tyle explains.
His connections as a fellow don’t stop there: “On Monday, we all went to Peter’s house and met a bunch of Facebook executives and, you know, the co-founders of the biggest companies in the world,” Tyle says, describing a typical retreat Thiel holds monthly for his fellows; he goes on to detail a past trip to Hawaii and a future trip planned for Tahoe.
Although Tyle was named one of Forbes’ “30 Under 30” innovators for games and apps this past December, he hasn’t forgotten his Crimson roots. He is quick to credit the school for much of his success, stressing the importance of his Harvard education.
“I would never have been able to do anything that I’m doing right now without having gone to Harvard for two and a half years,” Tyle says. For him, the Thiel Fellowship meant exploring opportunities outside of Cambridge, and “not allowing education to stifle entrepreneurship.”
Connor Zwick:
When Zwick  left Harvard last year with Colton Gyulay, who was also in the class of 2015, to design a handheld mobile gaming device called the Coco Controller, he had been contemplating studying Romance Languages.
He had already studied electrical engineering and computer science independently, and was looking to focus on less-technical learning. “I wasn’t going to school for vocational skills,” Zwick says. “I was going to school for more being a well-rounded person.”
Despite leaving the University, his efforts to receive a broad education haven’t changed. Zwick feels like he is better able to study and learn without Harvard’s structured curriculum.
“I would say that I probably learn more now than I did at school,” he explains. Zwick feels that he is receiving a comparable education to many students at Harvard, only on his own terms. “It’s like a parallel experience.”
Zwick approached the fellowship with the laid-back attitude he seems to apply to all aspects of his life. He saw Thiel’s offer as a different path to travel down, and considering Harvard’s leniency about time off as a safety net, felt there was no reason not to seize the opportunity. He recalls that when he accepted the fellowship he thought only of the possibilities it offered rather than what he might miss.
Like Tyle, he makes sure to mention the role Harvard played in his success, noting the resources offered to students at the Innovation Lab and the community support he received. “Harvard was a phenomenal experience for me,” Zwick assures.
Both Tyle and Zwick stress that Harvard provided them with foundational experiences that certainly contributed to their success thus far. “ I actually think that this Fellowship is not anything to do with anti-education at all,” Tyle says. “[It] gives students the opportunity to pursue ideas while still having the chance to finish college.” Although Tyle and Zwich are uncertain about their plans for the future, neither has ruled out returning to Harvard—if the opportunity arises.
Sections
Long before edX began offering Harvard courses online, the Harvard Extension School has provided open-enrollment courses to those seeking an education outside of the typical undergraduate timeframe. The Extension School, which was founded in 1910, opens up the University’s ivy-covered gates to everyone—from professionals, to retirees, to Harvard’s very own employees. Extension School students can take advantage of many courses taught at the College by the same professors, who have found that the range of personal experiences and the more practical goals of these students create a different, but no less stimulating, classroom environment.
While the majority of the 13,000 students enrolled at the Extension School takes courses purely out of intellectual interest, others are enrolled in associate, undergraduate, and master’s degree programs in order to advance in their fields or shift careers. In 2011, 588 students were enrolled in undergraduate degree programs and 1,210 were enrolled in graduate degree programs at the Extension School. To receive a Bachelor in Liberal Arts degree, comparable to a Bachelor of Arts from the College, a student must complete approximately 32 courses, with each class ranging in price from $995 to $1,950.
“Extension school students are paying cash out of pocket to come to class, and so missing a class is actually a big deal for them,” says Daniel G. Donoghue, an English professor who has taught at the Extension School since 1987. “If I should cancel a class for Harvard College students, they’d consider that a holiday,” he says, with a knowing smile.
Perhaps as a result of the visible price tag of each course, many Extension School students are quite dedicated to attending every class. “It’s not just a matter of rolling out of bed in the morning when it’s snowing and raining,” says Jennifer L. Hochschild, a government professor. “I’ve had students fly in from the West Coast, Virginia, Portland, Washington, New York,” she says.
Many of these students have a pragmatic approach to education, perhaps born of the lengths they go to pursue their studies. Hochschild said that her students’ interests in the practical have challenged her to justify her curricula. “Sometimes they need more persuasion that what I’m asking them to read and think about is worth their while. They’ll say quite explicitly, ‘I don’t see why you’ve asked us to read this; what’s the point?’” Hochschild says. “That’s a little startling when someone says that in the classroom. Undergrads don’t usually say that so explicitly—they may think it, but they don’t say it.”
Professors notice another difference in the ways in which Extension School and College students approach their classwork. “[HES students’] life experiences prepare them for reality,” says David C. Bell, who teaches nanotechnology and microfluidics courses at the Extension School. “Harvard College students are very good, but they haven’t had a job; they’ve been in university all the time, and they don’t know how industry works necessarily.”
These differing life experiences challenge professors to accommodate the diverse backgrounds of their students. Cheryl D. Vaughan, Assistant Director of Science Instruction at the Division of Continuing Education, compares her experience teaching Extension School students to teaching the parents of undergraduates. She points out that while many Extension School students have a wealth of experience in their respective fields, others may have gaps in their learning: It may have been decades since they’ve stepped into a science laboratory, for example.
“The challenge of teaching the Extension school population is greater because you don’t know right away what the gaps are and what their experience is,” Vaughan says. “You have to come to the classroom respecting the experience they have.”
While the differences in backgrounds and skills may pose a challenge for instructors, they can enhance the classroom experience for students. “We can end up in a situation where somebody doesn’t know how to do ‘x,’ but someone else in the lab does and can do it better than anyone,” Bell says.
Extension School students frequently bring their life experiences into the classroom and relate them to the discussion at hand. “They are more inclined to use their own careers and life trajectories and they bring those things to bear on the readings more directly,” says Hochschild.
She has had students who have years of experience in political campaigns or who have run for office. “They’ll read an article about a politician’s incentives or the processes of engaging in a political campaign and they’ll say ‘No, I ran for office, and that wasn’t the way I did it.’ Or, ‘In the campaign I was running, that isn’t how it works,’” Hochschild adds.
Donoghue teaches a seminar on Seamus Heaney and “Beowulf” and recalls moments when the broader life experiences of his Extension School students illuminated parts of the epic. “There are a lot of poignant, elegiac moments in ‘Beowulf’ concerning grief, loss, and the passage of civilization and it was a very emotional thing to read these passages,” he says. “It brought us out of the immediate moment of the teaching of that class and made us realize some hard truths in the world.”
By allowing anyone to register for classes and investigate their intellectual pursuits, the Extension School has established itself as a highly democratic institution. “In a way, it’s Harvard’s public face to many people in the Boston area: This is the portal through which they can go and obtain some of the benefits that Harvard has to give,” Donaghue says.
Vaughan, too, points to how the Extension School has unique effects on its students. While she says she loves teaching College students, she knows that “they’re going to be fine” with or without her. “I have a whole packet of thank you notes from adults who are on their way to a better job or to a PhD program,” Vaughan says, pausing for a moment. “It feels like changing lives.”
Sections
Although Allston Village may seem like a strip of stores to pass by on your way to Target, this square is worth a second look. Filled with coffee shops hardly big enough to contain the concentration of ombre-dyed twentysomethings, Allston is a mashup of food you haven’t tried yet and bands you’ve never heard of. This neighborhood is like an I-Spy game—there’s always a vintage guitar or Afghani kebab just around the corner. Next time you leave the bubble, be sure to check out these places:
 We all Scream for Dairy-Free Ice Cream
FoMu
 This shop serves up sweet frozen treats with a twist—their ice cream is entirely dairy-free. Instead it’s made with coconut milk and sweetened with agave and cane sugar. Want something a little more conventional? The Samoa and Thin Mint flavors are deliciously accurate takes on your favorite Girl Scout Cookies. If you’re a bit more adventurous, try the Avocado or Pistachio Cardamom flavors, and don’t forget to top your ice cream off with some Agave Gummy Bears.
481 Cambridge St, Allston. Sunday-Thursday, 11a.m.-11p.m., and Friday-Saturday, 11a.m.-12a.m.
Hipster Hideaway
Refuge Cafe
The Refuge Cafe endorses a hipster version of the universe: in the replication of the “Creation of Adam” from the Sistine Chapel painted on the ceiling, there is a cup of coffee in God’s outstretched hand. The barista shares this worldview, preparing Raspberry Hott (yes, 2 ‘t’s) Chocolate while chatting with a customer about meeting up at a show later that night. The café serves coffee and espresso drinks, as well as sandwiches (try the “Allstoned Sunrise”), and that graduate student favorite: PBR on tap.
155 Brighton Ave, Monday–Thursday, 7 a.m.–8 p.m., Friday–Saturday, 7 a.m.–11 p.m., and Sunday, 7 a.m.–5 p.m.
Poppin’ Some Tags
Buffalo Exchange
A fan of Macklemore? Tired of the Garment District? Only got $20 in your pocket? Then try out this well-stocked thrift shop on Harvard Avenue. Pretend to recognize the bands whose album art decorates the walls while you hunt through selections ranging from hand-me-down numbers from Forever 21 tops and floral 70s nightgowns. Buffalo Exchange is the perfect place to find that $20 BCBG dress you’ve been looking for—or that $15 pair of 50s roller skates.
180 Harvard Avenue,  Mon-Thurs 11a.m.-7p.m., Fri-Sat 11a.m.-8p.m., Sun 12p.m.-6p.m.
Just Obscure Enough
Cheap Chic
A go-to shop for all your must-have items: that handy compilation of Polka records, a much-needed cabinet full of cutlery, and the essential complete Twilight series. This pastiche of a place, stuffed with relics from the distant (VCR players!) and not-so-distant (DVDs!) past is cluttered with things just random enough to make you seem cool without trying too hard. Don a $44 leather jacket and take a stroll down memory lane—at least to the early 2000s.
116 Harvard Ave, Mon-Sat 11a.m.-8p.m.
Moon Cakes and Snow Cookies
Yi Soon Bakery
A tiny, family-owned Chinese pastry shop, Yi Soon Bakery is indeed—like its “bomb raisin cake” indicates—pretty delicious. The old couple who owns the store is as sweet as the items that stock the shelves. With pastries in traditional Chinese flavors like Taro and Green Tea, as well as mundane vanilla and chocolate, there is something for everyone. Feeling aggressive? Try the “Chocolate Tiger Skin Roll” ($2), a fierce, spiral pastry with a striped pattern of rich chocolate cake and crème filling.
112 Brighton Ave, All Week 7a.m.-10p.m.
Now that you’ve drank the vegan Kool Aid, don your vintage roller skates and newfound attitude and stick around after dark to see all that Rock City has to offer.  For the 21+ crowd, Allston-Brighton is home to a serious underground indie-punk scene complete with great bars and performance venues. Hit up the Great Scott, Brighton Music Hall, Patrón’s or nearby Paradise Rock Club to satisfy your alternative appetite—that is, if the dairy-free ice cream didn’t do the trick.
Sections
FM sat down with Professor James H. Waldo, Gordon McKay Professor of the Practice of Computer Science, Chief Technology Officer, and Professor of Computer Science 105: Privacy and Technology, to discuss the privacy issues surrounding Google Glass, a soon-to-be-released device. Worn like a pair of glasses, follows voice commands to take photos, record videos, search for information, and share all of it across the Internet.
FM: How do you think Google Glass will affect and change privacy laws in the future?
JHW: It’s hard to say, because it’s not clear what the capabilities of the Google Glasses are going to be. In some sense they’re not going to be different from what we’ve already got—you already carry a camera and a recorder with you all the time. But what is going to be different is that if these things become ubiquitous or even fairly common, it’s going to be hard to tell when you’re being photographed or when you’re being recorded. We already have laws that protect you from being recorded, but the law almost always lags behind technology, by a considerable amount…. It could be the sort of thing where in certain situations, everyone is asked to take their glasses off. Maybe it means we’re just more careful about what we say in all situations, knowing that by default, unless you’re in a room with someone you know and trust, anything you say is essentially public.
Sections
Part of a series of ongoing coverage on Venezuela following the death of President Hugo Chávez.
On March 5, the day the Bolivarian Government of Venezuela announced the death of its president, Hugo Rafael Chávez Frías, the sky over the city of Mérida darkened into an uncharacteristic gray. The Andean sun, shining in the clear morning blue as it had been for the past three weeks, passed behind the clouds in the early afternoon and remained there through 5 p.m., when Vice President Nicolás Maduro made the announcement, choking back tears. At the institute for my study abroad program, we were told instantly to go home for fear of looting, riots, and problems with Americans. I decided to take a long route home through the city.
Mérida is the capital of one of just two states that voted against Chávez in the October elections. It is known as a center of the opposition, and the tension in the streets was palpable. Two women ran down a sidewalk screaming, “He's dead! He's dead!”
 
“At last!” shouted a man driving by on his motorcycle, his shirt removed. “At last, we’re free!” 
Others, gathered in groups, exchanged words about the government's deception: how Chávez had likely been dead for some time and the vice president had only decided to make it official for strategic reasons. They made repeated references to Cuba and Fidel Castro.
 
On the bus I caught to the city center, the Venezuelan national anthem abruptly interrupted blasting reggaeton music. In the seat across from me, a young woman fought back tears with the comfort of her boyfriend; behind me, two teenagers snickered. Suddenly, at a red light near the military battalion, a guard rushed over and handed our bus driver a folded piece of white paper, an order that we couldn't continue. While a line formed for people to pay their fare, about half the bus slipped out the back door. 
 
We were not told the reason for that order, but it became clear as I walked with the crowd towards the city center.  
Though it was just 20 minutes after Maduro's announcement, all schools and businesses had already closed down. Their owners dangled their keys as they walked away from their bar-enclosed storefronts in the opposite direction, joined by mothers tightly grasping their children.
I had seen few police cars during my previous seven weeks in Mérida, but at least 10 now passed through the streets along with many motorcycles, some of them speeding through on the wrong side of the street. They all converged at the Plaza Bolívar, the heart of the city and the location of many chavista rallies in the spirit of the plaza's namesake. The most recent one, held 15 days before, had celebrated the president’s return from Cuba.
Now, freshly-decorated murals hung by the grass, and along the sidewalk stretched a white piece of paper on which citizens had written personal messages to the fallen president. Some wished him peace and happiness, declaring that he would remain, with reference to his election campaign, the heart of the Venezuelan people; others professed their everlasting love. One person from the nearby city of El Vigía left a message consisting, mysteriously, only of a phone number.
A stage had been erected in front of the city’s government building where six people spoke fervently to the somber crowd of about 500, clad in red. They led several popular chants emphasizing their identification with their leader (“todos somos Chávez”; “we are all Chávez”) and his continued presence, which would now remain in spirit (“¡uh! ¡ah! ¡Chávez no se va!”; “Chávez won't go!”). Then, in an appeal to overcome the tragedy, they called upon the collective unity that Chavez had fostered among the people. Behind them stood a line of police officers and paramedics, waiting at attention beside an ambulance.
The leading speakers now shifted their rhetoric to “The Empire” of the “yanquis” (or yankees), rousing loud cheers. Considering my appearance and accent, I decided to head back home.
 
It was an hour after Maduro's announcement, and the sky was fading to a mix of blues, greys, and black. Flashing police sirens illuminated the streets, which were now gridlocked with traffic.
 
As an observer, I felt a distinct distance from the varied emotions of the passing citizens, their reactions of fear, relief, elation, grief, and indifference. But on another level I sensed a human connection: without having taken a set position on the events, my reaction tended to include a mix of all the others. 
 
I felt the profound relief of the majority of merideños that 84 days of uncertainty had finally ended. I felt the deep sadness of the chavistas of losing a man who, to many, had advocated for and awakened the poorer classes as never before. And I felt the non-partisan detachment of those who believed that this country is defined by more than its extremist politics. Beyond the death of Hugo Chávez and the barrage of historical and political questions he left behind, there remained the complexity of Venezuela and its people.
 
When I got back home, the streets were empty; only dim streetlamps and houses in the distant mountains provided light. Mérida, a city typically filled at night by fireworks, music, and cars, settled into silence.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
HarvardX, a branch of Harvard and MIT’s joint virtual learning venture edX, will be a priority for Harvard’s upcoming capital campaign, University President Drew G. Faust told The Crimson on Wednesday.
“We feel that we have the privilege of undertaking this campaign at a time when there are some extremely important things happening in higher education,” Faust said, in reference to the growing significance of online learning at academic institutions.
Launched last May with $30 million apiece from Harvard and MIT, edX allows anyone in the world to enroll in select courses offered by faculty at some of the world’s most prestigious universities at no cost. The platform has since expanded to include 12 colleges and universities from three continents.
Faust said that in addition to traditional priorities, Harvard’s capital campaign—now in its quiet phase but scheduled to go live this fall—will also seek to target more cutting-edge trends in teaching and learning.
“It’s not just a matter of strengthening our pillars of existence like financial aid and faculty, which we certainly will have as priorities in the campaign, but there are new things happening in the world of higher education, and the digital environment is one,” Faust said.
At a virtual education conference on Monday, edX President and MIT professor Anant Agarwal said that the organization would seek additional sources of revenue in order to remain non-profit without burdening its institutional partners.
At the conference, Harvard Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 said that in addition to the original $30 million investment, the University incurs costs for each new course that it offers on the edX platform.
In the long term, he said, “our intent [is] that this is a self-sustaining activity that does not depend on ongoing philanthropic support.”
For now, however, the University is soliciting contributions for edX as part of the capital campaign, and Faust said that some donors are excited about helping fund the online platform.
“They see it as transformational,” Faust said. “They’ve looked at what the digital revolution has done for other sectors of the economy, other industries, and they think we have a chance to have a real impact here with edX.”
—Staff writer Nikita Kansra can be reached at nikitakansra@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @NikitaKansra.
—Staff writer Samuel Y. Weinstock can be reached at sweinstock@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @syweinstock.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Wind power and wind farms may not be capable of producing as much energy as previously believed, according to a paper co-authored by Harvard scientist David W. Keith.
Keith, a professor at the John F. Kennedy School of Government and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, co-published the paper on Feb. 25 in the online scientific journal Environmental Research Letters with Amanda S. Adams, an assistant professor at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte.
Their study examined the long-range effects of one wind farm on another. The spacing between turbines is critical to each of their individual functioning, because a turbine placed directly behind another turbine cannot spin at full capacity and is therefore less efficient and able to put out less energy. This phenomenon is caused by the fact that in order to operate and move its blades, a wind turbine takes mechanical energy out of the wind passing through it. As a result, the speed of wind that has already passed through another turbine is lower when it hits the next in a series of the devices.
Therefore, when a wind farm becomes large enough, according to the study, it can have a larger impact on the energy-producing capacity of surrounding wind farms. Due to these diminishing returns, Keith said future efforts to scale up the amount of wind power produced on earth will result in each new wind farm producing less power relative to its land area than previously expected.
Keith said that past investigations into the impact of one turbine on another did not take into account large-scale decreases in wind speeds that arise from entire wind farms essentially removing energy from the wind.
“The old-style idea was that you just add it up,” Keith said. “You calculated the wind at the turbines around the world, and you added up all those things as if they work independently.”
But even with diminishing power output, covering vast areas of land with turbines could potentially provide for power demands in the U.S., Keith said. However, Keith warned, the large number of turbines could come with other costs and consequences.
Keith explained that although an individual wind turbine may be efficient, turbines in large numbers are both expensive to build and relatively inefficient when functioning collectively.
If advances cannot make turbines more cost-efficient, Keith said, a significant increase in the amount of power produced by wind will not be financially sensible.
Beyond monetary concerns, the paper also emphasizes that the implementation of wind power on a large scale can have a significant impact on the local environment. Keith said these effects will become significant and visible “well before” wind power supplies a third of U.S. primary energy
While Keith said he believes wind power is a good alternative to coal or petroleum, expanding wind power to the scale of either energy resource would result in changing temperatures on Earth, which could impact a myriad of issues like crop growth. Land use also becomes a serious issue as wind farms become larger leading to the a need to build access roads to the turbines, Keith said.
Keith said that although he would not totally discourage further research into wind power, he thinks people should put less effort into its development relative to other alternative energies, such as solar and nuclear power, which have more potential to offer a sustainable solution to energy demands.
“We have to think analytically with numbers about what the consequences are of scaling up...and realize there are some [energy sources] we wouldn’t want to scale even if we could,” Keith said.
Keith said he thinks policymakers should take into account existing research when allocating funds for energy development in the future.
“This is a game of moral responsibility and political decision-making,” Keith said. “This is not some kind of passive guess about what happens. We’re part of the guess. We need to make political decisions about what we want to have happen, not guess.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As Harvard School of Public Health professor Myron “Max” Essex begins his day in his office in Boston, his mind is already thousands of miles away. Essex—a renowned immunobiologist and virologist—spends much of his time on conference calls with partners in Botswana, chairing the Harvard-Botswana Partnership for HIV/AIDS research from afar.
Since the onset of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the 1980s, Essex has focused his career on researching the disease. His discovery that HIV is a retrovirus earned him the Lasker Award, one of the most prestigious prizes in the medical field.
Today, Botswana­—a small nation in southern Africa­—is the object of almost all of Essex’s research.
As in many countries in the region, HIV/AIDS remains a dramatic problem in Botswana. But, thanks in part to the Harvard’s collaboration with the government, conditions on the ground have improved in the past decade as the partnership employs methods that combine vaccination, prevention efforts, and treatment.
‘THERE TO HELP’
In 1996, executive director of Harvard’s AIDS Initiative Richard G. Marlink worked with Essex to forge a partnership between Harvard and the Botswanan government using a framework that had been implemented in similar programs in Senegal, Tanzania, the former Zaire, and Nigeria. Since the 1980s the AIDS Initiative—a program dedicated to AIDS research—had operated as an extension of the School of Public Health.
But the situation in Botswana was different than that in the Initiative’s other base countries. The infection rate of the small, sparsely populated country in southern Africa was higher than that of most of its counterparts and showed no signs of leveling off.
Seeing this anomaly led Essex to hypothesize that the strain of AIDS affecting southern Africa, specifically Botswana, was a different type than the typical strain encountered in the United States or other parts of Africa.
The Botswana-Harvard Partnership began to expand rapidly between 2000 and 2001. Today, more than 250 people work in the partnership, most of them Botswanan researchers, technicians, and support staff. The organization is based on the campus of the Princess Marina Hospital, one of the largest hospitals in Botswana.
Describing the spirit and strategy of the endeavor, Marlink explained three stringent rules for employees that have allowed the partnership to operate successfully over the years.
“We want this relationship to be almost familial,” he said. “This is their country, their money, and they will be able to implement solutions to the problem in the most sustainable way possible. We are only there to help.”
REDUCING THE NUMBERS
The Harvard-Botswana Partnership’s research procedure is complex and varied, according to Essex, and is unified only by its reliance on asking questions that have thus far remained unanswered.
“We have done research on pregnant women almost since day one,” Essex said. “Over time we’ve perfected combinations of drugs—free drugs—to give to pregnant women starting at the beginning of the third trimester.”
The success of the strategies developed by Essex and his team have been recognized by international organizations. The World Health Organization adopted guideline recommendations developed by the team to reduce maternal transmission of HIV in developing countries, according to the Harvard AIDS Initiative’s website.
Beyond reducing transmission between mothers and children, the project ultimately aims to cut the number of new infections to the point below the number that would be needed to maintain the epidemic permanently, Essex said.
In the short term, the program hopes to raise awareness about the infection and increase access to the necessary drugs.
“It’s probably reasonable to say that in more developed countries, HIV/AIDS can be treated now as a chronic infection like hypertension and diabetes so that people don’t have to die from it,” Essex said. “But obviously that’s not the case in much of Africa because it’s dependent on having drug options available. Our immediate goal is to try to get everyone onto the cause so that they can live normal lives and not die from their infections.”
Essex predicted that success in this aim would occur in Botswana before other sub-Saharan African nations, largely because of its cooperative and forward-thinking government.
Nonetheless, Essex said that the research is far from complete.
“We’ve not yet done everything we need to do...to make that level of progress [to reduce] sexual infections in adults,” he said. “We didn’t know how to do it until recently, but now we do. We need to start implementing trials to put the strategy into action.”
LOOKING BACK
Both Essex and Marlink emphasized that the Harvard-Botswana Partnership is as much about educational enrichment as it is about researching solutions to the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Botswana. They lauded the project’s ability to provide students with three key firsthand experiences: working in a laboratory setting, living in a developing country, and tackling a problem with significant real world implications.
“We work a lot on education of AIDS experts who live in the country and, of course, some education of Harvard students at all levels,” Essex said. “We have undergraduates who go to Botswana for summers or several months for a semester, doctoral students who go there for a year, and postdoctoral fellows who are there even longer.”
Students involved with the partnership shared positive memories from their time in Botswana.
“It was such a unique experience because Harvard has such a presence there,” said Kelsey H. Natsuhara ’13.
Natsuhara also recalled the motivation of the staff, almost all of whom were Botswanans with a personal connection to the disease because of its consequences on their family and friends.
“I think that working at BHP was one of the most formative experiences I’ve ever had, both from an intellectual standpoint and in terms of personal growth,” said Natsuhara.
“I learned a lot in terms of the science, kind of from a research standpoint, but also about how an epidemic like this can affect so many people and how a country can rally together in the face of such an obstacle.”
Marlink said that the Harvard name and its reputation as a world-class educational institution has augmented the partnership’s success.
“I’ve found in my experience that the farther away you get from Boston, the more people respect and know [Harvard]. That recognition and trust is what helps us create projects like this,” he said. “We ensure the government they can trust us and that we won’t leave their citizens. We are more like a family and we work together.”
—Staff writer Pooja Podugu can be reached at podugu@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @PoojaPodugu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
More than half of student organizations on campus are skewed towards single-gender leadership, according to a recent report on gender in leadership at the College. The report defines skewed leadership boards as those which are at least two-thirds male or two-thirds female.
Commissioned by the Undergraduate Council and the Harvard College Women’s Center, the report served as a follow-up to an internal study conducted in 2007 and revealed that gender ratios among leaders of Harvard student groups have changed little since the first study.
The report, written primarily by former UC vice president Pratyusha Yalamanchi ’13, focuses on examining potential gender gaps in student group leadership, gender parity in organizations considered to be “prestigious,” and undergraduate perceptions of gender and leadership.
This year’s study confirmed that there is largely the same number of female and male leaders running Harvard organizations, similar to the study conducted in 2007.
According to data provided by the Office of Student Life that was used in the report, the number of male-skewed leadership boards outnumbered female-skewed ones nearly 6 to 1. The gender ratio in the executive boards of health and wellness groups is 7 to 1, female to male. In addition, 24.8 percent of all groups on campus were exclusively led by members of one gender.
While Yalamanchi applauded the apparent gender parity, she voiced concern about gender-skewed leadership in different types of organizations.
“I think what’s sort of the main takeaway from the report is that men and women lead in different spaces, and I don’t know if that’s necessarily best for either of those spaces,” Yalamanchi said.
The study also looked at gender parity in the leadership of “prestigious” organizations. In a survey conducted at each of the dining halls in mid-October 2012, over 500 students were asked to list what they each perceived to be the top five most “prestigious” organizations on campus, allowing individual interpretation of the meaning.
The top five groups, in ascending order, were The Crimson, the UC, the Institute of Politics, the Harvard Lampoon, a semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine, and the Hasty Pudding Theatricals.
According to the survey responses, 48 percent of the 29 listed groups are male-skewed in their leadership, many of which are exclusively male organizations.
The report featured information from three undergraduate focus groups on gender and leadership, which showed a marked difference between perceptions of gender by freshmen and upperclassmen.
First-year students in the focus groups felt more strongly than upperclassmen that “societal gender norms play into organization structures.”
“What was very true about the freshmen was that their backgrounds and socioeconomic experiences really defined how they viewed gender at Harvard,” Yalamanchi said.
The 39-page report was submitted to University President Drew G. Faust and Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds, who referred it to the FAS Standing Committee on Women for review.
While the UC and the Women’s Center await further recommendations from the Standing Committee, Women’s Center Director Gina Helfrich hopes that the findings will encourage discussions within the student body but most importantly throughout the more than 400 leadership boards of campus clubs.
“I think this [report] presents a good opportunity for our campus to discuss whether we are comfortable with the current role of gender in leadership,” Helfrich said.
—Staff writer Steven S. Lee can be reached at stevenlee@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @StevenSJLee.
—Staff writer Connie Yan can be reached at connieyan@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on @connieyan16.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s Student Labor Action Movement brought the Allston debate into Harvard Yard Wednesday in a community forum led by a panel of Harvard-Allston Task Force members and community development experts.
Harvard undergraduates, staff, Allston residents, and members of the broader community gathered at the Phillips Brooks House to discuss Harvard’s role and responsibilities in Allston.
No representatives from the Harvard administration attended the event.
To kick off the discussion, which was dubbed “Parks or Parking Lots?”, Task Force member and Allston resident Brent C. Whelan ’73 recounted the history of the relationship between the University and the neighborhood. He stressed what he perceives as the lack of transparency with which Harvard has extended its land holdings in Allston and said that Harvard has placed little emphasis on community benefits in its development plans.
In 2007, Harvard filed an institutional master plan for Allston development, which included designs for the construction of a $1 billion dollar science complex and the redevelopment of the area surrounding the intersection of Western Avenue and North Harvard Street, known as Barry’s Corner. However, the University halted construction in Allston in 2009 because of financial constraints, a decision that sparked outrage among Allston residents.
In 2012, Harvard announced it would be restarting development in Allston and that it would include Allston community members in its new planning process.
But according to Whelan, between 2010 and 2011, when the planning for Harvard’s development in Allston restarted, the wishes of Allston residents were not considered.
“Absolutely no community representation was allowed into that process,” he said.
Harry E. Mattison, another panelist and Task Force member, pointed to the University’s plan to move campus services to 28 Travis St. as an example of Harvard’s lack of commitment to community interests. The relocation has been extensively debated at recent Task Force meetings. Mattison said that Harvard had promised to place a three-acre park where Barry’s Corner meets the residential community, but that the University is now reneging on that promise.
“You can imagine our dismay to see the Travis Street project be the first project Harvard will complete,” he said.
Panelist Pallavi K. Mande, director of the Charles River Watershed Association’s Blue Cities program, said that Harvard has a responsibility to develop its property in a sustainable way. Mande, whose Blue Cities work includes the design and implementation of green infrastructure projects, described the negative environmental effects of covering large plots of land in asphalt. She said that the Watershed Association has recommended that Harvard replace some asphalt lots with parks.
“[Harvard does] claim to be a university that believes in environmental sustainability,” she said. “It’s just a matter of making sure that the community’s interests are part of these goals.”
Alex L. Chen ’16, a member of SLAM and one of the organizers of the event, said that Mattison approached SLAM in February about creating an opportunity for College and Allston community members to come together. While SLAM focuses primarily on labor issues at Harvard, Chen said the group was happy to coordinate with Mattison.
“It’s just important to be engaged with how the University is interacting with the community,” Chen said.
­—Staff writer Marco J. Barber Grossi can be reached at mbarbergrossi@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @marco_jbg.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority plans to replace a portion of the Red Line train service with buses from Kendall to Park Station for 25 weekends, starting this summer and continuing to the fall of 2016.
The Red Line will not be able to continue as scheduled because Longfellow Bridge, which connects Cambridge and Boston, will be undergoing construction.
The Longfellow Bridge Rehabilitation Project, coordinated by Massachusetts Department of Transportation, will upgrade the bridge’s structural capacity and bring it up to modern safety codes. While improving the conditions of the bridge, the construction could hinder students from traveling to Boston.
“It’ll be pretty inconvenient for college students particularly those at Harvard, MIT, and Tufts who don’t have an alternative way of getting around,” Christopher J. Magnani ’15 said.
Will F. Poff-Webster ’14 echoed Magnani’s concerns, emphasizing that students do not take advantage of the Harvard’s proximity to Boston.
“Harvard students don’t go into Boston often enough,” Poff-Webster said. “The Red Line is an important resource to help students explore Boston. Taking it away would make that far less prevalent.”
The Longfellow Bridge Rehabilitation Project is a part of the Massachusetts Department of Transportation’s Accelerated Bridge Program, in which the state allocated $400 million to improving the conditions of structurally deficient bridges in the Lower Basin area of the Charles River.
The Massachusetts Department of Transportation Board of Directors approved the construction contract for the Longfellow Bridge on Feb. 27. This decision marks the Final Rehabilitation phase of the Longfellow Bridge Rehabilitation Project, following the first Early Action stage, which was completed in January 2012.
In addition to structural improvement, the bridge will be modified to allow the sidewalk approaches to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibilty Guidelines.
According to MBTA Director of Communications Joe Pesaturo, only five of the affected weekends will fall in 2013. Once they are finalized, the dates of the weekends in which part of the Red Line will be replaced with buses will be available on the MBTA website. The Red Line celebrated its hundreth anniversary last year.
—Staff writer Julia K. Dean can be reached at juliadean@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @juliakdean.
—Staff writer Laura K. Reston can be reached at laurareston@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @laurareston.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The resounding punch of the time card machine punctuates the silence as each spectator clocks in to the exhibit. Directly ahead, a model of a chicken sits between a suffragette’s calendar and an authentic gramophone. Bronzed sundials adorn the room’s back display cases.
These objects are part of an ambitious interdisciplinary exploration of one of history’s most ubiquitous themes: time.
The installment, “Time and Time Again,” is a collaboration between the Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments, the History of Science Department, and the Harvard Museums of Science and Culture. The exhibit features a broad array of time-related objects ranging from primitive Bedouin calendars to Japanese timekeeping devices.
The exhibit is one of the first efforts by the Museums of Science and Culture to establish Harvard’s museums as part of an integrated network.
“By bringing together Harvard’s museums in this one consortium, we could make it so much greater than the sum of its parts,” said Jane Pickering, executive director of Museums of Science and Culture.
Nearly a year ago, Sara J. Schechner ’79, curator of the Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments, began brainstorming ways to utilize Harvard’s extensive collection of sundials and pocket-size clocks.
With the help of a team including CHSI committee leader Peter L. Galison ’77 and CHSI director of administration Jean-Francois Gauvin, Schechner amassed a collection from the Museums of Science and Culture and beyond.
“This is a place where we can do experimental, interdisciplinary exhibits,” said Galison, who is also a professor of physics and of history of science. “It’s is a way for people to think of tangible objects as openings for bigger intellectual questions.”
The exhibit will feature a series of events and host several science and music classes over the course of its nine-month run in the Science Center’s second-floor gallery. Programming will begin on Saturday with a family festival on stories through time.
“There’s a sort of playfulness to get people to think about the topic of time in ways they might not otherwise,” Schechner said.
The installment also features its own smartphone app, “Time Trails,” intended to help unify the six outposts of the Museums of Science and Culture.
As part of the initiative, a series of labels are scattered throughout the other museums in the consortium.
Museumgoers can then scan the labels with their smartphones to trace the theme of time among Harvard’s various exhibits.
“This is all part of our attempts to explore things in very open-ended ways,” said Galison.
—Staff writer Jessica A. Barzilay can be reached at jessicabarzilay@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @jessicabarzilay.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a finding that that could improve the effectiveness of treatments, Harvard Medical School researchers have found that certain genes are associated with five psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia and autism.
“We have found evidence of genetic links between these disorders, which points us in a new direction in understanding the biology behind mental disorders,” said Medical School professor Jordan W. Smoller ’83, the study’s lead author.
Most treatments used today are based on limited knowledge of the biology behind psychiatric disorders, Smoller said.
“Currently it’s classified by symptoms and not causes,” Smoller said. “This study may allow us to approach mental illness in a different way and ultimately classify and diagnose based on underlying cause rather than simply symptom profile.”
Smoller added that this may allow doctors to be more effective in diagnosis and treatment.
The study was conducted by Harvard Medical School professor of psychiatry Jordan W. Smoller ’83 and researchers from the Cross-Disorder Group of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium.
According to Smoller, the study is the largest of its kind across multiple psychiatric disorders. The research involved scientists from 19 countries collaborating and sharing data.
“It’s an incredibly important study because it validates what we have had an intuition about for a long time,” said Joshua W. Buckholtz, assistant professor of psychology at Harvard. Buckholtz said the study confirmed the idea that there is no one-to-one mapping between genes and genetic variants and discrete psychiatric disorders as defined by the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.
Alisha R. Pollastri, a research fellow in the Smoller Laboratory, cautioned that while the results are important, they only explain a small amount of an individual’s susceptibility to the disorders.
“It is one small step to understanding a bigger picture,” Pollastri wrote in an email.
She added that the study’s finding paves the way for additional exploration of the role of calcium channels in the five psychiatric disorders identified to share the same genetic basis.
According to Pollastri, exploration of calcium channels may contribute to a better understanding of treatment options.
“No single study is going to provide a cure or answer overnight,” Buckholtz said. “What this study does is focus research efforts on aspects of treatment that are broadly applicable to multiple disorders that affect people.”
—Staff writer C.C. Gong can be reached at xigong@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If extraterrestrial life exists near dying stars, there may be a way to detect it within the next decade, according to a new theoretical study co-authored by Harvard astronomy professor Abraham “Avi” Loeb.
The study, which was also authored by Tel Aviv University professor Dan Maoz, developed a method for identifying oxygen in the atmospheres of Earth-like planets orbiting the class of cooling stars known as “white dwarfs.”
While many previous studies have proposed methods to investigate the possibility of life on the planets of stars in the middle of their lifetimes, like our sun, Loeb said that none of these proposals were “practical in the immediate future.”
In contrast, Loeb’s proposal uses NASA’s James Webb Space Telescope, which is slated to launch in 2018.
Within just five hours, the telescope would be able to detect whether the atmospheres of planets surrounding white dwarfs contain oxygen using infrared analysis.
Harvard astronomy professor Jonathan “Josh” E. Grindlay said that although this study offers “a very reasonable approach,” it is “very unlikely” that this particular method will yield the discovery of extraterrestrial life.
In their study, Loeb and Maoz estimated that the examination of 500 white dwarfs will yield at least one terrestrial planet with the potential for life.
Because white dwarfs and the Earth are comparable in size, a planet of the Earth’s volume would block the white dwarf’s light once in every orbit. Due to this pattern, only a “relatively modest effort” would be required for astronomers to detect white dwarfs with planets, Loeb said.
But due to the relative dimness of white dwarfs, it is unlikely that 500 will be quickly detected, Grindlay said.
No white dwarf planets have been discovered yet. These planets must be detected before Loeb and Maoz’s method can be applied.
Loeb said that he is “100 percent sure” that the telescope will be available for the project after white dwarf planets are identified.
“The question of whether there is life outside the earth is perhaps the most exciting question that astronomers can answer,” Loeb said. “If we find a positive answer to this question, it would have major implications for not just science, but philosophy, religion, everything. It would change our conception of our place in the universe.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
2012-13 marked yet another disappointing regular season for the Harvard men’s hockey program, which finished dead last in the ECAC for the first time in team history.
But thanks to a provision that grants a conference tournament birth to every squad in the league, that fact does not really matter much at all.
The Crimson (9-17-3, 6-14-2 ECAC) is in the postseason, where it has the chance to return to its first NCAA Tournament since 2006 if it can get hot at the right time.
That journey begins this weekend, when Harvard travels to Thompson Arena to take on fifth-seeded Dartmouth (13-11-5, 9-9-4) in the first round of the ECAC playoffs.
“We’re obviously really excited,” senior forward Alex Fallstrom said. “I think it should be a good matchup.”
The Crimson’s Ivy League rival, ranked No. 18 in the final regular season USCHO poll, enters the contest with just three wins in its previous 12 games. But it went undefeated in the season series against Harvard, registering a 3-2 victory in Hanover on Jan. 12 and tying the Crimson, 1-1, at the Bright Hockey Center on Feb. 10.
Fallstrom, though, said that Harvard—which knocked off No. 1 Quinnipiac last Friday night—is not currently the same team the Big Green had previously faced.
“When we lost against them at their place I felt like it was at that point in the season where we really weren’t playing our best,” Fallstrom said. “Then we played them at home, and I felt like we were still at a point where we were [just] gaining our momentum. They haven’t seen us the way we are now. They haven’t seen us full throttle, so to say.”
The Big Green ranked in the middle of the conference in most offensive categories this season, though defensively its penalty-kill rate of 89.2 percent was second-best in the ECAC and fourth-best in the country. That could spell trouble for Harvard, whose 11.7 percent conversion rate on power plays was second-worst nationally.
Dartmouth also does not make many mistakes, as it registered the ninth-fewest penalty minutes per game in the country this year.
Forwards Tyler Sikura and Eric Robinson tied for the team lead with 10 goals, while Sikura’s 28 points paced the squad.
“Dartmouth is a team that looks a lot like us player-wise,” junior goaltender Raphael Girard said. “It’s more of a skilled team that looks to make plays around the net, rather than going to hit a lot of people and put a lot of traffic on net. It’s [a] good [matchup] for us.”
Junior Cab Morris (8-6-3) and freshman Charles Grant (5-5-2) have split time in goal, with the pair posing nearly equivalent save percentages. Morris made 22 and 21 saves in the teams’ first two meetings, respectively, but Grant has seen most of the action of late.
At the other end will be Girard, who struggled for most of the season, allowing 2.98 goals per game. But the team hopes he can replicate his breakout playoff performance from a year ago, when a dominant run sparked the team to the ECAC Championship Game.
“[Last season’s playoffs] gave me good confidence,” Girard said. “I know I can be a big difference maker in this series—as much as I was last year, or even better.”
Offensively, Harvard will hope that either its trio of seniors—Marshall Everson, Alex Fallstrom, and Danny Biega—or its freshmen threesome of Jimmy Vesey, Kyle Criscuolo, and Brian Hart can step up.
“[We have to] get the puck down low behind their defense and then just keep generating pressure and momentum in their zone,” Fallstrom said. “If we do that, I think we’ll be able to get them to crack defensively.”
Vesey and Everson tied for the team lead with 11 goals this year. The former highlighted a highly-rated group of recruits that largely lived up to expectations, but the latter paced a senior class that failed to perform at the same level it had a year ago.
“We had really high expectations of ourselves, and people had high expectations of us [going into the season],” Girard said. “Recently [people have] seen why they had these expectations. Now we’re really connecting as a team on the ice and as individuals.... [And] we’ve seen in this league that when a team is hot, [it’s] pretty hard to beat.”
Indeed, teams in Harvard’s position have made noise in the tournament before. In 2010, 11th-seeded Brown reached the semis, and two years ago, the 10th-seeded Crimson made the quarterfinals before being eliminated by the Big Green. Girard thus believes the series this weekend could generate a similar run—and some retribution in the process.
“We’re definitely confident about playing Dartmouth,” the goalie said. “I think we can create some surprise in the playoffs.”
—Staff writer Scott A. Sherman can be reached at ssherman13@college.harvard.edu. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After an undefeated dual meet season, the Harvard men’s swimming and diving team looks to secure its place at the top of Ancient Eight swimming with a win at this weekend’s Ivy League Championships.
“The team goal is always to win the Ivies,” sophomore Chuck Katis said. “This is the strongest team we’ve ever had.”
Given the Crimson’s performance this season, the team has earned the right to be confident. The 18th ranked Harvard squad is 9-0 (7-0 Ivy) in dual meets this season and has been dominant in the Ivy League. The Crimson is seeking to take home its 23rd Ivy Championship.
“I’m not going in worried about anybody, I’m excited about my team,” Murphy said.
Harvard’s main competition will come from Princeton who pushed them close in a meet earlier in the season on Feb. 2. The Crimson and the Tigers have taken home the last forty Ivy League championships, splitting them twenty apiece.
Princeton has been more successful of late, winning the last four and six of the last seven titles. However, the superlative Tiger Class of 2012 has graduated and in their wake Harvard has been the team to beat in the Ivy League thus far. Princeton has dropped dual meets against both the Crimson and Columbia this season.
“Of course Princeton is our main rival,” Katis said. “We have a lot of big races against them.”
When they met earlier in the season, Harvard became the first Ivy school to defeat the Tigers in its home pool, prevailing by a score of 200-153.
Despite the loss earlier in the season, the four-time reigning Ivy League champions will certainly be a threat in the water.
“We’re not really worried about anybody,” Murphy said. “We just take care of ourselves.”
A large part of the Crimson’s success this year has been the impressive performances from Katis. At the UGA fall invite on Nov. 30 this season, Katis set Harvard records in the 100m and 200m breaststroke with times of 52.49 and 1:52.08 respectively. Both times set NCAA ‘A’ standards and qualified him for the 2013 NCAA National Championship.
Katis impressed as a freshman, receiving second team All-Ivy honors in several events and added a pair of All-American honorable mentions as a member of the Crimson’s 400 free relay and 800 free relay teams.
He went on to put in three top-50 performances at the 2012 Olympic team trials over the summer. His performance this season has since been formidable, particularly with regard to the two aforementioned Harvard records.
“He has a tremendous work ethic and he just keeps plugging away,” Murphy said. “He’s very consistent, he’s very motivated, and he’s very disciplined so it’s a nice combination.”
While Katis was keen to emphasize the team aspect of the upcoming meet, on an individual note the Ivy League championships may bring back bittersweet memories. He finished second in both the 100 and 200 meter breaststroke races and will be going out this year trying to go one better.
His main competition comes in the form of Nejc Zupan of Dartmouth. The junior will become the first Big Green swimmer to represent Dartmouth at the upcoming NCAA championships since 1980.
When they met earlier in the season, they split their two main events, with Katis taking the 100 breast and Zupan taking the 200 breast. However, Katis appeared to relish his upcoming opponent.
“Dartmouth has a great breaststroker that will be fun to race,” Katis said.
Other Crimson swimmers will also be seeking success in the upcoming days. Diver Michael Mosca broke the one meter and three meter school records this season at Brown and will be hoping that returning to the very same pool will breed similar results.
Junior Oliver Lee earned first team All-Ivy honors last season but has been able to build upon that and improve this year. At the Harvard-Yale-Princeton meet on Feb. 3, he broke the Crimson 50 freestyle record and featured on the 400 freestyle relay and 200 medley relay teams, both of which also broke school records earlier season.
Freshman Christian Carbone goes into the weekend still undefeated in the 200 fly thus far in his collegiate career and will be looking to continue that impressive streak.
This weekend will be Harvard’s chance to overcome its longtime rival Princeton after the Tigers’ recent supremacy.
“We’re ready to go,” Murphy said. “We should be fast. We should be competitive.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Heading into the final weekend of Ancient Eight play, there are exactly five basketball games that matter in the quest for the league title.
And while the Harvard men’s basketball team’s Ivy championship outlook is decidedly bleaker than was the case one short week ago—and an outright title is all but off the table—the Crimson (17-9, 9-3 Ivy) retains a shot at the crown.
Thanks to two Harvard losses last weekend to Princeton and Penn, the Tigers (16-9, 9-2) have jumped into the driver’s seat heading into the final stretch of league play. For the first time this season, Princeton holds a half-game advantage over the Crimson in the standings with three days worth of conference contests remaining.
According to Harvard coach Tommy Amaker, the Crimson’s only focus is on the part of the equation within its control—two games at Lavietes Pavilion this weekend, as Harvard plays host to Columbia (12-14, 4-8) and Cornell (13-16, 5-7) on Friday and Saturday, respectively.
“Certainly, if we want to have an opportunity for things to fall our way, we have to do our job,” Amaker said. “And our job is to see if we can really play well this weekend and win.”
Needless to say, both of the Harvard’s final two games are virtual must-wins if the Crimson hopes to punch a ticket to March Madness, and even then, Princeton could still claim the title.
“A lot is at stake for us in a lot of different ways, but we’re not playing out all of the scenarios and all that,” Amaker said. “We’re at home, our final conference games, senior weekend, seeing if we can finish strong.”
First on the slate is Columbia—the only team in the Ivy League that the Harvard has yet to beat this season. When the teams last met, the Lions upset a heavily favored Crimson squad, 78-63—the biggest margin of victory, win or loss, in all of Harvard’s conference games.
“[Columbia] is a pretty potent offensive team at times, and we saw that first hand,” Amaker said. “Our game against them [on Feb. 10] could have been one of their best games, if not their best game, of the year. They had great balance.”
For Harvard to come out on top Friday night, it will need an increased defensive presence, particularly given the recent 75-point performance of a Quakers squad that has averaged 62.8 points per game this season.
“We had a steady diet of defense this week in practice because we weren’t very successful at Penn on the defensive end,” said freshman point guard Siyani Chambers. “We are trying to focus on what we did wrong and trying to fix that [for this weekend].”
Last time out, the Crimson struggled to contain the Lions’ offense, allowing guard Steve Frankoski to score 27 points on the game, including 20 in the first half alone.
“He just annihilated us,” said Amaker of Frankoski’s career performance. “What we’ve been trying to do in our practices this week is that we have to do a better job of guarding their perimeter players.”
Frankoski and Columbia point guard Brian Barbour—who leads his team with 12 points and 4.2 assists per game—will likely headline the Crimson’s defensive challenges on the perimeter, while Mark Cisco and John Daniels each average greater than four rebounds per game on the inside. In the two teams’ contest at Columbia, the Lions outrebounded the Crimson, 33-22, and scored 12 more points in the paint.
“We gave up way too many second shots in New York, and we also gave up too many open shots,” Chambers said. “Those are two areas on the defensive end that we really need to focus on.”
Although the Crimson was able to squeak by with a 67-65 win in its first matchup against the Big Red, the victory did not come without major difficulty. Chambers led the Crimson on the day, notching an impressive 18 points and 11 assists against a Cornell team that has been plagued by injury as of late.
“We’re not sure who’s going to play [for Cornell],” said Amaker of the Big Red’s depleted roster. “Obviously their quickness, their athleticism, similar to a Penn, gave us a lot of problems [last time]. I anticipate that however many healthy bodies they have or whatever the situation is, that they would play us very tough, very aggressively.”
In addition to any conference implications, this weekend also marks co-captain Christian Webster’s final home games in a Harvard uniform. Webster—the lone senior on the Crimson’s roster—recently earned the distinction of being the winningest player in the history of Harvard basketball.
“[Webster] has enhanced our program immeasurably, certainly by his presence and also by his game,” Amaker said. “We’re going to miss him. We’re hopeful that we can finish this the right way for him.”
—Staff writer Catherine E. Coppinger can be reached at ccoppinger@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @catcopp.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The issue of sexual assault at Harvard has received increased attention in recent months. Recently leaked statistics from Princeton show that this rising concern about sexual assault extends to other Ivy League universities, too.
In a 2008 survey, the results of which were released by The Daily Princetonian this week, one in six female undergraduates at Princeton reported that they had experienced non-consensual vaginal penetration during their time at the University. According to the article in The Daily Princetonian, it remains unclear just why the survey was never published. But one administrator claimed that because the data was consistent with the national average of one in five women being raped during their college years, the administration likely did not want to draw unwanted attention to the issue.
Amanda Sandoval, Director of Princeton's Women's Center, told The Daily Princetonian that the survey results were "not anything unexpected," and that releasing the numbers would have caused unneccessary media attention, especially given that none of Princeton's peer institutions have published similar data. Indeed, other Ivy League administrators seem to have either neglected to conduct surveys about sexual assault or have allowed them to go unpublished.
As Harvard and its peer institutions look to combat sexual assault on campus, disturbing numbers like these ensure that a bright spotlight will continue to be shone on these issues.
