News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In popular culture, Harvard has a conflicted image.
To many on the right, the school’s politics is several shades redder than crimson. It’s a steward of radical leftism—a cabal of statism and collectivism. Richard Nixon infamously called it the “Kremlin-on-the-Charles” back in the 1970s. By the time Ted Cruz claimed in 2013 that Harvard Law was staffed by “Marxists” who believed in “overthrowing the U.S. government,” his comments seemed more a cliché than genuine offense.
In the past year, some of The Crimson’s staff editorials have come under criticism from conservative publications for their liberal obstinacy, and the formation of Munch, Harvard’s kinky sex club, was seen by many as sign of our institution’s moral relativism.
At the same time, if there’s one school that liberals malign as an epicenter of elitism, privilege, and social immobility, it’s Harvard.
During the Occupy movement, left-wing protestors weren’t storming the gates of Swarthmore; they were here, lined up against a cordon of HUPD officers on Mass Ave. Even the New Republic’s Alec MacGillis, while acknowledging the generosity of our school’s financial aid programs, supported the occupation in a Washington Post op-ed.
The left’s suspicion of our university was distilled late this August, when Harper’s ran a cover piece titled, “Saving Your Children from a Harvard Education.” Its author, Jeff Madrick, basically claimed that the school’s professors have done much to destroy the American dream and rig the economy in favor of greedy corporatists. He points to a flawed study by economics professor Kenneth Rogoff, which the right used to ward off aggressive fiscal policy during the Great Recession. He attacks Niall Ferguson for his wildly inappropriate comments regarding John Maynard Keynes’ sexuality. Several other faculty members are also on his chopping block.
Madrick also implies that the kids who go here—presumably us—are slowly buying into this neoliberal worldview, consciously or subconsciously.
So it seems that both the right and left have a dystopian image of our school, one in which we’re all brainwashed automata, trained to be either greedy, conformist free-marketeers or hardcore leftists.
Though these popular critiques of Harvard come from opposite directions, they’re both wrong in the same basic ways. Firstly, they fail to understand that the vast majority of students here are establishment liberals of some kind. There may be plenty of socialists among us, and plenty of conservatives, but much ink has been spilt about the novelty of their social position, as if they’re wholly outside the Harvard milieu looking in.
Secondly, freshmen’s minds aren’t blank slates. We all have our share of political preconceptions when we arrive, and we usually leave with a solid chunk of them still intact. That isn’t to say that our politics don’t subtly shift during our Harvard careers. But our professors’ politics are not our own, and a hardcore feminist-Marxist isn’t going to finish Ferguson’s course on “Western Ascendancy” thinking Keynes was blinkered by his homosexuality.
Still, these liberal and conservative narratives of Harvard aren’t without flecks of truth. We do have staunch leftists and rightist ideologues within our faculty. But what commentators don’t understand is that we’re exposed to a mixture of these viewpoints, which—they would likely agree—is a good thing
It’s true that most professors subscribe to some form of liberalism, and you can tell by some of the course names.
But walk into one of Harvey Mansfield’s political philosophy classes or read his controversial book, “Manliness,” and you’ll be subjected to a blistering critique of liberal relativism and the inadequacies of academia. Listen to Ferguson for a semester, and you’ll have your liberal assumptions about the colonial era and, yes, Keynes, thoroughly challenged.
On the other side of the spectrum, I’ve had the pleasure of reading social theory for a year with a self-described “Marxist” professor, which did precipitate in a slight move leftward. I’ve even had a statistics class during the Ec10 walkout, in which the instructor would satirically refer to Professor Gregory Mankiw as “Man Cow.”
Within the student body—though, again, we’re mainly liberals—there are students from the extremes, and they’re by far the most vocal. One of my blockmates is a dedicated social conservative.  I remember him publishing an orthodox response to one of my op-eds last year and trying to turn some of my atheistic friends toward Catholicism. When I published a comical account of an evening with the Harvard Socialists last fall, I received a response letter from a radical peer, informing me that many student organizations were stuffed with communists and socialists, and that I hadn’t examined a representative sample.
So despite the negative, extreme Harvard narratives put forth by conservative and liberal commentators, Harvard itself has no extreme narrative. Yes, we have a lot of liberals, and our economics department, like so many others, is stuffed with conservatives. But despite the attacks hurled at us by every political faction—and despite the fact that, yes, there are a lot of moderate left-leaners here—a curious student would be hard pressed to leave Harvard without having his political assumptions challenged and stretched in multiple directions.
If that’s not the case for a specific individual, perhaps it’s time to start blaming his course selection strategy, rather than the institution in which he’s situated.
J. Gram Slattery ’15, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Kirkland House. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In 1906, Harvard College offered students few options when it came time to decide on a plan of study and a concentration. In fact, the College offered one: History and Literature. From that impressive (though deceptive) height of popularity, the Humanities now recede—not like the tide, but a tsunami moonwalking back towards the epicenter of a tectonically proportioned intellectual earthquake.
Reports from a faculty committee tell us that only 11 percent of freshmen intend to pursue their undergraduate degree in the Arts or Humanities; a slightly less anemic 16 percent of total undergraduates have taken the plunge and wedded their fates to the future of the liberal arts.
With the dwindling stream of students taking their places in the once securely pre-eminent departments of the human sciences, dual problems of overcrowding and under-enrollment loom. Moreover, the diversity of experiences and curiosities vital to the concept of the modern university does not preserve itself in a vacuum; without a strong response to the problem, the future portends both dreaded groupthink and the banal experience of sitting in the dining hall with a table of identical organismic and evolutionary biology concentrators debating the merits of taking either Ethical Reasoning 18 or Stat 104.
I believe part of the problem comes into focus with the example above: the General Education Program. Rolled out in 2009, Gen Ed requires students to explore and study various disciplines. Through its eight categories, students must take three courses of empirical or hard sciences and five courses of humanities and social sciences. That’s right, the undergraduate curriculum explicitly favors the humanities, and, in granting them a pyrrhic victory, accelerates the decline of disciplines concerned with culture, aesthetics, and ethics.
According to its website, the General Education program aims “not to draw students into a discipline, but to bring the disciplines into students’ lives.” The view of education embodied in the newly minted curriculum, tinged with patina and ivy, is that arts and sciences must be linked, and linked they are. For students concentrating in a scientific or quantitative discipline, General Education courses offer respite, diversity, and exposure to novel ideas and techniques of inquiry. The same is true of students in the Humanities but they do not receive an equal bargain; without even trying, they fulfill five out of eight courses and find themselves faced with the daunting edifice of the sciences, without advice as to what courses offer them the 21st century quantitative skills needed for postgraduate study or employment.
It’s a miracle that any students hitch their wagons to the stars orbiting the vicinity of the Barker Center. The scientific disciplines offer structure, order, and skills salable to employers in this age of self-commodification and LinkedIn networking; the humanities lack broad introductory survey courses and rarely encourage or require a quantitative element as a companion to the qualitative potpourri of the course catalogue. This isn’t true of Government or Social Studies, but neither concentration is hurting (or hunting) for more concentrators; the attraction of these interdisciplinary social sciences is perhaps this curricular fusion of art and science.
Harvard’s curriculum needs amendment to salvage the Humanities; it needs to restore balance to the Gen Ed scorecard. One category must be a turncoat. Societies in the World could be the one; it’s similar superficially to both Culture and Belief and United States in the World—many courses that fulfill Societies also fulfill either of the companion requirements. But what to change it to? A requirement in Computer Science or Statistics? Engineering—electrical or mechanical? Any of these options would be an improvement.
Harvard College today offers students in the sciences world-class programs, faculty, and facilities. Students matriculate into a curriculum heavy on the humanities; so heavy, in fact, that no one need concentrate in them. Everyone essentially graduates, through General Education, with a secondary field in Humanities. For Humanities students, the curriculum exposes them to a bare minimum of three courses of hard(er) sciences: Many of the options in these categories are not equally as rigorous as entry-level science lectures. Does it need to be mentioned that the students who now study the humanities are those most averse to the high-powered, high-stakes lectures, those most unprepared for the curved grading system pitting them against pre-medical students or future financial wizards?
This shopping week, courses like Humanities 11A and 11B sought to open the door to the humanities for students unsure what to study. I applaud the effort, but await the opening of a curriculum that motivates Humanities students to leave their comfort zone, and requires that their plan of study include coursework as foreign and challenging to them as the humanities are to their peers.
Michael Thorbjørn Feehly ’14 is a History and Scandinavian studies concentrator in Mather House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Each September, just a few weeks after some 1,600 freshmen descend upon the Yard, Harvard’s Undergraduate Council conducts its fall election. The Yard transforms into a battleground as first-years don their formal attire for the first time and begin campaigning. Some go door to door to share with potential voters their grandiose visions of better Annenberg food; others hang posters with the obligatory rhyming slogan; many do both. You will know them when you see them and, undoubtedly, this year will be no different.
The election, which fills the vacant seats of UC representatives, gives freshmen their first chance to participate in student government at the collegiate level. And participate they do: This year, freshmen comprise more than half of the 86 candidates. These 46 freshman hopefuls—representing an increase from 43 last fall—vie for a mere 12 seats. Energized by the prospect of serving on the University-sanctioned student council, the freshmen are not fazed but emboldened by the steep competition. In addition to showcasing the admirable civic involvement of the freshman class, however, the passion with which these eager first-years bid for the UC spots also reveals the less palatable reality that upperclassmen are simply disenchanted with their student government.
Remarkable as the freshman turnout for the election may seem, it is no less routine than the increasingly meager upperclassman interest in serving on the UC. This year is no exception, with three-quarters of the student body accounting for less than half of the candidate pool. In fact, the apparent lack of upperclassman interest is so pronounced that five seats—reserved for various upperclassman Houses—could actually be left vacant. That a student’s interest in becoming a UC representative so precipitously drops from one year to the next cannot be explained away with a dissection of the freshman psyche. Rather, it is clear that the actual work of the UC—however necessary and noble—is falling short of student expectations, resulting in a systemic disillusionment among upperclassmen.
This disillusionment stems from the misalignment between students’ vision of the UC and the UC’s actual scope. Although the UC does perform several vital, bureaucratic functions—like distributing grants and allowing students to reserve rooms—it has little influence over the kinds of important College policy issues that one associates with the notion of governance. Of course, this does not mean that the UC does not try to have a significant impact on student experience; rather, it can, and frequently does, advocate on behalf of the student body. But the reality remains that, no matter how well intentioned and diligent the UC representatives are, the institution is simply not equipped with the tools or authority to implement the change it advocates.
It is no wonder, then, why upperclassmen show such apathy toward the UC. And it is not just the current crop, either. The ambitious freshmen of the Class of 2017 will return next fall as sophomores. Some will seek reelection in their new upperclassman House; some will not run, citing one of myriad complaints with the system; and some will forget entirely until the polls open. As the UC candidates from the Class of 2018 swarm the yard, each campaigning for one of the envied 12 freshman spots, the Class of 2017 will approach the elections with less fanfare, understanding well the limits of a relatively tough, dry, and thankless job.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In an opinion piece published in The Crimson this April, Leah J. Schulson ’14 wrote of her increasing worry over the seemingly endless fascination, even addiction, of our student body for powerful smartphones that seem to dominate our lives on a daily basis. It is the “noise of the internet” which has come to drown out those aspects of present life that cannot be systematized and digitized. This rise of technology, then, leads to a corresponding fall in the quality of social interaction.
Assuming that this premise is true, there are two possible responses.
The first is that of the technophobe, who would rather give up technology to a certain extent in favor of a higher quality of “real life.” As a community, this might be characterized by the banning of laptops from certain major classes, or, for an individual, giving up the benefits of a smartphone.
It is immediately apparent, however, that such an approach is shortsighted in scope, and unsustainable in the long run. But the issue with burying your head in the sand is not that it will result in being left behind in understanding what devices can do, remaining ignorant of countless outstanding possibilities. Instead, it is the ability to manage and account for the role of technology in life that suffers.
Never before has there been such a ubiquitous access to information as there is with the smartphone. And, with devices like Google Glass on the horizon, we can only expect the amount of information we have readily available to increase further. The technophobic attitude perfectly captures the transition into the steep learning curve that all of us, the first wave of digital natives, are being forced to undergo.
That learning curve is not in grappling with new ways to become maniacally dependent on our connectivity to survive but rather in training and educating ourselves to best utilize the ocean of information that is available and to control the excess noise that can indeed distract from our daily experiences. It is not a question of shutting ourselves off from such a powerful tool. In fact, to do so would be impossible. Instead, we must work toward integrating technology more seamlessly into our everyday lives to the point at which the novelty of it all but disappears.
In their book, The New Digital Age, Eric Schmidt and Jared Cohen envisage a day in the future when technology is so seamlessly integrated into our daily lives that we barely notice that it is there. True, it will be more powerful, being able to cook you breakfast and to select an outfit for the day, and the distractions will also, by extension, be all the more potent. But invisible tech will also free up all the time spent currently wasted performing basic “surface” tasks and give us the time and energy to more completely devote ourselves to those parts of life that really require our attention—be it hanging out with a friend or going to class.
As Harvard students, we like to be informed, connected, and up-to-date almost all of the time, and ideally more so than anyone around us. Right now, the smartphone represents the best and fastest way for us to achieve those facets of our competitive nature we hold so dear. The distractions we see clearly now will fade away as technology necessarily becomes faster and more invisible. But until then, rather than avoid it, we should embrace the opportunity the smartphone offers us to learn, adapt, and prepare for the future.
William H. Locke ’15, a Crimson editorial writer, is a government concentrator in Cabot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Ten years ago, Paul Harding was known as a talented, if demanding, Expos preceptor and erstwhile member of a rock band called Cold Water Flat. Back in town this week for a reading upon the release of his second book, “Enon,” the Pulitzer Prize-winning author bore little resemblance to his former self. Perched confidently behind a podium at the Harvard Coop, Harding said things like, “I write interrogative fiction, not declarative fiction,” and, “If each sentence is a revelation of its own little truth, than the joy you have in discovery is strong.”
Harding’s first novel, “Tinkers,” was rejected by most major editors, finally finding a publisher in a small non-profit called Bellevue Literary Press. The book gained followers slowly, quietly, as perhaps befitted its quiet, meditative tone. It was bereft of the kind of fireworks or “car crashes” publishers tend to look for in contemporary literature, as Harding told the New York Times. With Harding’s more Woolfian novel of consciousness decidedly out of style, the choice of “Tinkers” for the Pulitzer later that year led the Times to christen him as “Mr. Cinderella.”
After the Pulitzer, such skepticism dutifully withdrew; and while “Enon” is a different kind of a book than “Tinkers,” the excerpt Harding read at the Coop made clear that quiet contemplation continues to characterize his writing. As he sketched out the plot before beginning to read aloud, Harding explained, “Charlie’s already tenuous marriage to his wife dissolves, and he descends into an increasingly phantasmagoric realm of grief.” That is: Nothing much happens within a small New England town where nothing much ever tends to happen—which is to say, rather, that much of what happens takes place within Charlie’s own mind.
The audience, clustered at the front of the room with scattered latecomers settling in toward the back, seemed most interested in the intersection between Charlie’s mind and the author’s. The middle-aged and elderly outnumbered students by far; this was not Junot Diaz’s Harvard Bookstore talk of the week before. How autobiographical was the novel? one audience member asked. Harding cocked his head to the right, his eyes flitting upward as he replied, “I can’t ever really qualify it. I couldn’t be less interested in my own self; I couldn’t be more interested in the fact that I experience humanity as a self.” Harding grinned. “If that makes sense.”
The writer grew up in a Massachusetts town quite similar to Enon, and the North Shore in general, he said, is a “landscape [that] lays full claim to my imagination and my life.”
When asked if he was attempting to immortalize this kind of setting—the quaint small town where one stays where he or she grows up and that seems to be receding from American life—Harding objected that for him, the American landscape is still largely characterized by small towns and local cities. But he shrugged, then, saying, “I’m just provincial—by disposition and will.”
According to Harding, the settings he constructs are more of a backdrop than a plot device. A well-chiseled landscape, one with which he is already familiar, serves as a fully-formed backstage allowing him to concentrate on a story’s characters, on its dramatic tension. The main character of “Enon” is the “Tinkers” protagonist’s grandson; “One of my favorite effects to feel as a reader is recognition,” Harding said, citing Faulkner as a model.
As the audience members began to trickle out, the hour drawing to a close, the event seemed to become more akin to an old gathering among friends. “Nice to see so many familiar faces,” said Harding, smiling at a few in the crowd, those who asked most of the questions.
Harding ended by sketching out the single image, coming to him in a moment, that gave rise to the novel. He had glimpsed a silhouette of a hillside with gravestones beneath and a figure scampering across. Immediately, Harding knew it was Charlie Crosby, part of the “Tinkers” clan, sneaking home after a night of misadventure. “He was sneaking behind his daughter’s gravestone,” said Harding. “He was ashamed of the person he has become.” Harding fell silent just as a student, oblivious of the Pulitzer winner behind him, made a purchase to his left. The audience began to murmur and stand up to the ching of the cash register lingering among the shelves.
Sections
Those who read the first email that Interim Dean of the College Donald H. Pfister sent to the college may recall that he’s a big fan of fungi jokes—just don’t tell him a fungi “fun-guy” joke (the man’s heard it before, and is looking for something new). But, who is Pfister really? Eager to hear more of Pfister’s stories and quirks, FM sat down with him in the lawn chairs outside Hollis Hall.
1. FM: What was a favorite moment from the past few weeks?
DP: I did office hours for the first time yesterday and I had made a joke at some meeting and said, “You know, you should come by University Hall, come by at office hours. I’m really lonely there.” So a couple of the students showed up and said, “Well we didn’t have anything on our minds particularly, but we just wanted to come and sit down and get to know you, and you said that you were lonely, so we came by.” So that was a high point.
2. FM: What was your most embarrassing moment?
DP: When I was in high school and I tripped and fell on a tuba, that was pretty embarrassing because we had a tuba with a big dent in it.
 
3. FM: Do you believe in love at first sight?
DP: In a way. I believe that people kind of click, whether it’s love at the first sight or whether it’s just recognition. I’ll tell you how my wife and I met. I was a graduate student at Cornell and used the library quite frequently and she was one of the library assistants. She was working in the library and I’d check out my books. She decided that she needed to figure out where I worked and who I was. So we came to be friends over our library books—the rest is history. That may be her love at first sight, but it wasn’t mine.
4. FM: What was your best Halloween costume?
DP: One year I wore my mother’s fur coat. I looked like a big furry animal out on the street.
5. FM: If you were a kitchen utensil, what utensil would you be?
DP: Do you know the spatulas that you clear bowls with? My kids always called them scoopy-uppies—real functional description of it. So I guess I’d be a scoopy-uppie.
 
6. FM: What’s on your reading table?
DP: So I’m currently on P.D. James’s “The Private Patient.” Louise Penny writes mystery novels and I like those, too. I often have two or three books going on at the same time.
Pfister reaches into his jacket pocket and pulls out an index card where he has listed some of the other books he’s reading. More titles are written in pencil: “The Flower of Empire: An Amazonian Water Lily, the Quest to Make it Bloom, and the World it Created,” “Sugar in the Blood: A Family Story of Slavery and Empire.”  Pfister writes in big, capital letters.

7. FM: What is your favorite HUDS meal?
DP: I haven’t eaten that much in the dining hall other than in the summer. What I found in the summer at Annenberg is that [my favorite meal is] chickwiches and potato tots... because I never have that otherwise. These are really special occasion meals.
8. FM: Chocolate or vanilla?
DP: Vanilla.
9. FM: Quad, River, or Yard?
DP: Oh my allegiances are many here, they are many! I lived 18 years in Kirkland House so I can’t really turn my back on the River, on the other hand now I have this purview and what do I tell students? I tell them that I love the Quad: it’s quiet, it’s residential, you can stay in touch with the world around you. I think it’s an unfair question.
10. FM: Dean Hammonds used to bring burritos and pizza to Lamont every semester.  Is this a tradition you will continue?
DP: We’ve talked about it. We’re going to do something. We may be inventive and try something else. We’ll see.
Sections
Phone digits work like currency in Israel.
I learned this one of my first nights out, as I roamed from bar to bar in the holy city of Jerusalem. My night began in a dimly lit dive bar where a man offered to buy me a drink. Guy number one, who wore his pants up to his stomach, opened the conversation by telling me about the Messiah.
Now don’t get me wrong, I have no problems with the occasional biblical sermon, but I was finding it difficult to take shots to his account of the messianic ages and the rise of corruption.
A part of me wanted to run, but another part of me knew it would be rude to take his drink without some sort of conversation. I didn’t know what to do, so after ten minutes of nodding politely and 10 minutes of nodding impolitely (it’s all in the ears) I did what I always do when I want to reject someone and still keep my drink: I gave him my number and told him to text me. And then I ran away.
In my defense, in the United States no one ever follows up.
But my night did not end there. While I was trying to ignore the texts from guy number one, I stumbled into guy number two outside of a bar in an alleyway. The encounter was pretty romantic; I think there is some Nicholas Sparks book about it somewhere on some middle-aged woman’s kindle.
Guy number two was somewhere between 24 and 60 years old, and unlike my previous suitor, he wore his pants at the waist. A good start. Plus, after my last experience, I was in need of another drink, so I decided to use some subtle hints and body language to convince him to buy me a drink.
“Hey,” I said motioning to his wallet, “you should buy me a drink.”
It was just like inception. He handed me a drink. I was about to walk away but he protested. He wanted my number. Of course, how could I be so uncultured?  I rattled off my digits and skipped away feeling worldly.
He texted me immediately. I was beginning to learn I wasn’t in Kansas, anymore. Because Kansas is in the United States, where no one ever follows up.
But I was not done yet. The night was still young and I was still sober enough to remember my phone number. Plus my friends were getting hungry.
It was at that point that we met the guy who would later become known as Pizza Man in my contact list. He was sitting outside a restaurant alone with a large box of cheese pizza. Perhaps he was full, or perhaps he had just remembered that he was lactose intolerant, because he insisted that we help him by taking a slice. I know taking food from strangers goes against everything I learned as a child, (“Don’t ever eat carbs!”) but we were hungry and I was stressed from all the unopened text messages piling up in my inbox.
So we ate the pizza. By that time my friends had caught on to the social norms of Israel, so they held up their end of the bargain and gave him a number. My number. Which, by this time, they had also memorized.
We returned home and he texted me immediately. However, this time I kept his number. It’s hard to find a good pizza dealer who will work on shabbat.
Sections
Whether you’re an earlier riser or you’ve been out all night, sometimes the best way to start your day is with a side of fries.
1. Mass Ave Diner 906 Massachusetts Ave.
This hole-in-the-wall is a little further afield than the typical Harvard student wanders on a weekend morning, which means you will probably be able to enjoy your $1.99 bottomless coffee in blissful anonymity away from TFs and girls returning home from the Fly. The menu here is classic, all-American diner food, but the decor is pleasantly off-kilter: paintings by local artists, lime green paint, and café curtains.
 2. Leo’s Place Diner 35 JFK St.
Colorful window paintings of sizzling bacon and sandwiches on rye beckon passersbys into Leo’s place, a real neighborhood joint, established in 1949. The sign above the door promises, “COMFORT FOOD INSIDE,” and Leo’s delivers, with hearty helpings and an overwhelming selection of root beers. For those who enjoy long conversations over a table for two, however, look elsewhere: it’s bar service only. Take that, yuppies.
 3.Zoe’s 1105 Massachusetts Ave
Zoe’s is Harvard Square’s answer to the classic Greek coffee shop. Which means that it, like nearly everything within a five block radius of the Yard, is slightly less rough around the edges than its counterparts elsewhere. The menu offers the requisite bagels, Reubens, and kabobs, alongside slightly more exotic fare like tofu scrambles and a specialty drink called “Coffeelicious.” Be warned, though, you will probably wind up sitting in the booth next to some kid from your freshman entryway and his visiting parents.
 4.Charlie’s Kitchen 10 Eliot St.
Billed as “the best night in town,” this watering hole doesn’t open until 11a.m. But who’s really awake before that hour on a weekend, anyway? Chow down on a burger amongst the hodgepodge of neon signs and checkered tile. While you’re at it, have a beer on tap. It’s five o’clock somewhere.
5. International House of Pancakes 16 Eliot St.
What IHOP lacks in mom and pop charm, it makes up for in being open from 7a.m. to 4a.m. Sure, the coffee tastes like water, but hey, welcome to Cambridge. For the true experience, order the Rooty Tooty Fresh ‘N Fruity—almost as fun to say as it is to eat!
Sections
I distinctly remember the first day I ever went shopping for second-hand clothes. “Thrifting,” if you will.
It was a chilly Sunday in March during my sophomore year of high school. That Sunday was one of those days when you know you should still be in jackets and boots, but the promise of spring is so enticing that you brave the wind in just a cardigan. My friend Orly and I boarded the E train from Queens with only vague directions in mind on how to get to Williamsburg. Forty-five minutes and two boroughs later, we emerged from the L train onto Bedford Avenue in Brooklyn.
Beacon’s Closet, our thrifting destination that day, is nestled in a massive warehouse along the East River, just overlooking Manhattan. Thin women in expensive sunglasses carrying pink plastic bags (emblazoned with what I assumed to be a cartoon of Beacon himself) slipped by as we climbed the grated stairs into the store. When Orly suggested we try this particular venue as our first venture away from shopping malls, I had pictured a quaint consignment shop with a few well-worn garments (all within my budget, of course).
I was wrong. The Beacon’s in Williamsburg occupies 5,500 square feet and is entirely organized by color—racks of only black shirts, topped with varying shoes of the same shade, are contrasted by a crimson conglomeration in an opposite corner. Women move around from color to color as if it was their purpose in life to navigate this rainbow labyrinth. I was overwhelmed.
I gingerly made my way over to a stand slung with jackets and flipped through a few. I found some pill-ridden sweaters and giant leather jackets before coming upon The Jacket. The Jacket was made of velvet and had plush quilt lining. The Jacket’s exterior had textured pastel flowers contrasted by a black background. The Jacket was four sizes too big and $22. The Jacket was destiny.
We departed the store an hour later, both clutching pink plastic bags containing our spoils. When I arrived home and proudly displayed my bargains to my parents, they were a little grossed out that I had bought someone’s old jacket, but admitted it was nice and offered to dry clean it. The way they saw it, kids my age spent all their money on makeup or weed or sneakers, so if their daughter saw one man’s trash as her own fashionable treasure, who were they to stop me?
That first Sunday trip to Beacon’s led to another one the next weekend, followed by more exploring of various second-hand stores in Brooklyn. I became addicted to the bargains. If anyone complimented my clothing, instead of simply thanking them, I’d proudly proffer its low price. Accompanied by girls from our grade who were already adept at second-hand shopping or were eager to stretch their allowance, Orly and I scoured stores across Manhattan and Brooklyn in search of the most clothes for the least amount of money.
There used to be an anti-drug commercial on TV where a dad pulls a wacky tie out of his closet and contemplates telling his children he bought it when he was high; I’m not sure whether I’ll be proud or depressed to show my children floral crop tops (whose shoulder pads I have unceremoniously ripped out) that I bought in a cheap sartorial frenzy. For now, let’s go with proud.
Thrifting became my bona-fide hobby. I knew to stop by a certain store in the East Village on Thursdays because they offered 15 percent off with a student ID. I knew which branch of Buffalo Exchange, another second-hand sales chain, would buy old Urban Outfitters dresses I had outgrown. I would immediately take the store credit and shop in the same establishment, happily heading home with an exponential new amount of clothing.
But like many things in life, too much of a good thing can become a problem. I was in a fancy law office in Midtown Manhattan, being interviewed for my application to Yale by an alum. In our conversation-cum-interrogation, she asked towards the end what I did in my spare time. Before I knew what I was doing, I blurted out that I loved to thrift, and I usually did so whenever I had a free afternoon.
In the moments before my interviewer responded, my heart fell to my vintage shoes. I blew it. Yale didn’t want vapid shoppers. It wanted young ladies in clean new clothing, like the stylish Anne Taylor pantsuit this woman had on. I should have told them I simultaneously read Proust while feeding the hungry.
She appraised me for a moment. Then: “I LOVE to go thrifting. Where do you go? I usually go to this flea market in Hell’s Kitchen on the weekend, the prices are great.” We spent the next 30 minutes discussing our usual haunts. I told her about The Jacket and how I got sucked into the thrifting phenomenon, and I left her with a list of my favorite stores.
Unfortunately, the admissions board didn’t share my interviewer’s enthusiasm, and I was not offered admission to Yale. But when I emailed my interviewer to let her know I’d be attending Harvard, she offered to grab coffee the next time I was in the city to thrift. You win some, you lose some.
I spent my freshman year of college trying to stop my massive wardrobe from encroaching on my roommate’s side of the closet, and realized it was time to downsize. When I got home, I packed my mom’s car with every item of clothing I hadn’t worn in months, drove back to the Beacon’s where my habit had begun, and sold it all back. It took every ounce of my will to accept the $57 in cash rather than $130 in store credit, especially surrounded by the tempting rainbow labyrinth.
All, that is, except for The Jacket.
Olivia M. Munk ’16 is an English Concentrator in Leverett House. She wears her granddad’s clothes, and looks incredible.
Sections
For all of Harvard Square’s charm and convenience, sometimes there’s nothing better than getting a few short hours away. And what better excuse for exploration than the promise of a delectable afternoon snack or a charming meal with a small group of friends? For those of you with a hankering for new eateries this side of the Charles, these are worth a visit:
Flatbread Company @ Sacco’s Bowl Haven
This part-restaurant, part-candlepin bowling venue is a Somerville staple and perfect for a weekend excursion out of Harvard Square. At Flatbread, you can enjoy pizzas made with organic and locally-sourced ingredients while trying your hand at a New England’s homegrown variety of the 10 pin sport. The venue does not look like much from the outside—a brick facade with mismatched signage—but the interior opens up into a multi-lane alley and expansive dining area. So whether you’re nostalgic for the middle school days of bowling alley birthday parties, or simply longing for a night of good pizza and beer, an outing to Flatbread Company is a must.
45 Day Street, Somerville.
Restaurant: Monday - Saturday 11:30 a.m. - 11:30 p.m., Sunday 11:30 a.m. - 10:30 p.m.
Bowling: Monday - Saturday 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 a.m., Sunday 9:00 a.m. - 10:30 p.m.
Sofra Bakery & Cafe
If you’re looking for a relaxed, tasty, and perhaps scenic weekend morning, this Middle Eastern bakery is just the place. Rather than your common panini and scone café fare, Sofra’s menu includes beet tzatziki, shakshuka, and Persian spiced donuts. Due to the venue’s small size, finding a seat might be difficult, but Mt. Auburn Cemetery is located directly across the street and is the ideal place for a quiet, reflective walk before or after your visit. For the cooking enthusiasts out there, Sofra also has an extensive selection of colorful spices and condiments such as Rose Petal Jam. No matter what you order, definitely add the tahini shortbread to your tab—you won’t regret it.
1 Belmont Street, Cambridge.
Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 8 p.m., Saturday - Sunday 8 a.m. - 6 p.m.
Tupelo
Craving a hearty non-dining hall meal? Tupelo is your haven. The restaurant, which has a solid collection of beers on tap, does southern soul food with a creative twist. Go classic with Cajun gumbo or assemble an assortment of starters and sides such as the confit pork belly “corndog” and jalapeño mac and cheese. You can also look forward to a bread basket full of fresh-out-of-the-oven cornbread.
1193 Cambridge St., Cambridge.
Dinner: Tuesday - Wednesday 5 p.m. - 10 p.m., Thursday - Saturday 5 p.m. - 11 p.m.
Brunch: Sunday 11 a.m. - 2:30 p.m.
Atomic Bean Cafe
Apart from its fantastic name, three things set Atomic Bean apart from the dozens of other coffee places scattered about Cambridge: board games, a book exchange, and massive, delicious muffins. Here, you can enjoy a cup of coffee while playing Stratego with friends, or else hunt down new reading material if the book in your bag just isn’t cutting it. The cran orange nut muffin is a must-try and the chocolate croissant is especially generous on the chocolate. The café also has free WiFi and ample seating for those looking for an off-campus study spot.
904 Mass. Ave., Cambridge.
Monday - Friday 7 a.m. - 7 p.m., Saturday - Sunday 8 a.m. - 6 p.m.
Diesel Cafe
Bike up Mass. Ave. to Davis Square and check out this funky lunch spot. Diesel sports a diverse collection of artwork and metal road signs on its walls, and you can even play a game of pool after you eat. Lest you think the café’s name is arbitrary, many of the menu’s items are automobile themed. There’s the Accelerator (almond and vanilla latte), the Somerville Smog (Earl Grey tea with vanilla and steamed milk), and the Monkey Wrench (sandwich with turkey, avocado, tomato, snow pea shoots, and greens), to name a few. If you’re into cafés that take their theme and atmosphere seriously, Diesel is for you.
257 Elm St., Somerville.
Monday - Saturday 6 a.m. - 11 p.m., Sunday 7 a.m. - 11 p.m.
Sections
To become a street performer in Harvard Square, you must:
 
1. Obtain a permit pass from the Cambridge Arts Council.
2. Keep sound to under 80 decibels.
3. Maintain 150 feet of distance from other performers.
4. Not perform beyond early morning and late night curfew hours.
Of course there are informal rules as well, like how the performers each lay claim to their own performance spot and get frustrated if their spot gets usurped. Some performers stake out their territory in the daytime, like the spray-painter who arrives at 11 a.m. to sit by the T-side Starbucks, or the hurdy-gurdy player just a few yards down on Mass Ave. Others pop in for short evening sets. At 7 p.m. a singer pulls out his instruments in the small Brattle Square green space; a three-person rock band plays amidst the staggering acoustics of the Palmer Street alley beside the Coop.
It is unclear exactly when street performing became a staple of Harvard Square, but when performers recall the history of the space, many mention big name players like Tracy Chapman. They mark the time that has passed using the city’s changing legislation and licensing rules.
Harvard Square has an uncanny ability to attract entertainers of different backgrounds.
Unlike Boston’s Faneuil Hall, which admits performers on an audition-only basis and makes them schedule their performance times far in advance, Harvard Square does not discriminate: Performers who have never been in front of an audience before and those who have spent their entire careers in entertainment have equal access to its streets.
Independent of a performer’s motivation or background, the lenient legal process for obtaining a permit and the rich history of performing in Harvard Square combine to allow for a uniquely vibrant performing culture.
It is one that persists, somewhat weakened from years past, even as the demographics and technologies of the area change.
 
Worldly and Otherworldly
"When I’m making these paintings [...] what’s in my mind? Usually I’m in the past," Antonio Maycott, 51, says matter-of-factly. He grins from beneath his baseball cap, then looks back down at his canvas.
Maycott used to be a long distance runner in Beijing; he worked in an Italian restaurant in Tokyo for a while after that. He is Mexican by birth and lived in the country until he won a scholarship to go abroad at age 24. He can speak Spanish, Chinese, Japanese, and now English.
These days, Maycott spends his time setting up his mobile painting studio outside the main entrance to the Harvard T stop, playing upbeat music by The Beatles and other groups on his stereo and painting landscapes that are distinctly otherworldly: great space scenes of moons with craters, stars, exotic plants, and salty seas laid out before spiky, snow-capped mountains.
Maycott started painting in the street 17 years ago, after meeting a spray painter at a festival in his hometown and asking to learn about the craft. "He taught me the more basic designs, like how to make space, the planets, the moon," Maycott remembers, pulling out a water bottle cap that he uses as one of his moon stencils.
"I’ve been painting for 12 years [in Harvard Square], and I remember the newborn babies, or kids who were 12 when I came, and now they’re 24. They’ll ask if I remember them." Maycott smiles, looking up from his work. "I remember," he says, "I know all of the people."
He dashes purple, yellow, and white across the blueish paper, alternating the directions of his strokes and blotting the excess paint with a ripped magazine page. At this point, the piece still looks like an abstract blur of color. He fans it with cardboard, then scratches the pen knife across the surface to make mountains.
"There were a lot of kids who would come and dance. Everyone would come and look at the cute paintings and the little cute kids who were dancing." Maycott motions to his music, explaining that the sounds from his stereo attract children to his booth, and that the spray of color and fantastical pictures help them stay. His best customers are children, he says, though there are fewer of them now than there used to be.
 
A Changing Audience
Although many see Harvard Square’s current performing culture as robust, performers say the Square used to be far more crowded, which gave them a more dependable source of income. Passersby swarmed the popular performing spots at "The Pit" outside the T station and the "Juggler’s Arena" in the large sidewalks by Crema Café and Hidden Sweets—some even planned their days around attending the shows, both during the week and on weekends.
Performers believe this began to change in the mid 1990s, when the city of Cambridge voted to alter its rent regulations.
Prior to the ’90s, certain residential properties in Cambridge were rent-stabilized, which meant there were strict caps on rent-price increases for more than one third of the city’s residential units. When the city did away with rent control, rent prices spiked, making living in the Square inconceivable for many of the area’s former residents.
According to Thomas "Blue" Newell, 63, a puppeteer and a fixture in the Square for almost 30 years, getting rid of rent control "was the end of the Square." After the controls were eliminated, foot traffic through the Square diminished and audiences dwindled, Newell says.
Newell also asserts that the former lack of home air conditioning units in Cambridge helped lure people to the streets. "If I’m living in a rent-controlled apartment and can’t afford air conditioning, and I’m hot and I have six kids, what am I going to do? I’m going to go to Harvard Square and be entertained. And they did!" he says.
The elimination of rent control also corresponded with the rise of mobile phones, which, according to some, changed the dynamics of the social space. "I noticed [that] after rent control went away there were more people walking around with cell phones and iPods ignoring the [live] music, and Harvard Square changed," says Sharrhan Williamson, 64, who has performed on and off in the Square for the past 35 years. "It’s not quite as fun as it used to be."
"There are always new challenges," says Stephen Baird, a street performer who founded an organization called the Street Arts & Buskers Advocates, which seeks to raise awareness about local performing artists.
"There’s what I call the privatization of public space," Baird says. "Street performers are now competing with five iPads and iPods and everything else. A lot of people are wired, so you have to get them to shut off their earplugs so they can listen to you."
 
The Winged Man
Walking around a familiar place, it’s easy to be immune to architecture. Thoughts zoom in to entertain and occupy, seduce and entangle the mind: Will I get to my meeting on time? Do I have anything in my teeth? This backpack is heavy. Oh, I think I felt a text come in...
In many instances, the street performers blend into the background. They, like the architecture, become expected and even taken for granted.
"A lot of people don’t notice too much," says Blake Brasher, 34. Brasher’s voice is even and slow, his gaze direct as sunlight spills down through the umbrellas on Café Pamplona’s deck to frame his face. "Especially when somebody’s in a new environment and there are tons of other people around, there’s a real fear that makes you not want to stop when you’re walking down the street."
Brasher moved to Cambridge for college—he studied architecture at MIT—and was struck by the living statues he saw when he first visited Harvard Square. "It seemed very surreal to be surrounded by all these people moving around, yet to have something so quiet and serene going on," Brasher says of the statues.
Curious about the statues, Brasher befriended the woman who worked as "The Eight Foot Bride" outside Au Bon Pain, and, intrigued by her testimony, opted to give statuing a try. He decided he would become a winged angel—not for religious reasons, but because he thought the symbol was powerful. "I liked the idea of frozen flight," he explains, adding that almost every culture has a winged man in its mythology.
Even while juggling a full undergraduate course load, Brasher started working as an angel most days outside the storefront that was formerly Bertucci’s, beside the newest Brattle Street entrance to the T. He says that sometimes when he was representing a statue, he felt that his presence could change people’s general inattention. "My favorite thing would be if I could actually pull somebody out of a busy day, get them to stop, get them to look for a little while."
The angel became Brasher’s alternate identity for 10 years, from around 2000 to 2010, and his act came to be well known by students and locals in the area.
During the peak of his career Brasher worked five times per week, with each shift lasting three to six hours. After three hours he allowed himself a 13-minute break, at which point his audience sometimes approached him.
"Is there a trick to it?" they would ask. "What is the makeup? How much money do you make?" (That question was particularly popular among the 15 to 20-year-olds.) They would also ask, "What does it all mean?"
Brasher doesn’t work as a statue anymore—he’s discovered a new passion in painting and operates his own painting studio, working 20 hours a week as a robotics engineer to supplement his income. But, he says, if he could get to the point where he could support his painting career off of his earnings from statuing, he would.
 
Blake Brasher’s rules of being a good statue:
1. Don’t speak.
2. Don’t react to your environment.
3. Only react to an act of generosity.
 
Giving, not Getting
Erickson Gammad now performs a few feet down from the spot where Brasher used to stand as an angel. It’s a Thursday night, uncharacteristically warm for mid-September, and Gammad is setting up his instruments and amplifier on the little brick ledge outside Crema Cafe. Going by the stage name "Rik Baby," he wears his hair in a ponytail that curls around his neck and extends beyond his chest.
"I think performing out here is more or less like community service," says Gammad. His voice is gentle, peppered with a tiny twang of an accent. "If you can give [people] a little entertainment, I think that will put a smile on their faces, and they go back more relaxed."
Gammad plays the guitar, the keyboard, the harmonica, and he sings. He does covers of popular songs but also writes his own soft rock and love songs—music that he believes could land him a deal someday. But for Gammad, it’s never been about money or fame.
"I feel like music is very sacred," Gammad says. "It should not be used to enrich yourself or to become famous." Rather, he believes, music should be a vehicle in helping children and the underprivileged.
Gammad has a laid-back, Bob Marley-like demeanor. Maybe it’s his hair, maybe his energy that forces the parallel with his Jamaican double. It’s hard to gauge Gammad’s age—he could be anywhere between 35 and 75—and he declined to disclose the actual figure. He ends many of his sentences saying "time will tell," suggesting a fundamental uncertainty in spite of his peaceful countenance.
Gammad was raised in the Philippines without much money. He passed the time by learning to play musical instruments, performing solo or with friends at festivals and on the street. Then Gammad moved to the States and he now works in an auto shop by day so that he can come to Harvard Square only to entertain, not to put food on the table. He performs to give, not get.
"Back then, there were always lots of crowds," Gammad says, referring to the 1990’s and early 2000’s. "But now, Thursday, it’s the beginning of the weekend, and there’s nobody. I don’t see any performers. In fact—" he swings his head left and right, noting the empty plaza, "I’m probably just alone here today."
Gammad mentions empty nights like these have been happening more frequently than they did when he first started performing—something students who pass in and out of Cambridge in a short four years may not be attuned to.
As he’s contemplating packing up and going home, two 20-something girls make their way to an adjacent ledge. Spotting a new potential audience, Gammad smiles and stops putting his instruments away. He has changed his mind.
"Maybe I will stay and play tonight."
 
The Show Must Go On
Though the crowds in Harvard Square are dwindling and the performances are not as profitable as in years past, entertainers keep coming. Many of these artists have other creative or professional endeavors they could fall back on to earn money, yet the thrills and joys unique to performing outside cause them to keep returning to the streets of Harvard Square.
"If you want to get feedback on a painting, you have to fight pretty hard to get it in front of people," says Brasher, who now spends most of his creative time painting and trying to get gallery showings. Alternatively, he says, street performing spurs a near-immediate audience response. Performers can see the reactions of passersby, and spectators frequently take time to share their thoughts on the act with performers.
Wearing the angel costume atop his box on Brattle St., Brasher witnessed lots of audience reactions, many unexpected, during his performances. "People would sometimes come up to me and recite poems or say something really nice or give me a flower," says Brasher. He also describes how people would sit beside him and write little notes or drawings, fold those up, and leave them in his collection jar.
This generosity is not singular to Brasher’s act. One longtime musician’s eyes turned soft behind purple-rimmed glasses as she described how a homeless man listened to her music for an hour then slipped a dollar into her hat, mouthing "thank you" before walking away.
Another performer pulls a tattered napkin from his guitar case to show a note he received from a passerby earlier this week. "My best friend—another musician—died six months ago today," the note said. "Your music made today okay for me. Thank you. Fucking rock on."
This generosity on the street inspired one artist, Amanda Palmer, as she looked to launch a performing career beyond Harvard Square. After working on Mass. Ave. as "The Eight Foot Bride" statue from 1997 - 2002, Palmer went on to become the lead singer for "The Dresden Dolls" and "Amanda Palmer and the Grand Theft Orchestra."
"My music career has been spent trying to encounter people on the internet as I was able to on the box," Palmer says in her TED talk "The Art of Asking," which went viral earlier this year. Palmer’s faith in human generosity led her to design a career around crowdsourcing—she relied on the gracious donations and responsiveness of the public through online platforms like Kickstarter and Twitter, raising almost $1.2 million to fund her music and tweeting out to fans to find accommodations and rehearsal spaces while on tours.
Palmer is currently on tour in South America, but she corresponded with The Crimson via email, writing, "I learned a great deal of patience, standing up on that box." She continues, "People are busy. Some take time for connection. Some fear surprise. Many fear eye contact. Many crave it."
But perhaps her most important learning came from reacting to the constantly changing environment of the Square. "The stage of the street is the best place to learn how to deal with the unexpected," Palmer writes.
Entertainers benefit from the unexpected course of events on the street, learning to mobilize quickly to escape inclimate weather or practicing resilience and maturity when doubters walk by glaring. Just as the performers arrive ready to be surprised, so have audiences come to expect the unexpected of Harvard Square.
Audiences never know who will be performing, which intrepid young person will pick up an instrument and give public music a try or which veteran will strum along to sweet music on a summer afternoon. They keep strolling by, eager to take in the serendipity of the Square.
 
Sections
I  was told by OCS that if I used certain words on my resume, it would  make it stronger. Now, they never mentioned what a “resume” was, so I  figured so long as I use their words, I’m all set, right?
Edwin “Buzz” Wordsmith wordywormz87@netscape.net
Resume:
Accelerated from zero to 60.
Achieved my lifelong dream of seeing the inside of a Disney World character’s costume.
Acted tough in front of my crush one time when I stepped on a thumb tack in seventh grade.
Administered first aid to my goldfish by repeatedly spitting sink water on it. Advised a team of circus penguins.
Analyzed my free-throw average using the metric “you miss 100 percent of the shots you don’t take.”
Broadened my horizon by bulldozing my neighbor’s house.
Built an ark for every species on earth.
Calculated my GPA: 8.
Centralized my heating system.
Changed matter from solid to gas, but sadly couldn’t destroy it.
Clarified something for Zedd and Foxes.
Collected bar wristbands.
Completed the Tasty Burger Challenge!
Composed “Cotton Eyed Joe.”
Conducted Thomas The Tank Engine.
Created a monster.
Designed a combination desk/chair/bed/kitchen/herbarium.
Devised an efficient, clean system to feed everyone in the world at no cost.
Enabled my computer to automatically respond to emails for me, after programming it with my exact personality.
Followed by Hu Jintao on Twitter.
Gathered around a campfire to sing a campfire song.
Generated only 1.18 gigawatts of electricity so now I can’t go back to the future.
Governed about 300 people for a while, unwittingly.
Improved my life in just four easy steps by clicking here!
Marketed the mushrooms growing out of my shower as “home grown and organic.”
Operated without a license in Nebraska.
Optimized Suboptimus Prime.
Organized Mystery Inc., said no dogs, damn kids!
Planned Parenthood.
Predicted 2012.
Publicized the side effects of my new drug, crack metheroin.
Reduced heat to a slow simmer.
Renegotiated negotiation procedures.
Reported for The Harvard Crimson.
Researched the history of Niall Ferguson for Niall Ferguson.
Unified the Germanic states.
Updated Adobe Reader.
Verbalized my inner thoughts.
Wrote this resume.
Sections
Student: Hi, I’m Jasmine. I’m really interested in consulting.Recruiter: Great! Why? Student: Because it’s the only job. Recruiter: In the world?Student: ...Yes? Recruiter: Yes.
Student: Hi, I’m Greg, I’m in Adams.Recruiter: Can I see your resume?Student: I’m on the golf team and I’m really into hanging with my friends. Recruiter: I’m not sure how relevant that is to Sales and Management. Student: Wait, this isn’t the first Fly punch event?
Recruiter: Hi, are you interested in marketing?Student: Yes! Here’s my resume! Student 2: No, stop here’s mine!Student 3: I have a reference letter from Mark Zuckerberg.Student 4: I have one from Obama.Student 5: I have one from Thomas Jefferson. He dictated it to me during a séance.  Recruiter: Don’t worry, there’s room in marketing for all of you. I’m so happy to see such excitement for non-profit work!Student 2: What? Isn’t this McKinsey?Recruiter: No, they’re over at that table over there. Everyone leaves. 
Student 1: Wait, why are you at the finance table? You run the Advocate.Student 2: Hey, you run the Crimson.Student 3: Aren’t you Drew Faust?Drew: Yeah, I’m doing OCI.
Sections
We’ve all been there. We’ve heard the bass, drank the “juice,” seen  the sweat, but have we really seen the suites? To see what’s going on  when the lights are on, FM has compiled a list of the five most enviable  suites, ranked in order from sweet to sweetest.
5. Adams Senior HouseBetween Insomnia  Cookies and Claverly Hall, there is a parking lot that leads to Adams  Senior House. This “room” is actually a  three-story house shared by  only four lucky Adamsians. The common room isn’t the biggest, but it is  separate from the rest of the house, so noise control is not an issue. A  gold plaque on the staircase that says “Liquor Locker” also hints that  the house has a history of throwing down.
4. Eliot CockpitThe Cockpit is located on  the top floor of C-entryway, allowing you to walk off the beers you’re  about the consume before you get to the party. The room comes with a  small built-in bar and plenty of space for a good party. Lighting isn’t  the greatest, though maybe that’s for the best. The Cockpit houses eight  girls and four boys. The boys, according to Kefhira F. Pinto ’14, are  essential for carrying kegs up the four flights of stairs.
3. Kirkland “Incestfest” Suite Le Bleu,  located in Kirkland B-51 and 52, is a refreshing mix of class and  hospitality. Dressed in a blazer, Wesley H. Sagewalker ’14 greets his  guests with English baroque music playing in the background. The 10 boys  who share the suite declare their space to be a family environment,  decorating the place with quirky homemade art and little potted mint  plants. After all, nothing says family like Incestfest.
2. Pfoho Bell TowerIf you have somehow  found yourself in the Quad, you might want to stop by the Bell Tower.  This suite includes a big common room that houses four people connected  to two other four-person duplexes, allowing it to host more people than  most party suites on campus. Inside is a very nice and large built-in  bar and skylights on the slanted ceilings that offer an incredible view  of the Quad.
1. Currier Ten-ManIt really doesn’t get  better than having a private elevator that opens up to your room. The  Ten-Man has it all: air conditioning, skylights, a built in bar with a  beer tap that is passed down through the years, and giant speakers that  make the room bounce. This year’s residents have added their own  personal touches to make it the best bachelor pad at Harvard, including a  cornhole set and a beirut table adorned with a summer’s worth of bottle  caps. Their goal for this year? To throw such a good party on Halloween  that people will want to stay in Heaven and never go back to Hell.
Sections
"We get this question a lot: Why is it that Cambridge is sort of overshadowing Boston as far as James Beard Award recipients, the people who are writing cookbooks, the overall number of destination restaurants in this area?” says chef Will Gilson of the restaurant Puritan & Company.
With his boyish, bearded face and the word “eat” tattooed on his left wrist, Gilson looks very much the part of the young upstart in the Cambridge culinary scene. Mason jars hang from the ceiling of his restaurant, and M.I.A.’s “Paper Planes” blares in the background as food preparation commences behind him.
Gilson’s Inman Square venture is one of two Cambridge restaurants, along with Kendall Square’s West Bridge, that were recently named to Bon Appetit magazine’s list of “50 Nominees for Best New Restaurant in America.” The two new kids on the block join already well-established Cambridge restaurants like Rialto, Oleana, Harvest, and Craigie On Main to form a veritable culinary powerhouse collection right in Harvard’s backyard. With so many top chefs jockeying for a position, Cambridge can now lay claim to being a fine dining destination. And you thought Harvard college life was competitive.
Origin Stories
Fresh from receiving a degree in anthropology from Brown, owner and founder of Rialto Jody Adams, like any college grad, wanted a job. She had worked in the food business her entire life—for a catering company, for a cooking class, for a cheese buyer—but never in a restaurant. She interviewed with Boston restaurateur Lydia Shire and was hired to work in her Seasons restaurant.
“I knew how to cook, I was a good cook, but I didn’t know how to cook in a restaurant. I was covered in burns and cuts and I was making mistakes and I got yelled at and I cried,” says Adams, sitting in her office in the Charles Hotel, surrounded by shelves of cookbooks.
She quickly rose through the ranks, from line chef to sous chef to head chef to the chef owner of Rialto 20 years ago. She became the sole owner in 2007, the same year Rialto was named one of the best restaraunts in the country by Esquire. She has garnered almost every conceivable award including being named the James Beard/Perrier-Jouet Best Chef of the Northeast in 1997.
For Adams, Cambridge’s culinary successes can be attributed to its talented, intelligent inhabitants as well as its history of forward thinking in the realm of dining.
“Cambridge, I think, is where the genesis of interesting, forward-thinking cooking started: at the Harvest,” she says. Adams refers to the Harvest restaurant, long a staple of any student’s Parents Weekend, which has been in Harvard Square since the 1970s. Adams’s husband worked at Harvest as a server in his twenties, one example of the many personal connections among Cambridge restaurant professionals.
“Harvest started as an intersection of food and design and big thinkers,” says current Harvest Executive Chef Mary Dumont.
In explaining Cambridge’s culinary successes Dumont emphasizes the residential nature of this college town. “I think the unique thing about Cambridge is that people are very, very thoughtful. The clientele tends to be not as transient as Boston. People tend to live and work here and it means something to them to support the restaurants that are in Cambridge,” she says.
Science of Simple Cooking
When Adams categorizes Harvest as a forward-thinking restaurant, she refers to its innovative emphasis on farm-to-table cooking. “Harvest was the first farm to table restaurant,” says Dumont protectively, noting that it was opened at the same time as Alice Waters’s Chez Panisse in California. “It was farm-to-table before people really knew what farm-to-table was.”
When Adams created Rialto, she, too, wanted her restaurant to focus on farm-to-table. In “Portlandia”-esque fashion, she initially listed the exact farm from which each item on her menu originated. “We made a commitment from the very beginning to work with farmers,” she says noting the environmental, health and taste benefits of using locally grown food.
The chef community in the early days of Rialto was very much connected to Harvard’s campus.  Harvard’s Schlesinger Library houses the papers of Julia Child, a culinary legend with many connections to Cambridge. Harvest is rumored to have been one of Child’s favorite restaurants, and the founders of Harvest, Ben and Jane Thompson, designed all the pottery that Child used on the set of her show. Child also happens to have been one of Adams’s mentors.
According to Adams, Schlesinger librarian Barbara Haber was interested in connecting with chefs and held Monday meetings there once a month, called First Mondays. Former Harvest chefs Chris Schlesinger and Steve Johnson were both First Mondays participants. “We’d go and just talk about various things that were happening in the food world,” says Adams. These meetings lead to the formation of the Boston network of Chefs Collaborative, a nonprofit focused on sustainable food.
Ana Sortun of Oleana is another Chefs Collaborative member. “The whole reason we [purchase directly from farmers] is that it tastes better,” says Sortun, who purchases her vegetables from Siena Farms, operated by her husband. “My husband grows the best vegetables that I’ve ever had in my life. No one can beat him as far as I’m concerned,” says Sortun.
Sortun opened Oleana “on a shoestring budget” in Inman Square. “We were looking for a space in a Cambridge neighborhood that had an off-the-beaten-path location,” says Sortun. “We felt like it was up-and-coming, and we got excited about being a part of that growth.”
Before opening Oleana, Sortun had worked at Casablanca and 8 Holyoke, the precursor to Sandrine’s. Oleana has since become a culinary landmark, and Sortun received a James Beard award of her own in 2005.
Sortun’s emphasis on simple ingredients contrasts with another major culinary trend: molecular gastronomy, pioneered by Catalonian chef Ferran Adrià, a culinary advisor to Harvard’s Science and Cooking course. Puritan & Company’s Gilson—who also buys his food straight from a farm, run by his father—doesn’t have much patience for the high-concept trend toward technical innovation in food.
“As a chef, you see kids coming out of culinary school that for a while all just wanted to do molecular gastronomy,” says Gilson. “And it’s like, ‘Yeah, but you still can’t chop, you still can’t make a sauce without having to read a recipe. You want to figure out a way to manipulate it rather than making it correctly the first way.”
He asks with a smile, “How many times do you want foie gras that you can tie into a knot?”
Adams also emphasizes simplicity over complicated scientific maneuverings to her cooking. “I like taking a fig and eating a fig,” she says, “as opposed to taking the fig and completely deconstructing it and blowing it up and freezing it and creating something that looks exactly like a fig but has a different flavor or a different texture.”
Still, Adams credits the pioneers of molecular gastronomy with pushing restaurants in new and exciting directions. “It’s a continuum. It’s ever changing and continues to be really exciting and sort of forward thinking because we have this international community of interesting thinkers here in Cambridge.”
Bridging the Gender Gap
Adams, Dumont, and Sortun, of Rialto, Harvest, and Oleana respectively, form a triumvirate of highly successful female executive chefs. Although more women than men enter culinary school every year, the number of male executive chefs far outstrips that of their female counterparts both nationally and globally.
“Restaurants are hard: If you want to have a family, if you want to have kids, it’s not easy,” says Adams, referencing the late, labor-intensive nights required for working in the industry. “Usually someone has to make a decision about what they’re gonna do in terms of their lives. In our case it was my husband who was the parent at home night in and night out with our kids.”
Still, Adams notes that there are many female head chefs, but they may not recieve the same level of recognition in the media. “If you look at publications of chefs, it’s either 100 percent men in the picture or mostly men in the picture,” she says. “The media is not seeking out women. They’re not making the effort to put women in the picture.”
She says that this disparity between achievement versus perception of achievement is one that women face “across the board in every field.” Adams goes on to reference a recent New York Times article about Harvard Business School’s struggles in enhancing female success at the school.
“It’s about creating a culture that allows for women to be successful,” she says. As an example, she recounts once noticing that the Rialto kitchen “was way out of whack in terms of the percentage of men to women. We asked what are we doing? Are we doing enough to make it a welcoming place?”
“I’ve noticed [the large number of female chefs],” says Dumont. “I’m not sure why it’s happened here, but I think it plays into the camaraderie we have and the admiration we have for one another.”
New Kids On The Block
The power trio has welcomed some new additions, both male and female, to the Cambridge restaurant scene. Alexis Gelburd-Kimler, manager, and chef Matthew Gaudet co-founded one of the latest culinary hotspots, West Bridge, a little over a year ago.
“I drove by the space every day on my way to Aquitaine, where Chef Matt and I worked together. And years before that, too, always saying to myself, ‘How is there not a restaurant in that space?’ When I started casually looking at spaces I went by it again for probably the 150th time and cold called it.” Gelburd-Kimler’s whim paid off. She claims to still watch the video of herself walking into the space for the first time.
Gelburd-Kimler, like Gilson, is a tattooed restaurateur adding an element of youth to the restaurant scene. “We want people to know that it’s possible to eat great food and listen to Jay-Z at the same time,” she says.
Hip-hop aside, her managerial decisions appear to be working. West Bridge is making waves in the Boston restaurant scene, also appearing on Bon Appetit’s Top 50 Best New Restaurants list.
Gelburd-Kimler recounts the initial shock of hearing about accolades that West Bridge has received. “When the Boston Globe review came in at 3-and-a-half stars, I cried my eyes out, got excited, and then freaked out because now the bar went from being not really set anywhere to being set really high. Every time you get accolades the bar gets set higher and higher, and people’s expectations change, and that’s scary.”
Gilson’s Puritan & Company has also enjoyed good reviews. “The reviews make us want to be even better,” he says. “[When] you start getting on list like Bon Appetit’s 50 Best New Restaurants, and you don’t make the 10, you want to strive for it.”
Gelburd-Kimler, who hails from New York, equates Cambridge with Brooklyn’s Park Slope neighborhood. “I myself am a little more of a free spirit, and Cambridge is filled with lots of free-spirited folks, from the students to the professionals to all different folks. Cambridge was where a restaurant had to be for me,” she says.
Gilson echoes Gelburd-Kimler’s praise for Cambridge. Besides Puritan & Company, he also founded the Cellar, located closer to Harvard’s campus, and has always been attracted to the “neighborhood vibe” of Cambridge. He tried unsuccessfully to purchase three different Inman Square locations before securing the space for Puritan & Company.
“For me, I’ve always enjoyed the fact that on either end of the street that my restaurant’s on is two little schools called Harvard and MIT. You’ve got some of the smartest people in the world going to school on either end of the street that you work on.”
Healthy Competition
This high level of camaraderie among chefs both female and male was one practically drilled into me throughout the course of my conversations. With so many talented chefs in the area, it would be easy to presume that the same sort of cutthroat competitive atmosphere would exist in Cambridge as it does in New York and San Francisco. Yet all the chefs insist that the Cambridge community is a supportive one. Still, one wonders if all this talent leaves them anxious about continuing to raise the bar.
Adams recalls seeing Gilson sitting down for many meals at the bar at Rialto. “I’ve been to his restaurant, and I think it’s great. The more restaurants the better. The more reason that someone has to think about Cambridge as a destination for food, the better off we all are,” says Adams.
She admits, however, that “there’s a healthy sense of competition.”  “We know that when one boat rises all boats rise. I don’t think there’s really edgy competition. It’s healthy. You have to be competitive if you want to be the best,” she says with the knowing smile of someone who has often been labeled “the best.”
Gelburd-Kimler shies away from any mention of the competitive nature of the restaurant business. “Jody’s much wiser than I am” she says. “It’s an intense, business but I would say the majority of the intensity comes from within. I try to not look at anything else and stay focused on our vision.”
“It’s a family and I’ve never seen anything quite like it,” she concludes, noting that West Bridge relied on the support of other restaurateurs in the area. “They would say, ‘don’t lose your mind this week, you got this.’”
Gilson, like Gelburd-Kimler, defers to the elder stateswomen of the Cambridge culinary scene. “I wouldn’t be able to run the kitchen the way that I do if I hadn’t learned how Ana Sortun does it, or if I hadn’t been to Rialto and watched Jody create a whole new bar section to her menu.”
The competition isn’t likely to die down, Sortun is opening a new restaraunt in nearby Summerville to be named “Sarma” in a matter of months.
“I don’t necessarily feel a lot of competition. I feel an admiration that this is a great city. I want to either learn from them and be with them,” says Dumont. She cites New York and San Francisco, two cities that she has previously worked in as places that experience an intense cutthroat competition.
“When people talk about great food cities they mention New York, San Francisco, and Chicago” muses Dumont. “I’ve worked in all of those cities and it doesn’t make any sense to me.” However, she concludes, “We’re too busy making good food to care.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Sept. 20, 2013
An earlier version of the caption accompanying the photo of Inman Square restaurant Puritan & Co. incorrectly stated the first name of the head chef. In fact, he is Will Gilson.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A recent Harvard School of Public Health study suggests that African Americans are more likely to experience “short” sleep—defined as fewer than seven hours per night—than white Americans.
Such findings could be dismissed as being attributed to socioeconomic disparities, but this survey, published last week in the American Journal of Epidemiology, compared African Americans and white Americans from the same work forces. The researchers surveyed more than 135,000 participants, and after adjusting for factors including age, demographic factors, and lifestyle habits, such as smoking, looked at the percent of people who had on average fewer than seven hours of sleep.
In all industries, except for retail and food, African Americans experienced “short” sleep more often than white Americans. Outside of the food and retail sectors, 42 percent of African Americans experience “short sleep” as compared to 26 percent of white Americans. The largest disparity in sleeping hours between races was among professionals, with 28 percent of white professionals experiencing “short sleep,” whereas 37 percent of black professionals did.
“This may suggest that American workplaces, or at least to succeed in certain professions, requires working very long hours in order to succeed,” said Harvard Medical School professor Susan Redline, one of the study’s authors. “The fact that you saw the biggest difference in African Americans made us postulate ‘John Henryism:’ that a minority that does well in society does so at an increased risk to his or her health.”
A variety of factors could be attributed to this lack of sleep, including workplace discrimination and lack of emotion and financial support networks.
“Considering history of this country, black professionals are more likely to be the first generation of college graduates and lack professional or social networks, whether emotional or financial,” said Chandra L. Jackson, a postdoctoral research fellow in the School of Public Health’s Department of Nutrition and the lead author of the study. “If you lack those supportive networks, you may have to work more.”
According to Jackson, implicit and explicit discrimination in the workplace can cause stress that could lead to lack of sleep.
“With limited resources for black professionals, there is evidence that in order to overcome stereotypes associated with their race they expend a lot of energy in order to prove, ‘I deserve to be here,’” Jackson said.
However, the authors note that it is important to consider different cultural factors and lifestyle habits that may lead to decreased sleep and that more research is necessary to determine exactly which factors are responsible.
“Insufficient sleep clearly impacts individuals of all socioeconomic statuses and is probably pervasive in many areas of society,” Redline said.
In terms of what changes could be made to the workplace in order to improve health conditions for all employees, Jackson suggested work site wellness programs that emphasize sleep as well as cultural sensitivity training for all workers.
—Staff writer Anneli L. Tostar can be reached at anneli.tostar@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @AnneliTostar.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Regular Yelp users may want to exercise caution next time they make a restaurant choice based on a handful of online reviews.
A recent study by Harvard Business School assistant professor Michael Luca and Boston University assistant professor Giorgos Zervas has found that small independent companies are the most likely type of business to solicit faked positive reviews on Yelp, the popular review website.
According to Luca, some businesses hoping to boost their Yelp ratings hire companies to post large numbers of fake reviews meant to look real. Others ask family members and friends to leave positive reviews for their company and negative reviews for competitors.
The Business School study found that restaurants with poor reputations stemming from low ratings or negative reviews were more likely to partake in review fraud.
In previous research, Luca discovered that a one-star increase on Yelp, where businesses can earn up to five stars, leads to an increase in revenue of five to nine percent.
“Online reviews are shockingly important for a small business that is trying to thrive. Five percent is enough of a difference in sales to make a business stay open or closed,” said Luca, adding that businesses are in an “arms race” to solicit the best reviews.
According to Zervas, Yelp’s own algorithms find that one out of five reviews submitted to the site are fake.
While Yelp attempts to relocate as many suspicious reviews as possible from the main site to a special filtered page, Zervas cautioned that “[Yelp] may misclassify them.” He said that this misclassification could lead to real reviews being filters while faked reviews end up published.
While the Business School study looked only at Yelp restaurant reviews, both researchers recognized that review fraud exists across businesses and online rating platforms.
“The high number of fake reviews on places like Yelp and TripAdvisor brings the credibility of the system into question,” said Luca.
Zervas advised consumers to evaluate online reviews from a more critical standpoint.
“I don’t look at the average rating. I think it’s misleading. Another major component of a business is how many reviews it has,” said Zervas. “Often I’m more confident in the quality of a business that has 3.5 stars and 100 reviews versus a company with 4 stars and 10 reviews.”
According to Luca, while many computer scientists are currently attempting to develop algorithms that might be used to more accurately weed out fake reviews, eradicating the problem entirely will take more than just advances in technology.
“The incentives are strong and the consequences are not serious enough,” Zervas said of review fraud. “I don’t see fake reviews disappearing anytime soon.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Speaking at Kirkland House at an event Wednesday night, Katharine D. Dukakis, alongside with her husband, former governor Michael S. Dukakis '60, called for an increased awareness to the benefits of electroconvulsive therapy, or ECT.
“I’m not sure I would be here if it were not for ECT,” said Mrs. Dukakis, who is also the author of the book “Shock: The Healing Power of Electroconvulsive Therapy.”
After seventeen years battling severe depression and alcoholism, Dukakis said ECT was the only treatment that managed to change her life.
Mrs. Dukakis said ECT—a therapeutic treatment that entails stimulation of the brain by an electric current—brought “complete relief” from her ongoing symptoms of depression.
In pushing for greater awareness of what she calls “the most successful treatment for depression there is,” Mrs. Dukakis also said she wanted to address the public stigma surrounding ECT.
She said that most people are not aware of the therapy and that it is therefore largely unknown.
While Mr. Dukakis said he hopes his wife’s success story with ECT could help others struggling with depression, he also added that millions of Americans may not have access to treatment of the quality that she received.
“You’d be disappointed with me if I didn’t suggest that there’s a political lesson here,” he said. “Quality mental health care is something that every American in this day and age should have.”
Many attendees said they found Mrs. Dukakis’s speech to be educational.
“I didn’t realize ECT was such an effective [treatment],” Amy M. Yin ’14 said. “I didn’t realize it was painless.”
Simon M. Thompson ’14 said that Mrs. Dukakis’s story was particularly thought-provoking given the recent push for mental health care reform on campus.
“We need to talk more honestly and openly about mental health on campus, especially since it’s an important issue that often stays in the shadows at Harvard,” said Thompson, who is also president of the Harvard College Democrats.
When asked about her opinions regarding mental health on college campuses, Mrs. Dukakis said that students sometimes find it difficult to seek help, but that “doesn’t have to happen.”
“It can make such a difference in one’s life to get this kind of help,” she said.
EDITOR’S NOTE: Sept. 19, 2013
After realizing that text inconsistent with our journalistic principles had been entered as the URL for this article, we immediately republished the story under a modified URL. We sincerely regret that this occurred.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While most Americans enjoy longer and healthier years of living, youth continues to struggle with anxiety and fitness, according to a paper co-written by professor of applied economics David M. Cutler ’87.
Using collected government-issued surveys and national morality data, researchers found improvements in the length and quality of life for the average American after examining trends in quality-adjusted life expectancy from 1987 to 2008. The findings were published last Thursday in the American Journal of Public Health.
“I think that the innovation of this study is that we worked with a lot of national data sources to really try to bring information together about as much of the population as we could,”  said Allison B. Rosen, a professor at the University of Massachusetts Medical School who co-wrote the paper. “We found that health has improved. Both life-expectancy has improved and the quality of life in those extra years has improved.”
Improvements in health, however, were not the same among all age groups. While anxiety declined significantly during the 2000s for the elderly, young adults—those around 25 years of age—did not exhibit a similar decrease.
“In our minds that’s an important trend to notice, but we haven’t gotten to a point where we can say what’s causing that yet,” Rosen said. “We haven’t seen similar increases of anxiety among the elderly, so it’s definitely something that’s occurring in the younger generation.”
Youth also showed impairments in physical fitness. Co-writer Susan Stewart, a researcher at the National Bureau of Economic Research, cited walking as one of the main problems faced by youth.
“We think it’s probably related to sedentary lifestyle and fitness, but these are speculative,” Stewart said.
S. Jay Olshansky, a professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago, remarked on the study’s innovative methodology, adding that the study “makes a valuable contribution to the literature by providing a level of detail in the analysis of life-expectancy that has not been done before.”
“I think a lot of people think when they see this study, it is a message that health is getting better in the nation,” Rosen said. “While that can be one message, I think the most important message is that we are actually capable of using existing national data of measuring the health of the nation and tracking it over time.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Sept. 20, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly named a fourth co-author on a recent paper on lifespan, anxiety, and fitness written by three researchers. In fact, the paper was not written by Otto Eckstein, who was a Harvard economics professor for several decades in the latter half of the 20th century. The article also misquoted co-author and National Bureau of Economic Research researcher Susan Stewart. In fact, Stewart said that walking problems among youth are likely related to “sedentary,” not “sanitary,” lifestyle and fitness.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A week  before Congress must pass a budget resolution partially focused on healthcare, the public perception of the financial state of Medicare contrasts significantly with the perception of policy experts, according to a study conducted by the Harvard Opinion Research Program.
While the public-at-large is predominantly opposed to any cuts in the Medicare program, experts maintain that reducing spending is crucial to balancing the federal budget, the report says.
“They don’t think Medicare spending is a big issue when considering the federal deficit,” said Robert J. Blendon, one of the report’s co-authors and a health policy professor at the Harvard School of Public Health. “They don’t favor a lot of the ideas that the academics believe.”
Published in the New England Journal of Medicine only weeks before Congress must pass a budget resolution, the study suggests that the gap between the public’s and experts’ views may have ramifications for lawmakers seeking a compromise.
The report, entitled “The Public and the Conflict Over Future Medicare Spending”, analyzed the results of six public opinion polls conducted in 2013 and compared the data with recent published reports on Medicare.
“Opinion polls express the level of understanding among the public, said Mary Ruggie, a public policy professor at the Harvard Kennedy School. “Right now there is so much confusion and plain concern and fear.”
In light of their analysis, the authors concluded that the majority of the public lacks an elementary understanding of the function and role of Medicare.
“One of the prevalent misconceptions is that most people think that Medicare works the way social security does, that you pay during your working career and a premium thereafter so you’ve paid your dues,” said John M. Benson, the report’s other author and managing director of the Harvard Opinion Research Program. “But the case is that people get far more benefits that they paid for”.
In addition to their findings on expert and public opinion, the authors said that Congressional candidates who favor major cuts in the program may face negative electoral backlash.
The report also says that the public is generally in favor of improving the program. In discussions of how to strengthen Medicare for future generations, Ruggie said the public should take more than just costs into account.
“One important thing to remember is that economists aren’t trying to cut spending,” Ruggie said. “They are trying to make Medicare more efficient”.
—Staff writer Fatima N. Mirza can be reached at fatima.mirza@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @fatimanmirza.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Student-athletes who voluntarily or involuntarily withdrew from Harvard for the 2012-2013 academic year due to their involvement in the Government 1310 cheating scandal could have hurt their teams’ scores in the Academic Progress Rating, an NCAA rankings metric that assesses collegiate programs’ academic performance.
A team’s APR score factors in both the retention and eligibility of its players. When student-athletes withdraw from Harvard, they generally either impact the retention or eligibility component of their team’s single-year APR score, depending on whether they leave before or after the study card deadline.
In the absence of any approved NCAA waiver exceptions, student-athletes who took a voluntary leave of absence from the College before the fall 2012 study card deadline likely would have negatively affected the retention component of their team’s 2011-2012 APR scores, which were released in June.
Again assuming that no waivers have been approved, student-athletes who voluntarily or involuntarily withdrew from the College after turning in their study cards that fall likely would have negatively affected the eligibility component of their team’s 2012-2013 APR scores, which will be released next summer.
This information was confirmed by a source in the Harvard Athletics Department, who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because of the sensitivity of the Government 1310 case.
Last fall’s cheating probe, believed to be the biggest in Harvard’s history, resulted in the investigation of approximately 125 students, about 70 of whom were forced to withdraw from Harvard during the 2012-2013 academic year for their involvement in the case.
As the scandal unfolded, media outlets reported that many of the involved students were athletes. The most prominent among those athletes were then-seniors Brandyn Curry and Kyle Casey, the co-captains of the men’s basketball team, who both voluntarily withdrew from the College before the study card deadline in fall 2012, a move that, if no NCAA waivers were filed, likely would have negatively affected the retention component of the team’s APR score. Because the two co-captains did not turn in their study cards, they likely were not factored into the eligibility component of the score.
The NCAA’s Academic Progress Rating gives individual teams a score out of 1,000 points, assigning each player up to four points for each academic year. Every semester, a student-athlete may receive one point for eligibility and another for retention. The team’s total points for any given academic year are then divided by the team’s potential points and multiplied by 1,000 to calculate its final score.
Six Harvard teams registered 2011-2012 APR scores below the national average for private institutions. Among those six teams was the men’s basketball team, which checked in with a score of 925—43 points below the four-year average for private institutions. The men’s basketball team’s 2011-2012 score was the lowest for the Ivy League across all schools and all sports, though it marked an increase over the score of the previous 2010-2011 season, 914.
In a report last week, Bloomberg suggested that the Harvard men’s basketball team’s below-average APR score for the 2011-2012 season indicated a “laggard” academic performance among players. Bloomberg also suggested that if such a pattern continues, the men’s basketball team, which will be playing for its third straight trip to the NCAA tournament this upcoming season, could be in danger of losing its postseason eligibility.
However, APR scores generally have little correlation with academic performance, according to the Athletics Department source. Harvard’s student-athletes may hurt their team’s score if they fail to pass two classes in a semester or six classes in a year—which happens rarely. Teams can also be docked if their players leave the College for any reason before or after the study card deadline—which happens usually because of injury, withdrawal, or other mitigating circumstances, the source said.
Additionally, internal Athletics Department calculations indicate that the men’s basketball team will receive a perfect APR score of 1,000 for the 2012-2013 academic year—bringing its scores well above the minimum multi-year threshold necessary for postseason eligibility, according to Tim Williamson, director of athletic communications.
Furthermore, the Athletics Department source said, the men’s basketball team’s APR score for the 2011-2012 may yet be revised upward. Harvard has filed for a waiver for Max Hooper, a transfer who left Harvard after the spring 2012 semester to play basketball at St. John’s University. Following the expected approval of the waiver this semester, Harvard’s Athletics Department expects the 2011-2012 APR score for the men’s basketball team to rise by 10 to 15 points. This boost would bring the team’s four-year average score to within eight points of the average score for private schools during that same four-year period.
The player whose waiver has already been filed is not the only player for whom Harvard could apply for a waiver that could affect its 2011-2012 APR scores. Gerald Gurney, a former senior associate athletic director for academics at the University of Oklahoma, speculated that when athletes withdrew from Harvard last fall, the school could have applied for  NCAA waivers to minimize the potential effect of departures on its programs’ APR scores.
The Athletics Department declined to comment on whether it had applied for waivers for other student-athletes.
Gurney, who is now an assistant professor at the University of Oklahoma, described a similar case he had handled with a student-athlete who had been suspended for a semester for academic dishonesty. Thanks to an approved waiver, that student’s suspension did not factor into his team’s APR score.
Gurney added he believes that little can be inferred from the APR rankings regarding teams’ academic performances. He cited the fact that APR considers only whether student-athletes stay in school and pass their classes, and does not account for GPA or adjust for academic rigor.
“[APR] is a meaningless metric,” Gurney said. “It says nothing about the quality of academic performance on the team.”
—Staff writer David P. Freed can be reached at david.freed@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @CrimsonDPFreed.
—Staff writer Michael D. Ledecky can be reached at michael.ledecky@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MDLedecky.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As construction on the Harvard Art Museums nears completion, staff are gearing up to prepare the interior of the former Fogg Museum for an anticipated opening in the fall of 2014, according to Director Thomas W. Lentz.
“The computer-generated images of the galleries look great,” said Jessica L. Martinez ’95, head of the Division of Academic and Public Programs for the Harvard Art Museums. “We’re ready to go.”
The Fogg Museum has been closed to the public since 2008, when construction began to unite the Fogg Art Museum, the Busch-Reisinger Museum, and the Arthur M. Sackler Museum within the single Harvard Art Museums.
But Daron J. Manoogian, director of communications for the Harvard Art Museums, said that the construction work on the museum should be finished by the end of this fall, leaving most of 2014 to ready the interior for visitors.
Staff will likely be “working right up until the opening,” Manoogian said.
Lentz said that the end of construction will be followed by a process called “commissioning,” which involves careful test runs of all internal systems, including climate control, fire alarms, and security technologies. He added that museums are “high-performance” buildings that must be programmed perfectly before artwork can be installed.
The Fogg’s renovation to become the new Harvard Art Museums has had its share of detours, according to Manoogian. Various plans called for demolition of the existing building and excavation of the site—neither of which came to fruition.
“Seeing the new construction come together over the past few months has been really exciting,” he said.
Martinez said that her department was created within the last year to replace the museum’s educational division and to facilitate the reintroduction of the renovated space to the Harvard campus and the community of Cambridge.
The Division of Academic and Public Programs is currently soliciting input from students, House masters, and other Harvard faculty to determine the best ways to launch the museum, Martinez said, and is also planning a number of introductory programs for the official opening next year.
According to Lentz, the lengthy project has been a significant learning experience for everyone at the Harvard Art Museums.
“Everyone at the museum knows a lot about art, but we don’t know a great deal about building an art museum,” said Lentz. “It’s rare, when you’ve been working so long, to have it become physical and tangible.”
—Staff writer Brianna D. MacGregor can be reached at brianna.macgregor@thecrimson. Follow her on Twitter @bdmacgregor.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With the help of a $15 million gift from one of the University’s most active donors, Harvard will create a new, fully endowed research center for African and African-American Studies next month, financially uniting seven existing initiatives and funding a handful of new programs in the field.
The new center, named the Hutchins Center for African and African American Research after the project’s chief donor Glenn H. Hutchins ’77, will officially launch on Oct. 2 with a ceremony in Sanders Theatre. Construction will begin shortly thereafter to expand and remodel the current home of the W.E.B. Du Bois Institute for African and African American Research and the other existing initiatives at 104 Mt. Auburn Street to house the Hutchins Center.
The announcement comes just days before the University launches what is expected to be a multibillion dollar capital campaign. Hutchins, the co-founder of the private equity firm Silver Lake, ia a co-chair of the campaign.
University professor Henry Louis Gates, Jr., who has been the director of the W.E.B. Du Bois Institute since its founding in 1991 and a close friend of Hutchins, helped secure the donation and will serve as founding director of the new center.
“It is one of the greatest days in the history of African and African-American study at Harvard or anywhere in the academy,” Gates told The Crimson on Wednesday. “This is the first research center of its kind to be fully endowed and operating on a major university campus.”
Along with the Du Bois Institute, the new center will encompass six existing African and African-American Studies entities already associated with Du Bois, including the Hiphop Archive and Research Institute, the Image of the Black Archive and Library, the Du Bois Review, Transition Magazine, the Neil L. and Angelica Zander Rudenstine Gallery, and the Hutchins Family Library.
The Hutchins Center will also become home to four new initiatives: the Afro-Latin American Research Institute, the History Design Studio, former Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds’s Program for the Study of Race and Gender in Science and Medicine, and the Ethelbert Cooper Gallery of African and African American Art. The gallery will fill 3,000 square feet of street front space next door to the DuBois Institute’s current office at 104 Mt. Auburn Street and house a collection of continental African and African-American art.
Gates said that Ghanian-British architect David Adjaye will design a new exterior uniting the two spaces. Gates said that he expects construction will be completed in early fall 2014.
Gates stressed the significance of having all the related initiatives in one place, saying that the combined center will allow for new styles of scholarship and interdisciplinary research, which will help Harvard stay at the forefront of the field.
“It will allow interdisciplinary work to go on implicitly because by having people with different takes or focuses on African-American or African studies all under one roof, cross pollination can occur effortlessly and this is one of the purposes of the Center,” Gates said.
Hutchins’ support for the new center comes from a $30 million pledge his family’s foundation made to the University in 2012, much of which was directed towards House renewal in the form of a gift and a commitment to match other gifts through the Hutchins Family Challenge Fund for House Renewal. Previously, Hutchins had also made a $1 million gift to the Du Bois Institute.
Gates said Hutchins has been instrumental in the intellectual founding of the center, a role he hopes Hutchins will continue to fill.
“I value his opinion as much as I value the opinion of anyone,” Gates said. “We want him to be an active participant in the intellectual life of the Center as well as its financial life.”
The University will mark the center’s launch with its annual awarding of the W.E.B. Du Bois Medal. The medal is Harvard’s most prestigious honor for work in the discipline of African and African American Studies and will be given to six recipients, including Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor. Hutchins won the Du Bois medal in 2006.
Also honored will be Valerie Jarrett, a senior advisor to President Obama, U.S. Rep. John R. Lewis of Georgia, film director Steven Spielberg, playwright Tony Kushner, and David J. Stern, former commissioner of the National Basketball Association.
—Staff writer Matthew Q. Clarida can be reached at matthewclarida@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MattClarida.
—Staff writer Nicholas P. Fandos can be reached at nicholas.fandos@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @npfandos.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Politics is a money game, according to Washington Post associate editor Robert G. Kaiser, who was interviewed at Harvard Wednesday by Lawrence Lessig, director of the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics at Harvard Law School.
The interview drew a full house of professionals, law students, and faculty to Harvard Law School’s Austin Hall and focused on the influence of donors and fundraising on American political culture.
Kaiser opened with a general overview of American political history, noting that a growth in campaign spending has fueled a corresponding rise in “demonizing” campaign commercials that are often less related to substantive policy and more concerned with strategic punch lines dictated by lobbyist interests.
“We’ve gone from the 1960s and ’70s where the top campaigns spent around $100,000, to the last campaign cycle where Senate campaigns have spent upwards of $40 million on running ads,” Kaiser said, expressing his doubts that donor-driven politics represented the best interests of constituents. “It’s a scary thing. You have these slick operators who elect people to these positions who have no qualifications in the field. It changes the nature of the people who want to do the job.”
When Lessig suggested that earmarks used for campaign purposes might embody an innovative collaboration between groups that need government funds and candidates who need organizational donations, Kaiser pushed back by questioning whether deserving groups actually receive the benefits promised by earmarks.
“[Earmarks] have built over time, and now it’s gotten so fat that [the government] has to pull back. Meanwhile, you have people who still need these services who aren’t getting them,” he said.
But Kaiser also cautioned against labeling lobbyists as politically corrupt.
“Lobbyists aren’t bad people. They’re just in a crummy business. Senior staff members usually go for lobbying, because the money is irresistible.”
During an open question period, audience members asked Kaiser for solutions to a problem he spent the evening painting as seemingly insurmountable.
“Do you think it’s possible for legislation to get us out of this?” said Bill Ostran, a professional from San Luis Obispo, California.
Kaiser’s response placed much of the responsibility on those seeking office.
“We’ve developed already a large class of politicians who are used to it,” he said. “The issue starts with them.”
Lien E. Le ’17 saw Kaiser’s remarks as a call to action.
“The lack of true policy-making in Congress is shocking, to say the least,” she said. “Kaiser opened my eyes to what the political culture in America has become—it’s time to fix it.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite the sweltering heat a few days ago, it seems as if fall is coming early to Boston. Not discouraged by the dwindling temperatures and cooler breezes, Crimson athletes were involved in plenty of action this week, and The Back Page notes a few that put in superlative performances.
Tiffany Lim, Women’s Golf
Princeton lost to Harvard by only one stroke for the Ivy title at the end of last season, so Harvard’s twelve-stroke victory on the Tigers’ home turf is distinctly impressive. That victory came on the back of a monster performance by Tiffany Lim. The junior set the female course record in Springdale, New Jersey, with a six-under par round of 66 on Saturday morning, eventually easing to the individual title by three strokes.
Sarah Finnemore, Women’s Field Hockey 
It had been a rough start for Harvard field hockey with two losses to start the season, but that all changed on Friday night when the team put Holy Cross on the business end of a 4-0 drubbing. Freshman Sarah Finnemore sparked the rout for the Crimson, who had been held scoreless in the first half, by opening the scoring in the 51st minute. Three more swift goals followed in the next fifteen minutes with Finnemore adding another goal to give her a brace for the day. The freshman has now scored over half of the team’s goals to this point in the season.
Margaret Purce, Women’s Soccer 
Women’s soccer had also failed to win until this Sunday, when the 1-0 scoreline failed to do justice to their dominance over LIU Brooklyn. The Blackbirds did not even get a single shot off in the second half, and the difference was a first half goal from freshman Margaret Purce. The rookie now has two goals for the season and, fresh off playing in the U-17 CONCACAF championships while in high school, will be looking to add to her total in the coming weeks.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Problem sets are already starting to roll in and the work of the semester is actually beginning to sink in, but don’t lose hope. The fall brings another season of Crimson sports, and here are five games to look forward to.
 Harvard Football vs. Yale, November 23 
It’s called “The Game” for a reason. The one time each year the entire student body rallies against a common enemy should be the primary date in your Crimson sporting calendar. Don’t stay at home for this one.
 Harvard Crew, Head of the Charles Regatta, October 19-20 
One of the spectator events of the fall season occurs right on our doorstep. Take a day, wander down to the river, and enjoy some of the best rowing competition in the world. What more do you want?
 Harvard Football vs. Princeton, October 26 
After last season’s gut-wrenching defeat to an incredible fourth quarter comeback by Princeton, the Crimson will be gunning for revenge when the Tigers come to Cambridge in late October. The game also has the potential to be crucial for deciding the Ivy title, adding more fuel to the fire.
 Harvard Women’s Ice Hockey vs. Cornell, November 15 
These teams were dead even last year, splitting their regular season meetings and the ECAC regular season title before Cornell edged Harvard out in the final of the ECAC conference tournament. Traditionally, the men’s rivalry has been fiercer, but this year, it may be that the women’s games will be the most intense.
 Men’s Basketball vs. Holy Cross @ TD Garden, November 10 
In case you hadn’t heard, men’s basketball might be really good this year – like really good. The team opens their season heavily favored against a Holy Cross team, but what a great venue. Playing at the TD Garden in front of the national media, you can be sure that Tommy Amaker’s boys will do their best to put on a show.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Coming into the 2012 season, then-starting quarterback Colton Chapple had seven collegiate starts under his belt. One year, over 2,500 passing yards, and 24 record-breaking touchdowns later, junior quarterback Conner Hempel looks to take the helm and attempt to continue Chapple’s legacy.
But Hempel has an additional hurdle to pass this Saturday when Harvard travels to San Diego to take on the Toreros: he has never started a game for the Crimson.
With senior quarterback Michael Pruneau out with a torn ACL for the entire 2012 campaign, Hempel became Chapple’s backup last season. The Kentucky native appeared in three contests and displayed some of his own dual-threat offensive skills, which Chapple was well known for, against Columbia, passing for 67 yards and rushing for another 28.
Hempel headlined Harvard’s spring intrasquad scrimmage, taking the number-one reps and finishing 13-22 with 113 yards to lead the quarterbacks with Pruneau sidelined.
The junior vied with Pruneau in a hotly contested competition for the starting spot with neither holding a clear edge throughout preseason practice. In what Hempel described as a “friendly battle,” both signal-callers appeared about even, with Hempel holding the advantage in snaps and Pruneau being one year older. But coach Tim Murphy pointed to Hempel’s advantage in experience under center as the final deciding factor.
“I feel like we could be successful with both kids, but Conner’s just more experienced through no fault of Mike’s—it’s just that Mike has missed so much,” Murphy said. “During that time, Conner was getting the number two reps… and then Conner’s gotten most of the number one reps throughout preseason. I think the sheer volume of reps compared to Mike has helped him to win the battle, and I think he’s going to be a very good quarterback.”
Saturday will be Hempel’s first real test under center as Harvard takes on San Diego in a hostile road environment, but having roomed with Chapple in his senior spring semester and spending the past three years mastering the Crimson playbook, Hempel feels ready to take the reins from his mentor.
“It feels great,” Hempel said. “I’m tremendously honored, coming after Colton Chapple and all of the great quarterbacks behind him, it’s just a great honor. I look forward to getting after game one in my first start.”
—Staff writer Samantha Lin can be reached at samantha.lin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @linsamnity.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The last time the Harvard women’s volleyball team faced off against UMass Lowell, not a single member of Wednesday’s team had even been born. But just like the last time the Crimson played the River Hawks, Harvard emerged dominant.
On Wednesday night in the Malkin Athletic Center, Harvard (4-2) polished off UMass Lowell (0-8) in its quickest victory yet. The Crimson vanquished their opponents in a trio of straight sets that saw at least a nine-point margin of victory in each frame, 25-16 in the first and 25-13 in the second and third sets. Harvard led the River Hawks for nearly the whole match, trailing for just one point at the start of the second frame.
“I think the overall chemistry and keeping our composure on court is always important,” said Harvard head coach Jennifer Weiss. “I think our ball control was solid, and we were serving aggressively. That was one of our focuses, to really serve hard today, and we stayed with that game plan.”
The Crimson served an impressive 13 total aces over three sets. The team has not seen double-digits in service aces while any of the current members of the team have been at Harvard.
Already off to a powerful start this season, freshman Corinne Bain had her fourth game nearly netting a triple-double. The setter notched 16 assists, nine digs, and seven service aces. Bain also drilled five kills on 11 total attacks.
“I always stick to the same serving method that I have,” Bain said. “I’ve had it for a while, and it’s kind of based on how the other team responds to it. I try to keep what I can control on my side.”
Bain, who assumed a starting role in the contest, was not the only freshman to receive significant playing time. Outside hitter Grace Weghorst and middle blocker Jane Labanowski also took to the court, playing in the second and third sets. Labanowski struck three kills on six attacks while Weghorst hit six kills on nine attacks.
“Since day one of preseason, the goal has been to get them integrated in the group,” Weiss said. “As a group, they’ve been fabulous. They fit right in, they’re easy to get along with, and they fit right into our system.”
Veterans also contributed to the Harvard sweep. Co-captain Natalie Doyle, starting at libero, played all three sets and dove for 14 digs against a mostly weak River Hawks attack unit.
UMass Lowell, which has yet to win a game this season, struggled to find an offensive rhythm against Harvard. Sophomore middle hitter Anisa Smith led at the net with a team-high six kills, as the team stumbled with just 19 total kills and a hitting percentage of .067.
The River Hawks recorded 14 attack errors, causing three players to have hitting percentages below zero. As a contrast, the Crimson tallied 39 kills over the three sets, an overall hitting percentage of .351, and four players recorded a hitting percentage at or above .500.
“Right from the start, we had a fast offense,” Bain said. “That really helps us do well in these games, and I think we’ll continue to develop it and make it something that will hopefully win us the Ivy title.”
Sophomore middle blocker Caroline Holte brought the fire at the net for Harvard, with a game-high eight kills. Holte was trailed by junior co-captain Kristen Casey and her seven kills. Casey has made the return this season to a hitting position after spending her sophomore season as libero.
While the Crimson currently ranks in the top 25 in the NCAA for blocks per set, at 2.77 per stanza, a lack of pressure at the attack from their opponent yielded just one team block through the entire hour of play.
The win leaves the Harvard squad with just three more non-conference meetings before the start of the Ancient Eight season on September 27 against Dartmouth.
“I’m super excited to get into Ivy play because I think that’s some really good competition for us that’s at our same level, and it’ll be great to see how we respond to that,” Bain said.
—Staff writer Cordelia F. Mendez can be reached at cordelia.mendez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter                                         @CrimsonCordelia.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
Hey fellow freshmen! As we wrap up our first few weeks at Harvard, here's a short list of lessons learned. Stay tuned for more as the school year progresses.
1) Taping Insomnia Cookies’ menu to our common room wall was a terrible idea (and not just for labor reasons).
One desperate Saturday, my suitemates and I had just come back home from yet another night of going on the “freshman prowl” (a.k.a. looking for any semblance of a party to get into). We convinced ourselves that we probably burned off enough many calories from walking all over campus that we could afford to split 12 Insomnia Cookies between the five of us. It was a good decision at the time, but since then, the take-out menu they gave us with our box of cookies has held a sacred place on our common room wall. We worship it on a daily basis, trying to find any and every reason to order a box of cookies after shoving our face with Cinnamon Toasters at Brain Break. I think I’ll stop here before this devolves into your typical freshman girl lamenting, “Freshman fifteen? I’m on the path to freshman fifty.”
2) Don’t celebrate prematurely about having an in-suite bathroom.
When I first got my housing assignment over the summer, I pulled the humble brag on my aunt by telling her that while I loved the “college essentials package” she’d gotten for me, I wouldn’t be needing the shower caddy bag because I had my own in-suite bathroom. Unfortunately, when she comes to visit in October, I’ll be way too embarrassed to even show her our bathroom. Let’s just say that the dark bath mat you see used to be a very nice shade of white, and we’ve run out of inventive ways to shove more trash into an overflowing bathroom wastebasket.
3) As tempting as it is to brand myself as a hipster music lover, the truth will eventually out itself.
My Gov 20 section is tomorrow morning, and I’ve purposely hidden my course pack inside the furthest depths of my closet. The only thing I want to do now is hang out with Taylor Swift, who can promise that our pain (hers because of attractive boys inducing teardrops on her guitar, mine because of chapters upon chapters of reading) will eventually be okay. Too bad I can’t do that though because I wanted to be the cool and hip roommate in our suite and told everyone in our first roommate Facebook group chat that I “only love alternative music, like Bon Iver and Passion Pit.”
4) Ambitious plans to go to the MAC every weekday morning only end in severe disappointment.
My parents raised their eyebrows the minute I came back from my FOP trip and announced I would be needing my sports bras and gym shorts (after a lifetime of inactivity) for “going to the gym." I had it all planned out—I would turn a new leaf in college and not spending all my free time re-watching "Girls" while stuffing myself with tortilla chips and mango salsa.
Much to everyone’s surprise, I did get up at 7 a.m. every morning during orientation week and beamed in  self-congratulation as I used the elliptical, albeit awkwardly, at the MAC. The habit quickly died when shopping week started, and that 7 a.m. alarm has progressively gotten later and later in increments of 15 minutes (it’s currently at 9, in case anyone is wondering).
Sections
As we find ourselves in the midst of voting for Undergraduate Council representatives, hopeful and naïve freshmen are spreading their campaign spirit around the Yard. They make the age-old promises of longer Annenberg hours, free printing, and more vending machines. While the platforms remain the same, this year marks the first time that many of the candidates are reaching for video cameras—albeit poor quality ones—to campaign. Given the overwhelming number of unfamiliar faces and overly perky door-to-door campaigners, we at Flyby are going out of our way to help you with the incredibly important task of choosing the perfect representative. You're welcome.
If you want more naked men in your yard, vote Akshar Bonu for Ivy Yard: 
Akshar Bonu '17 makes heavy use of eye candy throughout his video, featuring shirtless guys provocatively posing around various spots in Harvard Yard, because "studies have shown that you'd rather listen to a hot guy than listen to me." Bonu decided to make the video, he said, because he hoped it would “help [him] stand out in the race,” and that it did. In college, anything that leads to less clothing is always the best way to go... right?
…but if you want class and bowties, Ivy Yard, Stephen Turban is the man for you: 
Stephen A. Turban '17 calls his video his “love child,” though unfortunately it is accessible only to members of the Harvard 2017 Facebook group. But fear not; we will try our best to make it come alive for you.  A memorable moment in the video comes as Turban lifts his leg up on top of a printer, citing his “large” endowments. After a brief moment of some confusion, we are distracted by the fact that this kid is wearing a bowtie. He could probably murder a puppy and we couldn’t help but forgive him. It’s all in the bowtie, folks.
 
For a no-holds-barred candidate, vote Danny Banks, Elm Yard: 
Opening his video with a Old Spice parody—because that’s never been done before!—Danny V. Banks '17 reminds us that he is “just a compassionate, friendly guy” as half his face gets cut off by the camera. Of the video, Banks said that it was all very spontaneous. “We just went into Cambridge with an iPhone and did whatever,” he told The Crimson. At first, viewers might feel pity for the freshman, but then appreciate him for his bravery. He is, after all, just putting himself out there.
Citizens of Oak Yard, his name is William Greenlaw:
William A. Greenlaw '17 stands out with the only serious video in the race, though its seriousness may prove amusing in itself. “The video was actually a class project from last year that happened to work well for this campaign,” Greenlaw said. Viewers get a slideshow of various pictures of him captioned with presidential adjectives like “Diplomatic” and “Charismatic.” As you watch this video, you’ll probably ponder your life, wonder where you’re headed, and you might even cry. There’s no doubt that Greenlaw has a much better camera than anybody else on this list. That in itself may be the reason to vote for him. But “those aren’t real kids I’m reading to, they were kids from my class," Greenlaw said to The Crimson."One of them has sideburns.” The man’s a true politician.
And finally, someone who is likely to actually make a difference:System Error: File does not exist
Sections
Warm weather returns, giving us hope for a few more weeks of summer here at Harvard. Get out in the sun!
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
Today will be another sunny day in Cambridge, with a high of 77 and a 0% chance of rain.
IN THE D-HALLS
On the Lunch Menu:Chicken FingersPepperoni PizzaChipotle Black Bean Burger
On the Dinner Menu:Cajun SalmonChicken Tikka MasalaVegetarian Loco Moco
ON CAMPUS
Environmental TED Talks: Monthly Brown Bag Lunch/ Movie ScreeningJoin the FAS Green Program for an hour of TED talks on people, government and technology-driven strategies for energy reduction. Bring your own lunch, though some snacks will be provided. 12 pm. - 1 p.m., Mallinckrodt 102.
OCS Insider Tips: Crimson Careers and Going GlobalGet a guided tour through advanced job and internships searches via Crimson Careers, iNET, UCAN and Going Global. 12 p.m. - 1 p.m., 54 Dunster Street. Register here.
Info Session: Postgraduate Fellowships to Asia, France, Germany, and the UKCome learn about fellowship opportunities abroad offered through the Committee on General Scholarships. 4 p.m. - 5 p.m., Barker Center 133.
500 Years of Machiavelli's "The Prince"A two-day conference honoring the 500th Anniversary of the completion of Machiavelli's "opuscolo," "The Prince." The conference will have four panels over two days. Visit the PCG website for the complete conference schedule. 4 p.m. - 6 p.m., CGIS South Building, Room S020.
IN THE SQUARE
Bobby Keyes at the Beat HotelAccording to the venue's website, Bobby Keyes is "a master guitar-player as well as a prolific songwriter, producer, and recording engineer who has been performing and writing for 30 years." His music blends rhythm & blues, country, jazz, rock, pop and swing. 9 p.m., 13 Brattle Street.
Sections
Harvard freshmen, it’s that time again: UC elections are in full swing. You, the voter, have an important decision to make. Who will represent you on the UC, to make sure that your oh-so-significant problems get heard? You have to choose.
Here are a few candidates you might encounter on the campaign trail.
The Unsatisfied Diner
This candidate insists that the administration unequivocally refuses to provide you with adequate nourishment—and he's ready to fight back. The world won't be perfect until Annenberg is serving steaks and ice cream 24 hours a day. Among the mostly-sane student population, everyone realizes that his "practical solutions" have one basic flaw: there isn't really a problem to begin with.
The Future Politician
Looking polished in their skirt suit or necktie, this candidate has spent entire days in the Yard shaking hands, stopping classmates for posed photos, and maybe kissing a tourist's baby. Visions of grandeur drive their candidacy: First UC freshman rep, then UC President, then… on to the Senate. No issue is too small.
The key, of course, is communication: he or she will be at your beck and call, ready to represent you, the vulnerable student, helpless without the defense of the UC.
The Invisible Candidate
Her posters are plastering your entryway walls, but you've never even seen her… and no one else you know has either. Does she even go here?
The Write-In
This guy didn't declare his candidacy early enough to make it onto the ballot. But don't worry, he's definitely reliable enough to represent you. Just don't forget how to spell his 16 letter last name—wouldn't want those votes to be disqualified!
The Facebooker
This person's campaign is in full swing—on Facebook. Maybe you've seen her in real life, but you've never seen her talk to anyone. On social media, though, she's ready to rep you on the Council. Her minute-by-minute campaign posts, well-photoshopped posters, and well-designed campaign page (with a whole 5 likes!) in the class page certainly demonstrate her communication skills. She also has the connections to keep our class unified; she did friend everyone before you arrived on campus. 
The Room Invader
What's that knock on your door?, you wonder to yourself. A locked out roommate? Opportunity, perhaps? Alas, opportunity has passed you over. Instead, it's the Room Invader, making a quick campaign stop. You were about to take a nap? Tough. Once this candidate's nose is in the door, he's going to tell you why you should choose him for the lofty perch of UC Rep, whether you care or not. Sit back on your brand new used futon and relax, he says. “The presentation will be over in 5 to 7 minutes, depending on your questions.”
The Regular Guy
Among the candidates who don't quite strike your fancy—maybe their jokes fall flat, maybe they tried too hard, maybe they aren't on the ballot—is one person who seems like she might actually do a good job. She seems level-headed, she’s funny enough but not too funny, she has good ideas that aren't outrageous, and she seems reliable. Only one problem: the regular guy never wins. One of the crazies always comes out on top.
Ready to choose?
Armed with your newfound understanding of your choices, you, oh wise and powerful voter, must head to the polls. Voting is open until Friday, September 20th, at 6 p.m. 
One final word of comfort: if all else fails, you can always vote for Pedro.
Sections
After the maze of hundreds of clubs, free candy, and aggressive upperclassmen recruiters that marked the activities fair, some freshmen (and upperclassmen!) may still find themselves in a daze, unable to decide what student organizations to comp or join this fall. Flyby is pleased to present a carefully-prepared flowchart designed to help you find the student organization that is right for you.
Click for a larger version of the flowchart.
