News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dear President Faust,
During this past academic year, we have called upon Harvard to divest from the top 200 fossil fuel companies that own the majority of the world’s fossil fuel reserves.  By sponsoring climate change through our investments, our University is threatening our generation’s future. On April 11, students will gather in the Yard to show their support for divestment, and we hope that you will be able to join us.
Fossil fuel companies are corrupt institutions. They have exploited their workers, violated treaty rights of indigenous groups, and poisoned local communities with little risk of retribution from these marginalized populations. Internationally, these corporations have allegedly been complicit in torture and murder as a means of protecting their reserves. In some cases, they have even been accused of provoking the execution of activists who opposed them.
The business practices of these corporations are directly linked to accelerating global warming. If these companies burn more than 20 percent of their reserves, our planet will likely be locked into irreversible warming at a rate above two degrees Celsius. Scientists agree that this will have devastating consequences. Human health, clean water, clean air, and reliable food supply will all be compromised by the widespread effects of climate change. Fossil fuel executives are choosing to sacrifice the wellbeing of our society in favor of their short-term profits. By investing in these companies, we are making the same choice.
The dominance of the fossil fuel industry is clearly incongruous with the futures of Harvard students and of our planet. The question is: How do we pass meaningful climate legislation that will reduce carbon emissions and promote renewable energy?
Last semester, you claimed that “our most effective impact on climate change is not going to come through any kind of divestment activity. It’s going to come through what we do with our teaching, our research, the people...we support.” Addressing climate change through academic pursuits and the endowment are not mutually exclusive. The urgency of climate change demands action on several fronts. The university is fully capable of continuing academic work in areas such as climatology and environmental engineering without purchasing fossil fuel stocks.
It is intellectually inconsistent for Harvard to invest in fossil fuel companies while our faculty publicize the consequences of inaction on climate change and continued fossil fuel use. Furthermore, companies such as ExxonMobil have spent millions of dollars on, the words of the Union of Concerned Scientists, “disinformation tactics...that seek to confuse the public on global warming science.” Scientific discourse should not be controlled by the biggest spenders. Harvard should not associate with companies that actively undermine the conclusions of our research and education.
We cannot rely solely on political pressure to weaken the industry and pass climate legislation. On February 17, 50,000 people rallied outside the White House to protest the Keystone XL pipeline. It was the largest climate rally in history, and individuals showed President Obama and elected officials that they were serious about stopping tar sands extraction. Yet a few weeks later, the Senate passed a non-binding approval of the pipeline, despite recent public opposition. Unsurprisingly, senators who voted in favor of Keystone received, according to a study by Oil Change International, 3.5 times more money on average from the fossil fuel industry than Keystone opponents.
Since neither research nor education nor the largest climate rally in history can make a dent, we must divest from the fossil fuel industry. It has actively chosen to profit from destruction. By investing in this industry, Harvard has made the same choice. But we can change course, divest from major fossil fuel companies, and refuse to support their business model.
We invite you to meet with us on Thursday, April 11 at 4:30 p.m. outside Massachusetts Hall at our rally for divestment. You can directly hear from your students on why divesting from the top 200 fossil fuel companies is necessary. At that time, we’d like to deliver to you over 1,100 student signatures and over 125 alumni signatures that we have collected in support of fossil fuel divestment.
If you are not available to meet with us at that time, we request that you send one of Harvard’s vice presidents or a member of the Harvard Corporation in your place.
Sincerely,
The Divest Harvard Team
A Campaign of Harvard Students for a Just and Stable Future
www.divestharvard.com
Pennilynn R. Stahl ’15 is a joint Women, Gender, and Sexuality and English in Mather House. Chloe S. Maxmin ’15, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Leverett House. Krishna Dasaratha ’13 is a mathematics concentrator in Quincy House. They are members of Divest Harvard. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A bit of homesickness and a good airfare deal brought me back to Italy for spring break. Travelling home confronted me with some questions of identity and choices, which I believe lie at the back of the mind for many students who hail from overseas—and which are especially loud for those who are the first in their families to attend a university. Engrossed in the reality of my town, where customs and concerns always feel so different from those that preoccupy me at Harvard, I could not help but ask how going to university in the United States has changed my relationship to my homeland. There is a certain atmosphere home that I now perceive more strongly: Together with the warmth of voices speaking a familiar Southern dialect, I could sense a numb hopelessness at a rapidly precipitating economic situation, at rampant corruption, and at the seemingly inescapable conditions of unemployment and lack of opportunities that trouble even the brightest of my peers.
Childhood friends told me again and again never to come back to a place that they thought ill-fated; family members similarly urged me to seek a good life far away; I wondered in turn if all this advice made sense to me. Going? Staying? Can it be true that my country has nothing more to offer me, or that I have nothing more to offer to my land? I want to believe that this is not the case. There has to be a way to take full advantage of all the opportunities I am now fortunate enough have, without putting aside my home country and my identity as a citizen of Italy for a long period of my life.
If one thinks along merely economic lines, then the “brain drain” is not necessarily a bad phenomenon, although the expression itself does characterize fleeing young students and workers somewhat negatively. It is rational that one should seek to study and be employed where his or her productivity is highest, the argument goes, and the resources that a nation does not spend on the education and training of one fleeing national will after all be available for the instruction of another one who stays. There is certainly nothing wrong with the decision to leave made by many, but there are also deep emotional implications whenever the question of leaving or staying is brought into play: The idea of seeking permanent or semi-permanent employment outside of my home country feels more and more like the plan to abandon a beloved boat, its crew, and its passengers when the waters start getting a bit troubled, without seeking to lend a hand in rougher times.
So here is another lesson from classical economics, that of diminishing marginal returns: Wherever a situation is bad, there is the greatest potential for improvement. Granted, for many international students working in the United States after graduation might signify living in a society that affords significantly lower levels of corruption, higher standards of life, and even more social tolerance. (Think of same-sex unions, which are a distant dream in Italy as well as in many countries around the world.) But there must be rewards in going back as well, perhaps at the cost of greater challenges. The very fact that the home countries of many of Harvard’s international students are not doing as well as the United States means that there is more room to do better and sow the seeds for something good, with the right spirit of entrepreneurship and patience.
My parents, who have lived a modest life in the Italian suburbs, were emotional when they pointed out to me that my life is my own only, and so are all my decisions, as I presented them with my thoughts and hesitations.  Sometimes it is not easy to confront the gap between the two different realities of home and college without being assailed by doubts and uncertainty. Looking at Harvard’s driven, meritocratic atmosphere, and then at the cherished but languishing environment of home, one really wonders if there is much that can be done by going back, or if attachment to one’s homeland is just naïveté in the face of a harsher reality. These are questions that form part of the college experience for a first-generation international student.
Perhaps it is because of my young age and limited experience that I see such a dichotomy between leaving and staying, and time will show that all can be reconciled. As of now, I however refuse to accept the sense of resignation that I am so often faced with when I go home, and the assumptions made by friends and family that I should want never to go back. There is much that can be done, and many opportunities for those who choose to return to their home countries.
Antonio Coppola ’16, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Hollis Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I’m 19 years old.  I can buy a lottery ticket.  I can drive my car across the country.  I can vote and help determine the president.  I can become my younger brother’s legal guardian.  I can enlist in the army and risk getting shot to death on the front lines.  I can buy and smoke cigarettes that could turn my lungs black, shriveled, and cancer-ridden.  But I cannot enjoy a glass of wine with dinner or sip a beer as I watch the Superbowl.
In 1984, Congress passed the National Minimum Drinking Age Act, which raised the drinking age in the United States from 18 to 21. Nearly two decades later, the law still makes little sense. Not only is the law incongruous with government’s having deemed 18-year-olds mature enough to act as adults in almost every other aspect of their lives, but prohibiting college students from consuming alcohol in the open promotes a dangerous culture of binge drinking behind closed doors.
Though underage alcohol consumption has lessened since the early 1980s, about 90 percent of that drinking takes on the form of binging, or having enough drinks to raise blood alcohol concentration to 0.08.  That number drops to a little over 50 percent for adults over 21.  Clearly, something beyond the thrill of being young, wild, and free pushes college-age students to drink dangerously.
If young adults could drink publicly without the threat of punishment, they would cease to see alcohol as a forbidden fruit on which they must gorge themselves while they have the chance. After all, conventions like pre-gaming—drinking quickly and copiously before an outing where alcohol may not be available or permitted—only became a phenomenon after the drinking age was raised.  If, for example, students were used to having wine at dinner with their parents or meeting friends at bars to share only one or two beers, they would be less likely to indulge in more harmful modes of drinking.
What’s more, when students do binge drink and become ill, they are often reluctant to seek help for fear of being disciplined. This may not pose a huge problem at a school like Harvard, where an amnesty policy assures inebriated students and their friends that they will face no penalty for looking to College residential staff or HUPD for assistance with alcohol poisoning, but it certainly threatens students at schools who may be less forgiving.  Making drinking at the age of 18 legal would encourage students to get medical aid when necessary. In short, it would save lives.
Of course, one of the primary goals of the National Minimum Drinking Act was to reduce drunk-driving related deaths.  And on that count, it appears the law has succeeded: Deaths in crashes have decreased by approximately 16 percent.  Even if deaths caused by binge drinking numerically cancel out deaths caused by drunk driving, the law might still have achieved a net good.  After all, those who suffer from alcohol poisoning usually brought the illness on themselves.  In many drunk-driving accidents, on the other hand, some victims are completely innocent of any wrongdoing.  While a student who chokes on his vomit after drinking likely cracked open each and every can of beer that brought him to that point, a couple killed driving home from the movies probably had no control over the speeding vehicle that swerved into their lane.
The goal, then, must be to lower the drinking age while still keeping drunk-driving to a minimum.  One thing that can help achieve that goal is even more alcohol education. Increased efforts in the past decade to educate teenagers about the risks presented by alcohol have undoubtedly contributed, along with the higher drinking age, to the reduction in drunk driving.  If the drinking age is changed back to 18, a stepped-up effort to increase awareness about the hazards of alcohol should come with it.  In addition, the government could see to that people caught driving drunk—especially those under 21—faced more severe consequences, like the revocation of their drivers’ licenses for an extended period of time on the first offense.
When it comes down to it, the high drinking age in the United States treats citizens who are adults in every other sense like children and spurs those citizens to engage in irresponsible, detrimental behavior.  The government could solve these issues by lowering the age back to where it once was, while instituting a series of measures to crack down on drunk driving.
That way, we can have our beer and drink it, too.
Molly L. Roberts ’16, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Holworthy Hall. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays. Follow her on Twitter at @mollylroberts.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds’s admission that she ordered two additional, previously unreported searches of a resident dean’s email accounts comes as  shocking, disappointing, and disheartening news to the Harvard community. Hammonds not only authorized the second round of searches without necessary permission of the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith but also made a false statement to the press in which she and Smith said no additional searches had taken place. Nearly a year after the now-infamous Government 1310: "Introduction to Congress" final exam took place, the University community continues to receive news of missteps that threaten the trust essential to an academic environment. In the weeks ahead, the administration must reach out to the community to rebuild that trust. Since Hammonds provided misinformation regarding the highly sensitive issue of email searches, and since she violated clear policy regarding those searches, her presence at the helm of the College stands as a roadblock to rebuilding trust between students, faculty, and the administration. For the good of the University, Hammonds must resign.
While Hammonds’s apology to the faculty is admirable, it must be clear to every member of this community that actions have consequences. We must assume that Hammonds acted at all times with the best intentions of protecting student confidentiality and the integrity of the Ad Board process. Yet the inescapable fact is that Hammonds ordered two email searches—searches which are said to be conducted “very, very rarely”—and then “fail[ed] to recollect” her own, highly unusual authorization at the time of her March 11 statement on the first round of searches in March. After those searches, she inexplicably circumvented the requirement that Smith approve faculty email searches, and then promptly forgot about it. At a minimum, Hammonds negligently disregarded faculty legislation and breached the community’s trust. Her conduct is not acceptable for a Dean of Harvard College.
To further aggravate the air of mistrust surrounding Hammonds and the administration, additional searches came to light even after the administration made their disclosures at the faculty meeting. Smith and Hammonds failed to report that Secretary of the Administrative Board John “Jay” L. Ellison’s emails had been searched, too, which he had himself requested. University President Drew G. Faust’s decision to appoint an independent counsel to investigate these email searches is a crucial step in repairing the broken trust, but the counsel’s report should seek to verify that there are not still more unreported searches. Those findings should also be made public.
The manner in which these searches were conducted damages Harvard as an institution and as a community. Harvard should be associated with great research, talented professors, and the highest level of academic excellence. Instead, these new revelations keep the focus on the cheating scandal and its regrettable aftermath. Although only a handful of people's accounts were searched, the nature of the searches and the failure to adhere to policy damages all of us. Students and faculty must have confidence in their administrators, and in the case of Hammonds, we do not.
Just as students must face repercussions for their actions—including the roughly 70 students who were forced to withdraw by the Ad Board in connection with the Gov 1310 case—so too must Hammonds take responsibility for her breach of conduct, as well intentioned as her decisions may have been. The Harvard community cannot allow this issue to pass without consequence.
Harvard needs to move beyond what has been a very challenging time. Whether it is developing the next medical breakthrough or educating a generation of public servants, the University has crucial tasks on the horizon. Administrators, too, have urgent work before them. House renewal, the upcoming capital campaign, and the uncertain effects of the federal budget sequestration require the administration’s full attention. With Hammonds’s resignation, Harvard can begin to bridge the rift of trust between the administration and the community it serves. Then we can turn to the important work ahead.
CLARIFICATION: April 5, 2013
A previous version of this editorial stated that Secretary of the Administrative Board John “Jay” L. Ellison’s emails had been searched and that he was notified of the searches. To clarify, Ellison had himself requested the searches.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Name your favorite dubstep song (Skillrex? Avicii?) and Kristina S. Hu ’16 can instantly turn it into a classical piano cover.
Hu has the unique ability to arrange songs by ear. By the time she reached high school, she had been taking piano lessons for over a decade: With a tight schedule and a waning interest in classical music, she decided it was time for a change. Hu created a YouTube channel and began posting her own arrangements of popular and dubstep songs.
Hu’s YouTube channel, entitled “The Unsung Heroine,” features several of her piano covers, which range from Taylor Swift’s “We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together” to Skrillex’s “Scary Monsters and Nice Sprites.”“I thought it would be a really creative way to showcase some of today’s modern hits,” Hu says, “with something that maybe the older generation can relate with more.”
Serena L. Wang ’16, who has been Hu’s friend since they both participated in Harvard’s First-Year Arts Program, said she is baffled by Hu’s ability to simply listen to a complicated dubstep song and then play it flawlessly on the piano. “She takes whatever chord progressions there are and then makes them her own by putting her own spin on them,” says Wang. “That’s what makes it unique and more fun to listen to than, say, just playing what the piano part is.”
During spring break, Wang and others were able to witness Hu’s ability firsthand while they were staying at the home of a friend, Jessica J. Chen ‘16, in Orlando. “Her sister asked Kristina to play something on the piano, and Kristina was like, ‘Oh okay, what’s your favorite song?’” says Wang. “She picked ‘I Knew You Were Trouble’ by Taylor Swift. Kristina hadn’t come up with anything before, but she just went on the piano and played an arrangement. She just did a cover on the spot, just from having heard it so many times. That was really impressive.”
Chen says that after that performance, her sister is now Hu’s number-one fan. For Chen, what stands out about Hu’s covers are the drops, common features of dubstep songs, which are “sick” when transformed for piano.
Youtube viewers seem to agree. Since launching “The Unsung Heroine” in October 2010, Hu’s channel has gained over 40,000 subscribers and more than 6.5 million total views.While copyright issues prevent Hu from profiting from the YouTube channel itself, Hu does get a share of the profit for every song she sells through online music stores such as iTunes, Amazon MP3, and Spotify.
Hu claims that she reads every single comment that YouTube viewers leave on her videos. “Just being able to use my YouTube channel as a creative outlet and inspire people from around the world to pick up the piano themselves, or listen to a new type of music is really cool,” she adds.
The feedback has ranged from words of encouragement to jokes about her Asian heritage and marriage proposals. “The Internet really likes Asian girls, just because there’s this stereotype that Asians play the piano. I’ve gotten a lot of comments that are like, ‘Skill level: Asian,’ or ‘Oh, look, she’s Asian, no wonder she plays Skrillex like that.’ Some other comments have been obviously joking marriage proposals, like ‘Oh, this is really awesome, you really inspired me, will you marry me?’ But mainly, it’s just like, ‘Keep doing what you’re doing.’”
For Hu, YouTube has become an ideal way to combine her passion for piano and her other musical tastes. “When I used to play the piano with a private teacher,” she says, “sometimes putting emotion into the classical music was a little forced. But my YouTube channel is the songs I like to listen to on the radio, whatever I’m into at the moment, and me putting my own spin on them on the piano.
”Hu adds with satisfaction, “It’s 100 percent me.”
Sections
 After the resounding success of the now annual Harvard Sex Week, Sexual Health Education & Advocacy Throughout Harvard College, the organizers behind the event, decided that conversations about Sex should not be limited to the fall semester. Hence, Harvard’s first annual Sex Weekend; Not an average weekend for the most social of undergrads, but rather a weekend-long series of discussion about all things related to the topics of sex and gender on Harvard’s campus. FM took a look at two events on opposite sides of the gender discussion spectrum: bros and feminists.
 7 p.m. Friday, Sever 113: BRO: Examining Masculinity in College“
 Where are the bros?” asked moderator Christopher H. Gilbert, Prevention Specialist at the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response. A panel-style conversation examining the “bro” and the meaning of masculinity in college seemed to be almost completely devoid of audience members sporting snapbacks, lax pinneys or colorful Vineyard Vines apparel. While this conversation lacked the stereotypical bro perspective from both the audience and the panel itself, it still managed to incorporate opinions from students involved in activities spanning from final clubs and fraternities to dance companies and theatre organizations.
 Gilbert began the conversation by asking what it means, exactly, to be a bro. Is it merely a clothing image? Perhaps a more laid back attitude, one that does not “pay as much attention to day-to-day trivialities,” as Seena Khosravi ’13, a member of Sigma Chi and resident of Eliot House suggested.  Or is it more?  Some members of the panel, including Khosravi, posited that bro connections may represent “less deeply emotional friendships,” surface-level relationships that are simply less meaningful.  In addition, taglines like “bros before hoes” and images of white, upper-middleclass, and heterosexual students came to many of the panelists’ minds while discussing the characterization of the conventional bro.
  Jonathan K. Stevens ’14, a member of the Consent Assault Awareness & Relationship Educators and President of the Fox final club, offered a different perspective on laid back broism. He suggested that while friendships among self-described “bros” can take many, sometimes negative, forms, “it can also sometimes allow for more comfortable, easy, and hands-off conversations and relationships.”
  The panel also considered the role and meaning of masculinity at Harvard. Many panel members stated a belief that projecting confidence is essential to presenting a more masculine identity. Others suggested that masculinity is a trait that can be turned on and off depending on the social setting. With all of these mixed definitions of masculinity and brohood, perhaps it is best to remember, as Corey N. Rosenberg ’13 suggested in response to a question inquiring about the most effective means of breaking into bro culture barriers, that, in the end, “bros are people too.”
 7 p.m. Saturday Sever 113: Fish Without Bicycles: A Forum on the Practice of Feminism and Relationships.
 Multicolored packaged condoms and vibrators lay casually beside Insominia Cookies and cans of Coke as just over twenty participants chose scattered seats in Sever 113 for “Fish Without Bicycles.” It is a baffling event title for those unaware of its referent. Taken from the quote “a woman without a man is like a fish without a bicycle,” the phrase makes the case for female independence, suggesting that men are superfluous to women’s needs.
 Three Harvard freshmen, Brian W. Ventura, Lisette A. Candia-Diaz and Keyanna Y. Wigglesworth, led forum-style discussions with the audience on different intersections between feminism, relationships, and sex. Ventura and Wigglesworth both began with personal anecdotes about proclaiming their feminism to their parents, setting a precedent for introspection and intimacy that maximized the sparsely populated space.
 Candia-Diaz took a difference approach to her forum, playing music clips from different mainstream songs—think “Candy Shop”—then asking participants to deconstruct and contextualize the lyrics. Who knew Nicki Minaj could add to the modern feminist discourse?
 At times, the conversation became heated. When one participant described the importance of being a “gentleman” towards women, other members were quick to strike back, arguing that such behavior could actually be reductive and degrading. Despite such confrontation, the general tone remained supportive as conversations cycled back to analyzing the norms of courtship and the dangers of perceived romantic niceties like the man paying a restaurant bill.
 As she ended her presentation, the final one of the night, Wigglesworth commented on the high level of rhetoric and thought employed at the event, saying, “You guys just gave me a lot of good ammo for my mom.” The night before, this same Sever classroom had looked at gender dynamics from the perspective of bros, but tonight it was the ladies who got the
Sections
When we were five, we thought we knew the answer. Carbonated water, known in our household as “carbo,” had befuddled us with its bubbles long enough. At last we had figured out where its fizziness came from: It must be bubbly because it is infused with pepper.
Standing on chairs so that we could reach the sink, my brother and I filled a cup with tap water, one spoonful at a time. We took turns grinding pepper into the cup. We stood there all morning awaiting the carbo—yet it never appeared.
At eight, we tried to make carbo with a pump one of us brought home from science camp. At 12, I asked my science teacher. At 14 or so, I looked it up online, but I couldn’t understand.
Nevertheless, I grew addicted to the mysterious beverage. Convinced that bubbles, not caffeine, were the secret to staying awake, I downed bottles during my first college all-nighters. Carbo was my feel-good drink—I celebrated many a happy occasion by popping open not a bottle of wine but a bottle of Vintage, the seltzer brand. It was my focus drink—madly writing a book on deadline one winter break, I drank four or five cans a day.
I carried upwards of a dozen cases of the stuff to my dorm room each year. I kept it tucked under my desk at The Crimson for late nights of editing. Friends offered seltzer to tempt me into attending their pre-games.
As one childhood mystery after another faded into unwondrous adult answers over the years—when I resigned myself to the fact that princesses never showed up at your door when you put up a sign offering to rescue them from their evil stepmothers, or when two summers ago I finally understood the lyrics to the “Arthur” theme song—I sometimes comforted myself with the thought of my favorite beverage. Sipping a glass of the bubbly, I would think, “It’s okay. The world still does hold sacred, unknowable truths. I still don’t know how carbo is made.”
This week, at 22, I finally felt ready to face the facts.
***
This is how it works: Polar Beverages, New England’s preeminent independent bottler of seltzer water and soda, uses millions of gallons of water each day and buys rail cars full of corn syrup. The 700 employees in the 325,000-square foot Worcester factory make 70 batches of carbonated and non-carbonated liquids every day, each batch enough to produce 1,000 to 20,000 12-can or 12-bottle cases.
The company produces seltzers and sodas in an astonishing variety of flavors—vanilla and blueberry seltzer, pineapple soda, imaginative seasonal seltzers like mint mojito, candy cane, and Boston cream pie.
"Coke and Pepsi, all they ever want to do is sell lemon-lime, orange, and plain,” Polar’s executive vice president and treasurer Christopher J. Crowley says. “Our specialty is variety."
Crowley’s family has owned the company since 1916, when his great-grandfather bought the beverage-making operation founded by a German immigrant in 1882. When Crowley and his brother Ralph, the fourth generation of Crowley owners, started buying their uncles out of the company in the 1980s, it had about 70 employees. Today it employs more than 1,500 people in its three plants in Georgia, New York, and Worcester.
Crowley and his brother have aggressively expanded and modernized the company. Crowley proudly names the features of new machinery, like an apparatus that X-rays each can, shoving the defective ones off the line with astounding speed as it instantaneously recognizes problems in a few of the cans zooming past.“My goal is to have guys sitting on their butts,” Crowley says.
***
And this is also how it works: Polar bottles sodas for other labels like 7-Up, A&W, Sunkist, and Crush.
“It’s a dysfunctional model,” Crowley says. He explains that it costs companies like Dr. Pepper Snapple, which owns many of the brands that Polar bottles, about 17 cents to make one cases’ worth of syrup that will become soda. The syrup manufacturers sell their product to Polar. Polar then finishes the sodas, distributes them to grocery stores by truck, and pockets the profits.
But each year the big companies charge 3 to 7 cents more for their syrup. Nowadays, Crowley says, Polar pays about $4 per case for the right to manufacture the product that cost another company 17 cents to prepare. “They call us the DFBs: dumb fucking bottlers,” he says. Producing other companies’ labels alone, Polar would struggle to stay in business, he believes. “The reason we’re around is we run our own brands.”
Those brands operate on an economic model that does make sense, as Crowley tells it. Coke and Pepsi, the two heavyweights in the world of soda manufacturing, make 90 percent of their grocery store sales from the ends of the aisles, where stores put their promotions. Polar’s sales are just the reverse—90 percent are made straight from the beverage aisle, where profit margins are far larger.
“It’s about profitability. It’s not about how much you can sell, it’s how much you can keep,” Crowley says.
***
And this, at long last, is how carbo works: Water, normally containing some oxygen molecules dissolved into it along with all the other minerals our H2O picks up in its tumultuous life, enters a machine called a deaerator. The deaerator injects a little bit of carbon dioxide into the water. Water molecules have a greater affinity for CO2 than O2, so they grab onto the newly introduced gas, letting the oxygen go free.
Then, in the next machine, the water gets a far larger dose of carbon dioxide. This time, it is chilled with the help of liquid ammonia—cold water can absorb more of the gas. And it is put under enormous pressure, which also forces it to absorb more molecules. CO2 is injected in precise quantities specified in Polar’s recipes just like the amounts of corn syrup and citric acid in the company’s sodas. Whereas water would naturally hold “a thimbleful” of CO2, Crowley says, a liter of sparkling water is stuffed with enough dissolved gas to fill an eight-liter balloon. Orange soda gets half that much.
The liquid shoots out of its pressurized containers at the moment that bottles or cans are ready on Polar’s factory lines to receive it. For the brief seconds that the can or bottle rattles down the line uncapped, CO2 gas shoots over it so that it doesn’t lose too much; still, grape soda bottles are emitting pale purple foam as the machine slams plastic caps onto them. Then a machine seals them—1,230 cans can be sealed per minute, so many that one must blink to realize that a green blur is actually a line of diet ginger ale cans.
And when someone pops open a can or a bottle days or weeks later, after it has been labeled and packaged and driven to a grocery store and shelved and sold, some of the pressure on that long-contained liquid lets up. All that gas that has been forced into the water starts to escape again.
And we witness the miracle that is carbo.
Sections
 
Clutching white Ann Taylor swag bags and Starbucks coffees, they stood in tight clusters amid racks of clothes—querying each other by the corals, babbling by the banana yellows.  They erupted in peals of laughter looking at a peacock’s tail of colors: turquoise, cerulean, India green.
“Ladies, can we kinda all gather to the center?” a large bald man yelled, silencing the chatter. He wore a brown sweater vest and a shirt printed with tiny flowers over his self-described “belly.”
 
Nearly 50 Harvard undergraduate, graduate, and Extension School students crowded around Bald Sweater Vest Flowers, the store manager of Harvard Square’s Ann Taylor and creative director of this night’s event: “Dress for Success (Women).” The show was about to begin.
 
“You’re never wearing flats to your interview if I have my way.  Never, never, never, never,” said Bald Sweater Vest Flowers. “What’s the ideal heel height to wear?"
 
“Four inches,” volunteered Kohl Eyeliner Slim Leg Khakis from the audience.
 
“You’re a saucy girl, aren’t you?” said Bald Sweater Vest Flowers. (The answer was two to three.)
 
Out: flats, ill-fitted skirt suits, bare legs, red. In: heels, structured blazers, sheer tights, blue.
 
“There are four elements of style: color, pattern, texture, and shine.” He fixed his eyes on an audience member. “You.” Tiered White Blouse Gold Ballet Flats entered the ring, blushing.  Bald Sweater Vest Flowers pointed out her blouse, flats, black blazer, sparkly gold belt, and opal earrings. “Things that babies like,” he said.  “As adults, we still find those things super, super attractive.”
Time for some practical advice from event sponsor Tweed Skirt Suit of the Office of Career Services: “Never put your name tag on your boob.  Because if someone’s talking to you, where are they looking?”
 
Blue Jeans Army Jacket won the raffle for a free suit worth about $270, and then it was time to browse with the experts—Tweed Skirt Suit had called tonight a “leave your wallet at home event” despite the 30% discount on most items. Within minutes, Orange Pants and Heaps of Necklaces was adjusting a blazer sleeve for Polka Dot Cap-Sleeve Top.
 
In the dressing room, Paint-splattered Pants and Plum Lipstick critiqued a look: “I love how it’s like black, black, black, black, and then bam!  The nude heels pop out.”
At a makeup table (brought to you by The Body Shop), Cat Eyes Tool Belt of Brushes held up a blood red lipstick.  “Classics,” she said.
Ann Taylor’s mild soundtrack of indie techno and tables of bangles differed starkly from the equivalent men’s event in Ticknor Lounge, where Harvard gents reclined on chaises smoking cigars, chuckling knowingly as they ran their fingers over custom-made Brooks Brothers suits. 
 
Or so I imagined—the sign-up list for the next day’s “Dress for Success (Men)” was already full.  But after nearly two hours on my feet in Ann Taylor with nary a chaise in sight, I turned conspiracy theorist.  Maybe “Dress for Success (Women)” was another Strategy to Keep Women Distracted While Oppressing Them, like purses or stilettos.
 
Bald Sweater Vest Flowers, by the way, offered a tip on mastering those pesky stilettos: “You find a classmate who’s transgender.  Those transgender girls, they can walk in any kind of heels.  And they can teach you.”
 
Maybe Bald Sweater Vest Flowers will find his way to “Dress for Success (Gender Inclusive),” tonight at 6 p.m. at OCS.  Even style gurus have lessons to learn. 
Sections
Sometimes, after a long day at work, my dad would join my  brother and me to watch the stars at night, abandoning his perfectly  tailored, black, wool suit inside the house. Sprawled across old  blankets and swatting mosquitoes, we would pretend that every star,  every pinprick in the paper sky, held infinite possibilities. We asked  for everything: new legos, our own swimming pool. I wished that the  moving sign would vanish from my best friend’s house—if she left who  would I sing “Wannabe” with, fantasizing about our futures as pop stars?  Kindergarten was about to start. I wanted to be a gymnast like Oklahoma  olympian Shannon Miller.
“Your wish has to travel all the way down from the stars. That  could take awhile,” my dad would respond. “Maybe you should wish for  more patience while you wait.”
On muggy summer nights like  these, my dad, my brother Neil, and I were the three musketeers, and I  couldn’t imagine that anything would change. It was time with my  dad—time without his work, his meetings, his usual perfection. Spending  time with him was rare. He typically had office meetings to plan,  company dinners to attend, clients to impress. Sometimes it seemed like  he spent more time trying to live the American dream than he spent  living with us.
Fall swept in and took away the late night escapes to a world of  wishes. No more soft patter of feet across the dewy grass, no more  scampering in the darkness with my brother, his hands reaching through  the summer heat. As the air got crisper, I sensed my mom growing  increasingly tense. Within weeks, a mask of permanent sadness eclipsed  her face.
“Neil,” I asked my brother, “What’s wrong with dad’s brain? I  didn’t even know anything could get through your skull.” His face  crumpled at my words; even though he was only two years older than I  was, he saw what I failed to. Soon we began to make trips to the  hospital, but I couldn’t understand why my dad had to sit inside  machines and take medicines that made him feel even worse. He was  bedridden and could barely even say my name.
While the winter cold kept me inside, I kept bargaining with the  stars; I would give up my Beanie Baby collection. I would never eat  chocolate chip cookies again. I would do anything in my five-year-old  power if I could just see the dad I once knew.
I had to miss half of the school year to live on Long Island as my  dad had more and more surgeries. I would run outside and wish on every  star in the sky, but the stars up north, obscured by smog and city  lights, didn’t shine as brightly as the ones back home in Oklahoma. I  wished that life could return to normal—I wanted to eat snow cones and  watch Rocket Power like other five-year-olds.
Instead, I kept hearing my mom crying when she thought no one was  listening. I wished for her tears to end. I saw my dad’s perfect,  jet-black hair fall out and turn to fuzz. I wished that it would grow  back. The neighbors brought over casserole after casserole and drove my  brother and me to school. I wished I could stop detecting the pity in  their gazes. But the stars seemed to be sucked dry of their magic,  exhausted after granting my petty, incessant wishes from months before.  None of my new wishes came true.
Sometimes I watch home videos and pretend to remember everything  about my dad. He loved home movies, tried to capture our whole  childhoods on film. While hundreds of friends and colleagues knew my  dad, and while people in Oklahoma talk about him constantly more than a  decade later, I sometimes feel like my father is a fictional character  in a novel that I’ve never even read. “Your father came here with only  $20 in his pocket and a tattered suitcase,” my mom reminds me. “Look at  everything he accomplished. Look at the life he created.” Others regale  me of my dad’s generosity. “Once when we canceled Santa at the office  Christmas party, he went out and bought toys for all of the kids—what a  great man!”
It seems strange that I will never even know the person that I have  been trying to be for so long. People say he was leadership-oriented,  social, charismatic—the kind of person everyone wanted to connect with.  People tell me I’m like him, but I wonder: Is this how I really am, or  am I trying to emulate a father I can’t remember?
I will always seek my father’s approval, even though he can no  longer give it to me. I will always compare myself to his memory. I no  longer wish for Pokemon cards or the ability to fly. Instead I wish for  patience to discover myself and take risks outside of my dad’s  expectations. Maybe this would have been his wish, too.
Sections
• You once offered your resume to the guy who opened the door of the Owl, thinking it was OCS.
• Your bartender asks you about your thesis more often than your thesis adviser asks you about your thesis.
• You wear heels to section. Daytime fishnets are to nighttime fishnets as daytime four-inch heels are to nighttime four-inch heels. This is what your section leader meant by “paying attention to nuance.”
• You think people who comment “lolz” on their fiance’s Facebook photos are too young to get married.
• You think everyone in Annenberg is suddenly flirting. Everyone in Annenberg is suddenly flirting.
• You connect with section kids on LinkedIn between classes on Wednesday and count it as your weekly hour of networking.
• You neurotically calculate the number of ‘y’s in your booty call. Four y’s is “I’m in love with someone else, but you can squeeze my tits if you want to,” right?
• You use Instagram as a creative outlet.
• You exhibit diva-like symptoms.
It's really not OK to...
• Bitch ‘n’ brag: either you took a red eye to San Francisco for your interview at Google, or you’re tired and really behind on work. Not both.
• Think hashtags make things funny. Funny makes things funny.
• Actively conceive of Instagram as your creative outlet.
• Be a diva.
Sections
President: Maybe this whole scandal will be a good thing after all. We’re getting the attention we deserve.
Player 2: But you've always said the student body actually does care about our team. The "silent majority"?
President: Yeah, but I just said that so more freshmen would want to join during the activities fair. Ever notice how every a capella group says they’re the nation’s oldest and most prestigious one? Same idea. But this time I mean it for real! Someone even told me about a party this Friday!
Player 1: Where is it?? Will there be girls?
President: It’s at a magical place called “the Delphic.”
Player 1: You know, I just finished my final club trivia prep. Did you know the Delphic was once known as The Gas, because it was the first final club to feature gas pipes that could keep the torches, and thus the light and the party, going throughout the night? Today, this tradition is honored by—
President: Very fascinating, I’m sure. Just make sure to study up on the even more essential trivia: effective mating rituals, female anatomy, common majors for girls from BU, that kind of thing.
Player 2: Sounds like a lot to memorize by Friday—any chance you have the answers to their specific questions already, so we can get a little...advantage?
Player 1: No way man! The girls won’t take us seriously if we keep cheating!
President: M.I.T. did almost the same exact thing last year, and no one even remembers. The negative publicity around the cheating thing is a result of bad timing more than anything else. What are the chances a massive cheating scandal and a shockingly successful NCAA basketball tournament game would both happen at the same time?
Player 1: Oh! Oh! I just did this one, it’s—
President: Rhetorical question, guys. I mean, think about it—this proves people actually do care about Quiz Bowl. They must have just been intimidated by how much trivia we can memorize, and now they don’t have to be.
Player 2: That makes sense. Before, whenever someone asked me a question I had to pretend to Google it on my phone so I wouldn’t come off as a know-it-all. Now that the pressure is off, maybe I’ll only do that some of the time.
Sections
In studios and workshops throughout the Cambridge area, artists are  exploring unusual media. FM investigates this burgeoning local art  scene.
Whether crocheting giant forms out of plastic bags, welding rusted  metals, or molding women out of materials found on the street, local  artists are pushing the boundaries of sculpture through their use of  unexpected materials. Madeleine I. Lord connects her interest in welding scrap metal to her desire for more affordable art materials.
“When  I started cutting steel in ’83, I was painting with oil paints ... it  cost a fortune,” Lord says. “So I figured out, okay, scrap steel is so  much cheaper than paper and linen and paint. The first scrap site I went  to was condemned by the EPA [Environmental Protection Agency]. When I  went back to get some more, it was gone.”
Chuckling over the phone, Lord comments on the difficulty of making art while working full-time and raising a family.
“People  used to say, ‘What makes you do it?’ And I used to say, ‘Desperation  and poverty,’” she says. “I was a single mom when my children were  small, so I just put my art on the edges of my life, but I never  stopped.”
Lord continues, “If you make art, you can’t stop; it’s just  something you do, you make room for it. You cannot run away from who you  are.”
Although Lord’s focus right now is on sculpture, she  admits that she has not entirely forsaken her earlier interest in  painting.
“I paint, still, from time to time,” she says. “But it’s a matter  of subject matter. When you make art, you’re not saying, ‘I’m an  artist.’ You’re saying, ‘I believe in something.’ You’re convinced that  this is beauty, or this is important, or this needs to be said.”
For Lord, scrap metal invokes the possibility of change within this framework of belief.
“When  you make art that is in itself visibly a transformation, it is a  metaphor and a signal to others that they can take a moment that feels  and looks lousy and turn it around to something else,” she says.
Ruth F. Rosner, another local artist, agrees on the power of  alternative materials. The sculptures of women in her “Plastered and  Wired” series incorporate materials that range from tree roots to stones  to exhaust pipes.
“I use the found metal and stone and wood because I think what  nature has done to them has made them more beautiful,” Rosner says.  “These things that we think of as ruined, or decay, or debris are  actually very strong, and made beautiful and passionate by what has  happened to them.”
Jodi Colella is a biologist turned graphic designer turned  sculptor—and current artist-in-residence at the Fruitlands Museum in  Harvard, Mass.—who takes a delicate approach to industrial materials.  Her work incorporates knitting, crochet, and other traditional handwork  techniques. While Colella’s tools may be traditional, her applications  aren’t. “One of the big pieces I’ve done with aluminum [window] screens is  Undercurrent. It’s cutwork embroidery with steel wire and appliqué,” she  says. “People think it’s gossamer from far away, but when you get up  and touch it, it hurts.”
Recently, she drew inspiration from an Irish lacemaking technique  developed to spur household industry after the Irish Potato Famine. She  calls that body of work “Hunger,” in reference to both the famine and  the expressive yearning of the forms she creates.
“I’m not using small, ecru thread and making [lace motifs] two  inches big to put together for wedding gowns,” Colella explains. “I’m  using [these techniques] on huge, two-inch diameter thick cord with 12  gauge wire, so they’re as big as I am and they take shape, so they  become these sort of biomorphic or anthropomorphic forms.”
Nontraditional media give Colella’s works unexpected shapes and inviting textures. Colella  says of our contemporary society, “Everything is very detached. There’s  no touch, except on your iPhone ... I find that people in the art world  love what I do because they feel. They like touching, they like the  tactility, that like that it invades their space.”
The contemporary art scene is shifting to make room for  nontraditional media, giving artists working with unconventional  materials new confidence. “You have license now—it’s changed  so dramatically, Rosner says. “All these materials that I was at first  very cautious about, thinking, can I do this? It’s just happening all  over the place.”
Lord notes that new materials call for new techniques. Artists  working with nontraditional media must often develop their skills  without the benefit of a technical legacy to guide them, trusting their  own sense of what is possible.  “I’m trying very often to weld kinds of steel together that are  fragile or rusty or painted or greasy,” Lord says. “They don’t want to  be welded; they misbehave. So in the process of making those choices, I  have to learn to do a very, very delicate weld. I have to learn to  stretch the technical side of all these tools.” “It takes a lot of strength to pick things up and move them,” Lord  continues. “But the actual work is more like a dance. There’s a lot of  stillness and balance. Yoga helps.”
Nontraditional media also  present new intellectual challenges for artists. During our  conversation, Colella does some quick calculations while she explains  how to crochet a hyperbolic plane.
“There’s a lot of left brain stuff that you have to think about,”  she says. “You have to be able to think spatially. You have to be able  to problem-solve, you have to be able to do math.”
Despite the  physical strain and the mental calisthenics involved, artists like Lord  feel that the effort is not just worthwhile, but essential.
“When I have to make something really filled with anguish, the only  remedy is to try to make [the work] as beautiful as possible,” Lord  says. “Working hard for a beautiful line to tell a tough story is part  of what I do.”
The stories she tells aren’t always heartwrenching, though. “My  neighbors come over to my driveway all the time when I’m working, and  laugh,” Lord says. “They pick up scraps off the driveway and off the  pile, and they say, what the hell are you going to make out of this? And  they come back later and find a Dachshund.”
Sections
Click here to return to the concussions feature.
Owen Thomas’ football career at the University of Pennsylvania came to an abrupt end on April 26, 2010.  Having recently been named team captain, Thomas was found dead outside of his apartment building.  He had made the decision to end his own life.
A few months after Thomas, a defensive end in his junior year, committed suicide, startling findings pointed to factors that may have been involved in his death. A brain autopsy at Boston University’s Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy discovered that Thomas had developed early chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or CTE, a disease associated with depression and loss of impulse control.
The results of the autopsy were surprising: CTE, which often results from repeated, hard hits to the head, had previously been linked primarily to NFL players—never to an amateur collegiate player. CTE is unique in that it can only be diagnosed posthumously through a brain autopsy, but most individuals who are diagnosed had also suffered concussions, and in some cases multiple concussions, during their lifetimes. Thomas had never been formally diagnosed with a concussion.
Thomas’ death and his CTE diagnosis rattled the football community. The realization that this debilitating disorder could stem from subconcussive hits and could start at such a young age was both tragic and concerning.  As cases like Thomas’s continue to illuminate the long-term effects of concussions and CTE, coaches, trainers, and players in collegiate football are discussing ways to make the game safer, both through regulation and education.
The Ivy League has been proactive, more than most NCAA conferences, in regulating student exposure to concussive hits. In a report released in July 2011, the Ivy League Council of Presidents reduced the number of in-season contact practices to two per week, three fewer than the current NCAA regulation.
“We started to restrict the number of contact periods that we did during a given day and tried to do more drills where we would teach more than we would actually perform with contact—save that for game time,” said Brown football coach Phil Estes. “We’ve cut our contact down so that normally we’re doing less contact within a practice, but also less contact during the week.”
Overarching change in how the NCAA handles concussions is slow, and many of their regulations tend to trickle down from the NFL. A new NFL ruling meant to prevent concussions prohibits running backs from lowering their heads into a tackle outside of the tackle box, but this ruling has not yet been adopted by NCAA football.
The NCAA has made some changes. Progress came early in 2012 when the NCAA opted to move kickoffs and touchbacks forward five yards in an effort to reduce high-impact hits during kickoff returns. That said, Jim Gossett, head athletic trainer at Columbia University, believes that the rule may not be enough to limit brain injury if CTE is indeed caused by an accumulation of hits below concussion level.
“I think [hits during kickoff returns] tend to be the most high-velocity hits...but I think when you start to look at some of the concerns on the neurological problems, it may not be the full-blown concussion that’s at the root of the problem,” Gossett said. “It may be these subconcussive hits that are happening multiple times per day, per week, that have a cumulative effect. That’s the bigger question.”
"I think everyone has a level of concern over that—the repeated head trauma, even if it doesn't lead to a concussion,” Jeff Frechette, head athletic trainer at Dartmouth University, agrees. “There have been several studies that have shown that all these minor head bumps are possibly cumulative over a period of time. And all of that may lead to this development of CTE. I think there is a lot of research that still needs to be done about that."
Stanford University is participating in research on the subject by conducting a head impact study that assesses to what degree specific types of impacts correlate with or cause concussion-like injury. By using devices in their athletes’ mouthguards to measure the amount of force generated in hits, researchers are gathering data about the severity of different types of head impacts.
“We’ve involved men’s and women’s soccer for heading the ball everyday to try to determine if the number of subconcussive hits can lead to a concussion, or predispose someone to a concussion, or if they have no effect at all,” said Jesse Free, an assistant athletic trainer at Stanford, who went on to explain that this part of the study may reveal findings significant to football as well as soccer.
Though researchers still have much to learn regarding mild traumatic brain injuries and their causes, findings have led to an enhanced emphasis on educating student athletes about the dangers of concussions.  As part of a concussion management plan mandated by the NCAA, schools must educate their athletes annually about the signs and symptoms of concussions.
Christopher Kaeding, the head team physician of The Ohio State University’s Athletic Department, described the school’s concussion curriculum for athletes. “We educate players every year on the potential severity of concussions and repeated concussions and the importance of them reporting to [the medical staff] that they’ve had a concussion,” said Kaeding. “In fact, they sign a statement that they have an obligation to inform the medical staff of their symptoms.”
Trainers have started to see the effects of concussion education and heightened awareness of the dangers of concussions. According to Bernie DePalma, head athletic trainer of Cornell University, the growing research linking head trauma to debilitating diseases has caused his student-athletes to be more forthcoming about possible injuries sustained on the field.
“Athletes are more concerned about it. They will come to you with symptoms, moreso now than ever before, because of what they’re hearing or reading,” DePalma said. “We have athletes come back in August saying ‘I read all this stuff in the summer and I want to make sure [that I’m not at risk].’ They report their concussions now better than they ever did.”
With the enhanced regulation, education, and reporting of concussions, identifying and propagating safe practices is everyone’s priority. Estes, Brown’s football coach, believes the consequences of not prioritizing safety could be severe.
“If we don’t make the game safer, we won’t have a game in a few years,” Estes said. “I think the parents will look at it and say, ‘I’m not going to subject my son to a potentially dangerous situation.’”
Click here to return to the concussions feature.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 4, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the name and title of Jesse Free, an assistant athletic trainer at Stanford University.
Sections
Whether you’re a dedicated fan who attended the early screening in the Science Center or you’re just watching the show for the first time, it’s easy to find things to like in HBO’s award-winning series “Game of Thrones.” That said, it’s even easier to find things to like if you’re watching it with Dornish wine in your chalice, mutton in your belly, and sworn allies by your side; In other words, have a flask handy. In honor of the third season, FM brings you Drinking Game of Thrones.
1. If anyone hums the theme song during the opening, they shotgun immediately.
2. If Tyrion drinks, you drink equally.
3. Whenever Arya uses an alias, take a sip.
4. For every Tyrion one-liner, take a sip.
5. Whenever John Snow gets called a bastard, take a sip (take two if he gets all sad and huffy-faced after).
6. If you ever want to slap Joffrey, take two sips.
7. If someone actually does slap Joffrey, finish your drink.
8. If, however, Joffrey slaps someone, unfinish your drink.
9. Whenever the dragons breathe fire, take a flaming shot.
10. Whenever someone mentions the Iron Throne, take a swig.
11. Whenever there’s incest, take a swig of your neighbor’s drink.
12. If Rickon appears, first person to notice makes everyone else drink.
13. Whenever someone says “For the night is dark and full of terrors,” scream and take a swig.
14. Whenever there’s a sex scene for no reason, start a waterfall until the scene ends.
15. Whenever someone mentions that Varys is a eunuch, take a swig.
16. Whenever someone asks Sansa about her period, take a swig.
17. Whenever a major character dies, kill your drink.
Sections
A few weeks ago, in one of my vainer moments, I claimed that I had invented the hashtag. It was more than indefensible, but making things up and announcing them as ironclad facts is kind of my forte. I can’t remember exactly what the context for my declaration was—something about conversational tagging that might have included the phrase “millennial mediated experience,” I think. The point that I had hedged in this ridiculously obnoxious conversation was considerably simpler: I like catch phrases.
Sometimes—often—my catch phrases are stolen. I (along with a generation of ABC Family devotees) will forever say “How rude” in the cadence of Stephanie Tanner whenever anyone does anything mildly offensive. I picked up the habit of ditzily scattering “très” in conversation from Bergdorf Blondes. I should probably be more reluctant to share that fact than I am.
In eighth grade when a friend made a list of notable quotations from the school year, mine was, “eeeewwwww,” which I said about 20 times a day, usually in a pitch more comfortable for dogs than humans. In my defense, middle school was often icky.
In high school texting conversations, when I got frustrated with the way everyone overused “cool” and “K,” I started responding with “brilliant.”  I can’t really say whether this was a testament to my growing pretension or just a sign that I read too much British chick lit. Either way, it’s probably bad. Worse: I started shortening it to “brills.”  Worst: I still do.
College has been a gold mine of catch phrases. Most of them derive from inside jokes and late night conversations. At the end of freshman year, my roommate and I made a list of everything that had happened over the course of the year, each event defined by a single phrase. We wrote it in a Moleskine notebook (obviously), but I also typed it up and saved it in a Word document titled “OurLives.docx.”
Over the course of four years, my friends’ catch phrases have become more niche, and conversations are saturated with phrases that would need to be explained to an outside listener. You might know what YOLO is, but what about YOSSSSO?  I have a necklace that says “Chipper Your Loaf,” and a t-shirt that says “Boys will be #boys, girls will be GIRLS.” Get it? Nope? Too late, we’ve moved on. I have always sought a conversational speed close to the superhuman achievement of “Gilmore Girls,” and sometimes it’s hard to remember that not everyone understands what you mean when you say “FOMO.”  I mean really, they should. “Vomdie” maybe not, but still—context clues.
The thing about catch phrases is that you get used to having them around. Maybe I felt a little ridiculous the first time I said bougie, but when I said it in passing over break and a new friend asked what it meant, I was rendered speechless.
Lately, I’ve been looking for a new catch phrase of sorts: a phrase to use when people ask me what I want to do with my life, you know, post-graduation.  I could say a real profession like a normal person, but that’s far too scary. Instead, my answer of choice is “Fauture.”
Fauture started, as great ideas often do, at brunch. It was the part of brunch when you’re not really eating anymore, but you keep going into the servery and coming out with a banana that you don’t really want anyway, attempting to delay going upstairs to work.
I was talking with my blockmate about how we wanted to go away, somewhere remote, far from school and the Square—maybe a lodge of some kind. The problem with this kind of place is that usually you’re obligated to do nature-y things like go on hikes or snowshoe, and all we wanted to do was sit by a fire with hot cocoa and maybe look out a big bay window.
The solution? Fauture. Faux-nature, but spelled so it looks a little like couture. Granted, this probably describes a lot of inns and hotels that already exist, but we wanted to make our own. Opening a hotel sounded fun. We would get to decorate the whole thing. There could be a spa. And a restaurant! People could have events there, and for two people who spent most of our free time organizing Model UN conferences, this was a big draw.
Fauture was a little joke then, but it started to become our Big Idea. It came to have boutique hotels all around the world, and they would all be a little bit better than the ones that already exist. Headquarters would be split between New York and London. Each hotel would have its own personality, not like a chain hotel but like a home. We talked out the precise definition of Fauture, and started referring to it in conversation. We told people what it meant, and if Fauture ever comes to exist, countless friends have offered their services as chefs, graphic designers, advertising consultants, etc.
Granted, the faux-nature concept is innately ridiculous, and hankering after hotel suites is a bit more Eloise than Sandberg.  But some things about the Fauture theory make sense: it would combine marketing and design, event management, tourism, and hospitality.  These are real fields that exist, even if our perfect retreat does not. It would be a great use of my predilection for being OCD, and would at least nominally justify my constant perusal of travel blogs.  Fauture does in some vague way sum up the kind of things I might want to be doing with my life—after all, Fauture and future are only one letter apart.
I guess you could say Fauture is more of an inside joke than a catch phrase, but I’ve been using it so much that I think it more than deserves both titles. More importantly, it does all the things a catch phrase should: it’s a bit tongue in cheek, but it also says exactly what you mean. It’s a shorthand for a longer story, but it also has a life of its own.
Unless anyone reading this cares to contribute a small fortune, though, Fauture is still a few years off. More immediately, I’m looking for a snappy way to encapsulate premature nostalgia paired with nonspecific anxiety about the future. So far all I’ve got are lyrics from Vitamin C’s “Graduation.”  Needless to say, alternative suggestions are welcome.
 Nora A. Tufano ’13 is a History and Literature concentrator in Adams House. She still says “eeeewwwww” most days. 
Sections
What’s the origin of the word ‘quiz’? Quick, this is a quiz! First one to answer gets a prize...I always hated quizzes. Who doesn’t, right? That instant cold sweat every time the teacher announced those dreaded words (“Pop quiz today!”), prompting the urge to run to the bathroom, hide under a desk, start the day over or protest, “But I’m not ready!”
Yes, quizzes are unfair, but evidently to some people they remain an enjoyable enterprise. Imagine my chagrin upon coming to college when I found out that quizzes were not a distant thing of the past but a pernicious presence on campus. I would get slammed with a quiz in class only to battle them back at parties. My friends would whip out the latest personality tests to figure out if I was as an extrovert or introvert, go-getter or procrastinator, Rachel or Monica. I would get dragged to quiz bowl nights to help my teammates with my knowledge of dead languages, fictional characters, and forgotten politicians, only to buckle and blank under the pressure, cursing whoever invented such a tortuous game.
It seems there’s no escaping them. Quizzes have become ubiquitous in our popular culture of competitive gaming and public shaming. Just think of the continued success of classic TV shows like “Jeopardy!” and “Who Wants To Be A Millionaire.” Not to mention the meteoric rise of new shows, like “Are You Smarter Than a Fifth Grader?” that bring our level of self-respect to a new low. It seems everything has turned into a quiz: spelling, dating, memory, personality, politics, even stupidity. The word hovers in the air like a predator, its origins hard to account for.
Being a master of dead languages, however, I should be able to venture a few educated guesses as to the etymology of the accursed word. “Quiz” sounds a lot like the Latin phrase, “qui es,” meaning “who are you?” and thus denoting a question or interrogation. It could also be traced back to the Latin verb “inquirer” (to ask) from which we get the word “inquisitive.”
The truth is, I am rather inquisitive myself. I hate answering questions but love asking them, hypocritical as that may seem. To my friends and not-so-friendly classmates, I am “that kid in section,” who needs to have the last word—except my last word usually ends in a question mark, not an exclamation point. Doubting my own stores of knowledge, I deflect instead of deliver the answers people crave. Like Socrates, if I may be so bold as to strike the comparison, “The only thing I know is that I know nothing.” For the great philosopher, this was probably due to his profound insight into the dialectical logic of all things, whereas I say this out of profound ignorance. But, it’s an ignorance that nonetheless irks me and I always endeavor to hide it like some shameful skin disease through elaborate cover-up schemes or topical remedies. These calculated maneuverings, of course, unwittingly align me with yet another definition of the word “quiz.”
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, before its modern-day usage as a grammatical object, the word “quiz” appeared in 1782 as a subject-noun, meaning “an odd or eccentric person.” Upon encountering this definition, I could already hear the classroom chants and jeers pointing to me as delicious proof of “a quiz, a quiz!” Yet, had I my wits about me (unlikely), I could have always told my hypothetical bullies that the joke was on them, for “quiz” has yet another storied genesis.
It seems the etymology of “quiz” is not only a trick question but also a plain trick. Rumor has it that in 1791, a prankster and Dublin theater proprietor by the name of James Daly made a bet that he could make up a nonsensical word that would become a catchphrase overnight. He hired a group of street actors to write the word “quiz” on the walls around Dublin, and the next day people were asking each other what “quiz” meant. No doubt some know-it-alls claimed they had the answer, while others thought it was a test.
There is only one record of this story, appearing in 1836—after the term was already in use. But there is at least symbolic truth to the fabled origins of the word, which continues to have as many meanings as it has applications. Realizing the friendly, even familiar, alter egos that ‘quiz’ can take on, I have learned to look upon it less as a threat and more as a game, albeit with reservations. For the test of sense is, at root, nonsense.
Sections
Click here to return to the concussions feature.
Matt R. Birk ’98 was the starting center for the Super Bowl XLVII Champion Baltimore Ravens. The Harvard graduate, who concentrated in economics, was drafted by the Minnesota Vikings in the sixth round of the 1998 NFL Draft and signed with the Ravens in 2009. From St. Paul, Minn., Birk has received multiple athletic honors. He was an All-Ivy League player at Harvard, a two-time NFL All-Pro and six-time Pro Bowler, and recipient of the Ed Block Courage Award and Walter Payton Man of the Year Award. FM spoke with Birk about his success on and off the field shortly after winning his first Super Bowl in New Orleans this past February.
Fifteen Minutes: What did your time at Harvard mean to you in terms of both playing in the NFL and playing in the super bowl?
 Matt Birk: I was so fortunate to have attended Harvard. Obviously one it’s a great school, but it was a great fit for me because it was a great mix of academics and athletics. I’m thankful I wasn’t good enough to, and didn’t, go to a big time Division I college football program, because I don’t think I would’ve done real well there. It’s a different culture—most of my teammates went to those schools, and it sounds like so much of the focus is on football. At Harvard it’s just a great balance. I could take school very seriously, but also got to focus a lot of my energy on football. That balance was key for me.
 FM: You’ve done a lot in terms of brain injury related work. Will all the recent research on that affect how you reflect on your time in the NFL and on playing football?
 MB: No I don’t think so. I’m very glad that we’re having this conversation now because ultimately that’s going to lead to our game being safer. It’s obviously unfortunate, but it’s just part of the game, and this issue is now finally getting a lot of attention from a lot of different angles. I’m very thankful to have the opportunity to play football and make a living doing it, and for me to be involved, whether it’s donating my brain or trying to be an advocate for player safety. I just wanted to make the game safer so the hundreds of thousands of kids who play this game are able to enjoy it in the safest way possible. Because I think it’s a great game—it teaches young people so much about life and what it takes to be successful.
 FM: Have you had a chance to talk with Chris Nowinski ’00 about his work on concussions? 
MB: I’m in contact with Chris all the time, doing some stuff with him, trying to raise awareness and trying to help expedite changes to the game and ultimately make the experience safer.
 FM: When you were at Harvard, did you ever expect to find yourself playing in the Super Bowl 15 years later?
 MB: No, I didn’t choose Harvard because I thought it was the fast track to the NFL. I never thought I’d be at Harvard either, but you never know how life is going to turn out. I’m certain as I look back—I’m very grateful for the past and the journey I’ve been able to take.
 FM: Has all the recent research had an affect on your opinion of the net benefit of college football and other sports compared to the NFL? Do you feel like it’s a game that should be played at all levels and should certain precautions be taken at certain levels?
 MB: On the professional level, we have the leverage, we have a voice, and we’ve made some changes to our game and to our practice routine that hopefully ultimately will filter down to the lower levels where the athletes don’t have much of a voice. I think that’s our responsibility and one that we need to accept and realize. It’s a lot bigger than just us and our careers and our teams. You’re in the NFL, everybody is watching. There’s definitely a responsibility that goes along with that.
Click here to return to the concussions feature.
Sections
Click here to return to the concussions feature.
Chris J. Nowinski ’00 was never supposed to be on the sidelines. As a Crimson linebacker and later a WWE wrestler, Nowinski threw mind and body into his opponents to send them to the ground. Now, 10 years later, his life is dedicated to protecting players from the sports he loved.
During Nowinski’s time as a student and football player at Harvard, the dangers of concussions remained undiscussed. “It never really came up at Harvard, and I never thought about it,” he said. “One of my old teammates got a concussion during a workout by falling off of a box and I was thinking, ‘What’s wrong with the guy? He’s so soft.’”
Nowinski quit pro sports in 2004 after suffering a traumatic blow to the head during a WWE fight. Now, together with Robert C. Cantu, a leading neurosurgeon and concussions expert, Nowinski has taken on what he calls an increasingly violent athletic landscape. They question a sporting culture in which children start playing tackle football in elementary school—sometimes with devestating consequences.
Cantu recalls one child who participated in Pop Warner, the country’s largest youth football organization, and experienced early brain trauma because he was not given proper medical rest after suffering a concussion.
“[The child’s father] let his son go back and play,” Cantu said. “In a practice before the game, he took a shock to the head and he lost for over four months the names of all of his classmates, 90 percent of his vocabulary, and his ability to do math. This happened in August, and he was virtually out of school through the fall and part-time in the spring. It was [only] in June when a light switch went on and names and language came back to him.”
In the nine years since meeting one another, Nowinski and Cantu have set out to redefine the way sports—both professional and amateur—consider player safety.
Starting A Discussion
When Nowinski and Cantu founded the Sports Legacy Institute in 2007, their mission was twofold: Not only were they responsible for researching brain trauma and prevention, but they also had to persuade an unconvinced American population that concussions are indeed a severe problem.
Additionally, Nowinski and Cantu serve as co-directors at the Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy, a joint venture between the SLI and the Boston University School of Medicine.
“Just a few years ago, folks didn’t even think of concussions as a serious issue,” said Christine M. Baugh ’10, a research coordinator for the CSTE. “The NFL didn’t believe it was a long-term issue.”
At the Sports Legacy Institute, Nowinski and Cantu received brain donations from athletes in contact sports who had died unexpectedly. They tested each brain for a neurological disease known as Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy, a type of dementia whose symptoms bear a strong resemblance to Alzheimer’s. The unique risk of CTE is that it can manifest itself at any age as a result of brain trauma caused by repeated blows to the head sustained decades earlier.
The results of the tests were staggering: Of the first 85 brains they received, 60 tested positive for CTE. This breakdown included 34 of the 35 football players who had donated their brains for the study. With Nowinski’s connections to the football world and Cantu’s medical background, the SLI team was able to unearth frightening data about sports trauma.
“Back then, Chris made those very difficult phone calls,” Cantu said. “Without the knowledge and the charisma that Chris had, this center would not have had any chance to take off the way it did.”
Some may find it surprising that it took researchers so long to connect head trauma in sports to CTE. Nowinski suggested the connection bears a strong resemblance to a similar crisis fifty years earlier.
“With CTE, by the time the symptoms appear it may be twenty years away from the last time you wore a helmet,” Nowinski said. “It’s the same problem that we had with lung cancer and smoking. If it doesn’t happen for thirty years and you stop smoking, it’s harder for people to consider it the cause of the illness.”
As concussion research has flourished, the SLI and CSTE teams have seen their work affect public opinion. “Almost all states have implemented return-to-play laws, and the NFL has made all kinds of rule changes,” Baugh said. “There’s a huge part that has happened in large effect due to Chris and his experiences.”
The New Frontier League
Cantu believes that the National Football League is, contrary to popular perception, a leader in concussion research. The league has responded to rising public outcry—largely driven by the heavily publicized suicide of former New England Patriots linebacker Junior Seau—with stricter regulations concerning head trauma across the board.
The NFL forbids contact during the offseason as part of its new collective bargaining agreement with the player’s union, a practice that hasn’t been adopted at either the high school or collegiate levels. Players also receive mandated sideline concussions tests after sustaining blows to the head.
The new policies have had immediate results. According to ESPN’s “Outside the Lines,” since the beginning of the NFL’s two-year process of revising league policies in 2009, teams have been more vigilant about keeping track of and addressing head trauma. Reported concussions are up nearly 67 percent since 2009. “Since 2010, [the NFL’s] leaders do get it,” Cantu said. “[NFL commissioner Roger Goodell] has got everything in the right direction for trying to reduce the amount of head trauma his athletes are seeing.”
Internationally, the issue hasn’t received the same amount of attention as it has in the United States. Although football has been more publicly linked with concussions, both Nowinski and Cantu cited soccer as an example of another sport where concussions are a pervasive issue.
“When you throw in headers, we are going to find CTE in soccer players. [There’s] no question,” Nowinski said. Headers, like helmet-to-helmet hits in football, are the riskiest part of the sport. “Going for headers, which leads to you hitting someone or the ball itself, causes most of the brain trauma in soccer.”
The Kids Aren’t All Right
While concussion research has succeeded in creating a national dialogue concerning responses to head trauma among professional sports, there exists a larger group that remains at risk: amateur athletes.
Cantu has witnessed an emergence of head trauma among younger players, highlighted by the case of the Pop Warner football player who lost his memory. “They’re starting younger and younger, so they’re picking up brain trauma earlier and earlier at a time the brain is particularly susceptible,” Cantu said. “Over the course of their lifetime, they’ll pick up more trauma because they started earlier.”
Part of the issue revolves around advocacy among professional athletes. While many NFL football players—who are earning in the upwards of millions of dollars—can hire lawyers to represent their cause, amateur football participants have little support. “Kids in college don’t have advocates,” Nowinski added. “They don’t have lawyers. They don’t have people sticking up for them. High school athletes are in the same boat.”
Even in terms of rules and regulations, amateur athletes do not have as much protection as some of the pros. In contrast to the NFL, many colleges and high schools do not limit hits and even hold full-contact practices in the offseason.
Nowinski and Cantu hope a solution to child head trauma lies in a new project they call the Hit Count Initiative. Using technology that tracks the amount of hits each athlete sustains, they are trying to make football safer for amateurs by reducing that number of hits. The model is similar to pitch counts for baseball, where coaches can rest pitchers after a certain amount of pitches to protect their arms.
“The idea is to try and make the game safer for the children,” Nowinski said.
Same Game, New Rules
Rumors have circulated that football will not survive the concussion crisis. “Friday Night Lights” author Buzz Bissinger and New Yorker columnist Malcolm Gladwell argued in a May 2012 debate at New York University in favor of ending college football. Sixteen percent of their audience came into the debate looking to ban college football, 53 percent left with that opinion.
However, Cantu said the question is not whether or not  to eliminate football, but rather how to reform the culture that has children in helmets and pads even before they reach puberty. “If you change the way you practice the sport, you can reduce sixty percent of the head trauma,” Cantu said.
While she was pleased with the NFL’s progress on the issue since it began addressing reforms in 2009, Baugh thinks the current approach to reforming its practices is misplaced. “A lot of the laws and rules are focused on when a concussion is diagnosed instead of doing things that can prevent the concussions and subconcussive kinds of hits that lead to late life difficulties,” Baugh said. She believes that embracing reactive methods focusing on assessing concussions after they happen requires faith in a haphazard science and frequently requires players to be able and willing to diagnose their own symptoms.
Instead, Baugh champions preventative methods that change the way football is practiced without threatening the game’s integrity. “Eliminating certain types of drills [from practice] are where all these leagues can improve their brain trauma management policies in order to ensure athletes’ safety,” Baugh said.
The NFL began to address Baugh’s concerns when it banned two-a-day contact practices during training camps in 2011 but dangerous drills like “bull in a ring,” in which teammates form a circle around one player and proceed to violently, one-after-another, try and bring him to the ground, persist.
The dichotomy is indicative of a larger truth about concussions: there is always more that can be done to prevent them. For the Sports Legacy Institute, a standard of success has already been set. Nowinski, a man who started h is initiative by calling athletes’ families to solicit brain donations in an era where CTE wasn’t even in the league’s lexicon, is now a public face for the cause. From the gridiron to the battlefield—the military uses the same science to diagnose concussions and pull soldiers out of combat—when it comes to safety, they have succeeded in making sure no rule is set in stone.
“No sport today looks at all like it did 20 years ago, and nobody wants any permanent brain damage because the rules were once written this way,” Nowinski said. “The whole idea of sports being sacred is misguided thinking. There’s nothing sacred out there except for the people pursuing it.”
Click here to return to the concussions feature.
Sections
Click here to return to the concussions feature.
Wide receiver Mitch Ross ’13 suffered his first and only diagnosed concussion on February 10, 2011, during a seven-on-seven drill in a Harvard football practice. Jumping for a pass, Ross collided head-to-head with a defender and fell to the ground. With his eyes closed and head still ringing, Ross got up on one knee before walking to the trainer.
Lying on the trainer’s table, Ross allayed the fears of approaching teammates who worried he was concussed. Ross had not blacked out, and he believed the hit was similar to others he had played through in the past. Fourteen stitches later, Ross thought he had received all the treatment he would need for the injury.
But then came the sensitivity to light, the constant headaches, the loss of appetite, and trouble sleeping. Ross had suffered a concussion that forced him to miss classes for the next two to three weeks.
As he made arrangements to cope with the injury, professors were helpful and understanding. The Harvard athletics department was supportive.
But the following fall, after he was cleared to play football again, Ross stopped asking for extensions on assignments. Academics became more difficult as he struggled to maintain concentration for more than an hour at a time.
Now, more than two years after he suffered that first injury, Ross isn’t better yet, and he’s not sure if he ever will be.
“I know what I was [before the hit]” he says. “And I want to live up to what I was doing then. It can be frustrating at times when you’re sitting there trying to do something, and you just can’t do it because your brain—for some reason it doesn’t function the same way.”
Like the 400-plus Ivy League student-athletes who suffered diagnosed concussions this past year, Ross is living with the ramifications of brain trauma. Most injuries only sideline players from competing on the field, but concussions affect students-athletes’ academic performances as well, hanging over students even after their return to play.
These top-tier students play in a league with some of the strictest regulations regarding concussion prevention and treatment in the NCAA, but concussed athletes still scatter Crimson rosters. This season alone, two players on the men’s soccer team, at least three players on the women’s soccer team, and four of the 14 women’s basketball players sustained concussions, according to team members. About 55 Harvard athletes in total were diagnosed with concussions in the 2011-2012 season, according to Dr. Francis Wang, the head team physician for Harvard Athletics.
With little way of knowing how long their symptoms will last, concussed athletes face hard decisions. In making these choices, they are advised by resident deans and other administrators, who help them decide whether to take time off from Harvard following a severe concussion.
In recent years, the Ivy League and Harvard have made preventing and treating these injuries a priority. Many say that the league’s policies, which seek to limit dangerous contact in sports, are ahead of the curve. Players and coaches also praise what they describe as a greater awareness of the risks of concussions in the Harvard athletic community.
But despite these changes, student-athletes still risk an injury that could jeopardize their futures every time they take the field for the Crimson. Because once athletes take the field of play, Harvard can’t stop people from getting hurt. And every year, the concussions keep coming.
A Solution in the Making
Swinging lacrosse sticks, ricocheting soccer balls, and flying elbows lead to contact that can cause the brain to shift within the skull, resulting in health effects that last much longer than the initial blow. Some athletes who suffer concussions will return to play within a few days, while others will never suit back up, facing long-term repercussions that are still not fully understood by scientists.
The Ivy League’s policies concerning these injuries were thrown under a harsh light in April 2010, when then-University of Pennsylvania football captain Owen Thomas took his own life in his off-campus apartment. His suicide sparked a national conversation about the effect of brain trauma in college athletics. It was later discovered that Thomas suffered from early stages of Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease found primarily in athletes with a history of repetitive brain trauma.
By then, the NCAA and Ivy League had already been working toward a solution. In August of that year, the NCAA implemented a series of regulations aimed at improving treatment for concussed student-athletes and increasing the percentage of concussive symptoms that are reported.
The new NCAA protocol affected Ivy programs minimally, given that most Ivy League schools had already instituted strict, if not stricter, policies on the same issues. The league took a more proactive approach, beginning to research ways to limit the prevalence of collisions in 2009 and instituting its first reforms in 2011, targeting football first.
Most notably, the new policy cut the maximum number of full-contact practices per week from the NCAA limit of five down to two. In 2012, the League announced updated regulations for soccer and lacrosse teams, stressing educational programming concerning proper technique, and again restricting contact in practice.
Chris Nowinski ’00, a former Harvard defensive lineman turned concussions activist, helped the league construct its new policies.
“[The Ivy League has] really been the leader at the college level,” Nowinski says. “They have had a great approach that I wish everyone had approached it with.”
Robin Harris, the executive director of the Ivy League, says that she’s proud of what the conference has changed thus far. But she also acknowledged that given the limits of scientific knowledge, the league can only do so much.
“I can’t tell you that we have all the right answers. We have the best answers that we know for now,” Harris says. “We are just going to keep monitoring this because we may need to change things down the road as we all...learn more.”
At Harvard, the answer for treatment begins with a baseline test at the beginning of the season. Athletes who are suspected to have a concussion are seen by a team physician, and if they are diagnosed with a concussion, their resident dean is notified and typically helps them make academic accommodations. Once players are no longer symptomatic, they must go through a battery of tests—a neurocognitive test, a balance test, and an exertion test—before they can get final clearance to return to play. But in some extreme circumstances, concussed athletes are encouraged to take time off from Harvard for recovery.
While concussed athletes overwhelmingly praise Harvard’s efforts to support them after their injuries, one player calls into question a policy that requires students who take time off from school due to injuries to demonstrate stability before they return to campus.
Former Harvard lineman Nick Scheidler ’13, Ross’s roommate and former teammate, left Harvard for a semester to recover after suffering a concussion. Scheidler does not remember filing his leave of absence in the fall of 2011, but says he was told he was required to get a job in order to return to Harvard the following spring—a requirement that he says got in the way of his recovery.
“I had to find the most mindless place I could because my brain wasn’t functioning well, so I chose Dick’s Sporting Goods,” Scheidler says. “Personally I feel like I needed to rest and recover more.”
According to Secretary of the Administrative Board John “Jay” L. Ellison, students who take a leave of absence for medical reasons must “demonstrate a stability that would indicate a readiness to return to the College and be successful” before re-enrolling. Students often fulfill that requirement by finding jobs or taking classes, Ellison wrote. He stressed, however, that adhering to the advice of medical professionals regarding a student’s treatment should take precedence.
Attitude Adjustment
Though many unknowns about the proper prevention and treatment of concussions remain, years of improved understanding and policy updates have coincided with a change in attitude at Harvard surrounding the issue of head trauma. Throughout his long term as the Crimson football coach, Tim Murphy has seen this shift take place firsthand.
“There was a time when the sport of football had a kind of warrior mentality, and there was a perception that if you went to the trainer with a headache or a concussion issue, that it was perceived by your peers as being a little bit soft,” says Murphy, who has led the Crimson since 1994. He thinks that in recent years, there might be more athletes who aren’t concussed being pulled from the field out of caution. “But that’s a good thing—it beats the heck out of the alternative,” he says.
Freshman Brooke Dickens is a member of the first class of women’s soccer players who will follow the Ivy League’s new rules on concussion prevention for four years. This year, the team devoted more practices at the start of the season to learning safe ways to head the ball, and Dickens, who suffered two concussions before coming to Harvard, says she thinks that her team respects the dangers of head injuries.
“I feel like the culture here is that people are generally open and honest and upfront about it, because we recognize that there is much more at stake besides our sport—it’s our health for the future,” Dickens says. “And I feel like being at Harvard, we are student-athletes, so it definitely would compromise the student part to not make a healthy decision regarding a concussion.”
Some players, however, aren’t always as cautious when dealing with their own personal health. Chase Sippel ’13, for instance, did not initially report concussive symptoms he experienced in the fall of his senior year.
“I didn’t want to go out like a punk, so to speak,” Sippel explains.
But eventually, a teammate told a trainer about Sippel’s state, and after being diagnosed with a concussion the senior was forced to end his Harvard career early and drop his senior thesis. He was heartbroken. But while watching a segment about concussions in college football on HBO’s “Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel,” Sippel finally realized the severity of his injury.
“I actually cried when they showed that Harvard guy that has ALS,” Sippel says, referring to former defensive lineman Michael Vollmer ’90, who, at 36, was diagnosed with ALS, a disease that has been linked to the type of repeated head trauma football players often endure. “They showed his helmet from Harvard, and I started to cry like a baby because that just hit home with me—that that could be me in 20 years.”
The Kids Aren’t Alright
Even with new policies and a cultural shift, Harvard can’t eliminate the dangers inherent in contact sports.
What Harvard does do, however, is tell concussed athletes to stop: stop playing, stop exercising, stop everything.
According to William Meehan, the director of the Sports Concussions Clinic at Children’s Hospital Boston, the only way to recover from a concussion is to rest. Any activity, physical or mental, saps from the brain energy that is essential to recover from the trauma.
“They’re like, ‘Everything that’s gotten you to Harvard, don’t do those things—be lazy, be useless for like a week,’” recalls women’s soccer player AJ Millet ’13, who was kept off-field for the final three weeks of her senior season after suffering her second diagnosed concussion at Harvard.
But for some concussed players, rest is not enough to avoid debilitating consequences.
Women’s hockey player Josephine Pucci ’13-’14 was one such athlete. During her senior fall, Pucci tried to cope with the symptoms from a concussion she had suffered in August while playing for the United States Under-22 Women’s National Team.
After returning to campus following the trauma, Pucci stayed off the ice. But her symptoms still worsened: soon she could not read without becoming ill. She met with a specialist at Massachusetts General Hospital, and their conversation led her to conclude that she shouldn’t finish the semester. Pucci ultimately elected to withdraw for a year to recover.
“I think that [the specialist] sort of gave me a wake-up call—like this is a very serious thing that’s not going to get better unless you treat it in the right way and rest, and totally take off from hockey and school, and not put your brain under any more pressure or stress,” Pucci recalls.
Pucci’s decision to leave meant giving up the captaincy of the women’s hockey team, eliminating her chance to compete at the 4 Nations Cup in November and the women’s World Championship this spring, and graduating a year later than she had expected. But she doesn’t regret the decision.
“I knew it was what I had to do,” she says.
Scheidler, the offensive lineman who worked a job during his time off from Harvard, faced consequences that lasted even longer. He was rising up the depth chart on the offensive line before suffering his second diagnosed concussion at Harvard, which sent him into intensive care and eventually ended his football career.
“I did not know my name. I did not remember the day. I did not remember anything,” says Scheidler of the moments after the hit. Scheidler was rushed to Mt. Auburn Hospital, where he spent two days in the intensive care unit.
While Scheidler recovered at Mt. Auburn, his mother flew into Boston. After his release, she took Scheidler to a speech therapist. The pair left the appointment in tears, Scheidler’s mother wheeling her son out of the door.
Weeks after the collision, while recovering at home in Indiana for the semester, Scheidler was still dealing with the long-term effects of his injury. He slept over 14 hours each night. He cried for no reason. “I definitely suffered a little depression,” Scheidler says, referencing one of many symptoms associated with repetitive head trauma.
Some of his darkest points that semester came while listening on the radio to his teammates battle on the football field from nearly 1,000 miles away.
“It was a torture,” Scheidler says.
Listening as his team fell to Holy Cross in its first game of the year, Scheidler broke down.
“I could not take it,” he recalls. “I was like, ‘I need to get out. I need to get out of the house. What’s some normal activity I could do to show myself that I’m getting better?’”
Seeking a sign of progress, Scheidler went mini-golfing with his younger sister. But after the fifth hole, he was so tired that he had to take a nap on a bench.
When Scheidler returned to campus at the start of the spring semester, his troubles continued. During a math midterm, it became clear that his mind had not fully recovered. “Every single problem I looked at, I was like, I know how to do every single one of these problems, but I just can’t,” he recalls. “For some reason, I’ve lost it.”
As a result, Scheidler went to a sports neuropsychologist who put him through a barrage of tests so mentally taxing that at one point the recovering athlete fell asleep on the doctor’s couch. Scheidler, who had scored in the 90th percentile on the SAT in high school, placed in the 78th percentile and was diagnosed with a temporary learning disability.
*****
At a time when prevention and treatment of the injuries affecting players have never been more advanced, it has become clear that the consequences of concussions are more serious than had been previously envisioned.
Concussed players can only guess how extreme these consequences might be. Some worry they might struggle to concentrate for years to come, while others fear that the emotional effects of head trauma may dog them for the rest of their lives.
Head athletic trainer Brant D. Berkstresser says he thinks that for now, there’s not much more Harvard can be doing to alleviate these risks. He points out that scientific research holds promise, and Harvard is continuing work to prevent the mental, physical, and emotional consequences of concussions.
Yet even at a school that is doing all it knows how, the best possible treatment may not be enough.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacobfeldman@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @Jacobfeldman4.
—Staff writer Maya Jonas-Silver can be reached at mayajonas-silver@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @mayajonassilver.
—Staff writer Martin Kessler can be reached at Martin.Kessler@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @MartinKessler91.
Click here to return to the concussions feature.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 4, 2013
An earlier version of the caption accompanying a video of Nick Scheidler '13 discussing concussions incorrectly stated that Scheidler is a former Harvard linebacker. In fact, Scheidler is a former lineman for the Crimson.
In recent years, the Ivy League and Harvard have made preventing and treating head injuries a priority. Many say that the league’s policies, which seek to limit dangerous contact in sports, are ahead of the curve. Players and coaches also praise what they describe as a greater awareness of the risks of concussions in the Harvard athletic community.
But despite these changes, student-athletes still risk an injury that could jeopardize their futures every time they take the field for the Crimson. Because once athletes take the field of play, Harvard can’t stop people from getting hurt. And every year, the concussions keep coming. Read more »
Chris Nowinski '00, a Crimson football player and WWE fighter turned safety advocate, is now a public face for the concussion cause. Along with his fellow scientists at the Sports Legacy Institute, Nowinski has succeeded in changing the way the NFL deals with head trauma.
Read more »
A few months after Penn football star Owen Thomas committed suicide, a brain autopsy revealed that he had developed CTE, a disease which often results from repeated, hard hits to the head. As cases like Thomas' continue to illuminate the long-term effects of concussions and CTE, collegiate football is discussing ways to make the game safer through regulation and education.
Read more »
Read more »
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former U.S. Ambassador to China Jon Huntsman Jr. and former Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd discussed China’s likely unseating of the United States as the world’s greatest economic power at the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum Wednesday evening.
Huntsman, who sought the 2012 Republican presidential nomination before becoming a fellow at the Institute of Politics this spring, joined Rudd in saying that the nature of domestic politics in both China and the U.S. presents a rare window of opportunity for dialogue and cooperation between the two nations.
“Why do I think that the next year or two is so important? Because we’re away from the rhetoric of leadership changes and election cycles,” Huntsman said.
Whether or not China’s replacement of the U.S. as the world’s largest economy would create conflict is “the central question of the first half of the twenty-first century,” Rudd said.
Rudd noted that tension already exists between the U.S. and China in the form of “cyber conflict,” the use of the Internet to destabilize another country or entity’s technological infrastructure.
This does not rule out the possibility of cooperation, however. Huntsman said that in order to improve U.S.-China relations in recent years, the U.S. State Department has begun to place more value on individuals with expertise in Chinese politics, economics, and language.
But, the organization currently lacks enough experts, Huntsman said.
“My fear is that we’re not producing a level of talent to serve our needs longer term,” Huntsman said.
Huntsman told The Crimson he sees a “profoundly sincere interest” in Chinese affairs at Harvard. ‘“As one of the leading institutions in the world, Harvard can’t help but recognize the shifting dynamics in terms of global order,” he said.
Michael Szonyi, director of undergraduate studies of East Asian Studies, said that despite growth of enrollment in China-related courses, “China is probably still not studied at Harvard to the extent that would be warranted by its international importance, though that is changing.”
According to Szonyi, there were about 65 students studying Chinese at Harvard in 1981, and there were about 120 by the mid-90s.
“Beginning around 2000 the rise began and continued until four or five years ago when we hit are current number [of approximately 350]” Szonyi said.
The study of China has also expanded to various Harvard departments in recent years.
“You can study China in the [government] department, you can study China in the sociology department,” Szonyi said. “Thirty years ago, the only place to study China was in East Asian studies.”
In China, a similar emphasis on cross-cultural studies has gained popularity. When Huntsman first visited China in the early 1980s, officials there were uneducated former revolutionaries, he said. Since those “old days,” officials in China have shown marked improvement in their knowledge of U.S. affairs and the English language.
“They have brought forward a capable cadre of top-level management,” he said.
—Staff writer Steven R. Watros can be reached at watros@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @SteveWatros.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Graduate Student Council of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences elected Summer A. Shafer as GSC president Wednesday evening. Several other executive board positions were taken in a surprise coup that Shafer called “an impromptu coalition,” as a number of write-in candidacies were declared at last night’s meeting.
The new administration said goals for the upcoming year would include changing the perception of graduate students from that of students to employees and forming graduate student organizations that can apply for funding in each department.
Shafer, a doctoral candidate in American Studies, said the elections were in stark contrast to last year’s controversial and partisan event, where incumbents held onto five out of six seats in a definitive defeat of Shafer and her allies.
“We pretty much lost every position we ran for [last year] despite preparations,” Shafer said. “This year, there was no plan or strategy.”
Shafer said she and several other candidates, including newly-elected Vice President Andrew J. Pope, originally had no intention of running.
Although Shafer ultimately put her name on the ballot, the others were two of four write-in candidates who were elected.
“There was a domino effect of inspiration at the meeting once people saw that Andrew could deliver a speech on the fly that was passionate,” Shafer said.
Shafer and Pope, who served as parliamentarian and treasurer, respectively, last year following their original defeat, were the only two incumbent council members who won.
Shafer was quick to voice complaints against her predecessors, citing what she characterizes as their secrecy and lack of reliability.
“Right now you guys are our only source of record-keeping,” Shafer said about The Crimson. “We do not have our own record—it’s ridiculous.”
Despite this, tensions among most of the over 50 attendees seemed low.
One of the more memorable moments of the night came when Alessandra F. Massameno ran for At-Large Representative for Interdisciplinary Students and revealed in her speech that she is actually a student at the Harvard Extension School and not pursuing a GSAS degree.
When audience members asked how she was permitted to run, members of the election commission said the bylaws of the GSC do not explicitly restrict executive board eligibility to graduate members of the council.
—Staff writer Neha Dalal can be reached at nehadalal@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @theneha.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 4, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that the new Graduate Student Council administration said it aims to change the perception of graduate students from that of employees to students. In fact, it hopes to change the perception of graduate students from students to employees.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Faculty of Arts and Sciences continued its efforts to promote diversity on Wednesday morning at the latest installment of Diversity Dialogues, a popular lecture series designed to foster discussion of diversity among Harvard’s faculty and staff.
For Puerto Rican-born author and former actress Esmeralda Santiago ’76, who spoke at the event, issues of gender and ethnicity have presented numerous barriers throughout her life.
“I had to work harder than people who come from a different situation,” Santiago said in a lecture given Wednesday morning at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study. “I had to be better.”
Senior Vice Provost Judith D. Singer, who gave the opening remarks, directly addressed the issue of diversity in FAS. According to Singer, the Diversity Dialogues are one piece of a larger plan to “make Harvard an excellent institution by making Harvard a diverse institution.”
Though the Diversity Dialogues Series is aimed at Harvard faculty and staff, University affiliates and members of the public are welcome to participate.
Singer discussed Harvard’s recent efforts to diversify, citing the impetus of former University President Lawrence H. Summer’s establishment of two task forces in 2005 to address issues of diversity among faculty and staff at Harvard.
Santiago’s lecture, entitled “Almost a Woman” after her award-winning memoir, dealt with her personal experiences as a female minority in the United States rather than the issue of diversity at Harvard. Santiago spoke candidly about the experiences that led her to becoming a writer, saying that she had difficulty talking about her youth.
“Not only am I here, I’m Puerto Rican and loud,” said Santiago of these struggles. “Why am I invisible?”
For Santiago, issues with her own gender and ethnicity became fodder for personal essays, which evolved into memoirs and novels.
“I didn’t go to psychotherapy, I didn’t do any of the things I probably should have done,” Santiago said. “I did it on the page.”
Carol Leavitt, a Harvard Center for Workplace Development internal consultant who attended the lecture, said that although Harvard has made progress in regards to issues of diversity, there is still work to be done.
“It’s not about the numbers,” Leavitt said. “It’s about the people, the representations of the collection of students, faculty, and staff that reflect the world around us.”
—Staff writer Brianna D. MacGregor can be reached at bmacgregor@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @bdmacgregor.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Though discussion of a proposal to alter reading period was eclipsed by revelations about the extent of faculty email searches at Tuesday’s faculty meeting, the Committee on Undergraduate Education continued to debate the possibly of banning due dates for assignments during reading period at their meeting Wednesday afternoon.
If adopted, the policy, first discussed at a meeting on Feb. 6, would eliminate assignments due during reading period and instead set specific due dates for final projects and papers during exam period. English professor Amanda J. Claybaugh said the group entertained making the proposal outline when assignments should “ordinarily” be due, rather than stipulating a strict requirement.
“[There could be] a policy that says, ‘Ordinarily, faculty will not assign something during reading period,’ with the understanding that some people may well decide that their pedagogical needs would override that ordinarily, rather than an always,” Claybaugh said.
Claybaugh said the committee highlighted the effect the proposal may have for classes with problem sets and said she would not want to “set a hard and fast rule” for them.
Jen Q. Zhu ’14, vice president of the Undergraduate Council, said that there is a valid concern that the policy could adversely affect math classes that currently assign problem sets as review material during reading period and grade them in time for students to study for their exams. She said student feedback to the proposal so far has been “overwhelmingly positive” and is looking for more going forward.
“I think it would be really important to solicit feedback from the students that are taking these math classes and their impression of how effective it is to have p-sets due during that period of time,” Zhu said. “We need to have a greater understanding of the students that would impact and those teachers in the math department.”
The committee also addressed that some classes both assign final papers and give exams. Ultimately, Claybaugh said, she hopes the proposal will inspire faculty to further consider how they structure assignments.
“I think that the point of this policy should just be to encourage everybody to reflect on whether the kinds of things we’re assigning during reading period really need to happen then, just to reflect on what our actions mean for students when they’re multiplied by four classes,” Claybaugh said.
—Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Defending political prisoners in a country without rule of law is a dangerous but important job, said attorney Maryna Kavaleuskaya at her talk called “Defending Political Prisoners in Belarus” at Harvard Law School on Wednesday.
Kavaleuskaya, a Belarusian attorney known for her defense of Andrei Sannikov, an opposition leader who ran for president in the 2010 Belarusian election, was invited to speak by
the Law School’s Human Rights Program, the Graduate Program, International Legal Studies, and the Harvard National Security and Law Association to share her experiences working in the country.
Belarus is the only country in Europe where the death penalty is still exercised.This Kavaleuskaya said makes what she characterizes as the absence of the rule of law particularly problematic.
“When there is no rule of law, no matter what you think about the death penalty, it is just murder,” Kavaleuskaya said.
Drawing on her interactions with her clients, Kavaleuskaya offered a personal account of what she called the “isolation” of political prisoners.
“The most important thing which I was doing...was serving as a connection between those people and the rest of the world for a long time,” she said.
Kavaleuskaya emphasized that she approached each of her cases as though Belarus had a rule of law—a commitment to professional standards that won her the Lawyer of Year award by a human rights organization in Belarus in 2011.
“I think she transmitted three important things,” said Luise Druke, a fellow with the Harvard Humanitarian Initiative. “If you do your job professionally, objectively, cool and calmly collected with the courage it takes, you can make a big contribution and you inspire confidence for those people whom you represent and also discourage people to rock your boat.”
Kavaleuskaya acknowledged that her approach put her in a “vulnerable” position, exposing her to threats by the KGB, the Belarusian security services. She was also barred from leaving the country in 2011.
Christopher P. Taggart, a lecturer at HLS who taught Kavaleuskaya last semester, did not think long before deciding the most poignant take-away of the event.
“[It was] Maryna’s courage,” he said.
—Staff writer Anja C. Nilsson can be reached at anjanilsson@college.harvard.edu. Follow her @anja_nilsson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In light of recent provocations from North Korean leaders, Harvard professors and students said that although such behavior from the nation is a common occurrence, the new round of rhetoric should be viewed with caution.
On Tuesday, North Korea announced that it would revive a long-dormant nuclear reactor and ramp up production of atomic weapons material after several weeks of provocative rhetoric and actions against South Korea and its allies.
“It’s still not clear why North Korea has stepped up their threats at this time, but we do know that threats of this kind are not rare,” said William H. Overholt, senior research fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School’s Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation.
Yet experts noted that several aspects of the new round of threats deserve special attention.
“It might be that the new, young leader of North Korea, Kim Jong-un, is trying to establish himself as macho, military leader first in order to provide political covers for economic reforms,” Overholt said.
If Kim backs away from his rhetoric now, Overholt said, he will lose all credibility.
“Thus, we shouldn’t rule out the possibility that he’s going to do something dangerous because his credibility and his regime are on the line,” Overholt said.
He added that a need for fundraising, diplomatic recognition, and security assurance could be additional motivating factors.
According to professor Avram A. Agov, who teaches the course Korean History 113: “North Korea in Regional and Global Context,” the problem can be traced to the unfinished Korean War, which left both sides with an unsettled peace.
“North Korea is engaging in this manner to gain recognition because it gives them a security,” Agov said.
“We should never underestimate the seriousness and the tension in the Korean Peninsula,” he added.
Overholt called for joint U.S.-China diplomatic cooperation to bring stability to the Korean peninsula.
“With its desperate economy and overshadowed military, addressing the nuclear issue without addressing the failed state issue is a hopeless strategy,” Overholt said.
“The more isolated they are, the more unpredictable they become,” Agov said about the nation. “Through cross-recognition and engagement policies, we can strive for nonproliferation of nuclear arms in North Korea.”
Ji Woong Jang ’16, who is from South Korea, described the constant fear of living in Korea peninsula and advocated for maintaining stability.
“Living in South Korea, there’s always a chance of a North Korea attack. Although an attack may not be imminent, I’m concerned for my family there,” Jang said. “Unless we offer them a deal to redevelop their economy and address their dire needs, North Korea won’t abandon its nuclear program, and we will always live with a sense of insecurity.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Timing may play a more important role in the survival of evolutionarily beneficial mutations in bacteria than previously thought, a discovery which might have implications on cancer research, according to a study by Harvard researchers released last month.
“For these sorts of dynamics, it’s easier to understand fundamentals in a flask, but this sort of evolution greatly affects people’s lives,” said Christopher J. Marx, associate professor of organismic and evolutionary biology.
Marx and his colleagues’ research began as an attempt to more fully understand how the bacterium Methylobacterium extorquens breaks down a toxic compound. In doing so, they inserted foreign plasmids, circular DNA molecules, into the bacteria. This was disadvantageous to the bacteria because they expended many resources when making the foreign proteins.
By manipulating various metabolic pathways in this way, Marx and his colleagues set out to analyze how the metabolic pathways were affected by these genetic changes.
However, the researchers encountered what Marx referred to as a “happy surprise.” They discovered that in many of the bacteria a transposon, which inserts itself into other genes, entered into the plasmid’s replication machinery, which decreased the bacterium’s production of the foreign proteins. This result was evolutionarily advantageous for the bacteria.
It also provided a way for the researchers to distinguish between all of the specific mutations which occurred.
“Because the mutations involved a jumping gene hopping into the plasmid, each time a mutation occurred, it occurred in a different place, a different junction between the plasmid and the host genome,” Marx said.
The movement allowed the researchers to observe that only some of the beneficial mutations were propagated in the population while other equally beneficial mutations were not.
Marx explained that the survival rate of various mutations depended on how well they could be integrated into the bacteria’s “complex dynamic of mutations” at a particular time. For instance, if a beneficial mutation had a role similar to that of another mutation, or was unable to “get along” with pre-existing mutations, it was less likely to propagate in the highly competitive environment.
Following the discovery, Marx and his colleagues are now trying to predict mutation survival rate with mathematical models.
Marx also described how these findings have implications for the study of infectious diseases that also have a complex and competitive environment for mutations. Marx noted cancer as a particular disease of interest because many types of tumors are environments in which a variety of beneficial mutations are attempting to propagate at a given time.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A recent study from Harvard’s Laboratory for Visual Neuroplasticity at Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary suggests that audio-based video games can help blind individuals to navigate physical spaces.
The study participants, all of whom were legally blind, moved through a virtual representation of The Carroll Center for the Blind in Newton, Mass. using the audio-based environment simulator, a computer-based video game that simulates actual physical spaces with traditional game elements such as monsters and jewels.
After playing the game, participants successfully transferred spatial information acquired in the virtual building to physical navigation tasks in the actual building and produced accurate cognitive maps of the space.
“Once I learned the environment [through the video game] and mapped it out in my mind, I could actually go into the real place, the real building and know where everything was,” said Lindsay A. Yazzolino, who participated in the study before joining the research team.
Different parts of the building, and the game-like elements, are represented by audio-based clues. For example, a knocking sound in the right headphone signifies the presence of a door on the right side. Participants use four keyboard keys and the space bar to navigate through the building.
Yazzolino said that the game is more effective than other methods used to introduce blind individuals to new physical spaces because it encourages active learning, rather than simple memorization.
“It is not just about walking a blind person through a building, it really encourages problem solving skills,” Yazzolino said. “Even now when I think about the building I still have a map in my mind of how the building is laid out.”
She added that individuals who played the video game devised their own routes and shortcuts, while people who learn with instructors on site tend to stick to routes they know.
Erin C. Connors, a student at Harvard’s Graduate School of Education who was one of the co-authors of the paper, said the study looks to show that blind individuals have the same spatial capabilities as people with full visual capacity.
“For a long time it was believed that blind individuals didn’t use the visual cortex,” Connors said. But she referenced the generation of cognitive spatial maps in blind individuals as evidence that even the visual cortex of people who cannot see can undergo rewiring.
Participants who were born blind and those who became blind after birth were able to create such mental maps. This result is especially significant, Connors said, because it shows that neuroplasticity in the visual cortex can occur later in life.
—Staff writer Alyza J. Sebenius can be reached at asebenius@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @asebenius.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A recent addition to local dining options brings a taste of Tuscany to Harvard Square.
After last February’s announcement of its arrival, the Italian restaurant Toscano is now open at 52 Brattle Street—the former home of Café of India.
According to managing partner Richard J. Cacciagrani, the restaurant held a “soft opening” March 21 for patrons to enjoy the restaurant without the crowds typically drawn by a traditional grand opening.
“We like to open and let things happen naturally, as opposed to a lot of advertising and marketing,” added fellow managing partner Andrew D’Alessandro. “Ideally, word of
mouth is the best form of advertising for our business.”
Harvard Square is the second location for Toscano, which was originally founded at Beacon Hill in 1984.
Cacciagrani said Harvard Square was a natural choice since the neighborhood and local business base are both similar to the environment of Beacon Hill.
“It seemed like the culture and the people of the neighborhoods were very similar and our food and service would fit well with the clientele of Harvard Square,” he said.
D’Alessandro added that Toscano’s unique combination of casual bar service and high-end Italian dining fills a void in Harvard Square.
Serving lunch and dinner daily, the restaurant offers traditional Tuscan cuisine, which is known for its simplicity. The menu features pizza, pasta, and meats cooked on an all-natural wood grill.
According to Cacciagrani, the menu features a range of options for business luncheons, casual dinners, special events, or “people just looking for a little cheese and wine.”
“We feel our brand is very diverse...and has a little bit of what everybody is looking for,” he said.
While the current dishes are identical to the offerings at Beacon Hill, Cacciagrani and D’Alessandro expect to see the menu evolve based on local demand.
Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, praised the addition of Toscano to Harvard Square as an excellent fine dining option within a reasonable price bracket.
The Harvard Square location, which seats 120 people, has an indoor café and bar area and also offers outside dining during the warmer months.
After a slight delay in opening—the restaurant was tentatively slated to open last November—D’Alessandro said the staff at Toscano is excited to be part of Harvard Square.
“We’re a neighborhood restaurant,” he said. “We cater to the locals in Beacon Hill, and we want to do the same here.”
—Staff writer Nikki D. Erlick can be reached at nikkierlick@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @nikkierlick.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A research team at the Harvard School of Public Health has found that overconsumption of salt—and its effects on the cardiovascular system—can be linked to 2.3 million deaths worldwide, nearly 40 percent of which were premature.
Dariush Mozaffarian, associate professor at HSPH and a lead author of the study, said that limits on salt consumption could have significant effects on a population’s health.
“National and global public health measures, such as comprehensive sodium reduction programs, could potentially save millions of lives,” Mozaffarian said in a news release for the American Heart Association.
The study examined data from 247 surveys on sodium intake and 107 clinical trials linked salt consumption to blood pressure and blood pressure to cardiovascular disease—like strokes and heart attacks. The results showed that adverse affects hit both elderly and young people.
Researchers said that the optimal amount of salt consumption for adults should be 1,000 mg per day—less than half a teaspoon. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institue currently recommends consuming less than 2400 mg a day.
The research team’s findings come in conversation with a variety of other studies that link higher sodium intake and increased incidence of cardiovascular diseases. Increased blood pressure, according to the American Heart Association, may have harmful side effects “including increased risk for stroke, heart failure, osteoporosis, stomach cancer and kidney disease.” Increased blood pressure can result from the added strain on the body that excess fluids—retained by excess sodium—exert.
But some say that salt is taking the fall for larger problems with unhealthy diets.
The Salt Institute, a non-profit salt industry trade association, has vehemently opposed the calls for decreased sodium intake, and has launched a grassroots campaign to protect current use of salt in diet. Their video, “The Salt Guru: Fight Feds for Salt Freedom,” features the Salt Guru Mortin Satin as he guards against a decrease in taste that accompanies a decrease in salt use.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 4, 2013, at 10:58 a.m.
In response to revelations of a previously undisclosed round of secret email searches announced at a faculty meeting Tuesday, student representatives expressed concern about administrative transparency surrounding email privacy, including the security of the students’ own accounts.
Administrators have admitted to secretly searching the emails of 16 resident deans and of “rarely” accessing faculty email. Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Jeff Neal wrote in a statement early Thursday morning that “It is extremely rare—and rightly so—for any aspect of a student’s email account to be examined.”
Undergraduate Council President Tara Raghuveer ’14 said Wednesday that the news of the second search prompted questions.
“I think this just furthers the question that we’ve already been asking about the privacy of student emails and what student rights are in regards to emails,” Raghuveer said. “It’s a question that is incredibly important.”
On March 11, in response to reports that they had secretly searched resident deans’ accounts, Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds and FAS Dean Michael D. Smith released a statement saying that the email searches had been limited to the resident deans’ administrative accounts and had included only subject-line queries. On Tuesday, Hammonds and Smith told faculty that neither of those things were true.
 
In fact, they said, after their first email search yielded the identity of the resident dean who leaked an Administrative Board communication that made its way to the media, Hammonds authorized a search of that resident dean’s faculty account. Conducted without Smith’s knowledge—a violation of the faculty email privacy policy—the second set of searches also used Crimson reporters’ names as search terms.
“I and others, entrusted with administering our university business, made serious mistakes, and I stand here to apologize and to join in the commitment to learn lessons for the future,” Hammonds said, according to her prepared remarks. “These mistakes included missteps in communication.”
UC representative Meghamsh Kanuparthy ’16, who was present at the faculty meeting, suggested that the news of the searches and the subsequent contradiction in Smith and Hammonds’ statement cast doubt on administrators’ credibility.
“I think we’re at a point where we need work to—as the faculty repeated many, many times over—repair the trust that is incumbent on any organization if it wants to be productive,” said Kanuparthy.
Still, he said that the statements that top administrators made at the meeting constituted a first step toward regaining the trust of the Harvard community.
“The entire administration made very sincere, very heartfelt apologies at that meeting, and I’m thankful to them for that,” Kanuparthy said.
Although representatives were positive about what they heard at the meeting, they said that it was important that administrators begin to also address and clarify policy on searches of student email accounts.
According to the student handbook, administrators may access student accounts in some cases, but it does not say whether the owners of those accounts must be notified of a search.
“What we hope to get from the administration is: what are the circumstances in which you will be searching our accounts,” said UC Vice President Jen Q. Zhu ’14.
The UC intends to come out with a policy memorandum in the coming days outlining the current University policy for student email accounts while also making recommendations to the administration about ways to clarify and better its policy.
Other Ivy League institutions, such as Columbia, Princeton, and Brown, contain language similar to Harvard’s handbook about administrators’ right to access student emails in some circumstances. In the wake of the news about the email searches at Harvard, Brown’s Chief Information Security Officer David Sherry told The Brown Daily Herald that in the past five years, the administration has searched student email accounts three times, but only to account for students who were missing or had not returned from spring break.
—Staff writer Steven S. Lee can be reached at stevenlee@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter at @StevenSJLee.
—Staff writer Samuel Y. Weinstock can be reached at sweinstock@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter at @syweinstock.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a crosstown meeting with Boston College, the Harvard baseball team fell behind early and, despite mounting a rally, could never catch up.
The Crimson lost, 8-6, to the Eagles on a windy Wednesday afternoon in Chestnut Hill. All of BC’s offense came in three consecutive innings, including a five-run bottom of the third, which propelled them to a six-run lead.
Harvard (4-19) held the Eagles (5-23) scoreless for the rest of the game and posted the next four tallies, one of which came on a home run from sophomore outfielder Brandon Kregel. But the late offense would not be enough to overcome the early deficit.
“In the middle innings we looked at the scoreboard and were like, ‘There’s no reason we can’t come back,’” senior infielder Rob Wineski said. “We got some guys on base, and all of a sudden it’s 8-6, and we had a shot…. At the end of the day we just didn’t capitalize at the very end, but we felt like we could come back the entire time.”
The Crimson struggled to get out of the gates, as the Eagles scored seven runs off Harvard junior starter Peter Kaplan. But once the Harvard pitchers settled down, the offense followed in turn, ultimately posting eight hits, only one fewer than the BC total.
The six runs tied the most the Crimson has scored all year.
It looked as if the Eagles would put a crooked number on the board early, as an error, a walk, and a single loaded the bases with no outs in the top of the first.
But Kaplan immediately buckled down, striking out the next two BC hitters, and ended the threat by forcing a fly-out to right field.
Harvard appeared to have the momentum in the top of the next frame when it rallied to put men on second and third with one out.
But this time, the Eagles clamped down on defense, as starter Matt Alvarez forced the next two Crimson batters to pop out in the infield.
After BC struck first in the bottom of the second with a pair of runs, Harvard bounced back in the next half inning to tie the game up. Following a double from junior outfielder Jeff Hajdin and a walk from sophomore infielder Mike Martin, two wild pitches brought in one run, and a sacrifice fly from Kregel plated Martin.
But the score would not remain even for long, as BC responded with force in the home half of the third, putting up five runs to seize control of the game.
All nine Eagles hitters went to bat in the inning, and the scoring started with a triple from junior Jimmy Dowdell that scored two. After a double, a walk, and an out, junior John Hennessy smacked another double with two outs that brought in the final two tallies of the inning.
It looked as if the Eagles might keep pouring it on in the fourth, but senior pitcher Jordan Haviland forced a 4-6-3 double play with the bases loaded to limit the damage to one.
With the score 8-2 in favor of the Eagles, Harvard attempted to chip away at the lead over the course of the next two innings.
A double from freshman infielder Mitch Klug resulted in a run in the top of the fifth, and the Crimson put up its second two-spot of the game one inning later. An RBI knock from freshman catcher Dj Link plated one run, and a bases-loaded single from Martin added another.
But Harvard could do no further damage in the inning, as Kregel and sophomore infielder Tanner Anderson were both retired with the bases full.
“We gave away some big hits to their team, and when we had the bases loaded we didn’t execute,” Kregel said. “I popped the ball up when we had the bases loaded, so I didn’t do my job personally when I could’ve gotten a hit and knocked some people in.”
After the fourth inning, Crimson relievers held BC scoreless for the remainder of the game. Haviland, junior Baron Davis, and sophomore Matt Timoney combined to allow only one run on three hits in 5.2 innings.
Harvard’s last chance to mount a comeback fell short in the top of the ninth. Kregel blasted a solo homer, the team’s first of the year, over the left field fence to bring the Crimson within two.
But with two men on and two outs, BC sophomore closer Nick Poore forced Wineski, who represented the go-ahead run, to fly out to center to end the nonconference matchup.
“We were trying to carry our momentum from our win against Penn, and I think every game you take as important as the next one in the schedule,” Wineski said. “Obviously you have to look for improvement, but there were a lot of positive things we saw, and I think it’s really going to help us going into this important weekend.”
—Staff writer David Steinbach can be reached at dsteinbach@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard band began to play, and a packed crowd at Blodgett pool cheered as attacker Aisha Price’s sixth and final goal pulled the Crimson within two near the end of the fourth quarter.
But it was too little, too late for the women’s water polo team to pull off the comeback victory, and Harvard fell, 12-10, to Brown on senior night, which honored co-captains Price and 2-meter defender Elise Molnar.
The Crimson (13-10, 2-1 CWPA) was down 6-4 after two quarters, but a 3-0 run by the Bears (13-13, 3-2) coming out of halftime pushed Brown’s lead to 9-4. Price cut the lead to four going into the fourth before handing out one of her two assists on the night to freshman attacker Yoshi Anderson, who trimmed the deficit to three goals.
After two quick points for the Bears, back-to-back goals from freshman attacker Charlotte Hendrix kept Harvard within striking distance as time wound down.
“We started playing defense better [in the fourth quarter],” Crimson coach Ted Minnis said.  “We started working a little harder in every phase on the defensive end of the pool, and that led to easy goals for us on the other end.”
Two more goals from Price gave Harvard five points in the fourth, while the Crimson’s defense limited Brown to just three goals in the quarter.
“I think it was a matter of finding our desire,” Price said. “I don’t think it was anything strategic as much as all of us wanting to come back, and that was what we tried to do.”
Price carried the offensive burden for Harvard in the first half, scoring three of the Crimson’s four goals.  A lunging save by sophomore goalie Ariel Dukes prevented a power play conversion for the Bears as time expired in the second stanza, but Harvard still faced a two-goal deficit going into the second half.
“I thought we got pretty timid in the middle of the first and into the second quarter,” Minnis said. “We let them get a little run, and so we had to play catch up the rest of the way, which is tough.”
Brown tightened its defense in the third quarter, allowing only one goal in the eight-minute period, as the Crimson struggled to adjust.
“It is always hard to lose at home,” Price said.  “While I am disappointed with the loss, I think we still showed a lot of heart with the way we played. I was enjoying every minute I got to play in my last game in this pool, so even though it was a loss, it is still definitely a memorable game.”
In her senior season, Price leads the team in every statistical category with 57 goals, 34 assists, and 51 takeaways. Price—who is also a midfielder on the women’s soccer team—received the Rookie of the Year award after her 2010 season. To start her junior year, the attacker had 11 hat tricks in her first 21 games and finished with 64 goals, 24 assists, and 54 steals.
Molnar was named to the all-division second teams as a freshman and a junior, and has 22 goals, 21 assists, and 28 steals so far this year.
Minnis said Price’s and Molnar’s final home game served as a time to reflect on his three years of coaching the two senior captains.
“I am proud of both of my seniors,” Minnis said. “When I started here they were my first sophomore class, and they have gone all three years with me. They really bought in from day one with what I wanted to do and how we wanted to play.  I am just really proud of them and everything they have done for our program. We are really going to miss their leadership next year.”
Playing in front of a home crowd for the first time since early February, Harvard honored Price and Molnar with a pregame ceremony that included Price’s sister Shayna—a junior attacker on the team—and Molnar’s mother. With four regular season games left, Wednesday night marked the last time the Crimson will be at home during conference play.
“The crowd was great,” Price said. “I think this is the first time I have played here with the band, and it was great that Harvard showed some love to our small sport. We really appreciated it. There was a lot of hype for this game with the student rewards, the band, and all of our friends coming and it was just an awesome night.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In this series of posts, The Back Page checks in with Harvard athletes already in the professional leagues in the United States or abroad, as in the case of former basketball player Keith Wright '12. Today, David Freed takes a look at Tampa Bay lightning center Alex Killorn '12.
After four straight games without a goal, Alex Killorn '12 has posted a goal in his last two games for the Tampa Bay Lightning. He had two straight positive plus-minus efforts for the first time since Feb. 23-24 against Pittsburgh and Carolina.
Killorn was drafted in the third round of the 2007 NHL Entry Draft by the Lightning before going to Harvard. In four years as a Crimson hockey player, he had 109 points on 524 shots and was a unanimous first team All-Ivy qualifier his senior year. He is Harvard's first 100-point scorer in eight years.
Killorn had an assist and two shots on goal in his first game in the NHL on Feb. 10. Since then, he has two game-winning goals—against the Toronto Maple Leafs (in just his fifth game as a pro) and two weeks later agains the New Jersey Devils—and six goals overall. He has recorded a shot in all but three games and has been getting more playing time as of late. After logging 20 minutes of ice time in just one game as a professional heading into the last week of March, Killorn has played over 20 minutes in three of his last four games, getting 19:27 on the ice in the other.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If you visited the Weston Ski Track on any given Monday afternoon this February, you would have been greeted by the inspiring sight of disabled veterans learning to ski.
Their teachers aren’t just any ordinary ski instructors, though. Instead, they are members of the Harvard Nordic ski team who volunteer as part of the New England Nordic Ski Association’s Adaptive Ski program.
For six straight Mondays this winter, members of the team spent four hours each afternoon teaching veterans the ins and outs of Nordic skiing. Three years ago, the Department of Veterans Affairs gave a grant to NENSA to start an adaptive ski program. Harvard Nordic ski coach Chris City heard about the developing program and immediately decided he wanted to get his team involved. This past winter marked the third straight year the team has volunteered with the program.
“Every coach and athlete on our team loves skiing,” City said. “This program was an opportunity to bring this sport we love to a group of people who haven’t really had a lot of access to it. It is a really cool thing that we can bring skiing to a group of people who have never had a chance to before.”
The program includes veterans and non-veterans with a wide range of disabilities, from leg amputees that use what is called a sit-ski to those suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder.  Skiing ability between participants also varies. Some veterans come to the program with prior experience, while others have never skied a day in their lives.
Because snow is a limiting factor for both collegiate skiing and the adaptive ski program, the team has to volunteer its time in the middle of its race season. Monday has always served as the only day off from a hard in-season training program for the Nordic ski team because it typically comes after a weekend of racing. The Nordic team now includes spending its afternoon with the adaptive ski program as part of its routine on its off day.
“I think that being a part of the program takes [our team] a little bit out of themselves,” City said. “Our sport rewards individual thinking, so I think having the program during the season helps our athletes take a step back and remember first learning the sport and how much fun skiing can be.”
While the adaptive program has many obvious benefits for veterans and team members alike, an important part of the program comes from the relationships developed throughout the program.
Captain Alena Tofte worked with a veteran with mobility disabilities across multiple sessions this year. While not every team member works with the same veteran week to week, the senior said she enjoyed the experience of watching him progress over the duration of the program.
Sophomore Nordic skier Emily Rogers, who functions as the team’s coordinator for the program, places equal importance on the teaching side and social side of the program.  As the coordinator, the sophomore has had the chance to work with many different veterans.
However, when asked about her most memorable moment, the sophomore immediately recounted a time when she first taught a disabled veteran and former marathon runner how to ski. By the end of the first day, the man—who had never been on skis before in his life—was able to climb Mount Westin, the largest hill on the course. It was not the accomplishment that amazed Rogers, but the veteran’s ability to focus on making it to the top even though other skiers were flying by.
“I just thought it was really cool that he wanted to push himself so much and that he wouldn’t let himself stop,” Rogers said.  “I really like seeing just how quickly people improve and hearing the stories about their lives.”
For many members of the Nordic ski team, the adaptive program also provides a great way to spread the word about the sport that they love.  Only 42 schools have NCAA-sanctioned ski programs, but the adaptive ski program allows the Crimson to introduce the sport to a new audience.
Though on the surface it may seem that only skiing is being taught on these winter afternoons, Rogers, Tofte, and City all mention just how much the team has grown from its experiences and interactions with the veterans over the six-week program.
“I think it has really benefitted us by giving us a better perspective on a sport that we all love and by giving us meaningful relationships,” Tofte said. “Our relationships with the veterans were really one of the best parts of our experience and one of the best parts of the program overall.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s tennis team’s seven-match winning streak will be put on the line this weekend when it opens up Ivy League play at the Beren Tennis Center with two matches against Columbia and Cornell.
The Crimson (12-4, 0-0 Ivy) has won ten out of its last eleven contests and enters the weekend ranked 18th in the country, according to the Intercollegiate Tennis Association rankings.
“This team really tries hard to get better every day,” Harvard coach Dave Fish said. “They are not that concerned with winning and losing. Instead, they just stay really focused on improving their game….They don’t base their estimation of their play based on wins and losses, but just try and play hard all the time.”
The team has not competed in two weeks since tallying three straight victories in the Mission Valley Spring Classic in San Diego over the University of Alabama-Birmingham, San Diego State, and Drake.
“We had a really good week in California,” sophomore Shaun Chaudhuri said. “We played really well against some very talented teams, so I think we are looking good going into the weekend, although every Ivy League team is going to be tough.”
The Lions (11-5, 1-0) have also been hot, winning five of their last six contests, and are coming off a tough win in Ancient Eight play against the Big Red, 4-3. Columbia is ranked 40th in the nation and is led by sophomore Winston Lin, who ranks 52nd for singles players.
“We know Columbia is very good,” Fish said. “But we have also had really good results. [Lin] is very strong, but we have some strong guys too. We know that their singles strength is very formidable, but we hope that our doubles teams can give us a leg up.”
The Crimson does not have a competitor that ranks in the top 125 singles players, but the doubles team of sophomore Denis Nguyen and junior Casey MacMaster ranks 65th and is 8-2 on the season.
“There’s very little difference between being ranked [18th] in the country and being ranked much higher,” Fish said. “It really just comes down to the little things, and these teams are very close together matchup-wise.”
What makes the Crimson such a highly regarded team is its depth; Harvard is 11-4 and 12-2 at the 4th and 5th singles spots, respectively, and is 58-31 in its doubles matches.
Cornell (11-5, 0-1) ranks 48th in the nation after having lost to the Lions last week. Since the beginning of March, the Big Red has struggled, going 3-4, its worst stretch of the season.
But this is not the first time that the Crimson has seen Cornell. On February 16th, the two teams battled and the Big Red won, 4-2. This loss did not count towards Ivy League totals, as it was part of the ECAC Division I Indoor Team Tournament, which Cornell won after beating Columbia, Brown, and Harvard.
“It’s actually nice that we’ve played the team,” Chaudhuri said. “We kind of know the way they play. It’s fun and a challenge to play a team that beat us before.”
Last year, the Crimson finished first in the Ivy League with a record of 6-1, went to the NCAA tournament where it lost in the second round, and ultimately finished the season ranked 24th. This marked Harvard’s first Ancient Eight title since 2008.
“Last year’s was a really great campaign,” Fish said. “But we came into the Cornell-Columbia weekend and got taken down, as Columbia really did a number on us.”
Harvard lost to the Lions in that match, its only conference loss of the season. The team will look to avenge that match and the loss to the Big Red in February on its own courts this weekend.
“It’s nice that we get to play at home this time,” Fish said. “From all reports, we think there’s going to be a terrific crowd, and there is a lot of excitement building around that.”
If the Crimson can pull out victories in crucial Ivy matchups this weekend, then it will have high hopes of winning the conference and going to another NCAA tournament.
“I think that we have a good chance to repeat [an Ivy League championship] this year,” Chaudhuri said. “We have been pretty hot recently and have a target on our back, but I think we will come out focused and ready to play, and we should have a good chance going forward.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s been two weeks since the Harvard men’s basketball team stunned the college basketball world with its 68-62 victory over New Mexico. But for me, the gigantic upset was nowhere near the most surprising occurrence of the night.
I was instead most shocked on that historic evening by the fan support shown for the program whose rapid ascension to the top of the Ivy League has often been accompanied by an underlying hesitation about whether success on the basketball court is a type of success Harvard should be striving for.
My fellow beat writers and I attended all four games on the second round’s inaugural day, and the Crimson supporters were undoubtedly the second-most boisterous of the eight groups present (only following Gonzaga, the country’s No. 1 team).
I first noticed this about 90 minutes before tip, during my effort to purchase a souvenir t-shirt. Walking through the arena, a large number of people were wearing Crimson gear, and upon finally getting to the front of the long line and asking for the Harvard edition of the commemorative shirt, I was told, “You’re lucky—this is the last one.”
By the time I got back to my seat on press row, it was clear that Harvard’s fan section was filling up quicker than New Mexico’s, and at tip, the Crimson had at least as many—and very possibly more—fans in attendance than the Lobos, whose campus is about four times closer to the arena than Harvard’s is.
During the contest, the Crimson fans were louder, as well, with parents, alumni, and students alike trying to will the school to the upset. They chanted “defense” from the start, screamed mercilessly at the referees, and when Kenyatta Smith’s jump hook capped a 7-0 run that put Harvard up six with 4:33 to go, the building was louder than it had been at any point during the other three games that day.
This all came to a momentous climax with 49 seconds remaining, when New Mexico’s Kendall Williams lined up to shoot free throws. As he did so, the entire arena—save for the remaining Lobos fans—was loudly chanting “Let’s Go Harvard!”
By then, many of the neutral spectators had gotten behind the underdog, but to hear those three words ricocheting throughout the arena was nonetheless simply stunning.
For despite having covered the men’s basketball team for the past three seasons, I had never seen it garner that level of support. Indeed, on a number of recent occasions, Lavietes Pavilion has almost felt like a neutral court. The arena is made up of eight sections, and whenever opposing Ivy teams—especially Penn, Princeton, and, to a lesser extent, Cornell—visit Cambridge, a quarter of them are filled with supporters of Harvard’s rivals.
I believe that the obstreperous presence of Quaker fans in last season’s final regular season contest was a major reason why the Crimson’s 28-game home winning streak came to an end, and Tigers and Big Red fans always make their presence felt as well.
Of course, it’s understandable why those three schools would have the largest fan bases in the conference. The Killer P’s have been the Ancient Eight’s traditional powers; together, they account for almost 70 percent of league’s tournament appearances. Cornell, too, continues to reap the benefits of its recent three-peat and ensuing Sweet 16 run.
However, in those schools’ own home arenas—and in those of the rest of the Ivy League—Crimson fans have generally been nowhere to be found, despite the extraordinary levels of success the program has achieved over the last three seasons. Sure, a few alums show up here and there, and no, Ithaca and Princeton are not as easy to travel to as Boston. But in general, the Crimson’s road support has been substandard at best.
That’s why I was so stunned by the turnout in Salt Lake City. For the first time in three years, it really felt like Harvard had a fanbase—one that extended beyond the parents, couple hundred or so students, and few handfuls of alumni that normally come to games. For one day, at least, Harvard was no different than New Mexico, or Arizona, or Gonzaga, or Pittsburgh. It was a basketball school.
There are certainly those who resent this fact. Tommy Amaker has taken a lot of slack from those who fear that this Harvard is no longer their Harvard. They question the coach’s motives and complain about his tactics and criticize his practices to the point that minor issues get blown out of proportion—a self-reported unintentional secondary infraction is depicted as an act of deceitful cheating; a purported equalizing of standards is portrayed solely as a lowering of them.
This is not entirely surprising, for from substantial change always emerges those who wish to return to the past—even when the new represents a vast improvement over the old. That is the certainly case here, as the amount of good Amaker and the men’s basketball program has brought to Harvard’s campus far outweighs the hyperbolic “costs” of achieving it.
Because if I have learned one thing over the past three years, it is that Tommy Amaker does not want to win basketball games for himself. If he did, he simply would no longer be here. He would have accepted the offer from Miami that would have nearly quintupled his salary two years ago, or he would have been more amenable to strong interest from South Carolina or LSU last year. He would have done exactly what was done by his coaching opponent in the tournament, Steve Alford, who accepted the UCLA job just 10 days after signing a 10-year commitment to New Mexico. Or he would have done what Princeton’s Sydney Johnson did two seasons ago, when he parlayed the Tigers’ Ivy title into a Fairfield job that likely only represents one more stepping stone.
And nobody would have faulted Amaker if he had done so; after all, very few of us would turn down an employment opportunity where we would earn significantly more money, work in vastly better facilities, and be granted far more leeway to do our job.
But Harvard’s coach continues to do just that. He witnessed first-hand the obsessive focus placed on winning tournament games during his tenure at Michigan, and he was fired because he failed to achieve that. So at Harvard, sure, he wants to win, but not for the reason most athletes and coaches do—not for individual glory and notoriety. He wants to win for us.
Indeed, the rise of Harvard basketball has never been about capturing Ivy League championships or earning national recognition or recruiting elite talent. Since Amaker’s first day on the job, the reason he has wanted to do those things was, and continues to be, because they would help him to achieve his real overarching vision—the creation of a community the likes of which Harvard had never before seen. One where students would cross an icy river before going out on Friday and Saturday nights to support their classmates in the sport that can be most strongly swayed by a crowd. One where—like at Duke, Amaker’s alma mater—intelligent students with a wide array of academic and extracurricular passions could discover a new interest—college basketball. One where local residents of one of the nation’s best sports cities could add Harvard to their list of teams to support.
And that was exactly why those 10 seconds when Kendall Williams was shooting free throws were so meaningful. They signified that Amaker had won—not just in the tangible game itself, though it was certainly nice that the Crimson was about to do that too. No, Amaker had won because he had achieved his main goal. He had built a program about which the Harvard community cared. Genuinely, passionately cared.
It wasn’t just in EnergySoutions Arena that this was the case. Back home, the victory set off an incredible slew of celebratory Facebook posts from my fellow Harvard students, many of whom would normally have never placed the slightest bit of importance on sports. Dozens and dozens of status updates popped up in a row after the final buzzer from people who were proud of their college not because it was ranked first in the academic rankings, but because it had won a basketball game.
In general, school spirit largely does not exist at Harvard, with the exception of The Game—and even then, students tend to place more importance on individual revelry than on the actual play on the field or the eventual victor. Against New Mexico, however, people really cared about the Crimson winning, and that brought them together in the way that only sports can. This was best exemplified by the photo of the band’s joyous celebration, which went viral on Deadspin and Grantland largely because the general public did not expect so much excitement over a sporting event from a bunch of Harvard students.
What most of Amaker’s critics don’t realize is that it is precisely this sense of community that the men’s basketball program has brought to the campus—not the Top 25 appearances or the league titles—that is the coach’s greatest accomplishment, and the one of which he is most proud and cares most deeply.
Two days later, many members of that community gathered together throughout Harvard Square to watch the Crimson’s third round game against Arizona. And all the way across the country in Salt Lake, though its team was largely noncompetitive from the start, Harvard’s fan section remained vociferous, roaring passionately every time the Crimson made a shot. You could sense that whenever Harvard became ready to make a comeback attempt, its fans would be there alongside it, ready to do their best to help it do so.
That never happened, of course, and Harvard lost. But that was okay. Because by finally realizing its coach’s five-year vision—not on the court but on the campus surrounding it—the program had really already won.
—Staff writer Scott A. Sherman can be reached at ssherman13@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter                                        @ScottASherm.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
UPDATED: April 5, 2013, at 8:35 p.m.
So this one time Harvard FML and I Saw You Harvard got jiggy, and now it's time to meet their mewling, puking offspring: the anonymous Facebook pages Harvard Crushes, Harvard Confessions, and, of course, Crimson Compliments.
 
Harvard Crushes
 
About: Communicating via secret texts and Facebook messages alone, a mysterious coed gang of at least one Harvard and one Northeastern student created a Facebook page that describes itself as: "#E!&MissedconnectionsOnSteroidalDearDiary." This is Harvard Crushes.
Age: infancy (one week)
Popularity: > 650 Facebook likes
Siblings: Northeastern, Stanford, University of Virginia
Milestone:
To a student: "You have the eyes of an angel and the kneecaps of a goddess."
The Verdict: Is it objectification, borderline stalking, friendly shout-outs, or the Harvard dating scene? You decide.
Harvard Confessions
 
About: Its most popular city is Hubli, Karnataka, India. Its posts come from students at other colleges, Harvard hopefuls (and not so hopefuls), and people living in California and Colombia. Harvard Confessions, do you even go here?
Age: terrible twos (months, that is)
Popularity: > 1500 Facebook likes
Siblings: University of Phoenix, UW-Madison, Cornell
Milestones: 
"I slept with my Archeology Professor."
"I've cheated on every test, and I'm about to graduate with a 3.7 because I can pay my asian friend $300 a month to do my work for me. I know quite a few people doing the same exact thing. Next time I see a major discovery made by a Harvard graduate, I'll think, 'Man, what Asian did HE cheat off of??'"
"i dont go to harvard but this is the most boring and pitiful excuse for a confessions page i have ever seen. harvard must suck."
The Verdict: A few gems amid the racism, boring stories, and lack of participation from actual Harvard students.
 
 
 
Crimson Compliments
 
About: We profiled Crimson Compliments in its youth, and by now the Facebook page has become an official Harvard institution. Stop by to fill your day with sunbursts, rainbows and emoji.
Age: your grandmother (about a year)
Popularity: > 2300 Facebook friends (more popular than most Harvard students?)
Siblings: USC, Alabama State University, Yale
Milestones: 
One student "is like a fluffernutter cupcake."
"To the smooth, light yellow apples in annenberg tonight - you are pure and virginal."
The confidence of one student "is so impressive, he could walk right into Mordor and everyone would be like 'Yep, that makes sense.' Also, his voice is ungodly attractive."
Verdict: Heck…maybe we should all just be on Harvard Crushes.
Sections
Check out his freakishly prescient comments from last year's Class Day at 4:19.
We should have seen it coming.
