News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Before leaving for college, after all of the congratulations, everybody made sure to remind me “not to change.” I wasn’t sure what they were referring to at the time, but I figured it was a dig at Harvard’s stereotype for being a pretentious school. Of course, I laughed their advice aside, confident in my ability to stay true to myself. However, I now realize nearing the end of my first semester to what “change” they were referring.
The college party culture is something I am very familiar with, though I don’t really participate in it. Before coming to Harvard, I knew that people in college liked to party, and that I didn’t, but I figured that wouldn’t be a problem—surely there were many kids who had the same mindset as I did. However, it wasn’t until I went back home to visit friends at another school that I realized what the “importance” of partying meant. These were friends who, like me, rarely partied in high school, when we united over our mutual distaste for the party scene. Yet just a month into college, most of our conversations now revolved around their drunken tales from the weekend before. I didn’t disdain them for partying and drinking, but I definitely didn’t have an easy time accepting this because of who it specifically was—the girls who I thought shared the same perspective as I did over partying.
One friend told me about how uncomfortable she had felt drinking for the first time. She felt pressured into taking shots because “that’s what everybody else was doing,” and I was instantly reminded of all the anti-peer-pressure videos I was forced to watch in middle school. She expressed that she didn’t want to be seen as an inexperienced freshman, so she had downed an inappropriate amount of alcohol, not realizing that it was over her limit—because she didn’t even know what her limit was. After registering the look of surprise that I couldn’t withhold, she explained that it’s just what people in college do.
While I understand that it is normal for people to party in college, I had a hard time understanding why she continued to party and drink when she clearly didn’t enjoy it the first time. She tried rationalizing by explaining that if she didn’t go to these parties, she would essentially be excluding herself from the social scene. It was as if partying was the only way to build friendships and those who didn’t partake in it were ostracizing themselves from the college community. I realized that many of my peers felt pressured to party for the same reason. I find this college mentality very disconcerting, because it’s ultimately stating that social ties cannot properly establish themselves unless both parties are intoxicated in a crowded room, where they can’t truly be themselves. To me, the bonds created during parties seem weak and don’t necessarily translate outside of the party.
This is not to say that I think partying is bad. If one parties for the sole reason of having good time, then good for him. However, if one must constantly justify oneself for partying and feels compelled keep partying because of social norms, then it’s more harmful than beneficial. Personally, I found alternatives to enjoy myself on Saturday nights, but I also realized how many people were judging me for not partying instead. One friend asked if I liked to “go out” on weekends. I was thrown off: What kind of a question was that? Of course I went out on weekends! I later realized that our definitions of “going out” were very different. To him, going out narrowly meant going to a party. To me, going out meant enjoying myself outside of my dorm. Partying surely fell into this category but was definitely not the only activity occupying it. “Yeah, I didn’t think so,” he replied after I told him about not going to parties often, as if that simple fact defined who I was. Suddenly, I realized and fully understood that to many people, somebody who doesn’t party is automatically labeled uncool. Not partying carries the implications that one doesn’t know how to have fun and is a stereotypical loner—someone found cooped up in his or her room instead of enjoying him or herself. But that’s far from the truth.
Just because I don’t see myself at a party on a Saturday night doesn’t mean that I’m at a loss for other things to do. It also shouldn’t make me subject to judgment as an outsider. Parties are the most obvious arenas for socializing, but they aren’t the best places to cultivate a friendship. They also don’t constitute the full social scene at a college. Instead, the point of a party is to enjoy casual friendships with minimal effort. Not going to parties doesn’t mean you’re missing out, because I personally feel like I’ve done a fairly good job in making and keeping friends. I just don’t want to be embarrassed to tell people that I don’t like to party with the fear that it will result in them automatically judging me as a straitlaced introvert. I don’t feel the need to change myself to fit into college stereotypes that are simply not true, and I hope others don’t feel forced to do otherwise.
Tasnim Ahmed ’17 is a Crimson blog comper in Massachusetts Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
According to the Constitution, the President of the United States has the power to appoint federal judges “by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate.” President Obama’s recent attempts at appointment, however, have been met not with consent but with obstructionism.
Senate Republicans seem to have drawn a bright line of intransigence when it comes to considering Obama’s nominees: So far, they have blocked four out of five potential judges from confirmation by filibustering the motion to send nominees to the bunch, where a simple majority vote would allow for their confirmation. Harvard Law School Professor David J. Barron ’89, a former Crimson president and nominee to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit who sat for his confirmation hearing yesterday, may become the latest casualty to this bullheadedness.
Members of the Senate have the constitutional prerogative to voice political concerns when deciding whether or not to confirm nominees. In fact, the history of nominations is marked with scores of failed attempts—Robert Bork, for example, never made it to the Supreme Court after liberals and civil rights activists campaigned against his confirmation. But in this instance, Senate Republicans have abused their filibustering power by deciding to categorically oppose any candidate Obama sends their way. Instead, Republicans ought to grant each nominee individual consideration and allow qualified, worthy candidates to face the simple majority confirmation vote the Constitution requires.
Barron is one of those worthy individuals. An experienced and respected law professor as well as a former federal official Barron has put in the time and proven the talent necessary to sit on the federal bench.  Obama recognized Barron and his work by appointing him acting assistant attorney general in the Department of Justice in 2009. Harvard Law School recognized him by naming him S. William Green Professor of Public Law in 2011. And Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick recognized him by naming him to the Massachusetts Board of Higher Education and the Massachusetts State College Building Authority this fall.  It is time for the Senate to recognize Barron as well by confirming him to the First Circuit.
As Democratic majority leader Senator Harry Reid of Nevada said, “Appointing judges to fill vacant judicial seats is not court-packing. It’s a president’s right as well as his duty.” Just as it is Obama’s duty to send nominees to the Senate, it is the Senate’s duty to give his preferences due consideration.  Surely Senate Republicans may object to specific nominees based on aspects of their ideologies with which they take issue. But the Advice and Consent clause exists to give the Senate minority a voice, not a veto. We hope Republicans will recognize their obligation and allow Barron to make his way to the bench.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On March 24, 2012, Richard Dawkins beneficently smiled down at congregation of adoring atheists before him. Dressed in a grey suit and a science-themed tie, he was no physically charismatic presence. Yet hearing some 20,000 people chant his name at the culmination of the Reason Rally in the National Mall, one could be forgiven for drawing parallels to Martin Luther King Jr. preparing to deliver his iconic address to the March on Washington. Then, Dawkins spoke.
“Mock them. Ridicule them in public. Don’t fall for the convention that we’re all too polite to talk about religion.” His injunctions were sharp and definitive. They were designed not merely to excite but to establish the strategic direction of modern atheism. No longer would we, the faithless, remain passive. It was time for a revolution of reason.
The late doyen of atheism, Christopher Hitchens, once diagnosed the corrupting influence of a “father who never goes away.” Modern atheism suffers from the same problem. Once its visionary founding father, Richard Dawkins has now far outlived his usefulness to the atheist movement. In fact, the continued presence of his firebrand anti-theism is hampering and damaging our movement.
There are two reasons to reject the oppositional anti-theism of Richard Dawkins. First, stridency alienates both religious and non-religious communities. When this critique is raised, atheists indignantly respond that we are allowed to be vocal and opinionated in all other spheres of life. The problem with that response is not one of factual inaccuracy but rather of a profound lack of empathy for the subjective importance of faith. This importance does not categorically exclude the possibility of religious criticism but it renders strident criticism counter-productive.
Religious critiques that are not sensitive to this understanding are perceived as violent assaults on the values that religious people hold most dear. It drives religious communities to insularity by vindicating the claims of extremist pedagogues that religion is under threat. On the atheist side, it commands non-believers to view the religious—their family, friends and neighbors—as stupid and immoral. Insofar as the atheist movement can be a force for good, it must have currency and support. This cannot be achieved through insult and verbal abuse.
Further, the Dawkins brand of atheism is overly reliant on science at the expense of other moral and spiritual concerns. The vast majority of moderate religious people are not religious for reasons cleanly reducible to science or rational theology. The very word faith suggests that values like spirituality and the instinctive belief in a higher power shape individuals’ daily engagement with their religion. The problem then is not that Richard Dawkins and the religious communities hold different views but rather that the value systems from which their views arise are incommensurable. Dawkins’ atheism cannot genuinely engage with religion because the importance placed on scientific proof and spirituality, respectively, is not shared on both sides.  Genuine engagement requires a conversation based on shared value systems. Richard Dawkins’ narrow focus on science precludes such a possibility.
Note that these criticisms of Dawkins are not arguments against atheists ever critiquing religion. In fact, the problem with the atheist movement is that it has deviated so far from the effective ways in which individual atheists already interact with religion. The conversations that drive atheism forward occur, not in debate halls or in rallies, but around the dinner table. The most persuasive counter-point to the demonization of atheists is not Dawkins’ donation portal, givingaid.richarddawkins.net. It is the average, moral citizen who seeks to do right outside religion. Atheism must now accept a truth already known to its followers by embracing civil dialogue and the empathy that lies at its foundation. Michael J. Sandel, for one, would probably be delighted.
There are many things that Richard Dawkins has contributed to the atheist movement. Despite being an unlikely candidate for charismatic leadership, he courageously spearheaded the task of challenging dogma and criticizing the worst excesses of organized religion. It may even be true that his confrontational anti-theism was a necessary first step in bringing atheism to prominence. Yet past achievement is no penance for present detriment.
Late last month, Richard Dawkins’ memoir “An Appetite for Wonder” was published.  It will be viewed in some atheist circles as the indispensable reflections of a courageous leader. For some, the temptation to adopt it as a manifesto in the vein of “The God Delusion”will be great. Yet the memoir—a record of history—represents precisely the role Richard Dawkins should play in the future of atheism. Atheists must now do what they preach and cut off their meddling, strident and destructive father.
Bo Seo ’17 is a Crimson editorial comper in Straus Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If this semester has taught me anything, it’s that I’m afraid of commitment.
Not all kinds of commitment, to be sure. A weekend devoted to a House of Cards marathon? No problem. Hours upon hours spent planning a party? Anytime. But ask me to choose what I want to study for the next five semesters and to pick the requisite courses and I’m reduced to a state of panicked denial, losing precious sleep to wave after wave of existential turmoil.
I predicted this dilemma before even coming to college, although I completely misdiagnosed its cause. Just over two years ago, I was agonizing over my application, trying in vain to decide what to indicate as my intended concentration when faced with so many equally alluring possibilities. I was “undecided” almost until the day I submitted the application, and although I eventually settled on computer science as a placeholder I continued to worry about the day I’d have to actually choose.
The worrying, naturally, has only intensified since. As the deadline for declaring concentrations loomed, my uncertainty grew, and by the time email reminders were being sent out about plans of study I no longer had any inkling what I wanted to do with my life, let alone my time at Harvard.
But an overwhelming number of wonderful choices was no longer the problem. Somehow every single concentration had lost its appeal. The notion that boxing myself into one could slam shut all other doors of opportunity was beginning to sink in.
That one’s major or concentration—and, ultimately, degree—is insignificant in the long run has nearly always been the response to my oft-voiced reluctance to choose, despite the nontrivial evidence to the contrary. Your future may not be tied down to your chosen field of study, but it is shaped by it; regardless of its financial implications, specializing in a certain area inherently limits career options down the line.
Employment prospects aside, it’s impossible to ignore the more immediate effects of declaring a concentration. Certain tracks are considered “easier” or “more difficult”—perhaps unfairly so, but to an impressionable sophomore attempting to juggle assorted extracurricular commitments, these perceptions aren’t to be taken lightly. Even without these admittedly imprecise appraisals (what does “easier” even mean?), there are considerations to be made—whether I prefer problem sets to essays, for instance, or a smaller department to a larger one.
It definitely could be worse. Elsewhere students are required to select a major or program of study much earlier, beginning before they apply to college and sometimes even before they enter high school. But at the tender age of 19—and as someone who can barely plan my next weekend, let alone my life—I feel woefully unprepared to make decisions of this magnitude. Melodramatic (and inaccurate) though it may be, from the outside declaring a concentration looks like an attempt to force all one’s passions and curiosity into a department-sized mold—and while that might be perfect for some, it’s less than ideal for nearly anyone with a broad array of interests.
In a perfect world, I could put off the inevitable indefinitely and continue to take the classes with the highest Q scores, regardless of department.  But adulthood and responsibility (and, more insistently, the FAS Registrar) compelled me to choose—between narrowing my opportunities in life and writing a check, the former seemed like the lesser of two evils.
There are times when it feels like my chronic inability to decide must be some kind of inherent character flaw. Finding one’s passion is supposed to happen organically: If there’s nothing at all to which I feel drawn, will I ever discover what I’m truly interested in—or am I doomed to a life of aimlessness and endless oscillation?
And maybe it is just me (though recent late-night conversations with friends and roommates wrestling with the same decision suggest otherwise). It’s possible, even likely, that I’m completely over thinking the entire process and stressing for no reason—that in the end, it won’t matter nearly as much as it seems. But if that is the case, at least I’m not alone—a staggering number of students nationwide change their major at least once.
I’ll no doubt continue to worry I’ve chosen poorly until the bitter end, but I’m gradually coming to terms with the idea that specialization doesn’t have to mean shoehorning oneself into a single path. Deciding what to study for five semesters isn’t signing away your soul, but it does require both forethought and focus—so for now, as I try to wrap my head around the plan of study tool, the best I can do is concentrate.
Christina M. Teodorescu ’16, a Crimson editorial writer, is an applied mathematics concentrator in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Real Bulldogs:
Intimidating at sports
Treats and bones
All of them go to heaven
Respect their masters
Jump through hoops for ribbons
Know how to play
Safety dogs
Poop outside
Yale Bulldogs:
Not intimidating at sports
Skull and Bones
All of them live in New Haven
Receive their masters
Jump through hoops for jobs
Know how to study
Safety school
Poop in the laundry
Both:
Have the same chance of getting into Harvard
Occasionally drool
From old-money homes
Can do similar levels of physics p-sets
Wrinklier than the average puppy
My parents would be upset if I brought one home
Sections
By early November 2011, the gates of Harvard Yard were shut, enclosing a jumble of tents scattered across the Yard. Dozens of students had braved the chill of a New England fall to bring the Occupy Wall Street movement to the heart of Harvard’s campus. Among these students were Jennifer A. Sheehy-Skeffington, a graduate student in psychology and a tutor in Winthrop House, and Summer A. Shafer, a graduate student in American Studies. Both are still involved with activism at Harvard—and both are among the many former Occupy Harvard participants who challenge the notion that Occupy “failed.”
Since  January 2012, many have claimed that Occupy—both at Harvard and in general—failed in some way. A New York Times article described the movement as a fad with no real accomplishments. According to an op-ed published in The Crimson almost a year ago, Occupy was unsuccessful because it didn’t garner enough public support. “Occupy had the chance to spark a rational and important campus discussion of inequality in America,” wrote its author, Wyatt N. Troia ’14. “But it shot itself in the foot.”
As fall turned to winter two years ago, the outcome was far from predictable. Throughout the semester, Sheehy-Skeffington and Shafer manned Occupy’s information desk for several hours a day. Occupy Harvard persisted through January, until one freezing night when Shafer was alone in the Yard. A huge burst of wind moved the massive geodesic dome, one of Occupy’s permanent structures, across the Yard. The administration immediately shut down the movement because of what it deemed to be safety concerns.
Even after this abrupt end to the movement, Sheehy-Skeffington and Shafer were eager to continue to employ their passion for activism through discussions about protest at Harvard. They became involved with the graduate student council, which, after a hard-fought battle, passed a resolution to condemn the violence against protestors at UC Davis and UC Berkeley. Shafer said that this resolution sprang from the ideas of Occupy.
Former Occupy activists like Shafer claim that to label Occupy as a “failure” is misleading. “[A change] in politics among grad students was a tangible effect of the occupation,” Shafer said. “It brought people together politically. Students became more involved in thinking about how student government was run among graduate students at Harvard.”
Because of the renewed interest in protest and activism, she said, the infrastructure of student activist groups changed. Sheehy-Skeffington added that Occupy created “a lasting impression that connects students across generations.”
Others involved in the protest also maintain that there were measurable effects resulting from the occupation of the Yard—effects that persist to this day. “The biggest change was in terms of conversation,” said Gabriel H. Bayard ’15, a member of the Student Labor Action Movement. “Students still talk about it.”
Like Bayard, many say that the movement was designed to raise awareness of the power of protest, sparking new discussions about class and wealth.
“We changed the consciousness of campus,” said Sheehy-Skeffington, “and opened a conversation in a way that was hard to ignore.”
Some students cite an explosion in interest in student activism groups as evidence that this movement did trigger a renewed interest in student protest, one that had been long dormant in Harvard’s culture. According to Alli J. Welton, who entered Harvard with the class of 2015 but is now on a leave of absence, “that is the legacy [of Occupy]. All the things it started lead to other organizations and groups and activist campaigns.”
One of these campaigns involved fighting for fair contracts for custodians and unionized workers. These contracts were eventually passed in a way, according to some students, that influenced people’s daily lives.
Bayard was active in lobbying for these contracts, and stated that he used the protest culture of Occupy to draw attention to their goals. “That was why I was out there,” said Bayard. “That was why it mattered to me.”
But the Occupy’s legacy is still complicated, especially considering interactions with the administration and other undergraduates. Many of the people involved understand that the University administration’s decision to close the gates to the Yard to anyone without a Harvard ID could have been handled better. These participants express frustration that many undergraduates subsequently blamed Occupy for the inconvenience of having the gate shut, even though the movement itself wanted the gates to stay open.
“Everyone was so furious when the Yard shut down that they started trashing Occupy,” said Welton. “But when we explained our goals, most of the students agreed with us.”
Looking back on the movement, Shafer said she wishes Occupy Harvard could have “maintained the undergraduate presence with the same enthusiasm [they] had started with.”
Even so, Shafer cites current conversations on campus around divestment as an example of a more entrenched legacy of Occupy. “What Occupy did was really publicize some of the more problematic investment conditions,” she said. “That became part of the conversation after Occupy.”
For Shafer, these changes bode well for the future of student activism. “There’s always possibility for protest culture at Harvard,” she said. “And people shouldn’t be afraid of that."
Sections
Day 0
“You don’t need to go on a diet,” a friend tells me, “you look great.”
“Thank you,” I say, as I spoon another bite of Rice Krispies into my mouth, “but actually I’m not doing it to lose weight, I’m doing it in the name of journalism. And to be healthy.”
“I just don’t get how a diet where you only eat one color a day is healthy?”
“It’s on WebMD.”
“And does WebMD recommend it?”
“Of course not.”
At the end of October, I started a fad diet. It wasn’t so much to lose weight. Besides, I have already tried many different approaches to weight loss, including the MD recommended, but my endocrinologist refuses to up my thyroid medication. No, it was more in the name of journalism, to investigate if all those miracle diet ads that pop-up on your Facebook feed really work. The people need to know.
My first plan had been to try the Master Cleanse, because Piper had done it on “Orange is the New Black,” and I thought it would be a good idea to emulate a television character who ends up in prison. The Master Cleanse is a 10-45 day diet where you consume a concoction of lemonade, maple syrup, cayenne pepper and unlimited laxatives. This is about 600 calories a day. You are supposed to feel a “detoxing” pain in your liver, and according to WebMD you might also experience vomiting, painful urination and fatigue. However, since I am locked into an unlimited college meal plan that costs my parents over $5,000 a year, I have no way to justify spending extra money on food to starve myself into thinness. I’m also pretty sure that Dunster dining hall doesn’t serve laxatives.
I then considered the Five-Bite Diet, created by Dr. Lewis MD, which says you can only eat five bites of any food for lunch and dinner, but have to skip breakfast. Despite fitting all of my requirements (it was cheap), it didn’t work out.
That brought me to The Color Diet, something that I could at least camouflage as healthy. The Color Diet claims to introduce more vitamins into your meals by eating only one color a day. To prepare, I decided to eat a mix of every colored Starburst the night before.
Day 1 White
“It is white day!” I proclaim, when I run into friends in Harvard Square on my way to class. We all agree that I shouldn’t yell this in public. For breakfast I only have coffee (with milk) and water, so by lunchtime I am starving. I go for a meal of cottage cheese, egg whites, cottage cheese mixed with egg whites and some Greek yogurt. For dinner, I repeat, and throw in a banana and three cups of mini marshmallows. According to the Livestrong website, which dictated the rules of the particular diet I was following, white foods contain anthoxanthins, which lower blood pressure.
Day 2 Red
By day two, the diet has become my sole topic of conversation. This is partly because “red day” is more socially acceptable to say in public (barely),  but also because I can not mentally think of anything else to talk about. Thinking burns valuable calories.
Bruno, the owner of Al’s Sandwich shop, is particularly supportive. “We have salads,” he says, after I tell him that I am on a diet. I ask him if I could hypothetically get the garden salad but with just the cherry tomatoes and red onions. “Anything for you dear,” he says. However, I decline, I am late for class.
For lunch I eat a vitamin-rich meal of beets, an apple, a bowl of tomato sauce, five cherry-flavored hard candies, and an unguarded can of Polar seltzer water that I find in the lobby of the Kennedy School. It is cranberry-lime flavor.
Red foods are full of lycopene, a vitamin that reduces the risk of prostate cancer. I tell this fact to my friend Rosa over dinner as she watches me eat half a watermelon and two bowls of tomato sauce. “That’s pink,” she says, pointing to my cup of strawberry-banana frozen yogurt.“Yea, but my diet says I can have strawberries. And I can’t handle any more apples.”The part about the apples is a lie. I somehow manage to eat another two before the end of the night, before I resort to picking out the red fruit loops from the cereal dispenser in the dining hall.
Day 3 Green
By now the whole dining hall, except for my friend Jawad, knows what I am doing. Instead of the usual salutation, everyone asks me what color I am eating. Jawad asks me if I am fucking mental. He doesn’t understand how only eating green food does anything to inform the public about how insane fad diets are.
“Does anyone even do this besides you?”
“Yes, the other journalists.”
Green Day is a good day. Because I am scared that this will be my last substantive meal until day seven – rainbow day – I eat bowl after bowl of fava bean soup, soybeans and steamed broccoli. I also have a couple of green apples for a late night snack. According to Livestrong, green food contains chlorophyll. The website doesn’t explain how this is good for you, but I assume it has something to do with photosynthesizing or prostate health.
After reading the Livestrong website a little more closely, I realize that it recommends eating other colors in addition to the main color of the day, but after red day’s bowls of tomato sauce I am too invested to turn back.
Day 4 Orange
Since I am starting to feel congested, I eat an orange and two gummy vitamins for breakfast. Orange and yellow foods contain carotenoids, which help with your eyesight, immune system, and the prevention of some cancers. Since I take my health seriously, I eat bowl after bowl of steamed carrots and a Claritin, which is technically blue.
A dining hall worker catches me picking out the orange hard candies from the candy dish. She gives me a sympathetic smile. “No one likes the purple ones.”
Day 5 Purple
Livestrong recommends that I eat blackberries, blueberries, plums, eggplant, figs, purple grapes, prunes and raisins as these foods are full of antioxidants. My dining hall only has raisins. I eat blueberry yogurt, pomegranate frozen yogurt and my last two grape gummy vitamins. I almost cry when after crowdsourcing the dining hall, the consensus is that black beans are not purple. I have to resort to picking out the purple lettuce leaves from the mixed greens salad. The dining hall staff would be pleased to know that I also eat a half-dozen purple hard candies.
I no longer have the energy to tell people about my diet.
Day 6 Yellow
The combination of congestion-muted taste buds and dieting has taken all of the joy out of food. If I hadn’t already told everyone that I was doing this diet, I would probably have given up by now. I eat eggs, corn and a pear for lunch. For dinner I eat baby corn and yellow custard. I take some liberties in the evening and assume that adding vodka to orange juice is yellow enough. In my defense, I need the vitamin C.
Day 7 Rainbow Day
During my research, I noted that most diet journalists end their diet with a celebratory feast (always pizza), regardless of the fact that most of them actually gain weight. For me, I somehow managed to lose a whole pound despite being on the Color Diet, although if you factor in the weight that I gained in preparation for the week, I am basically where I started. At least I don’t have to worry about prostate cancer for a while.
 Nicole Levin ’15 is a government concentrator in Dunster House. Her latest fad diet is called “alcoholism.”
Sections
While most other American college campuses feature a student nexus—an open student-based center for recreation and socializing—Harvard does not currently have such a space. With last week’s announcement of the Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center as part of the University’s Capital Campaign, Harvard publicly addressed this longstanding issue.
But such a space did once exist at Harvard. At the turn of the 20th century, the Harvard Union was built to provide a club for social purposes open to all Harvard University students; the space was meant to unify a social scene that seemed to be primarily run solely by final clubs and other “elite” institutions. The building, which reopened as the Barker Center in 1997, was funded by a $150,000 donation from Major Henry Lee Higginson and was designed by the architectural firm McKim, Mead, and White. The Harvard Union housed a variety of offerings: dining halls, a library, billiard rooms, a restaurant, a barber shop, news and cigar stands, and space for student clubs and activities.
“It was a final club for the masses,” Michael D. Weishan ’86 writes of the club on the FDR Suite blog. Weishan is an enthusiastic, self-taught Harvard University historian who currently serves as the director of Harvard’s FDR Suite Foundation. He points out many similarities between the dialogue surrounding the construction of a student center today and the discussions that preceded the construction of the Harvard Union over 100 years ago.
“[Administrators] are proposing an almost identical space to what they had,” Weishan said, referring to the Union. “It was terrifically unsuccessful for reasons that seem almost identical.”
The Harvard Union struggled financially for many years. Dues were kept low (around $15 per student) to encourage membership, but expected financial support from alumni was lacking.
“The intention was that [the Union] would be a place for all Harvard men, the alumni as well,” Weishan explained. “The reality was most of the alumni were in Boston [...] they decided somewhere along the line to build the Harvard Club of Boston, which duplicated the essential functions of the Union.”
But more than just financial woes caused the Union’s decline. Students did not seem interested in a campus-wide social space.
“It was a forced social experiment,” said Weishan of the Union. “It was a forced attempt at egalitarianism.”
When the Union saw a steady decline in membership shortly after the building was constructed, there was an attempt to make membership mandatory by adding Union dues to student tuition. This plan met strong resistance from the student body—a clear sign that not everyone wanted to be included in the Union.
“The university really had a pragmatic view,” Weishan said of the University’s idea of using the Union as a space for student clubs. “For some reason, the students just didn’t seem to be interested in that. There’s [a space like this] in the Quad and it’s not used,” Weishan added, alluding to the Student Organization Center at Hilles.
In short, by the end of the ‘20s, the Union saw little use. It seemed that Harvard’s ambitious attempt to offer recreational and social space for students had failed. Alumni chose not to support the center, and students still preferred more exclusive clubs in spite of the University’s hopes that a non-exclusive social space would be popular.
“The final blow to the Union came when the House system started,” Weishan explained. “You didn’t need a student union anymore because the same building was duplicated in the forms of the Houses.”
Today, Harvard wants to build what seems to be the Harvard Union 2.0 with space for student organizations and casual social interactions between Harvard students. But have the perspectives of Harvard students changed since the time of the Union’s decline? Do students really need or even want a campus-wide student center?
Even with striking similarities between the old Harvard Union and the upcoming Smith Center, not everyone thinks that the Smith Campus Center will be a repeat of the Union. For the Undergraduate Council, this is a new opportunity to address past mistakes.
The UC has endorsed and advocated for a student center since 2011, when elected members published a 14-page report on the need for such a building on campus. Michael C. George ’14, a Crimson news editor and former UC Secretary, spearheaded the report and has continued to work with the school administration to push for a student center.
Whereas Weishan thinks the old student center was hurt by the House system, George believes this would not be the case again since student groups would use such a space for their meetings instead of meeting in the residential Houses. “I think the housing system will be made stronger by this,” George said.
“The House system wasn’t designed for 400 student groups,” George said. “ It was designed to support smaller communities of students and when Houses have to be thinking of making these spaces open to Houses and student groups, it’s a split priority.”
The UC report from 2011 noted various attempts at creating student centers in the past, and addressed each attempt’s possible reasons for failure. For George and the current UC, these past mistakes will be thoughtfully addressed in the new initiative.
One example the UC cites in its report is Loker Commons in Memorial Hall. Loker Commons was funded by a 1992 donation of $7 million dollars and was meant to function as a student center that would bring undergraduates together in an open space. But Loker Commons never enjoyed as much popularity as anticipated, and it now sits beneath Annenberg, rarely traversed except for a bathroom run, or as a graduate student-dominated space in the Queen’s Head Pub.
To George, Loker’s unpopularity stemmed from the fact that its location was only convenient for freshmen. He also believes that the SOCH faces the same problem because it is so distant from the populous River Houses. But the placement of the Smith Campus Center in the current Holyoke Center would correct this issue, George said.
UC President Tara Raghuveer ’14 agrees. Raghuveer also contends that the House system will not challenge the viability of a student center. “House life definitely has a role on campus and is definitely a cornerstone of being a liberal arts college, but each of the Houses are different,” she said. “Having an equalized social experience would be a benefit.”
One point of contention in regards to the new space is whether the center would be aimed primarily at undergraduate students or open to the entire University population. George and the UC always argued for an undergraduate-focused social space, but President Drew G. Faust presented a more inclusive vision of a center open to students, faculty, and staff. The naming of the new space as the Smith Campus Center (in contrast to “Student Center”), raises concerns among undergraduates.
“It was interesting when this came to fruition as a ‘campus center’,” noted UC Vice President Jen Q. Zhu ’14. “I do think there will be an inevitable tension from having a broader audience. What undergraduates want is not necessarily what graduate students and faculty and staff want.”
“They really need to actively engage the undergraduates, or they seriously run the risk that it could become a space undergraduates would not utilize,” said Zhu.
“I don’t think graduates need this as much as undergraduates,” George asserted, agreeing with Zhu’s viewpoint.
George and the UC see the need for a student center as being historically supported. For decades, there have been movements to make social spaces even if none have been successful, and this just proves the need for a more thoughtful attempt.
On the other han, Weishan thinks the failed attempts of the past prove that perhaps Harvard’s culture is not conducive to a successful student center.
“We as a college have not had a huge retrospective urge,” Weishan said. “[A student center is] something the college thinks is a great idea and they have since the 1900s,” Weishan adds, “but the students just don’t seem to care.”
Whether or not this is the case, remains to be seen.
Sections
On an uncharacteristically warm November evening, a preeminent Harvard statistician sat at a small round table in his office, across from an equally-accomplished colleague in the mathematics department.
The two professors leaned over the table in total silence, so close that their heads almost touched, their eyes fixed below them. One tapped his lip with his right index finger, the other scratched his head. Each focused entirely on the table’s surface: a green and white chess mat upon which knights, queens, bishops, and other pieces were poised in battle.The two professors were Joseph K. Blitzstein, who teaches the popular class Statistics 110: “Introduction to Probability,” and Noam D. Elkies who won the famed Putnam Competition when he was only 16 and will teach Math 25b: “Honors Linear Algebra and Real Analysis II” in the spring.
Both are known to be terrific chess players. Blitzstein is ranked as an “Expert” by the US Chess Federation, placing him in the 98th percentile of tournament players. Elkies is ranked even one step higher as a “Master,” and specializes in solving and composing chess problems. Both have been playing chess for as long as they can remember, but the serious mathematicians have found it difficult to find time for their favorite game at Harvard. FM asked the two to revive their passion for a quick match of speed chess (“Or should I say ‘Blitz’ game?” Elkies responded wryly when we first proposed the idea to him in an e-mail.)
The “blitz” game gave each player a total of five minutes to make all of his moves for a maximum potential game time of ten minutes, a period much shorter than that of standard tournament games, which can last up to six hours.
The match not only pit the former child prodigy against the statistics whiz, but also brought two faculty advisors of the Harvard Chess Club together in a rare game.
We met in Blitzstein’s office on the seventh floor of the Science Center, a small room whose every surface was covered in piles of problem sets, statistics books, and a collection of quotes by the popular “Game of Thrones” character Tyrion Lannister. Between two bookcases hung a collection of certificates, including Blitzstein’s five “favorite professor” awards, granted by the Harvard Yearbook to a number of faculty members each year.
Blitzstein pulled out his chess mat from a box in the back of the room, and set up the board, scrambling to find missing pieces including the black king. A few minutes later, Elkies arrived, wearing his signature thick, round glasses and a Lowell House Opera polo shirt. The music, math, and chess prodigy greeted Blitzstein happily.“I guess if you don’t have a king you lose automatically,” Elkies teased, referencing Blitzstein’s missing pieces. Elkies offered to grab his own black king from the set in his fourth floor office.
Elkies sprinted back into the room after two minutes, just as Blitzstein found the pieces behind a cabinet. Blitzstein placed the final pieces on the board with care, and both professors took their seats at opposite ends of the table. Blitzstein leaned back in his chair while Elkies hunched over a notepad, doodling in the margins.
After discussing the game, the professors straightened out the pieces one last time and pulled their seats closer to the table, finally prepared to play. “One of the things about math and chess is that we’re better at doing it than philosophizing about it,” Elkies said.
When the game commenced t0he atmosphere of the room changed entirely: Blitzstein and Elkies seemed to be absorbed in a different world. Their eyes shifted between the board’s green and white squares and the chess clock app on Blitzstein’s iPhone. The first few moves were made so quickly that the pieces’ positions seemed to change with each blink.
Elkies and Blitzstein moved their pieces toward the center of the board. A few pawns were captured. After about two minutes, each professor had seized one knight and one bishop from his opponent. The positions of the pieces seemed to mirror each other on each side of the board; the professors both wore pensivel expressions. To untrained eyes, the game surely looked to be a tie.  But then Blitzstein moved his king to H4. Suddenly a look of surprise flashed over Elkies’s face. Blitzstein had done something unexpected—whether that was good or bad remained to be seen.
About 30 seconds passed, and then, with just under a minute for each professors to spare, the tension broke. Blitzstein looked up from the board, met Elkies’ eyes, laughed lightly, and shook his hand: “I resign.”
The game had ended in eight minutes, but the professors were not quite ready to leave the world of chess.
Elkies grabbed his notepad and pencil again and began scribbling a messy set of letters and numbers. While Blitzstein explained the progression of the game to us, Elkies compiled a list of coordinates and chess pieces, occasionally pausing to glance at the board or lift up a piece and reposition it somewhere else. After writing down about 10 moves entirely from memory, he checked his work with Blitzstein.
In a matter of minutes, the two reconstructed their entire game, with stoic and humble commentary about whether their choices had been optimal and when the tide had turned in Elkies’s favor. They recorded a total of 35 moves per player as they discussed the overall strategy of the game as well as their individual tactics. “There’s both short-term, ‘I go here, he goes here,’ thinking, and long-term, deeper thinking,” Blitzstein explained. The pair determined that it had been Blitzstein’s move of his king to H4, the left edge of the board, that cost him the game.
“Remember ‘the square of the pawn’?” Elkies said to clarify, referring to a strategy he had mentioned earlier. If a diagonal line can be drawn from a pawn to the opponent’s king at the end of the board, he explained, the pawn will not be able to reach the square where it would be promoted to a queen. Blitzstein had moved his king outside of the square, opening up his end of the board to Elkies’s advancing pawns.
Blitzstein then knew he had no chance.
“I shouldn’t have done that,” he said. “But when you have five minutes for a whole game, it’s more important to play some move than no move at all. You have to go with your instincts, use some cheap heuristics.”
With the game and its analysis finished, Blitzstein packed up the board and placed his pile of statistics problem sets back on the table. He sat at his desk, perhaps getting ready to compile another data set or prepare for his lecture on Monday. Elkies rode the elevator back down to the fourth floor, where he might have immersed himself once again in the realm of number theory and algebraic geometry.
The chess mat and all 32 pieces (the set fully complete, this time) were stowed in a cabinet in the corner of Blitzstein’s office: a game waiting to be played and world waiting to be reentered, if only for another eight minutes.
Sections
While trips to the quad are often categorized as “too far to travel,” Harvard students shuttle to The Game at Yale every other year. FM imagines what some of the conversations on these buses might look like.
CREW BUS:
[Coxswain holds a microphone. The heavyweights sit backwards to face him.]
Coxswain: Chug!
(5 second break)
Coxswain: Chug!
(5 second break)
Coxswain: Chug!
(5 second break)
ADVOCATE:
[Chain smoking cigarettes.]
President: This is so mainstream.
Poetry editor: I/ am so/ unhappy/ right now./ What is life?
Arts editor: [Holds up a black and white photograph of the sun]
MUNCH:
Munch 1: Faster!
Munch 2: Faster!!
Munch 3 and 4: [Together] Don’t stop!
Munch 2: Don’t make me undo this belt and come after you!
Munch 5: Step on it! Step on it! Really force it!
Munch 6: Yeah, driver, we’re gonna be late to the game!

UC BUS:
Administrator: So guys I want to remind you of the alcohol pol—
Bus: Wooooo!
Administrator: As in you’re not supposed t—
Bus: YEEEEA!
Administrator: No drink—
[Bus starts doing keg stands]
PBHA:
Director: I’m getting on the bus to Yale guys, wish me luck.
Mission Hill Tutor: No! Nobody deserves that!
Director: Listen, we’ve already started programs in Chinatown, South Boston and Mission Hill. If we can’t handle New Haven then nobody can!
Civics teacher: Woah man. Look, I taught a kid about GOVERNMENT. And he didn’t cheat on the exam! But we are not, I repeat, not equipped to handle that.
Director: Then what do you expect us to do? Just leave them to struggle in their castles and superior dramatic arts program? These students need our help, and by God, we’re going to give it to them!
FOOTBALL TEAM:
Coach: We all know how important this game is to our team, our school, our country.
Team: Yeah! Running back: From minute one, all eyes are going to be on us. If we can prove ourselves, we’ll put our names in the history books.
Team: Yeah!
3rd String Quarterback: Is it possible ... I don’t know ... just spitballing ... that I can ... just for this one game, go to the tailgate and sit in the stands with my friends?
Assistant Coach: Yeah...me too?
PORCELLIAN CLUB:
Member: ...but if we go into the stands with everyone else, how can we keep acting exclusive and secretive? I can’t expose myself to sunlight ... or ordinary people. Plus, I have an appointment to mingle with father at the alumni tailgate at the Harvard Club of Dubai.
DELPHIC:
Member 1: YEAAAAH
Member 2: If we can no longer do what we want at Harvard, might as well go hard in New Haven.
Member 1: YEAAAAAAAH
Member 3: So everyone drink the equivalent of the rest of your weekends of the year!
Member 4: Actually, make that the rest of your college years. Things aren’t looking so good for us right now.
Sections
Come next weekend, hundreds of Harvard students will be piling into buses to make the famed pilgrimage to the rough and tumble streets of New Haven, home of the number one safety school. To pass the travel time as Harvard prepares for its seventh consecutive win, take a listen to these classics:
On the Way to New Haven:
1.  Highway to Hell – AC/DC
The road to the Dirty Have is paved with bad intentions—we’ve heard from a trusted source that New Haven is a favorite vacation spot of Satan. Listen to this classic to remind yourself just what kind of a city you’ll soon be visiting.
2. Let’s Get it Started – Black Eyed Peas
A perfect throwback to pump you up for The Game—this song will remind you of your middle school days, when you actually played a sport.
3. Why I Chose Yale – On Harvard Time
Listen to this hilarious parody by On Harvard Time to remind yourself that you chose right.
On the Way Home:
1.  10,000 Men of Harvard
Since Saturday is literally the only day Harvard will have any semblance of school spirit, take this moment to listen to our beloved signature song—and then put it to rest for another year.
2. We are the Champions – Queen
The title says it all—an oldie but a goodie.
3. Anything by Bon Iver
If you find yourself a bit worn out after your short, alcohol-heavy stay in New Haven, put on some Bon Iver and use the bus ride back to catch up on some sleep. His sweet, unintelligible lyrics will rock you gently to dreamland.
Sections
Yale Bowl:
Where Bulldogs play
Get arrested if you pee in it
Not a problem if you’re late
Only go there once a year
Touchdowns
Seats 60,000
Toilet Bowl:
Where bulldogs drink
Get arrested if you pee elsewhere
Big problem if you’re late
Hopefully go at least daily
Seat downs
Seats two in a pinch
Both:
Go there when drunk
Uncomfortable seating
Washing hands a necessity
Smells like shit
Sections
1. Do attend/watch the game.
The Harvard-Yale Game, which dates back to 1875, is one of the oldest and most notable rivalries in the history of college sports. It is also one of the most highly anticipated events of the college year for students from both schools. Regardless of whether or not you’re a sports fan, the weekend of The Game is a weekend for memories. These memories will not be created in a cubicle of Lamont or in the silence of Widener—you will likely be alone and crying in these places if you choose to stay behind. Throw on your Crimson gear, get yourself down to New Haven, and keep these do’s and don’t’s in mind as you prepare and proceed for a legendary weekend.
2. Don’t end up in the infirmary.
You don’t want to be the kid whose friends need to carry you out of the tailgate like a wounded soldier, so drink responsibly. That being said, if you feel like anyone has passed the oh-so-famous “optimal buzz” (shout out to the DAPAs) don’t be afraid to seek help. The amnesty policy at Yale might be a bit fuzzy, but part of being a responsible member of the Harvard community is looking out for your fellow students, and The Game is a time to be on your A game, heightened BACs and all.
3. Don’t expect personal space.
You texted your one friend at Yale to stay over. So did 10 other people. All of us want to secure a six by two ft. piece of floor space ahead of time, but don’t expect an air mattress or even a couch. You’ll be lucky to get a pillow. The more confident among us go in blind with the intention of staying the night with an attractive Yalie (yes, they do exist). Know that even if you make it back to his or her room, there might already be three or four people sharing that bed on Friday night (and not in a sexy way). Be prepared to hurdle sleeping bodies in search of the rare, empty bedroom. Either way, you’re more than likely going to wake up in the stairwell of a random residential College. But hey, at least you’ll have a good story (assuming you can remember it).
4. Do travel in a pack.
Once every two years Harvard upperclassmen revert to their freshman instincts and roam the streets in New Haven like packs of feral dogs. Perhaps some biennial celestial phenomenon wrecks havoc on the primitive parts of our brains, or maybe it’s just the unfamiliar nature of the surroundings, but slowly, inexorably, you and your friends will form into a party-hopping mob. Don’t fight it, the extra body heat will fend off hypothermia and the huddle formation will confuse and disorient would-be assailants. But most importantly, this way you’ll have people to talk to when you inevitably find yourself in the line outside Toad’s Place.
5. Do explore the tailgate.
With increased restrictions at the Game, it’s unclear what this year’s tailgate will look like. Gone are the days of keg stands and beer funneling from the top of a U-Haul. But don’t despair! There will still be plenty to see and do (and eat and drink and smoke). Once you’ve inspected the student tailgate, wander away from the tennis courts and check out some other options. We suggest this little game with your friends: (see bottom).
6. Don’t go too hard to early.
Although Harvard is Division I, we all know that we don’t quite have the ra-ra spirit around sports comparable to that of a PAC-12 type school. When it comes to Daygers (day-ragers for you newbies out there) we lack the experience of our peers at Wisconsin or Florida State. For those with limited experience with day drinking, think of the Harvard-Yale pregame (or really any day drinking for that matter) as a marathon. If you spend the first mile sprinting, you are likely to be walking (or maybe even passed out on the sideline) by mile five. Don’t overestimate your ability to be a “tank.” Nothing is worse than a hungover second half.
7. Don’t sit on the Yale side.
You might be tempted to leave the Crimson side of the field to go say hi to some unfortunate high school pals wearing blue. Don’t. Should you choose to ignore our advice, be prepared for some heavy heckling from our old rivals, and even more heckling from your friends sitting where they’re supposed to sit. Don’t take it personally—Yalies will receive their fair share of mockery if they venture over to the side of the oldest standing college in America.
8. Don’t miss your bus.
This one should go without saying, but every year some poor kid loses track of time and ends up stranded in New Haven. Don’t panic should you become one of those unlucky souls. There will be trains and other buses to Boston. But with Thanksgiving inflating fares and a blossoming headache from a lack of sleep, neither your wallet nor your body will appreciate the mistake.
9. Don’t be a douche.
We get it—it’s a party weekend, there’s a rivalry, and many of you will be consuming a lot of alcohol. The Game is all about building camaraderie with your fellow Cantabridgians. So get rowdy! Make jokes about the crime rate in New Haven. Sing “Ten-Thousand Men of Harvard” at the top of your lungs. And try to keep things in perspective. Even though it’s the Game, it’s still just a game. Every year there are jerks at both schools who take the spirit of competition too far. Don’t pull fire alarms, pick fights, vandalize, break into a secret society, become a copycat “poopetrator,” or any of a million other things that fall under the banner of douchebaggery. We’re always telling the Yalies we’re better than they are. Let’s prove that we are.
A game to play with your friends:
-5 points for acting sober enough to interact with your resident tutor/proctor.
-10 points for convincing a Yalie that you go to Yale (the Harvard sweatshirt is just “ironic.”)
-20 points for scoring the digits of a former 15 Hottest Freshmen.
-50 points for whomever downs a beer with the oldest alum.
-100 points if you can actually send a text telling your friends you did any of these. Seriously, there’s no cell service at The Game, good luck with this one.
Sections
The bright pink, orange, and yellow chairs contrasting with the Yard’s muted fall tones has surely left more than one newcomer to Harvard’s campus feeling a little perplexed—no matter the chairs’ comfort or practicality.
These chairs represent a smaller-scale attempt to create social space at Harvard, part of the Common Spaces program that includes the new Science Center Plaza and the recently announced Richard A. and Susan F. Smith Campus Center. The addition of the colorful chairs in 2009 was motivated by the desire to make the Yard a more accesible and engaging common space for the community.
The installation was largely the effort of Michael R. Van Valkenburgh, a Graduate School of Design  professor and the head of MVVA, a landscape architecture firm based in New York and Cambridge. MVVA has also contributed landscape designs to Princeton, Vassar, Cornell, and Penn’s campuses, among others. Van Valkenburgh traces the origins of his fascination with landscape architecture to a trip to Europe during his senior year in high school. He and his best friend were exploring Paris one night when they ended up in the Jardin des Tuileries.
“A feeling came over me that was completely electric and memorable,” says Van Valkenburgh. “I knew I was in this place of great civility and urbanity.” Six months later, Van Valkenburgh’s freshman ecology professor told the class that if he had the opportunity to begin again, he’d be a landscape architect. The professor had provided a career path for the inclination that had begun for Van Valkenburgh in Paris: “That’s how landscape architecture started for me.”
As the GSD’s Charles Eliot Professor, Van Valkenburgh carries on the legacy of Charles Eliot, Jr., the son of the 21st president of Harvard. “Along with Olmstead, Eliot was one of the first great American landscape architects,” says Van Valkenburgh. “[Landscape architecture] goes back extremely far in history as something that Eliot was involved in, and the discipline of landscape architecture is one of Harvard’s great traditions in global culture.”
For Van Valkenburgh, the Harvard Yard restoration maintains this longstanding tradition. “I am enormously proud and very satisfied by the work that I’ve done in the Yard,” he says, citing it as one of his personal favorite projects.
The project itself began around 1990, when Van Valkenburgh was part of a team hired to restore Harvard Yard’s tree canopy, working in tandem with architects modernizing the freshmen dorms. Striving to preserve both the history and environment of the Yard, Van Valkenburgh and MVVA paid careful attention to the aesthetic details of the space as they began replanting 20 species of trees. The project ultimately earned several awards, including the National Trust’s 1994 Award for Excellence in Historic Preservation.
Along with playing a major role in reinvigorating the natural aspects of the Yard, Van Valkenburgh is also one of the key figures behind the chairs scattered on the grass.  “The chairs came about on the heels of a study that Harvard commissioned called the Common Spaces program,” explains Van Valkenburgh, stating that the primary goal of the project was to look at the main core of the campus and ask how the space could be made more “friendly.” The initiative itself was founded by President Drew Faust in early 2008, shortly after she assumed office.
“Drew absolutely wanted to do something to declare her values as president,” says Van Valkenburgh. “She wanted to have a project that would take place in her first year and would instill a sense of warmth and community at Harvard.”He adds, “Before the chairs were out there, there was basically no place to sit besides on the steps of buildings.”
The overarching message of the chairs also appeals to Van Valkenburgh on a personal level. “I went to a modest, rural high school,” he says, “and I remember the first time I walked into Harvard Yard, which was gaspingly beautiful but also somewhat overwhelming.”
When working on the project, he says, “I was always thinking, ‘Is there something inexpensive and not too crazy that we can do to make the Yard friendlier for a public school kid from Ohio?’” The consensus answer was to purchase a number of bright Luxembourg chairs and place them throughout the Yard.
Van Valkenburgh and his firm have also targeted areas of Harvard’s campus besides the Yard for reinvigoration, including a new public space at the Law School, next to Pound Hall.
“It was fantastic working with the Dean Martha Minow of the Law School,” Van Valkenburgh says, “because she was completely concerned with the social life of her students and the kinds of things people need in the intensity of that environment.”
As Van Valkenburgh continues his work upholding one of Harvard’s “great traditions” of landscape architecture, he is also deeply aware of the importance of change and constant reevaluation, in addition to preserving history. The bright chairs clustered around imposing centuries-old buildings are only one example of this effort.
“The message of the space is now completely different,” says Van Valkenburgh. “If you’re that kid from Ohio, and you see 300 freshmen sitting around on colorful chairs, it’s a pretty friendly sight.”
Sections
With the Harvard-Yale game fast approaching, it’s a good time to reflect back on all that Harvard athletes have accomplished since the school’s first intercollegiate competition in 1852. We’ve had at least one Olympian in every modern day Olympic competition, and we have the most Division I sports teams of any college in the nation. But what about all the other curious nuances of Harvard sports history you’ve never heard of before? FM is here to save the day, providing you with a comprehensive list of unusua and highly amusing fun facts.
1.  The size and shape of Harvard Stadium is the reason football today is the way it is.
In 1906, President Theodore Roosevelt called for an intercollegiate conference to make football safer for students. One suggestion was to widen the field, which Harvard’s stadium could not
accommodate due to the closeness of the stands to the field. Afraid that eliminating football at Harvard would spell doom for the sport on a national level, the forward pass was adopted instead. So yeah, nation: Harvard is the reason football fields are the size they are, and part of the reason the game is played the way we know it today.
2. Harvard began the tradition of using uniforms to tell teams apart.
That’s right, before Harvard came along, fans would have no way of telling members of the teams apart unless they followed the team closely enough to be able to recognize each individual’s stature from afar—in other words, right where the line between dedicated and creepy becomes extremely blurred. Charles W. Eliot ’53 changed this when he purchased six red Chinese silk bandanas for the members of the crew team to wear in regattas.
3. On May 6, 1875, Harvard students voted to select Crimson as the school nickname and color for all future athletic competitions.
I know what you’re all wondering: what was the alternative? The answer, people, is magenta. That’s right. We were nearly labeled the Harvard Magenta for all of eternity. Think about the potential ramifications of that action, and be thankful the students were wise enough to choose Crimson instead.
4. There’s a “Little Red Flag” waved each time the Harvard football team scores against Yale.
Since 1884, a Harvard superfan has been in charge of waving a flag from his seat at the Harvard-Yale game every time Harvard scores. The Harvard alumnus who has seen the most consecutive games between the rivals gets the honor of carrying it. Which one of you is going to make this your new life mission? (Spoiler alert: all of you.)
5. In 1901, Miss Constance Applebee, an English student attending Harvard’s summer school, introduced Field Hockey to the United States.
Let’s be real, this woman sounds like a total badass. Introducing what was then a men’s sport in England to a new and quite non-receptive country all while completing her studies and owning a last name that awesome? I don’t know about you, but I would have made this chick my best friend.
6. The Harvard baseball team defeated the Boston Red Sox in 1916, the same year the Sox won the World Series.
Harvard beat the Red Sox 1-0 in 1916 exhibition match, four years after the two teams played the first ever baseball game at Fenway Park. Since Red Sox = World Champions and Harvard Baseball > Boston Red Sox, Harvard Baseball > World Champions. QED.
Sections
Dear Yale,
With the game in two days, you’re the only thing on our mind! Going a whole year since we’ve last seen you has been almost unbearable, but we’re looking forward to being back in your arms  soon. Last year’s game must have been a pretty disappointing loss (and the one before that, and the four before that), but hey, you’ve got another shot! Maybe this will be the year for you, Yale; we believe in you! Though we said we came to watch Harvard, we’re secretly cheering you on. We’re wearing blue underneath our crimson, wanna see?
After all, everyone loves an underdog, especially us, and we’d love to watch you rise to the top. Though some might be calling it a bit of a rough year for you, you’ve had your good moments—we’ve had our eyes on you all season long. We saw you flex those biceps at the beginning of the season with three wins in a row, and, though things got a little rough after that, we love how you’re fierce and never gave up despite all those losses. We don’t see what others find attractive in Dartmouth or Penn—never really been into the cocky jock type, personally. We don’t think any less of you for your struggles this season. If anything, we think it’s kind of cute.
Though it seems like we’re playing hard to get, always staying a little bit ahead of you in football scores and academic rankings, the truth is, we really admire your passion and fire. We love watching you run down the field in that timeless, classy navy blue, which goes really well with your eyes, by the way. You’re confident and not afraid to throw down and get those little white pants dirty, which really gets us going.
After the game, would you mind showing us your room? We’re really excited to see where you live! People say New Haven is scary, but with a big, strong Yale Bulldog by our side, there’s nothing to fear out there, not even a mugger. Plus, it’s almost winter and it’ll be cold, so why not skip the parties and just cozy in for the night? We’ll tend any battle wounds from the day’s big game, and we even brought some hard cider to enjoy before cuddling up under the blankets.
So soon, we’ll be up close and personal again at The Game. Don’t be fooled, we really don’t care who wins, it’s all about the action this weekend. We’re counting the minutes until we’re together again, Yale. The weekend always goes by too quickly, so let’s make this one to remember. Or not. See you on Saturday!
XOXO,
Harvard
This Friday, the annual tradition will commence once again. Thousands of students will board busses to mingle with the enemy. A capella groups from Harvard and Yale will perform together, colleges will host Houses, and anticipation will build.
The next morning, students will wake up early to continue the celebration. Then comes The Game. Two schools credited with starting intercollegiate sports will battle in front of a packed stadium, as they have for over 100 years, but things are different than they were in the 1800s.
National television crews will dot the stadium. Well-paid coaches will prowl the sideline, and students who have prepared intensively for months, if not years, will take the field. As students often remark, Harvard feels like a “real” school for one day, a party school crazed with sports. For many, the focus is not on the score: It’s a chance to see alumni and spend a Saturday engaging in revelry.
But for the dozens of student-athletes actually playing The Game, it’s just another day in a Harvard experience increasingly defined by sports. If Harvard is not a sports school already, it feels like more of one every year.
Physically, the school’s athletic complex continues to spread south of the Charles River, with renovations to the hockey arena underway and a new basketball arena soon to come. Symbolically, Harvard sports are quickly assuming a larger role as the face of the University as Harvard’s athletic shield begins sharing the spotlight with the school’s traditional crest. Harvard men’s basketball alone will play on television at least 12 times this season.
A total of 1,026 students participated in varsity athletics in the 2012-2013 academic year—nearly one in six of Harvard undergraduates. With the addition of women’s rugby this fall, Harvard’s 42 Division I varsity sports teams—the most in the NCAA—make it one of the most robust athletics programs in the nation. And as the men’s basketball team’s recent performance in the NCAA Tournament has shown, Harvard is increasingly competing not just within the Ivy League but with large universities nationwide.
As sports have grown at Harvard and across the country, athletes have become more specialized and committed to their pursuits two riverbanks away from Harvard Yard.
Harvard has, in many ways, embraced this shift. With a stated mission of “education through athletics,” the Athletic Department, coaches, and other sports advocates see the field of play as a learning ground and another arena in which Harvard should excel.
Still, some question whether competitive Division I athletics further or hinder Harvard’s broader mission as an academic institution. The decision to admit any one recruited athlete presents an increasing opportunity cost as the number of applications to the College soar and its acceptance rate hovers above a mere 5 percent. At the same time, the financial tradeoffs are increasingly large as Harvard keeps up with growing athletics departments in the Ivy League and across the country.
While many say that Harvard is largely successful in balancing its sometimes conflicting interests from each side of the river, others aren’t so sure. Some point to student-athletes’ increased commitment to their sports as evidence that Harvard might be failing to strike the necessary balance for its students. Others question the Division I model and its place at Harvard altogether.
Since the formation of the Ivy League 59 years ago, the Ancient Eight have consistently struggled to balance athletic success and its impact on academics. These critics raise a question: Has Harvard overstepped the line?
“I don’t think it ever occurred to me that we’d be recruiting so many people in so many different sports,” says John P. Reardon ’60, Executive Director of the Harvard Alumni Association and a former Harvard Athletic Director. In his capacity as athletic director from 1978 to 1990, Reardon spearheaded a University push toward a more competitive athletics program. Yet even Reardon expresses surprise at the rapid growth of the program during and after his tenure.
Indeed, in recent years Harvard varsity athletics have grown to contain larger numbers of student-athletes than ever before. Football calls more than 100 players its own, while women’s rugby, which recently became Harvard’s 42nd varsity team, has added 42 varsity athletes to the ranks of the Harvard Department of Athletics.
Harvard supports these varsity programs financially, in the forms of funding team travel, hiring coaches, and maintaining the facilities that are largely housed across the Charles River. According to the U.S. Department of Education, Harvard’s Department of Athletics’s expenses totaled more than $21 million in 2012-2013 for all varsity teams. Recruiting costs alone amount to nearly $1 million, roughly triple the Undergraduate Council’s discretionary funding for all recognized College extracurricular groups.
Even athletics’ place in Harvard’s administrative hierarchy speaks to its importance institutionally: Robert Scalise, Harvard’s athletic director, reports directly to Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith, as do multiple other deans, including the Dean of the College and the Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid. That’s a higher place in the University’s bureaucratic chain-of-command than the Dean of Undergraduate Education, who reports not to Smith but to the College Dean.
This is all a testament to the large role varsity athletes play at Harvard in the student body, in the budget, and in the administration. At one of the world’s premier academic institutions, however, such a role raises the question of why participation in such a seemingly non-academic pursuit is so widespread—and whether it holds any relevance to academics.
The educational value of athletics has long been touted by Harvard and many of its peer institutions. When the eight Ivy schools signed the Ivy charter in 1954, they agreed, “that under proper conditions intercollegiate competition in organized athletics offers desirable development and recreation for players and a healthy focus of collegiate loyalty.”
“Since the beginning of intercollegiate sports there has always been a question of the balance of athletics and academics at institutions like Harvard. This is part of the reason that the Ivy presidents in the 1950s, decided to form the Ivy League and articulated the principles of Ivy League athletics,” Athletic Director Scalise wrote in an email to The Crimson.
The half-century old ideals of player development and school pride remain stated goals of Harvard Athletics. The Department of Athletics’s mission statement is two-fold, celebrating “Education through Athletics” and striving to “Build Community and Pride in Harvard.”
“This is a small classroom, to be honest with you,” says women’s basketball coach Kathy Delaney-Smith, who is in the midst of her 32nd season as head coach. “Yes, we’re trying to win, but the way you win is broader than that. The way you win is to develop all of those life skills that you need in life: handling success, handling failure, handling conflict, teamwork, humility, confidence, and what better way to develop all those life skills on a daily, repeated basis than by being on a team?”
While student-athletes learn those skills, many argue that the rest of the school benefits as well. Faculty and alumni often point to the power that sports have to build pride among members of the Harvard community.
“[Athletics] makes a considerable contribution to building loyalty to Harvard or the university where you are,” says government professor Harvey C. Mansfield ’53. “In America, there are state universities, but the support for the university is built in a good part through the football team or varsity sports.”
Mansfield also argues that varsity athletes bring a diverse skill set to the College. “Diversity refers not just to people’s being different, but to making different contributions to the whole, so the cultivation of the mind needs to take place in the context of a whole, of a student body,” says Mansfield, a former member of the FAS standing committee on athletic sports who says he attends Harvard football games “religiously.” “And in that context, I think athletics has a place.”
Former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 argues that a strong sports program is a key component of an American university that hopes to attract students from across the country. “We want to be able to show ourselves persuasively as representing the best of America in the terms that America recognizes...I’m just trying to say that it’s part of the American tradition of collegiate life,” Lewis says.
Lewis adds that eliminating Division I sports would change the way Harvard is viewed in some communities. “It would be even harder for people who are from rural America to think of Harvard as being a real university and not some elite place where people don’t do the things that college students really do,” says Lewis, who throughout his tenure as dean of the College was an active supporter of athletics. “We would sort of drop out a piece of American culture.....And we’d lose a lot of people who come from subcultures of America where sports is one of the ways that you show your ambition.”
Lewis notes Harvard’s commitment to excellence in realms beyond the purely academic as a reason for Harvard’s support of sports.
“I think Harvard still values athletics because people who have displayed success in athletics have shown a capacity to achieve a level of excellence in a particular domain, and the domains in which we try to achieve and represent excellence are not only academic ones, because very few, in the long run, of our undergraduates are going to go on to academic careers,” says Lewis.
Harvard Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 writes in an emailed statement that “Harvard’s excellence in athletics is entirely in keeping with our academic excellence.” He adds that “even with the large number of sports at Harvard, the percentage of recruited athletes has largely remained unchanged since 1990,” hovering around 13 percent today.
Track coach Jason S. Saretsky echoes the argument that Harvard as an institution should strive for excellence in all realms, even those beyond the academic. “When you are allowed to pursue mediocrity, I don’t think that goes with the idea of education through athletics,” he says. “I would not want to see an institution like Harvard that is so synonymous with excellence in everything it does settle for just being average—middle of the pack.”
Despite sports’ contributions to the University, some voices question those benefits and whether they really outweigh the costs—financial and otherwise—of maintaining such robust Division I programming at an academic institution. Critiques of the system range from concerns about the pressures that varsity sports place on student-athletes to concerns about the athletes themselves. Most agree that, no matter the benefits, Harvard faces tradeoffs with other facets of the University, such as in admissions, in supporting its growing athletic program.
History professor James Kloppenberg argues that Harvard should focus on attracting academically minded students.
“If students are being recruited to Harvard for something other than academics, then those students shouldn’t be here,” Kloppenberg says. “I think that’s true in many other universities, and I think that’s a mistake that Harvard has to resist—not only encouraging such recruitment, but even allowing people to come in who are not going to make the commitment to academics.”
Sitting in his office in the heart of Harvard’s History Department in Robinson Hall, surrounded by a crowded book shelf, Kloppenberg voices the concerns of many in the professoriate who worry that student-athletes are being drawn away from the academic arena.
“The danger is that as sports have grown in importance, it seems that the intercollegiate component is becoming a more important part of athletes’ lives than the classroom,” says Kloppenberg, who says he “loves” sports and played on the baseball team as a freshman at Dartmouth but later left the team to pursue other interests.
Kloppenberg says that the main question to answer is, “Do students here feel pressure from their coaches, peers, or from themselves to devote less time to academics? If that pressure is real, then there is a serious imbalance, because Harvard should be a place where academics are the priority.” To Kloppenberg, whether or not such an imbalance exists at Harvard is dependent on student-athletes’ experiences.
D.J. Monroe ’13, a Harvard football player, says that playing on the football team amounts to a full-time job. And though he did say that players are able to take whatever courses they want, assuming they don’t conflict with team practice and travel, some others worry such a commitment to sports makes it impossible for athletes to excel on both sides of the river in whatever field they so choose.
“I think if we looked it up it used to be 10 kids on the team 40 years ago who went into medicine,” says Reardon, the former athletic director. “Now it’s maybe one or two. You have to be so organized to do science and play a sport.”
Former Princeton president William G. Bowen and James L. Shulman’s research in their 2001 book “The Game of Life: College Sports and Educational Values” found that even at selective colleges, students playing sports were more likely to perform less well academically than would be expected based on their previous academic credentials.
In a phone interview, Shulman said that today the emphasis that institutions of higher education place on intercollegiate athletics and the intensity of specialization and recruiting “hasn’t really diminished much at all” since he and Bowen researched and wrote “The Game of Life.”
Scalise points out that Harvard has “oversight mechanisms” put in place to monitor athletes’ time commitments and academic standing. The groups, one composed of faculty members and the other made up of alumni and others around the country, also report on admission standards.
In admissions, Shulman says that Harvard today faces a tradeoff when deciding which students to admit—for every student accepted largely for their specialized ability in a specific sport, there is another who isn’t, and deciding what a school values more is a judgment on the part of administrators. Douglas M. Schmidt ’76, an alumnus who wrote a letter to University President Drew G. Faust last year detailing his concerns about Harvard athletics, also emphasizes the opportunity cost of admitting a large number of recruited athletes when it could instead offer admission to others in their place.
“I do believe that the University, for its own good, should do what it does best,” Schmidt says in a phone interview. “And what it does best is attract the best and brightest and most accomplished students from around the world in the arts, the sciences, and the humanities, and the social sciences. It has at its grasp future leaders in academia, in politics, business, and it should do everything it can to maximize the number of places for those students.”
The debate concerning athletics’ place in higher education is by no means unique to Harvard, and by no means new. The debate surrounding appropriate academic standards for recruited athletes in the Ivy League has gone on for decades, with the 1985 creation of the Academic Index—a metric calculated with a combination of a recruited athlete’s high school GPA and SAT scores—marking an effort to set higher academic standards for the league’s recruits. Ivy League rules now stipulate a minimum score for recruits and require that an athletic department’s student-athletes’ average AI score fall no lower than one standard deviation below the average score for the overall student population.
“Instead of admitting people who we feel—with special support—could get through the academic program if spread out over a five-year period,” Scalise writes, “we admit people who are representative of the student body, as measured by the Ivy League.”
Despite the controls put in place relating to admission, the balance between athletics and academics has undeniably shifted over time as athletics have grown in size and scope. Harvard athletics were radically different when Dave Fish ’72, the men’s tennis coach, played on the team.
“The level of organization…we had nothing,” says Fish, who also played on the varsity squash team, “we had to buy our own tennis balls. We had two shirts with an ‘H’ on it. Otherwise we would have looked like we came right off the street. It’s just that everything’s changed.”
Much of that change came in the decade following Fish’s graduation under the leadership of then-Athletic Director Reardon. By 1980, Harvard had added its 40th team, women’s water polo, and in the ensuing years, Reardon opened a new pool, indoor track, tennis center and basketball arena and updated the hockey rink while repairing Harvard Stadium. In so doing, Reardon set Harvard on a path to competitiveness that it continues to follow today.
“I thought we ought to play as many sports and have as much participation as we could,” Reardon says. But Reardon has seen big changes transpire since then, like the elimination of junior varsity teams, which he said annoys him to this day.
Even back then, some were concerned about the consequences of strengthening the athletic program. At a 1981 panel discussion titled “Harvard Athletics: Then and Now,” then-swim team captain Bobby Hackett ’81 worried that his sport “[was] becoming very hard-core. People tend to forget what they’re here for.”
The current Ivy League now shares few similarities with the body as it existed in Jan. 18, 1954, when the Ivy Group Agreement was signed. For instance, in addition to changes in recruiting policy, freshmen became eligible to play varsity sports in 1993, and spring football practices were added in 1994.
“What we’re looking at is a societal trend,” Fish says. “It’s not a Harvard thing. Sports have professionalized because people want a more professional approach. They have specialized more before they get here. In the same way that musicians and poker players play more before they get here. That’s just the way society was going and Harvard is trying to respond intelligently to that trend.”
Some critics argue against the increased specialization and professionalization of college sports that athletes, coaches, and outside researchers alike have observed in recent decades. In particular, some members of the Harvard community express concerns that this increased specialization could put more pressure on athletes to prioritize their sports and makes recruiting true “scholar-athletes” more difficult.
Reardon, now the HAA executive director, has watched Harvard’s athletes become increasingly specialized over the course of decades.
“Having run admissions for so long too, I think about this a lot: There are some great kids that don’t get into this place that might play three sports pretty well, they’re pretty bright kids, they’re all-American kids, and they’re going to do pretty well in life,” Reardon says. “And I think about other kids who have come here and done well [in the past], and would they get in today?”
While he was athletic director, Reardon tried to change things. He ordered a meeting and asked if the department could select 10 sports that would be recruited and the others would not be. “It was a waste of a discussion,” Reardon remembers. Every coach wanted to recruit for his or her sport, and the athletic director was unable to develop any traction.
The increasing demands of playing sports at the varsity level are a cause of concern to some faculty and alumni. Shulman, co-author of “The Game of Life,” notes that with the rise of specialization, the students who benefit most from the educational aspects of varsity athletics are those who have already played them—often extensively—before.
“I think the biggest irony in the college sports debate at selective colleges and universities is [that] the people who feel most strongly about those values feel that they should only accrue to a very specialized group, and a group that were admitted having spent time honing those skills in the first place,” Shulman says.
Scalise, Harvard’s current athletic director, has been credited with increasing Harvard’s club sports options in the name of “Athletics for All.” “Harvard has put so much money into [its] club sports system,” Fish says. “That’s unbelievable to me. That’s been a sort of evolutionary growth of this awareness of how good this is for everybody.”
Yet, less competitive teams have also seen their budgets shrink in recent years. In 2009, junior varsity basketball, baseball, and hockey teams were turned into club sports, meaning they received less support from the athletic department.
And just this year, club teams saw decreased financial support from the UC as it faced budget constraints, with the largest possible grants decreasing from $2,000 to $1,275.
While coaches and professors offer varying evaluations of the role of varsity athletics within the University, the athletes themselves provide a different perspective on the program. Many student-athletes say that they build bonds with teammates, revel in the thrill of competition, and often define their Harvard experiences by their time on the field or court and the relationships they form there.
Women’s basketball captain Christine D. Clark ’14 echoes her coach’s sentiment about the educational value of her sport: “I think the sport itself teaches you so much, and then being on a team sport, especially in college—there are just so many things you learn about life and about how to act as a person,” Clark says. “It’s an education in itself to be on a team here.”
Many recruited athletes add that they chose to attend Harvard for both its athletic and academic opportunities, and many coaches say that academics should come first for them while they’re here. While some coaches say that students should be able to fit their sports within their academic schedules, some are willing to accommodate students missing practice for a class.
Still, concerns linger among some faculty, and often among other students, about recruited athletes’ level of academic preparedness and the impact that the demands of playing for a team might have on their ability to prioritize academics while at Harvard.
“There are still people who have the misconception that if you are an athlete you cannot also be a scholar. Our athletes have proved over the years that the opposite of this stereotype is true,” writes Scalise.
Certainly stereotypes about high-profile varsity athletes populating less rigorous “athlete classes” abound. That stereotype was thrown into the spotlight last fall when dozens of athletes left campus amidst the fallout of the Government 1310 cheating scandal.
Other research suggests that recruited athletes come to selective colleges with lower academic credentials than their non-recruited peers. Data from The Crimson’s freshman survey of the Class of 2017, too, found that respondents who self-identified as recruited athletes entered Harvard this fall with self-reported composite SAT scores more than 170 points lower on average than their non-recruited counterparts.
Once they get to campus, some athletes struggle to balance their academics with their athletic commitments. Increased specialization and a strong bond of commitment to their respective teams limit athletes’ abilities to learn outside of the athletic complex.
For some students, this commitment is too much to balance with their academics. Kathleen J. Koenigs ’15 entered Harvard her freshman fall and walked on to the women’s heavyweight varsity crew team, but only rowed with the team for that semester. Koenigs, though not recruited to row at Harvard, did crew in high school and had been recruited to row at several other Ivies.
A history and science concentrator and pre-med student, Koenigs from the start knew that academics came first for her—and felt that she needed to leave the team to prioritize them as such.
If she had been recruited, Koenigs says, she would have felt pressured not to leave and to put her sport first, above her academics. With 30 hours per week devoted to crew from team and individual workouts and other time spent with the team, she says that she doesn’t know how other athletes can be pre-med while keeping that commitment.
Monroe, for his part, loves football. “I’m living the dream, man,” Monroe says. “I’m at Harvard and playing football…. I’m enjoying it while I can.”
Monroe was excited when head coach Tim Murphy came down to his Columbia, S.C., home, and he readily accepted an offer to come to Harvard after he was admitted. Now in his fifth year with the Crimson, Monroe has enjoyed performing in front of thousands of fans at Harvard Stadium. He’s come to relish the camaraderie he’s developed with teammates and the preparation for life that he feels he is receiving.
But he recognizes that he has made tradeoffs to play the sport he loves. “There are always two sides to every story,” Monroe says. He quickly rattles off his list of football-related commitments: daily practice, film meetings, rehabilitation, travel, and that’s all before he talks about actually playing the games. He has to make sure to take morning classes that do not conflict with practice times and avoid classes taught on Friday in the fall semester.
“You get a chance to play a sport, you get a chance to bond with people, and you have to manage your time differently than somebody who doesn’t play sports,” Monroe says. “People that do play sports here, they come out with a different Harvard experience than everybody else.”
The tradeoffs that student-athletes must make to commit to their sports are mirrored, in some respects, by the tradeoffs that Harvard makes as an institution when it chooses to support robust varsity athletics. Shulman speaks to the tradeoffs that Harvard makes with regards to athletics, particularly with admissions decisions. “The research that higher education does and the brainpower that it trains is the scarcest resource, and an incredibly valuable part of intellectual and social capital for the country and for the world,” Shulman says.
“And so the question is, what’s the best use of that spot?” Shulman continues. “I think it is naive to think that there are no issues at Harvard or other Ivy league schools about athletics because the students who are there are very smart and very well-prepared—I think there are still tradeoff issues.”

				Some think that Harvard currently makes too many tradeoffs, and others simply caution that Harvard needs to constantly monitor the balance between both interests.
Fish says a balance is currently being struck, though it is important to continue monitoring the interaction between athletics and academics. “It’s an area we’ve all debated over many years,” he says. “It’s worthy of asking the questions because it keeps us on our toes.”
Shulman says that Harvard is ultimately sending the outside world a message about its values when it chooses how to prioritize athletics, in this case with regards to admissions. He relates an anecdote about a father who asked him about his daughter, who was talented both at chemistry and soccer and trying to decide which interest to spend more time on.
“Are you saying that she should spend more time on soccer than chemistry?” Shulman asks. “If you are good at sports, Harvard in their admissions policy and other Ivy League schools in their admissions policies are making it very clear that they want you to take that very seriously. … Specialized talent is a signal that academic institutions are sending to high school and junior high kids all over the country—this is something we value in our revealed preferences, in how we act.”

Some think that Harvard currently makes too many tradeoffs, and others simply caution that Harvard needs to constantly monitor the balance between both interests.
Fish says a balance is currently being struck, though it is important to continue monitoring the interaction between athletics and academics. “It’s an area we’ve all debated over many years,” he says. “It’s worthy of asking the questions because it keeps us on our toes.”
Shulman says that Harvard is ultimately sending the outside world a message about its values when it chooses how to prioritize athletics, in this case with regards to admissions. He relates an anecdote about a father who asked him about his daughter, who was talented both at chemistry and soccer and trying to decide which interest to spend more time on.
“Are you saying that she should spend more time on soccer than chemistry?” Shulman asks. “If you are good at sports, Harvard in their admissions policy and other Ivy League schools in their admissions policies are making it very clear that they want you to take that very seriously. … Specialized talent is a signal that academic institutions are sending to high school and junior high kids all over the country—this is something we value in our revealed preferences, in how we act.”

				Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
				
				Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacob.feldman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JacobFeldman4.
				
				Photo by Mark Kelsey.
				
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Analyzing imagery and rhetoric from Kanye West’s “Gold Digger” to President Barack Obama’s quotations of Jay Z, Duke University professor Mark Anthony Neal emphasized the relationship between social media and social justice at an event hosted by Harvard’s Hiphop Archive & Research Institute yesterday.
Neal, a professor of African and African American studies and fellow at the Hiphop Archive, argued that social media has played an essential role in social justice movements within black communities for centuries, contrary to the common understanding of social media as limited to modern technology like Facebook and Twitter.
“The inspiration for this talk and this line of work has to do with Malcolm X and Martin Luther King,” he said. “What would their relationship have been like if either one of them had access to a Blackberry? In so many ways, their conversations and who they were were mediated by mass media.”
Neal continued that social media has been integral to connectivity within black communities, playing a fundamental role in the structure of black culture and life. He highlighted as examples the various communication forms used by slave communities on southern plantations to stay connected, as well as the discourse of the 1980s hip-hop music scene.
Modern social media have allowed social justice movements to spread faster and more interactively, primarily as a result of access to technology and the internet, he said.
Jason C. B. Lee ’08, a student at Harvard Divinity School, said that Neal made him question his previous conceptions of the utility of “social media.”
“I came in somewhat skeptical on how we could use social media for social justice today,” he said. “But the idea that social media was just a new take on the ways in which black communities had already figured out how to communicate to each other resonated with me."
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A group of Harvard College students gathered Wednesday night for a roundtable discussion about women’s futures in technology. The meeting, led by four women with successful careers in the field, was organized by the Harvard College Women’s Center.
“We need to get more women into the field,” said Jeanne Ross, a researcher at MIT’s Sloan School of Management and a technology management professional.
“I meet very few women in my work,” Ross said. In fact, she said, of the 90 chief information officers whom she works with, 87 are men.
In addition to Ross, the talk was spearheaded by representatives from Girl Develop It, a non-profit organization offering low-cost computer language classes to women, outreach, and support for women in computer science.
Part of the discussion centered around computer science instruction here at Harvard.
One participant from the College said that while she does not like CS50, she likes coding.
It would appear that while only 38 percent of students enrolled in CS50 are female, and there is less of a presence in upper-level CS courses, Harvard is seeing more women entering the field than in the past, perhaps because of CS50.
A senior explained that as a child, she had wanted to grow up to be a woman who wore a suit. However, as she watched the women around her become nurses, teachers, or take on other nurturing roles, she did not feel confident about what jobs she could work toward as a girl.
Another student expressed the frustration she experiences, when she is pitching business ideas and is not taken as seriously­­—and does not spark the same level of interest—as she feels she would were she a man.
But there are opportunities out there for women, Ross said.
In addition to Girl Develop It, organizations like Betaspring, Startup Institute, and the Harvard Innovation Lab all offer opportunities for learning, and can serve as startup incubators that help young developers find venture capitalists and prepare to launch companies, she said.
Furthermore, according to Ross, job security in the technology sector is not an issue: there are many jobs and many options, as “only the uninteresting jobs went offshore.”
While there are deeply-rooted reasons for which there are far fewer women going into computer science than men, Girl Develop It is working to create a place where women feel comfortable learning about a field that men still tend to dominate in terms of sheer numbers. According to one of the representatives from the organization, girls should not be on the fence about pursuing computer science.
“We’re going to change this,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Joshua D. Blecher-Cohen ’16 was disappointed when Cabot House administrators did not agree to consider his request for mixed-gender housing last spring.
According to Blecher-Cohen, House administrators said that they wanted to get to know his blocking group while they were sophomores before placing them in a mixed-gender suite.
Disturbed by the varying accessibility of mixed-gender housing within the House, Blecher-Cohen and his blockmates engaged with Cabot staff in person and via email throughout the summer and fall until they convinced administrators to begin offering mixed-gender housing—formerly available only for juniors and seniors in the House—to sophomores starting next fall.
Blecher-Cohen is not alone in his desire for increased access to gender-neutral housing. As students have cast their votes in this year’s Undergraduate Council election, they have also been able to vote on a referendum, which made its way to the ballot after over 700 students signed a petition to make gender-neutral housing options available to all students.
The referendum, which is being voted upon through tomorrow evening, is the latest demonstration of student activism around the issue of gender-neutral housing, a movement born out of frustration with the inconsistent implementation and problematic stipulations that some students perceive in the College’s current policy.
THE DEVIL IS IN THE DETAILS
Though the push for gender-neutral housing at Harvard has gained momentum in recent years, some students remain dissatisfied with the conditions they must meet in order to guarantee their desired housing option.
The Office of Student Life first formalized a gender-neutral housing policy for the College in April 2010. As stated on its website, the OSL allows mixed-gender rooming on a case-by-case basis “in certain circumstances, such as to accommodate students with a gender-based need (i.e. transgender students).” The policy requires that the mixed-gender suites contain single-gender bedrooms with door locks.
But when applied to Houses with few singles and many walk-through bedrooms, these policies effectively  restrict the number of potential mixed-gender suites, says W. Powell Eddins ’16, political co-chair of Queer Students and Allies.
In response to Houses’ limited abilities to meet demand for mixed-gender suites, the College relaxed the single-gender bedroom and lock stipulations through a pilot program that launched in June 2011. According to a University press release, the program, which at the time comprised five undergraduate Houses and the Dudley Housing Cooperative, would enable the College to better understand the operational issues involved in implementing gender-neutral housing.
Despite these advances, some students still say that mixed-gender housing should be available to all students rather than on the College’s terms.
“If everyone could just have gender-neutral housing, it would be so much better,” says M.G., a transgender student who asked to be identified only by his initials.
In the spring of his freshman year, M.G. met with a representative from the OSL to request placement in gender-neutral housing.
The OSL guaranteed this by placing M.G. in a special housing lottery that included only the Houses participating in the pilot program.
Though he currently lives in a gender-neutral double, M.G. says that he did not feel fully comfortable discussing his gender identity with administrators that he had never met before.
M.G. says that he does not think Harvard should be able to determine the circumstances in which students need gender-neutral housing, and that the policy’s stipulations could be problematic for students who cannot successfully demonstrate their need to administrators.
“I’m happy that the College provides that option, but that’s as [Harvard] deem[s] it’s necessary,” he says. “I was on a lot of radars as a transgender student. It was deemed I had a ‘need’ and not a ‘want.’ But I’m sure it could pose a lot of problems for other students.”
PROBLEMS WITH THE PILOT
While the pilot program allows students without a gender-based need to request mixed-gender housing, some students cite further obstacles related to inconsistent and unclear policies within the program.
“Access to gender-neutral housing absolutely depends on which House you’re in,” says Eddins, who has worked to erase this difference by encouraging Houses to join the pilot program, which now includes eight Houses.
For example, Blecher-Cohen and his blockmates were denied gender-neutral housing in Cabot because they were sophomores, a policy that he says discriminates between single- and mixed-gender suites.
“With single-gendered suites, if there’s an issue, no one makes the assumption that the problem came from the fact that it’s single-gendered,” he says.
Meanwhile, Adams House, which is also in the pilot program, permits all students to apply for the alternative housing option. According to Marcy Holabaugh, Adams House Administrator, students who want a mixed-gender suite need only sign an additional form later in the rooming process.
Blecher-Cohen, who has discussed this issue with OSL and House administrators, says that he finds Harvard’s gender-neutral housing system very decentralized. It was unclear, he says, when and with whom he was meant to speak with while exploring the option.
Jordan T. Weiers ’16, one of Winthrop’s UC representatives and an organizer of the gender-neutral housing referendum petition, agrees. Reflecting on his experience seeking gender-neutral housing last year, he says, “It was clear that no one was in charge of it. It wasn’t really moving forward at all.”
Part of the problem, according to Weiers’ roommate and fellow referendum organizer Brianna J. Suslovic ’16, is that ambiguous information has been passed around through word of mouth, but not through a policy or formalized evaluation of the pilot program.
LOOKING TO THE FUTURE
According to College spokesperson Jeff Neal, the College is currently evaluating the pilot program.
“Historically, like many peer institutions, the College long required single-gender living arrangements,” he says. “As planned, the College is engaged this year in a review of the pilot program, and looks forward to learning more about student views on this issue as a part of that review.”
Harvard’s re-evaluation of its housing policies mirrors discussions taking place at other Ivy League colleges. Nearly all have expanded gender-neutral housing options for students in recent years, with the University of Pennsylvania leading the pack in offering gender-neutral housing to all upperclassmen beginning in 2005. Princeton, Cornell, Columbia, and Yale have all launched gender-neutral housing pilot programs in recent years.
Eddins says that the actions of other Ivies have highlighted that Harvard “is way behind on gender-neutral housing,” and, comparing participation in the pilot program to a “states’ rights”-style ratification system, continues to work to recruit Houses into the program.
Students like Sasanka N. Jinadasa ’15, a member of the Queer Advisory Council, stress that while the referendum represents a step forward in expanding awareness of and universalizing access to gender-neutral housing, it will not necessarily compel administrators to take action.
“Even if the referendum passes, we need to petition the House masters to support gender-inclusive housing policies in all the Houses,” she says.
This article has been revised to reflect the following clarification:
CLARIFICATION: Nov. 22, 2013
An earlier version of this article stated that Cabot House administrators denied Joshua D. Blecher-Cohen ’16’s request for mixed-gender housing last spring. To clarify, House administrators did not agree to consider his request.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Most people are referring to notes and keys when talking about music, but newly-appointed University Professor Carolyn Abbate sometimes thinks about pre-mortem hallucinations with tuberculosis patients and the physiology of voice when lecturing.
Abbate is recognized in her field as a highly original and invigorating lecturer and thinker.
Her appointment as the Paul and Catherine Buttenwieser University Professor will begin on January 1, 2014. University Professorships, the highest honor for faculty, were established in 1935 and are intended for professors involved in multidisciplinary work.
After serving as the Fanny Peabody Professor of Music at Harvard for three years, she became the Christopher H. Browne Distinguished Professor of Music at the University of Pennsylvania until earlier this year, when she returned to Harvard.
Abbate was “literally speechless” when she first found out from President Drew Faust that she was awarded the position.
Abbate specializes in the history of opera and has taught “Topics in Music: 1800-Present” and “Film Music.” Her courses have typically crossed multiple disciplines, ranging from music to Visual and Environmental Studies. She has also worked as a translator.
According to Abbate, she appreciates the diversity of disciplines to which music can be applied.
“Where doesn’t music lead you if you let it?” she said. “Subjects in opera often deal with culturally fraught issues and even with sound technology and neuroscience.”
Particularly fascinating to Abbate was the fact that opera singers portraying tuberculosis patients in the 19th century often sung very loudly, emphasizing the hallucinatory nature of their disease and, in particular, their will to live.
Abbate has also found that the discipline of music history has become broader over time.
“When I started out, music history narrowly focused on musical works,” she said. “Now, we’ve moved into ethnomusicology and science.”
She has been at the forefront of this change and in fact taught a freshman seminar on film music last spring.
Students have commended her teaching style:
“She created an environment open to discussion, and allowed students to carry the conversation in their own direction,” Hayden S. Betts ’16 said. “She always knew more than anybody else about film music from modern to really old material.”
“I find myself rethinking what I want to do in the future because I have radically wide-ranging opportunities,” she said.
She is able to teach in any of Harvard’s schools as part of her new position.
Abbate said she is looking forward to taking advantage of the opportunities she gets by being a university professor.
“All I can think of is being really alert to the responsibilities a  university professorship brings. I have to live up to the challenge that there are no barriers,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Minutes into a Bank of America recruiting session for Harvard College students on Monday, a group of students ran to the front of the room and pulled out a banner that read: “We Won’t Work for Climate Chaos.”
The protesters were escorted out by Cambridge police shortly after their demonstration began.
The protest was part of a campaign by the Rainforest Action Network to persuade banks to divest from the fossil fuel industry, which the group says is the driver of climate change.
The demonstration is one of 56 recruiting event disruptions that have been staged across a number of university campuses including the University of Pennsylvania, Brown University, and Columbia University, according to Todd Zimmer, a campaigner for the action network.
Bank of America was specifically targeted since it is the largest underwriter of the coal industry, according to the action network’s website. The website says the corporation has invested over $8.8 billion in the industry over the past two years.
“I think there’s also an element of Bank of America being a leader here. They are the largest coal investor, but they could change the game by divesting from the coal industry and leading other banks,” said Alli J. Welton ’15, one of the protest organizers.
According to Zimmer, banks listen to these student protests since they rely on employing the “best and brightest” graduates.
“When they have such widespread pushback from campuses where they’re traditionally recruiting, that’s a signal to the banks that there’s something wrong with their policies,” he said.
The student protesters showed up to the recruiting event without any sign of disruption, and attendee Alexander J. Spencer ’15 said he was surprised by the sudden outburst.
“Bank of America handled it well by not being overly aggressive with the protestors, and I was surprised how quickly the information session went back to normal,” Spencer said.
Though student protesters were ready to be thrown out of the event by private security, Welton was surprised that Bank of America had called the Cambridge police beforehand to sit in plain clothes during the event.
“The fact that Bank of America was worried enough to call the actual Cambridge police shows that...clearly they’re feeling the pressure,” Welton said.
Zimmer said he believes the pressure from students across a number of campuses played a role in Bank of America’s recent decision to participate in a new accounting mechanism that will allow the bank to measure the climate emissions from their lending and investment portfolios. But Zimmer added that  he believes that the move is only a baby-step towards progress. Eventually, these banks “must develop plans to reduce their financed emissions on the timeline stipulated by climate science,” he said.
Gabriel H. Bayard ’15, one of the protestors, said he saw many familiar faces and friends at the recruiting event. Although the primary purpose of the protest was to send a message to Bank of America, according to Bayard, the act was also meant to provoke students to look further into the issue.
“I’m hopeful that students looking for jobs in consulting, banking, or elsewhere…[will look] for companies that exemplify the best of environmental sustainability, and I don’t think that Bank of America does,” Bayard said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Like many pre-medical students not in a science concentration, Haley P. Brown ’15 has struggled to balance her science courseload with classes for her Classics concentration and Spanish citation. As a result of the burden on students like Brown, the number of non-science-concentrating pre-meds has fallen by two-thirds over the past decade, according to the Office of Career Services.
But a series of revisions to nationwide pre-med requirements promises to better the integration of the pre-med curriculum into undergraduate liberal arts programs.
“This could really free up space for non-science concentrators and allow them to fulfill their requirements in a way that’s more in line with what they want to study,” said Avik Chatterjee, a pre-med advisor in Dunster House.
The Association of American Medical Colleges announced in 2009 that it was in the process of readjusting its requirements for pre-med students. This reconfiguration will shift the focus from “course-based” to “competency-based” criteria.
According to Robert A. Lue, Harvard’s director of Life Sciences Education, the new program aims to replicate nationally the structure of Harvard’s Life Sciences program, which opens with framework classes and builds courses around concepts rather than specific scientific disciplines.
“Two of the areas of competence were inspired by Life Sciences 1a and Life Sciences 1b,” Lue said. “While other schools are struggling to figure out which classes provide which competencies, we’re good.”
The new system will also recognize extracurricular research experience, which could give students more freedom with their courseload. Under the current program, even though many students conduct research in their spare time, their lab hours do not count toward their pre-med requirements.
“In the competency-based admissions model, students could submit the research they have done outside of courses towards satisfaction of a school’s competency requirement,” said Oona B. Ceder, who leads pre-medical advising for OCS.
Ceder added that the new program values both interpersonal and intrapersonal competencies.
“It’s what is known colloquially as people skills,” she said. “Much of that is based on the careful study of what is required to deliver effective health care.”
These “people skills,” along with changes to the MCAT set to take effect in 2015, are meant to reward an undergraduate career that also focuses on areas outside the pure sciences, according to the Association of American Medical Colleges’ report.
“Having more freedom in the classes I can take would be great,” Brown said. “I’m not the only one trying to do a lot of things with my plan of study, and flexibility in courses that count would be really helpful.”
­­—Staff writer Jessica A Barzilay can be reached at jessica.barzilay@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @JessicaBarzilay.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The College has appointed a former freshman resident dean and the current case manager of the Administrative Board to serve as its first-ever Title IX coordinators, Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde said yesterday.
The recent appointees are William Cooper ’94, who also currently serves as associate dean of student life, and Emily J. Miller, an Ad Board case manager. Cooper previously worked as a freshman resident dean and Miller served as interim coordinator for the Office of BGLTQ Student Life in spring 2012.
Cooper and Miller will work with faculty, students, and staff on “issues of sex discrimination at the College” in their new roles, working with the University’s Title IX officer, Mia Karvonides, according to an email from Lassonde to College students announcing the appointments on Wednesday.
The new coordinators will also “oversee efforts to address concerns of sex discrimination at the College” and “work to identify and address any patterns or systemic problems” as they go on with their review, according to the announcement.
“I am delighted to have Emily and Will in these important new roles,” Lassonde wrote. “Through open communication with the coordinators, I am confident that we can address these issues at the College and serve our faculty, staff, and students to the best of our abilities.”
Cooper’s and Miller’s appointments follow recent efforts on the part of the University to evaluate its sexual assault policies and adherence to Title IX, which bans gender-based discrimination and sexual harassment in federally-funded education programs. In 2010, the Office of the Assistant to the President started to review Harvard’s policies and collect data in an effort to evaluate the University’s compliance with Title IX.
In spring 2013, Karvonides, a federal civil rights attorney, was appointed as the University’s inaugural Title IX officer. Later that spring, she convened a working group to evaluate Harvard’s sexual assault policies.
The working group convened to consider both the University’s policies as well as those of Harvard’s individual schools.
These efforts came amid increasing pressure from students for the University to re-evaluate its sexual assault policies. In November 2012, a referendum on the Undergraduate Council presidential election ballot that called for the reconsideration of Harvard’s sexual assault policy passed with 85 percent of the vote.
In the announcement email, Lassonde highlighted the importance of preventing sexual discrimination at the College.
“For the good of our community and Harvard’s scholarly enterprise, we must ensure that sexual discrimination in any form is not tolerated, and that students who encounter these issues have a clear place to report incidents and to receive the support they need and deserve,” Lassonde wrote.
—Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the Harvard men’s hockey team skated through warm-ups on the other side of the river to face its Jesuit city rival, hockey legend Bobby Orr was signing his book in Harvard Square.
“That’s going to be a real test for [the Crimson],” Orr said of its contest against No. 7 Boston College.
It’s fair to say that Number Four was being diplomatic. Harvard faced an uphill battle in its first home game versus the Eagles since 2009, and the road team wasted no time showing why Tuesday night in Allston.
Boston College set the tone less than five minutes into the first frame with a goal from Austin Cangelosi and did not look back, outshooting the Crimson, 17-3, in the first period before adding two more goals in each of the next frames for a 5-1 rout.
The nation’s top scorer shined brightest for the nation’s top offense. Fourteen minutes into the second, Johnny Gaudreau split the Crimson defense off a blueline-to-blueline stretch pass to beat junior goalie Steve Michalek 1-on-0 with some shifty stick work for the junior left-winger’s first of two goals on the night.
“That number 13 can make you pay in a hurry,” Harvard coach Ted Donato ’91 said of Gaudreau.
Gaudreau leads all D-I players with 1.83 points. Boston College upped its nation-leading goals per game average to 4.50 in the win.
HELLO GOODBYE
Donato and the Crimson entered Tuesday night with more options than they’ve had in more than a year. Harvard welcomed back its top defensive pair last weekend with the return of Patrick McNally and Max Everson from their year away from school, and top-line freshman center Alexander Kerfoot was back in the lineup Tuesday after going down with a shoulder injury two weeks ago.
But Harvard’s full bench would not last long. Just over 10 minutes into the first period, a sharp elbow to the head from BC captain Patrick Brown sent Everson to the ice. The sophomore defender was slow to get up, and was only able to skate off the rink with the help of his teammates.
Everson watched from the stands for the third period with a goose egg on his forehead. But he was optimistic about his condition after the contest.
“Anything with the head, [the trainers] are always very careful and will take you out just in case,” Everson said.
Everson said that he does not know whether he has a concussion, but he has never suffered one before. After sitting out the season’s first seven games, he feels more than ready to get back in a Harvard sweater.
GOALTENDING AND FRUSTRATIONS
After an all-BC first period, the Crimson controlled the flow for good portions of the game and outshot the visitors, 32-17, over the final two frames. But goaltender Brian Billett stood tall in the crease, buffering the Eagles’ lightning-strike offense with 34 saves.
“It’s hard to say this, but I thought that our goaltender was the difference in the game,” BC coach Jerry York said. “You can talk 5-1, but Billett had a major, major factor in the outcome of the game tonight.”
With a win in the teams’ 120th meeting, Boston College extended its streak versus Harvard to nine games. York is 23-5-2 in his share of the series.
Harvard’s frustrations on offense came to a head late in the third. Less than two minutes after sophomore Brayden Jaw was sent to the box for what appeared to be a retaliatory elbow to the head, six-foot-three freshman defender Kevin Guiltinan delivered a forceful blindside hit on the five-foot-eight Gaudreau.
Alternate  BC captain Bill Arnold came to his linemate’s defense and wrestled with Guiltinan along the Harvard backboards, and the pair received game misconducts in addition to major and minor penalties.
The chippiness continued through the end of the game.The Eagles violently tripped Kerfoot at the blueline with just over three minutes left, and BC defensemen Michael Matheson and Ian McCoshen drew the ire of Harvard sophomore Jimmy Vesey, who led all Crimson skaters with six shots.
Donato has praised his players throughout the year for their “compete level.”
Tuesday night he said that the squad got “caught watching” BC’s offensive fireworks, but he expressed optimism about where the Crimson is at.
“It’s still a work in progress,” Donato said. “We got a lot of young guys, but I really like the group. And we’ll show much improvement as we come together as a team and move forward.”
—Staff writer Michael D. Ledecky can be reached at michael.ledecky@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twiter @mdledecky.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cradling the ball in his right hand in the early second half of his team’s contest against Harvard Wednesday night, all Bryant forward Alex Francis could see was open court in front of him.
The sinewy six-foot-five forward had missed only one shot all night, tormenting Harvard senior Kyle Casey to the tune of 12 first half points. 
Seeing Casey in his peripheral vision, Francis took one dribble and launched himself at the hoop, cocking his arm back for a rim-rattling dunk.
Casey didn’t see it happening that way.
Flying in from the weak side, the Medway, Mass., native met Francis at the rim and swatted away the dunk attempt. As the two tumbled to the ground, co-captain Laurent Rivard picked up the ball and flung it up the court to junior Wesley Saunders. Spinning off a defender, Saunders laid the ball up and in as the referees’ whistle blew.
The scene was emblematic of a night where the Crimson (4-0) repeatedly took Bryant’s (2-2) best shot and returned it with force, putting on a clinic in how to finish near the rim en route to an 86-68 victory.
“This was a big game for us,” Saunders said. “We kind of wanted to go start off our road trip on a good note so we were trying to use the game to prepare us for what we would face in Colorado and Alaska.”
Harvard had only three treys on the night on 10 attempts but finished with 50 points in the paint—most from classmates Saunders and Steve Moundou-Missi. The two finished with a combined 48 points, 13 rebounds, six blocks, and four steals, including 14 of the 16 points in a critical three-minute second-half stretch that turned an eight-point Crimson lead into a 22-point advantage.
HIGH POST, LOW POST
Moundou-Missi finished with a career high in scoring the tough way. The Cameroonian forward scored 18 of his 23 points in the lane and fought for four offensive rebounds. The junior said that playing alongside Casey, who assisted on consecutive Moundou-Missi baskets in a 40-second first-half span, allowed him the ability to play off the ball.
“When I get into the lane [Kyle] finds me,” Moundou-Missi said. “He is a really good passer with a good feel for the game.”
Casey operated out of the high post all night as Moundou-Missi set up in the interior against Francis and Bryant forward Claybrin McMath. Casey found the junior time and time again with the entry pass, as all three of Casey’s assists on the night were to Moundou-Missi.
“Kyle is a great passer,” Saunders said. “I don’t think he gets enough credit for that but he is one of our best passers and it is great to have a big man that can do that to make plays.”
On the defensive end, the two combined for six blocks and two steals, hounding Francis into seven turnovers. Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said that the communication between the two big men was key to limiting Francis and Bryant guard Dyami Starks—who entered the game leading the NCAA with 33.3 points a game—to 28 points on 10 for 21 shooting.
“Our defense is predicated on a couple of things—our pressure on the ball up front and the communication of our bigs behind,” Amaker said. “I think Kyle and Steve are probably our two best at that. I’m very pleased how these two guys have been able to mesh together this early.”
FORCE OF ASSIGNMENT
On the perimeter, Saunders drew the opposing team’s highest scorer for the second straight contest. After holding Howard’s James Daniel—who entered the game averaging more than 23 points a game—to 4-of-14 shooting, Saunders once again used his length to force Starks into three turnovers and one of five shooting from behind the arc.
“[I try to] be there at all times and just be ready to deny him the catch,” Saunders said.
Amaker said that Saunders did a good job of balancing offense with defense. In addition to holding the nation’s leading scorer down, Saunders led all scorers with 25 points on just nine shots from the floor in 37 minutes.
“Wesley is our most talented player,” Amaker said. “For him to score what he scored in addition to guarding the kid Starks I thought was an outstanding effort on his part.… I thought we had a great team effort, but I thought Wesley was outstanding.”
—Staff writer David Freed can be reached at david.freed@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twiter @CrimsonDPFreed.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
Harvard-Yale provides Harvard students a number of unique opportunities: the chance to show school spirit at a sporting event (or even attend a sporting event), the one good reason to ever visit New Haven, and of course, the occasion to meet up with Yalies. From friends from home to summer camp acquaintances, there can be quite the range of people to reconnect with. Here’s how to deal with each of them.

The Kid You Interned WithCarve out some time Friday or Saturday night to grab dinner and catch up. You landed the same internship due to your similar interests, skills, and career aspirations, and more often than not, those still hold. It never hurts to keep up the relationship. Trust us, it’s called networking.
 
Your Parent’s Friends’ KidA friendly text or Facebook message should suffice. Make sure to gauge what this kid is like. Are they going to see you at Toad’s and mention it to their parents—who will then pass along the stories (and incriminating photographic evidence) to your mom and dad? Proceed with caution.
 
The Kid You Did Study Abroad WithChances are, you had some good times with this person when you were both “studying” in Spain last semester. Find them Friday night and let them take you to the parties. It won’t be as fun as your international adventures (what is?) but at least you’ll be in good company.
 
The Kid You Competed Against In High SchoolWhether they were on the rival soccer team or your main opposition at debate tournaments, nothing feels better than watching them lose. Plan to meet up during half-time, by which time Harvard will definitely have established a comfortable lead. Wear crimson, stand in view of the scoreboard, and watch them implode. You deserve it.
 
The Kid Who Went to Your High School Who You Don’t Really KnowSend a friendly Facebook message or text and see what happens. Maybe that’ll be the end of it. Maybe you’ll be struggling through the crowds at the tailgate to meet up with them. Either way is better than randomly running into them at a sweaty dorm room party. That turns out to be their sweaty dorm room party. Awkward.
 
The Kid You Hooked Up With Last TimeAvoid. Unless they’re hot.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sections
 
 
With Harvard-Yale around the corner (two days!!) and it being Thursday and all, it’s only fitting that my Instagram-obsessed self have a little Harvard-Yale TBT powwow!
Here’s a quick trip down memory lane!
#tbt 1: to 1968 the legendary game which prompted the Crimson’s headline the next day, “Harvard Beats Yale 29-29.” #confused #didwewin #didwetie
#tbt 2: to 1983 where parachuters sailed into the Yale Bowl to celebrate the 100th anniversary of The Game. #classy #bringthemback2013
#tbt 3: to our stadium in 1907, four years after it opened! #stilllooksthesame #old
#tbt 4: to 1901 when football had no helmets or pads! #ouch #ratchet #ouch
#tbt 5: to the 1892 Harvard Varsity Football Team fall season photograph. William H. Lewis was the first African American named to a College Football All-American Team. #damn #theyhadit #westillgotit
#tbt 6: to the Harvard Freshman Football Squad in 1951 #frosh
Sections
Two days until Harvard-Yale! Get your work done and get excited.
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
With a high of 47, it'll be a little chilly—winter is on its way!
IN THE DHALLS
On the Lunch Menu:Roasted Honey Lime ChickenGrilled Cheese Sandwich with Tomato and Red OnionTofu, Broccoli and Walnut Stir-Fry
On the Dinner Menu:Cider Glazed HamRoast Turkey BreastFall Vegetable Stew
ON CAMPUS
The Evolution of Indian CinemaA moderated discussion, sponsored by the Harvard South Asia Institute. 5 p.m. - 6:30 p.m., Science Center E
Smart Suits to Enable Astronaut Exploration of MarsA lecture by MIT professor Dava J. Newman, part of the smart clothes science lecture series. 5 p.m., Sheerr Room, Fay House (10 Garden St.)
Eat Red Meat, Save the PlanetAllan Savory of The Savory Institute and Matthieu Lalonde, Harvard chemist will discuss the potential health and environmental benefits of red meat consumption. Free for students. 6 p.m. - 8 p.m., Austin Hall (1585 Mass. Ave.)
Sections
Harvard students will be seeing a whole lot more of tomato basil ravioli soup at the dining halls after they return from Thanksgiving break.
According to an email from HUDS director for marketing and communications Crista Martin, tomato basil raviolini soup will now be served every Thursday, "much as we serve New England Clam Chowder every Friday," after "extensive student feedback and discussion with our student dining advisory committee." The change will start on December 5.
Though Martin says it is unrelated to the UC presidential campaign, the change comes after UC presidential ticket Samuel B. Clark ’15 and Gus A. Mayopoulos ’15 ran on a platform based partially on making the tomato basil ravioli soup available every day.
No word on the status of campus toilet paper, however, as students across campus continue to suffer from the horrors of one-ply.
Sections
The Harvard-Yale game is rapidly approaching, and if you’re like most Harvard students, chances are you haven’t been to a single game this season. In fact, you have no idea who’s on the team or how the team has been playing this season or what sport is even being played this weekend. Here to save you is Flyby’s Harvard football update to get you up to speed on what you’ve missed this season.
The Record
The Harvard football team’s record is 8-1 (W to L) overall, 5-1 within the conference. The only team they’ve lost to so far is Princeton, which happens to be the top team in the conference right now, with a record of 6-0. Harvard is currently ranked second, so if we beat Yale and Princeton loses to Dartmouth this weekend, Harvard will share the title of conference champions.
The Main Players
To impress your friends at the Game and sound like you really know what you’re talking about, name-dropping is definitely a thing you’ll have to do. Senior Joshua L. Boyd, a defensive linebacker and consistent playmaker, captains the Crimson team this year. The quarterback is junior Conner A. Hempel, while sophomore running back Paul M. Stanton will be another player to watch. Tim Murphy, who has been the most successful head coach in all of Harvard’s football history, is a good name to toss around, too.
The Competitor
Yale’s record this year is 3-3, and the Bulldogs don’t exactly have a history of pulling themselves together in time for the Game. If history is any indication, we don’t have much to worry about this year.
Sections
 
Harvard will take the field against Yale this weekend in the 130th playing of The Game. The Crimson haven’t won yet, but according to the College’s top administrator, Harvard already has bragging rights over that school in New Haven—not necessarily for talents in football, but for having the biggest university-owned herbarium in the world.
Interim Dean of the College Donald H. Pfister, a systematic botanist and the former director of the Harvard University Herbaria, delighted students across campus on Thursday with an email detailing his musings about Harvard’s superiority and some fungus in the Yard.“I would like to point out that with more than 5 million specimens in the collections, Harvard is home to the world's largest university-owned herbarium,” Pfister wrote. “Compared to Yale University Herbarium’s 365,000 specimens, well, it’s not even close.” According to Pfister, “Harvard will retain these bragging rights for some time” no matter our team’s performance at the Yale Bowl.And the fun didn’t stop there. Later in the email, Pfister went on to describe “a large fungus” that he noticed on the white oak between Emerson and Sever Halls.“Alas, it is a wood rot fungus and it probably has already structurally weakened this magnificent tree. Good, bad or indifferent fungi are everywhere, even in the trees of Harvard Yard,” Pfister concluded. We’ll defer to you on this one, Dean Pfister.


