News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the Supreme Court deliberated over same-sex marriage last year, Facebook News Feeds were flooded by equal signs. Less noticeable was the victory symbol, the two lines of the equal sign smushed together to form a “V.”
The sine qua non of the social media provocateur, the “V” represented an unsparing critique of today’s gay rights paradigm. Attacked from the left by self-styled “radical queers,” the model has been faulted for its emphasis on reform and integration. Latching onto the slogan “assimilation is not liberation” and hearkening to a glorious past, the queers have appointed themselves guardians of LGBT identity, insisting on retaining the early movement’s destabilizing mission.
Historically, their claims make some sense. Before the term “homosexuality” had even been coined, LGBT people, particularly gay men, were linked to counterculture. Victorian-era Britain was scandalized by the 1871 trial of “Fanny” and “Stella,” two cross-dressers who had become notorious for their exploits in London’s West End. The dandyish Oscar Wilde, brought up on charges of gross indecency two decades later, forever associated “the love that dare not speak its name” with effeminacy and epicenism. Positing same-sex attraction as the consequence of inverted gender expression, the emerging field of sexology buttressed these popular notions.
In the United Kingdom and the United States, much homosexual activity occurred out of sight—in subway restrooms, bath houses, and parks—until the specter of anti-sodomy laws and prejudice was overcome at Stonewall. During this time of shadow, LGBT folks of influence existed, perhaps imperceptibly, in the cultural avant-garde and the political vanguard. Susan Sontag, in her essay “Notes on ‘Camp,’” called gays “aristocrats of taste.” Camp, their aesthetic sensibility, privileged style over content, bended gender roles, and reveled in ostentation, emotionality, and the subversion of objects. (Tin Pan Alley, which I discussed a short time ago, is one example Sontag cites.) “Neutraliz[ing] moral indignation, sponsor[ing] playfulness,” camp challenged cultural norms and served as a form of self-legitimization for gays.
While camp was implicitly political, the milieu anti-assimilationist queerness sprung out of was anything but. The Mattachine Society, the first organization in the U.S. to advocate the public acceptance of homosexuality, drew its leadership from the ranks of the American Communist Party. Harry Hay, the group’s founder, was inspired by Marxism-Leninism’s treatment of blacks as a national minority deserving of their own polity. Though consigned to the margins of the Old Left, he argued for a kind of autonomy for homosexuals, whom he thought possessed a common language and culture.
Following the advent of the New Left, Hays’s ideological children established the Gay Liberation Front. Devoted to the dethroning of traditional mores, or, as its members said, the “complete sexual liberation of all people,” the GLF cast its lot with other radical struggles, such as black nationalism, anti-capitalism, and anti-colonial movements. This ideology, melded with the camp aesthetic and its epigones, came to form the LGBT identity that today’s radical queers would enshrine as normative.
In “The Politics of Being Queer,” Paul Goodman described this as a doctrine of “indivisible freedom” and lambasted homosexuals who identified as apolitical or conservative. In truth, this is a doctrine of intolerable control and determinism. In the same way Bruno Bauer asked too much of German Jews by demanding they seek the overthrow of the Christian state instead of equal rights within it, queerness exhorts LGBT people to yoke their own advancement to the emancipation of others. It’s also highly impractical. Successful American social movements follow an assimilationist praxis; minorities are rewarded for pursuing inclusion under the Republic’s values, and are stymied for not doing so.
Most egregiously, queerness attempts to graft political and cultural allegiances onto a biological phenomenon. It denies LGBT folks agency and one-dimensionalizes and dehumanizes them. Little attention is paid to actual people, most of whom don’t want to exist as caricatures or physical manifestations of ideology.
Look at the Mattachine Society and the GLF, if in search of evidence. Hays quit his organization when the membership grew concerned over his communist affiliations. Disconcerted by the GLF’s commitment to radicalism, the Gay Activists Alliance splintered from the main group in late 1969, prefiguring a shift toward the current pattern. Rather than care about abstractions like indivisible freedom or sexual liberation, most LGBT Americans simply desired—and desire—equal treatment.
Today’s assimilationist movement nonetheless owes a debt of gratitude to Hays and the GLF. Just as communist organizers spurred the anti-lynching campaigns that would morph into the Civil Rights Movement, radical queers and gay liberationists made the world safe for homosexuals through their unwillingness to remain invisible. Naturally, they defined and imposed a collective identity. While that identity must be questioned, the march toward victory—whatever it looks like—wouldn’t have been a stroll without them.
Daniel Solomon ’16 is a Crimson editorial writer in Pforzheimer House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays. Follow him on Twitter @danieljsolomon.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Meet my virtual self; we’ll call him Facebook Gram. He’s an intellectual, a womanizer, a daring mountaineer and seriously talented sailor who spends his free time writing for National Journal and expat papers in South America. He drinks fine liqueurs—kir, genepí, amaretto, and the like. He goes on plush vacations, receives unreasonably generous grants from Harvard, and has an infinite amount of money and no responsibilities.
Now meet actual Gram, who is none of these things. Rather, he’s an average social studies student who writes contentious—and oft-maligned—articles in his free time. He’s a clumsy rock climber, and though he was a talented sailor back in the day, his college regatta record is not good. He mainly drinks Coke Zero—(he doesn’t have a fake)—and his three-month stint at NJ consisted of waking up at 5:45 a.m. every day and aggregating news from dozens of local papers in the American Midwest.
When the unglamorous reality of his life spills into the virtual fantasy, he’s quick to expunge it—usually though the “untagging” tool. When an abnormally interesting episode in his life occurs, he’s quick to document it.
This was the reality of my social media use—a façade of coolness concealing the hidden truth. I found myself in a tacit, extremely dishonest competition to prove my life more exotic than that of my peers. That’s why I abandoned my Facebook persona. I haven’t deleted my profile; I still use it for communication and other utilitarian purposes. But I haven’t posted a picture or a status for years, and I don’t even know what my “wall” looks like anymore.
Whether we consciously intend it or not, Facebook—and most related forms of social media—is the venue of this contest. We don’t share the moments that most profoundly affect us, but rather the moments that are most novel or visually stunning.
Our accounts become a tool of self-promotion—one in which we sanitize and glamorize our day-to-day lives, then package it for consumption by gawking peers.
Eventually, it gets to a point where if we don’t post photos about our adventures or nights out on the town, we fear being perceived as boring. And though we claim to enjoy following our friends’ exploits online, it’s generally a masochistic exercise.
A recent study by Carnegie Mellon’s Human-Computer Interaction Institute found a robust correlation between loneliness and depression and looking at a friend’s online pictures. Researchers at the University of Utah published a paper earlier this year titled, “ ‘They Are Happier and Having Better Lives Than I Am.”
According to an earlier study by two German universities, following a friend on Facebook instills feelings of jealousy and resentment, an effect amplified when examining vacation photos.
“The wealth of information on Facebook is astounding,” reads the abstract. “While these affordances allow users to keep up-to-date, they also produce a basis for social comparison and envy on an unprecedented scale.”
Interestingly, while the passive consumption of Facebook material depresses us, actively posting content was found to make us happy. But, as we spend far more time gawking than we do producing content, social media is, for most, a net downer.
The main alternative to this Facebook-as-competition system is to document all the banalities of our everyday lives, which isn’t as depressing—it’s as active as we can be online—but it is annoying. If I’m not interested in a friend’s daily schedule or minor, insignificant ailments in real life, mediating these bits of information through the Internet will change nothing.
In the end, Facebook is a lousy venue to document all the vicissitudes of our daily lives. It’s also a deficient venue to paint an accurate picture of our personalities, or share the subtleties of our emotions—especially the ones that most need to be shared. This is the realm of genuine interaction; it’s a complex realm—infinitely so—one that can’t be replaced or accurately represented virtually.
This isn’t to say that Facebook has no use. On the contrary, it’s great for organizing groups, for sharing articles and amusing YouTube videos. I even concede that there’s nothing wrong with posting a non-Instagrammed photo once in a while. But we needn’t waste our time slavishly maintaining an elaborate, ultracompetitive cyber-identity; our reality is complex—and competitive—enough.
J. Gram Slattery ’15, a Crimson editorial writer, is a social studies concentrator in Kirkland House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I was five years old when I experienced heartbreak for the first time.
I did not grow up with a large family, or religion, or a strong sense of heritage—my ancestors came to the States from four different countries, none of which they were particularly liked in.
I did, however, have the New York Yankees. My pilgrimages were to a holy site in the Bronx to watch a game that—to five year-old me—cut through the noise of the universe and brought its central drama into sharp focus. The Yankees represented all that was good, pure, and moral; evil had its own dugout, and its fans were expected to behave themselves.
The trouble was, the Yankees didn’t have any girls.
“Never? Not even one?” I asked my father.
“Not even one.”
But time heals all wounds (except for the anguish of the 2004 American League Championship Series). Over the last 15 years, I’ve come to terms with the fact that I’ll never wear the pinstripes. In truth, I’d have had a snowball’s chance in hell of becoming a professional baseball player even if I’d been born a boy—maybe gender is a social construct, but the ability to hit a curve ball is not.
But sometimes I remember that little kid with the Bernie Williams T-shirt and the broken heart. And I’m torn. I want to tell her that this is a great opportunity to build character, to learn that she won’t always get what she wants. Plus, with hard work and strategic bribery, she might even land George Costanza’s old job as assistant to the Yankees’ Traveling Secretary.
Yet I know how the story plays out—I’m going to ship her deep into Red Sox territory, to a school with a startlingly high percentage of self-described “American males” who don’t know the infield fly rule. She’ll consider “the world’s best education” to be a flimsy excuse. When I think about it this way, I can’t imagine encouraging her to bury her dream.
Now, for the past few hundred words you’ve been reading about the bad break I got—you know, the extra X chromosome. Yet today I consider myself the luckiest girl on the face of this earth.
I thank God, or probability, or whoever is running this computer simulation world for making me a) sentient and b) nerdy enough to have picked up Stephen Hawking’s “A Brief History of Time.” Thanks to Hawking and the internet, I understand—or, at least, appreciate that some people understand—that relative velocity affects our experience of time and that the universe, which already goes on forever, continues to expand.
An infinite universe means that any conceivable combination of circumstances (and many more inconceivable ones) might exist. Maybe what seems impossible is only masquerading as such; maybe the sky’s the limit, and it also isn’t. I like this idea: I picture an alternate universe through some hole in space and time, where I’m a Major League shortstop and I’m having a catch with Mariano Rivera before a game. If parallel-universe-Lisa hit enough home runs this season, the Yankees might still have a shot at the Andromeda League wild card.
But, somehow not paradoxically, the universe is also arbitrarily small. If everything we perceive has been filtered through our senses, it must, in a way, exist only in our heads. At first, that’s disheartening: Can reality be very meaningful if it’s contained within the mind?
Yes, I think. In fact, I’d say that this is empowering. If we’re all walking around in private perceptual bubbles anyway, then (as long as I keep up appearances in the real world) it’s not so outlandish that I sometimes prefer to live in my own world: one in which it isn’t cool to be jaded, a childhood dream isn’t crazy, and good and evil can have it out.
Fate may have its own plans for where we wind up. In my case, it won’t be a stadium on 161st Street and River Avenue. But the universe, even the parts that aren’t New York, is mysterious and beautiful. And if I choose to extract what I find meaningful, good, and true—to warp the universe to fit my bubble—I can sustain within myself an “invincible summer”: where it’s always time to play ball.
Lisa J. Mogilanski ’15, a Crimson editorial writer, is an economics concentrator in Currier House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Iran’s new President Hassan Rouhani is taking his nation in new directions. Dedicating himself to resolving the dispute with the United States over the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program, he has brought the two countries the closest to a rapprochement than they have been in decades. Yesterday that effort almost culminated in a handshake between Rouhani and President Obama, before Rouhani’s internal political situation put the kibosh on that plan.
While overtures from Iran should be welcomed, there is ample reason for wariness. Negotiations over the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program have been marked by false starts and unexpected stalls. Rouhani’s snubbing of Obama yesterday at the General Assembly was reminiscent of a similar situation in 1999, when President Bill Clinton was denied an encounter with then-president of Iran Mohammad Khatami. Verbal commitments—wishing a happy new year to Iran’s Jews, acknowledging the reality of the Holocaust, disavowing nuclear weaponry,  and offering warm greetings to the American people—cannot by themselves undo the eight-year tenure of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a truculent fellow who used the world stage to spew anti-American and anti-Semitic tropes. As the process grinds on, everyone should also remember how limited presidential power is in the Iranian state, in which most significant authority is invested with Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
Iran is inching toward the bargaining table as economic sanctions continue to erode living standards in the Islamic Republic. We must be careful not to fall into the same trap in which North Korea has repeatedly ensnared the U.S., offering minimal concessions for the easing of sanctions, and then reneging on those commitments.
Despite our reservations, we should always seek the diplomatic avenue before considering other actions. The president has said all options remain on the table in confronting the threat of a nuclear Iran. In reality, the Syria imbroglio has shown us there is little appetite for military intervention, especially in the Near East. American interests remain in the balance, however. Israel, which was threatened with destruction by Ahmedinejad, sees an Iranian bomb as an existential threat, and may strike the country’s nuclear facilities if the Islamic Republic achieves a certain level of progress. This could be profoundly destabilizing for the region, perhaps setting off a multinational war.
That’s an ugly prospect, and Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry are approaching the problem with a solutions-oriented focus and a studied pragmatism. Let’s hope they carry the day.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As the school year begins in earnest, so too does the frenzied barrage of resume-editing sessions, consulting interviews, Teach for America applications, and graduate school exams. These tend to fall into the domain of graduating seniors: this year’s Class of 2014. But increasingly, as Harvard Business School and Harvard Law School target ever-younger applicants, the tension of apps and essays extends ever-earlier.
This year, the junior class is getting a taste of the fun, thanks to a new deferred admission program that offers Harvard students the chance to apply to Harvard Law School during their junior year. Known as the Junior Deferral Pilot, or 2+3, the new initiative was introduced last spring and is modeled along the same lines as Harvard Business School’s 2+2 Program, which began in 2007.
Students accepted to both programs are guaranteed a place, but must agree to spend two years in the workforce before matriculation; they are required to commit to the program as they would for early decision college admissions.
In the case of HLS, applicants through the 2+3 program are given what appears to be a slight advantage in the application process—they are interviewed on campus rather than through Skype. And the HLS 2+3 program is open exclusively to Harvard College juniors: No competition from grad students, or from Princeton or Yale or Stanford—just classmates. With Harvard students already competing against each other on a daily basis, that bar can seem less intimidating to many.
But some students say that the application timeline for the HLS 2+3 program, set during the third rather than final year of study, can be both a blessing and a curse. Tuong V. Nguyen ’15, who is considering applying to HLS through the 2+3 program, pointed out that completing the law school application process before the start of senior year will offer a reprieve to students who are intending to write senior theses. Free of LSATs, personal statements, and admissions interviews, they will be able to focus on their research and writing with their immediate future secured.
However, Nguyen also recognized the potential pressure and anxiety of shifting the process earlier. “Junior year,” she said, “your grades are really important. Whether or not you’re considering grad school or law school, you want to maintain a good relationship with your teachers.”
She added, “You want to do well in your classes because you don’t know what the future is like, so your grades have to be perfect.” And for students who struggled early in their academic career, she said, the grace period for improvement is shortened. Amid all these commitments, Nguyen noted, there can be a potentially high academic cost of becoming consumed with grad school applications so early.
“With [school], plus extracurricular activities, plus possible research on the side, and studying for the LSAT, it’s a lot of pressure,” she said.The two-year work requirement has also garnered a mixed reaction from students.
Shengxi Li ’15 decided against applying to the HLS 2+3 program because she wants to go straight through from undergraduate to law school.
“A lot of people who do get into the work environment have told me that it’s extraordinarily hard to go back,” Li explained. “Even if you have a slotted spot, some people find the transition difficult.” She also noted that the two-year time frame has the potential to limit professional opportunities: Not all organizations will be willing to hire on employees who they know are slotted to return to school shortly.
But some students already familiar with this requirement through the older 2+2 program have come to view it as an advantage.
“It gives you a lot of freedom in terms of what you want to do after undergrad,” said Shaira Bhanji ‘14, who has been accepted into 2+2.
“I think part of the goal of 2+2 is to allow students to have more options in terms of what jobs they want to go into,” she continued, “knowing that they already have a spot at HBS in two years.” Bhanji is now considering working for an international health startup, a path she said would have considered too risky before her admittance into the program.
Bhanji pointed out that with the average age of 27 for a first-year business school student, most HBS students will have had previous work experience. (At HLS, 52 percent of the Class of 2016 is at least two years out of college.) She said she believes that the two-year work requirement will give younger students the chance to contribute an informed perspective to class discussions by grounding their course material in real-world scenarios.
The Class of 2015 will be the first to participate in 2+3. It remains to be seen if Harvard students will embrace it as they have the 2+2 program, for which they have comprised, on average, about a fifth of the accepted class each year. And it’s not yet clear whether the advantages trumpeted by 2+2 participants, applicants, and administrators will immediately translate to law school, offsetting the doubts some students are voicing.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Sept. 27, 2013
An earlier version of this article and its accompanying headline incorrectly referred to the length of Harvard Law School’s Junior Deferral Pilot program. In fact, the admissions process is known as the 2+3 program, in reference to the two-year deferral period preceding three years of law school for admitted students.
Sections
Harvard: high stakes, high energy, high… fashion? Ask your typical camera-toting Harvard Yard tourists to describe our student body, and this phrase won’t immediately come to mind. Yet a closer look at certain students rushing to class reveals a definite flare for style under those heavy coats and backpacks.
FM set out to find some of these fashionistas, starting with Niyat Mulugheta, a sophomore in Kirkland House who describes her style as “eclectic.” Niyat then named her Best-Dressed Friend (BDF), who named another friend, and so on. Here they are, the style stars of the Yard.
Niyat Mulugheta '16
 The Harvard fashion scene: There’s a predominant preppy look, but you have a lot of people who are more bohemian, more casual, or more urban. One thing I like is that most people don’t just go to class in a t-shirt and sweatpants.
Her BDF: Nicole is very casual chic and always clean-cut, which fits her personality. She’s a perfectionist at heart and her style reflects that.
Nicole E. Baker-Greene '16
 Her style inspiration: I like “Vogue” and “Elle Magazine.” I don’t typically follow major stars, but Jessica Alba always looks so classy. She wears a lot of blouses with pants and pulls that off really nicely.
Her BDF: I met Sharely when we took a trip to Ecuador together. I’d say her style is very classy with a little flirty edge. She always rocks the cute high-waisted skirt with a little blouse.
Sharely N. Fred Torres '15
 The Harvard fashion must-have: Definitely Hunter boots.
Her BDF: Adelaide was in my freshman entryway, and I’d always admire her outfits in the morning. She uses patterns and colors that really compliment her personality and make her stand out.
Adelaide M. Backer '15
 Putting together an outfit: I don’t really try to go for specific looks. I like to wake up in the morning and find a piece of clothing that speaks to me, and go from there.
Her BDF: I met Susannah through rowing. Her style is very put-together, but she wears a lot of unique pieces. She’ll have a really nicely-patterned skirt and then pair that with a big, comfy sweater.
Susannah L. R. Maybank '15
 Vintage shops: I’d say my style is pretty eclectic. I work in a lot of vintage finds. I go to Oona’s on Mass. Ave., and the market outside of the Science Center, which has fantastic vintage clothes. On occasion I go to Charles St. in Boston.
Making her own clothes: My mother always made dresses for us, and by the time I was seven or eight I started helping, and by the time I was twelve I was making my own stuff. I just started selling what I make and getting commissioned to make things for people.
Sections
Many millenials have had the inauspicious pleasure of watching Miley Cyrus’ VMA performance. Well, performance is a strong word. For six minutes, hell was recreated on stage with all the attendant teddy bears and rasping attempts at singing. But the piece of the Miley experience that had people up in arms screaming over social media was her twerking, a word which largely hadn’t entered our vocabulary until the ex-Disney starlet graphically displayed its meaning on national television.
The Oxford Dictionaries Online officially added twerk to its lexicon this August, citing Miley’s press-mongering performance at the VMAs as sufficient cultural capital to the word’s credit. The definition, as read by Morgan Freeman, is “to dance to popular music in a sexually provocative manner involving thrusting hip movements and a low, squatting stance.” While technically accurate, this definition does little to capture the blatant sexuality of the motion. Because twerking’s popular streak has been largely propagated by internet and youth culture, it seems appropriate that a more colorful definition was listed almost a year earlier on Urban Dictionary: “The rhythmic gyrating of the lower fleshy extremeties [sic] in a lascivious manner with the intent to elicit sexual arousal or laughter in ones [sic] intended audience.” Twerking even had the honor of being declared the May 3, 2013 Urban Word of the Day. However, the sudden surge in it’s popularity does not do the move credit.
Twerking has been sitting on the backburner of American culture for 20 years. The first documented use of the word was in the 1993 song “Jubilee” by D.J. Jubilee. D.J. Jubilee could not be reached for comment, but popular etymological theory holds two possible origins for the word. The first is that it is a variation of the word “work.” Under this model, it’s assumed that club managers and D.J. Jubilee found the phrase “work it” insufficient for motivating dancers and thus invented the novel phrase “twerk it” to convey the added passion and undulations of their desires. The other theory is that twerk is a portmanteau of “twist” and “jerk.” Upon physical analysis of the twerk motion, it is difficult to find a twisting dimension to the conventional move (variations aside), and so the former origin story seems more likely.
It’s possible that the twerk was not invented in America, and instead was imported from Africa. The mapouka, a traditional dance in southeast Côte d’Ivoire, has been compared to the twerk. The government of Côte d’Ivoire took extreme measures against what it viewed as uncontrolled depravity, banning the mapouka in public in 1998. This has only served to increase its popularity in the region, a lesson that the U.S. learned during the Prohibition. It is unclear whether the similarity in movement is due to the influence of mapouka on bounce culture in New Orleans or whether both regions independently discovered the limitations on how much booty one can work.
While Miley has certainly expired her renewed lease on fame, it is unclear whether or not the twerk is here to stay. Perhaps new frontiers of provocative dance will be penetrated. Perhaps a government crackdown will drive the twerk underground, slowly burning as a symbol of American counterculture. Rather like watching twerking itself, all we can do is observe the phenomenon with some mixture of horror, arousal, and incredulity.
Sections
Margaret Atwood takes her seat behind a desk in a back room of First Parish Church. She has 30 minutes until her sold-out Harvard Book Store reading—and hundreds of books to transform into retail-ready Signed Copies before she can begin. She gets to work.
Atwood is on a book tour to promote "MaddAddam," the newest and last installment of the dystopian trilogy of the same name. Following "Oryx and Crake" (2003) and "The Year of the Flood" (2009), "MaddAddam" portrays a world in which humans are all but extinct after a biochemical apocalypse. In an effort to halt the evils perpetrated by humanity, a young scientist has bioengineered Crakers, genetically improved humanoids, and released a plague to rid the earth of the old, corrupt human species. Along with the Crakers, a few humans have survived, and MaddAddam chronicles their efforts to rebuild and to shape a narrative for their new beginning. Atwood calls the trilogy speculative fiction—a pessimistic vision of the future that is entirely possible given current technological advances.
The author of "The Handmaid’s Tale" and "The Blind Assassin," Atwood is the recipient of the Booker Prize, two Governor General’s Awards, the Giller Prize, and numerous international awards. She has over 50 titles of poetry, fiction, criticism, and children’s books to her name.
And it shows. Back at First Parish Church, Atwood is autographing with the easy focus and composure of a book tour veteran; it’s all muscle memory. Flanked by assistants (one from the bookstore, one from her publisher) removing each book, opening the next to its title page, and placing it in front of her—assembly line style—Atwood scribbles away, too efficient to lift her pen between her first and last names. She glances up to greet me, asks if I have a recording device, and returns her gaze to the piles of unsigned books in front of her. As Atwood and her entourage repeat their collective motion (sign, remove, replace), we start to talk.
1. FM: "MaddAddam" has a Biblical tone and is filled with Biblical allusions—we hear about the Year of the Flood, a new beginning of mankind, God’s Gardeners—but at the same time a religious institution, the church of PetrOleum, is implicated as a central source of corruption. Why did you decide to use religion in those ways?
MA: Because it’s there. Why would I not? Religion is a human subset of narrative and language.
2. FM: How so?
MA: Think about it one second. If you have language which includes a past tense, you’re going to sooner or later say, “Where did I come from?” And then sooner or later you’re going to end up with an origin story of some kind. We have various origin stories with us today. One of them goes, “In the beginning...” etc. One of them goes “in the beginning there was a big bang.” And then it goes, “And what came before the big bang?” and the answer is, “A singularity.” And then the question is, “What is a singularity?” And the answer is, “I don’t know.” So sooner or later with any of those stories, whether they include a divine being or not, you’re gonna get to “I don’t know.” When you have a group of people like the Crakers who have language but do not have a built-in origin story that they’ve always known, they’re going to start asking, “Where did we come from?” And the origin story therefore is provided for them in a way that they can feel happy about.
3. FM: But "MaddAddam" isn’t just an origin story; it’s also a story of the end of the human world.
MA: Yes. Why are we so stuck on endings? You know, every single eschatology that we know anything about has got a beginning and an ending. Most of them have got an ending followed by another beginning. In fact, name one that doesn’t… That just seems to be part of our mindset—that we cannot seem to imagine a world without us. It’s like people saying, “What are you going to have at your funeral?” “Well I’m going to have—” Hey, hello-o! You’re gonna be dead! But that’s how we think, and even when you say, “I will be dead,” you’re still telling a story about yourself in the future in which “I” still exists. It’s very, very hard to imagine a universe without yourself, just as it’s very hard to imagine a universe without people.
So why do we keep doing the end of the world? Because we’ve done it in one mythology after another. And we’re seeing reiteration. Because we have a language that provides us with not only a past tense but a future tense. And it’s the same problem—does it just keep going on and on and on? Well, where’s the end? And we do seem to have that hankering for the end, but not really the end, because there’s always a catch. Just as there’s always an “I don’t know” before the big bang, there’s always an “I don’t know” after the end of the world. We like it that way.
4. FM: "MaddAddam" follows current trends in science and society to a catastrophic conclusion. Do you write in part to warn us?
MA: Do you feel right to be warned?
FM: Sure.
MA: Good.
5. FM: So when you play with political undertones—
MA: Undertones? Overtones!
6. FM: Overtones, sure.
MA: Undertones schmundertones.
7. FM: Do you think activism—environmentalism, feminism, liberalism—plays a large role in your writing?
MA: Oh you mean, “Do I write books for that reason?” No. I write books ‘cause I’m a writer. That’s what I do. When people asked Samuel Beckett why he wrote his books he said the following: “Not good for anything else.” Do I write stories in order to deliver messages? No. If all I wanted to do was deliver messages, I would rent a billboard, write some tracts, and distribute them on sidewalks. Do political things get into my books? Yes. Why is that? Because they’re there in real life… It’s very hard to describe a life, a day in the life of anyone in which they’re not coming across some piece of news that is connected with what we call “politics” but what I would call “power structures.”
8. FM: “MaddAddam” takes its title from a character in an online game, and online gaming and online pornography are central to the series.
MA: Yes, and there is actually a real videogame now of the videogame inside the book in the chapter called “Intestinal Parasites.” There is now a game called “Intestinal Parasites” that you can download as an app.
9. FM: Have you played it?
MA: I have to practice. You can play it on a touchscreen. So it has a graphic novel frame which gives you a plot, and then it gives you the part where in the course of stealing the bioforms from the HelthWyzer Lab on behalf of Maddaddam the organization, you get infected. So they’re doing one organ at a time, and right now it’s the lungs. And they show you the lungs with the things in them that you have to get rid of, and then you get two pills too, and you have to trace the pill along until it explodes the thing. And there’s a little red cross up at the top that’s slowly draining, and when it drains and isn’t red anymore, that’s your “Time Up.” And then if you fail, this thing that comes up. It says, “You have died.”
So I have to practice. I’ve only got to level three on the lungs, and then once I get through the lungs they’re gonna do the next organ, and the final one they’re going to end up in is the brain. So I think I’m gonna become much more dexterous through doing this game.
10. FM: Why did you decide to integrate online culture into the book?
MA: It’s in people’s lives. It’s in your life, unless you’re a hermit.
11. FM: And you’re quite active online too, right?
MA: Yes, I am online. I’ve got, um, 427,000 followers, which I’m sure you know, ‘cause you probably looked.  Yes.
12. FM: I didn’t see how many followers you had, but I did look at your Twitter account.
MA: You looked! You peeked! You peeked! How did [my Twitter account] happen? By mistake. I was building a website in 2009, and people said, “Uh, you need a Twitter,” and I said, “What’s that?” And they said, “Well, it’s like this.” So all of a sudden, then, I have all these followers.
13. FM: You went to graduate school here at Radcliffe and Harvard when Harvard was just beginning to admit female grad students officially. What was it like? Did you encounter a lot of sexism?
MA: We didn’t call it sexism, dear. We called it normal life. I like to horrify the young by saying that in one of my graduate classes—which was two hours long—at the one hour break, the female graduate students made tea and cookies and served them to the male graduate students. Now everybody goes, “Oh no! The horror! The horror!” And I say, “Well, everybody just thought that was normal…”
I think my friend Ilsa had a bit of trouble because she was a flamboyant person from Latvia who had red petticoats and I think she was drawn aside and told she had to dress more appropriately.
Sexism. I think actually it took a positive form for female graduate students at Harvard because the Harvard English department did not hire women, and the spin off from that was that female students had a much easier time during their orals because they weren’t the competition. They were gonna go off and be somewhere else, whereas the male ones were potentially serious business. So I just kind of diddled through my orals.
The other piece of sexism that was very useful to me was that women were not allowed into the Lamont Library where the modern poetry was. So that was unpleasant. But on the other hand, it meant that I spent a lot of time in the Widener stacks, where somebody had made a little collection of Canadian Literature which was right next to the Witchcraft and Demonology—so two of my interests were just right there, side by side.
The other kind of sexism was pretty normal, which was: I lived in a women’s graduate residence, and it was covered with peeping toms, like barnacles. Stuck all over.
14. FM: "The Handmaid’s Tale" is set in a dystopian Cambridge.
MA: You bet!
15. FM: Why did you decide to place it here?
MA: Because I never believe anyone who says, “It can’t happen here.” And people think of Harvard as the home of liberal democracy, but in fact in the 17th century it was the home of a theocracy, so I thought it would be salutary to set it here, and anyway it was funny. Harvard was not originally amused by it. They were not amused by the bodies hanging on the Harvard wall. They were a bit sniffy about it when they reviewed it. They’ve come 'round. They’ve come 'round.
Sections
I played the piano this past weekend. Not for any reason, really—there wasn’t any new song I was trying to learn—but I played. For almost an hour, too. There was some work that I had to do and some emails that I had to send, but that was okay. Right then, I just wanted to sit and play.
The last three weeks had been crazy. When I sat down, I realized that my hour at the piano was my first truly free time in the last month. So, I took the time to think about some of my goals for the semester.
Over the last two years, I’ve thought a bit about goal-setting through my role as a First Year Outdoor Program Leader. On FOP, we talk about goals as a way to create a vision for our trip. At the end of the trip, what specific things do we want to have happen? What emotions do we want to feel? From there, we work backwards, planning each day so that we achieve those goals. One can approach a semester the exact same way. By starting with a few specific goals, we can come up with concrete day-to-day practices that will further those pursuits.
At the beginning of this semester, I made some goals for myself. I laid out my vision for the semester—in terms of academics, extracurriculars, and social life—and what I needed to do to make sure that I followed them through to fruition. I had it all planned out.
And then school began.
I started the semester taking five classes—I can never seem to choose just four during shopping week—and I didn’t end up dropping one until this past Friday. After three busy weeks, I realized when I woke up that Friday after dropping my fifth class, I didn’t have class on Fridays. I had no schoolwork to do that day.
Despite this, I didn’t have a free moment all day. In the morning, I found myself following an employee through the narrow aisles of a party supply store in Porter Square, looking for nametags and placecards for a banquet one of my extracurriculars was hosting that night. After a brief lunch with a friend, I ended up in the Science Center computer lab, printing out dozens of copies of a comp meeting curriculum, and I finished the day at a fraternity formal event. By the time I laid down in bed, I was exhausted, having not had a moment to rest the entire day.
Over the last two years, I’ve been plagued with a constant fear of missing out, or “FOMO.” I’ll be at a meeting or a lunch, and I’ll suddenly have this intense feeling that I should be somewhere else—whether it’s a more important meeting, a better party, or a friend that I suddenly need to talk to—causing me to pack up and leave. One Saturday night about a year ago, I remember planning my evening so that I could go to every single event that I knew of. I started on the river, making my way from Mather to Adams to Quincy, and eventually moved to the Quad, stopping by my fraternity house but ending up hopping between parties in Cabot and Pfoho. I saw everybody that I wanted to see, and I missed nothing.
By going to every party, however, I didn’t get a chance to experience any of them. I was stressed the entire time, and I didn’t get to talk to anyone in a meaningful way. This is the kind of running around that I wanted to avoid—in each of my undertakings at Harvard, I wanted to create meaning. For me, this is where goal setting came in.
And that brought me to the piano room on Saturday. Exhausted and a bit confused, I finally sat down to think about my goals. Where was I? What had I actually accomplished towards achieving my vision? When I defined my goals at the beginning of this semester, I knew that they would change. But that flexibility was part of what made the process work for me.
That day at the piano, I could see that the very goals I had set just weeks before had already changed. It was frustrating to realize that some of the things I had been working so hard to accomplish were no longer my top priorities. That said, having goals keeps me moving, and with my revised vision in mind, I felt more excited about the rest of the semester.
But after my quick reflection, I had to get to another meeting. Like always, my break was short-lived, but that’s how I prefer it anyways. Still it’s good to know that the piano room isn’t going anywhere—at least until they renovate the rest of the houses.
John A. Elzinga ’15 is an economics concentrator in Mather House. He doesn’t really know how to play the piano.
Sections
The co-owner of Harvard Book store, Jeff Mayersohn ’73, has the kind of gentle, white-haired, bearded face you can easily imagine in a Macy’s Christmas commercial. Or, for that matter, in the slightly cluttered offices of a local indie bookstore.
Housed in a generic concrete building about a block away from the bookstore, Mayersohn’s office looks out onto Lowell House, although Mayersohn himself lived in Leverett during his time at Harvard. A print of a Thurgood Marshall quote hangs on the wall, sternly reminding that, “if the First Amendment means anything, it means that a State has no business telling a man, sitting alone in his own house, what books he may read or what films he may watch.”
Not surprising, perhaps, for a man who served a year-long term as a Democratic Society student president back in his college days, while the Vietnam War stirred Harvard undergraduates into political action.
“I don’t regret it for a second,” Mayersohn says, “even if I don’t necessarily agree with all the things that I did or said at the time. I really felt like I was part of a very large movement of people who wanted to change the world for the good.” He notes wryly that he didn’t spend enough time studying, even though he went on to receive his master’s in physics at Yale.
“I thought I was going to be a physicist who read a lot and was interested in politics. And now I’m a bookseller who still loves physics and is interested in politics,” he says. “So on some fundamental level, I don’t think you really change that much.”
Mayersohn came to bookselling relatively late in life. After graduation, he spent 20 years at BBN Technologies, helping to invent the Internet.
“We got in at the very early stages,” says Mayersohn of his time at BBN. “In fact, one of the people I worked with when I was there was the fellow who basically put the @ sign in your email address, because he was sending the first Internet email. So those were very exciting times.”
He reminisces about plane rides between Cambridge and Washington, D.C., which he would spend reading, and about the “great” independent bookstores he visited on his business trips.You can tell he means “great” in the preeminent sense, beyond just very good.
“You can have a career which is not necessarily about books and literature and still love books and literature,” says Mayersohn. “My dream was always to own a bookstore, and I sort of viewed it as a retirement.”
“So when I retired from high tech,” he continues, “ I went to bookstore school.”
“There is such a thing,” he says after a pause.
Around May 2008, in what Mayersohn calls an “almost magical confluence of events,” Frank Kramer, who had inherited Harvard Book Store from his father, decided to put it up for sale.
Mayersohn recalls saying to himself, “‘Ok, now you have to act. You’ve been talking about this for decades. And for the last few years, you’ve said that this is what you’re going to do.’”
Luckily, Mayersohn’s wife, Linda Seamonson, the current co-owner of the store, was just as enthusiastic.“She was great,” Mayersohn says. “When I think back about it, it really is remarkable. We just said, ‘This is what we’re going to do,’ and then we went in and we did it.”
“Basically, as soon as I heard about it I called up Frank Kramer,” he adds.
Mayersohn signed the contract in September 2008, hardly the easiest time to buy a bookstore. Not only was the national economy falling apart, but the publishing industry was struggling to find its place in an Internet era (an era Mayersohn, ironically, helped usher in). Long gone were the days when nearly twenty independent bookstores had populated the Square, back when Mayersohn was attending Harvard.
“A lot of people had concluded that all these digital changes were going to kill the local bookstore,” Mayersohn says. “I had reached the opposite conclusion.”
He realized that if a local store could print its own books, and had the right to reproduce full texts, it could potentially get copies to customers faster than any online retailer.
“I really thought that technology actually provided us with a way to take on Amazon and win,” Mayersohn says. “Amazon is trying to destroy not only bookstores but small businesses everywhere,” he says, “by trapping you inside of their walled garden.”
“They understand that the print-on-demand technology in local bookstores is a threat to them, and so the way they can deal with that threat is to try to make all books go away,” through technologies like the Kindle, says Mayersohn.
Though he does acknowledge the convenience of e-readers, Mayersohn is confident that his own business model can allow physical books to survive. But he hasn’t quite declared victory—yet.
“I still believe in the future of bookselling as much as I did five years ago,” he says. “Even more so now, because now we actually have the same-day delivery service and we have the book machine and we have the website. What’s lagging is content and also awareness.”
According to an article published in Forbes last year, Harvard Book Store saw double-digit growth throughout 2012. But the bookstore is more than a business to Mayersohn: It’s also a mission, a visionary enterprise, and an undertaking with nearly-moral dimensions.
“Books and the telling of stories [are] so important to human culture,” he says. “A lot of people are very interested in it, because I think it goes so deep into who we are.”
But despite Mayersohn’s lifelong love of books, he’s found that owning a bookstore is so time-consuming that it leaves him little time to enjoy the merchandise itself. “It’s hard to get a lot of reading done, because you’re so busy,” he says.“It’s a great job,” he continues, laughing. “It’s not such a great retirement.”
Sections
Harvard Expectations
“Call me Maybe” Harvard Baseball Team video exemplifies male population
Conservatism has no place at Harvard
Incredibly diverse student population.
I’m the smartest person in my high school.
Lamont:  Harvard Saturday night hotspot
Parties are just like The Social Network
Boston:  you’ll go there all the time,for food,  music, and adventures.
Harvard Realities
“Molecules gone wild (bio style)” better exemplifies Harvard male population
Liberalism has no place in Ec10
Incredibly diverse tourist population
I’m the dumbest person in my college class.
HUHS: Harvard Saturday night hotspot
People spend Saturday night on Facebook
Boston: you’ve been meaning to go there. Next week, you swear.
Sections
John Winthrop
Let us make this a student center upon a hill; the eyes of all people are upon us.
Mark Zuckerberg
Let’s make this a non-exclusive common space for everybody. Everyone’s friends. It’s made out of glass so that everyone can see what you’re doing. Also, drop the “the.” Just, “Holyoke Center”
Bill Gates
Any updates should come with an install wizard, and should require the latest version of Adobe.
Al Gore
Trees everywhere. Solar panels everywhere, except where there are trees because two things can’t exist in the same place. It’s the inconvenient truth that we have to live with.
John Hancock
PUT JOHN HANCOCK ON IT. BIG LETTERS. JOHN. HANCOCK.
Sections
New restaurants around Harvard are kind of like pimples, in that they inevitably pop up, and when they do, they usually get noticed.
This year, rumor has it that Leverett Dining Hall has rebranded itself as “Bistro Lev” due to Cambridge zoning laws which currently classify it as an assembly/residence. While we can’t speak to the truth of this, we know for certain that Harvard’s food scene has irrevocably changed.
Despite being a “source of complaints for many poll respondents,” according to The Crimson’s 2012 House Rankings, Lev Dhall enticed this food critic to re-try the old classic with its new image.
After unsuccessfully searching all day for a phone number to call in order to reserve a table at Bistro Lev, I took a chance and showed up without any confidence I’d be able to get a seat at such a new venue. The place was abuzz with the warm cacophony of dishes and silverware clattering, young adults chatting and texting, and a card scanning machine friendlily beeping.
First: atmosphere. Fluorescent lights might save energy, but they definitely leave much to be desired. The sterile vibe they emit seemed to be fighting the warm light emanating from the ceiling chandeliers. Most of clientele at the this restaurant were young adults, who seemed unbothered by the ambience, and very brightly colored (saturated) painting of the Charles and Canadian geese.
For some inexplicable reason, the tables were arranged to encourage communal eating. If you are looking for an intimate, secret-sharing, candle-lit table for two, this is not the place for you. But, if you are looking for a quick bite, awkward eye-contact with people who look familiar, and an all-you-can-eat environment, there is no better place.
Oh, the food.  Eating here everyday for months on end might be taxing on the body and the palate, but if you stop by every once in a while, Bistro Lev has a decadent variety and a menu that rotates daily. Last night, the stand out dish was the lentil chili.
Lentil chili, stand out?
I was as surprised as you. The flavors were bold and the texture was chunky, yet chewable. The best part was that it tasted like something that should be healthy.
Some dishes from dinner service last night left my palate confused. The homemade fish cakes, served in buffet garnished with lemon slices, evoked personal feelings of summer on the beach, but a summer that was a bit too “fishy.”
Dessert was special and singular. So many times, I have had chocolate frozen yogurt. But never had I tasted the smooth, decadent flavor Chocoluck Yogurt. Chocoluck seemed to be related to its more famous cousin, chocolate, yet brought a fullness of flavor and a strong bouquet. Although rich, it was not overwhelming. And when you thought it couldn’t get any better, yes, Chocoluck yogurt is fat-free.
The service at Bistro Lev is outstanding. Considering their main customer base of emerging socially awkward young “adults,” they are incredibly patient and handle dinner service with class and aplomb. Unfortunately, it closes at 7:15 p.m., making it an ideal spot for grandparents but perhaps not the young adults that it serves.
So overall, the décor was standard but not inspired, the chili was inspiring but not standard, the fish was fishy, the Chocoluck Yogurt made me feel lucky. Make sure to thank the staff at Bistro Lev. It’s worth the stop.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Sept. 27, 2013
An earlier version of a photo caption accompanying this article as well as a statement in the story incorrectly stated that Leverett House dining hall has been recently classified as a restaurant while under renovation. In fact, it is currently classified as an assembly/residence.
Sections
Students file one-by-one into the green seats of Science Center B’s lecture hall. They sit down, pulling out laptops or legal pads, sometimes problem sets to complete in class. A constant hum of gum chewing, chair-shifting, and text notifications is amplified against the walls.
The room has yet to quiet down when Life Sciences 1a, Harvard’s 448-person introduction to chemistry, molecular biology and cell biology, begins with an unwelcome announcement.
There will be a “little quiz” in section. Students in the packed lecture hall respond to the news with a loud groan.
“Don’t you want to know how things are going?” molecular and cellular biology professor Robert A. Lue calls back. The class responds with a resounding “No!”
Lue reasons, “It’s important to diagnose how everyone’s doing.” He tailors his word choice to the make-up of the class. Diagnosis is a familiar concept to these students, many of whom are interested in attending medical school.
Often taken as the first of many pre-med required classes, LS1a introduces Harvard freshmen to the academic life of a pre-med. While many of the students in the lecture hall believe that they will go to medical school, between one and two thirds of them will end up dropping the program.
The story of droves of students entering college expecting to be pre-med, but later switching tracks—whether because of the rigor or the draw of other disciplines—is a familiar one. However, at Harvard unique factors play into this whittling down of aspiring doctors.
Although Harvard offers a robust pre-med advising program in the Houses, many pre-meds struggle freshman year, when they say that advising is less structured. Later on, a variety of factors—from alternate disciplines and academic communities that are perhaps less grade-obsessed or more diverse, to more lucrative careers that require less up-front time investment—draw students away from the path towards medical school.
Learning The Ropes
The Office of Career Services estimates that a quarter of the incoming class each year is “exploring medicine.” This data is based on annual attendance at Opening Days events aimed at students considering pre-med and pre-health careers.
However, popular wisdom among Peer Advising Fellows says that the proportion is closer to 50 percent. “Half of them are pre-med, or more,” says Khin-Kyemon Aung ’14, who is a PAF and president emeritus of the Harvard Pre-medical Society.
OCS estimates that, ultimately, 17 percent of a given class will apply to medical school.
As is the case at most of its peer institutions, Harvard does not offer a pre-med concentration, secondary, or citation. Rather, the school suggests that students take a particular set of classes before taking the MCAT or applying to medical school.
Currently, most medical schools require students to take one year of biology, one year of general chemistry, one year of organic chemistry, one year of general physics, and one year of English. On top of these requirements, medical schools expect applicants to have leadership experience and strong extracurriculars.
These requirements offer some framework, but the open-endedness can leave students unsure of how to navigate their courses or envision what it means to be a strong candidate for medical school.
“They would like to come in here and have us just hand them a checklist,” says Robin Mount, Director of Career, Research, and International Opportunities at OCS. “But there isn’t the checklist for life.”
While all undergraduates benefit from advising, freshman pre-meds seem to be particularly in need of guidance. Myths abound regarding both Harvard’s pre-med track and the medical school application process.
Though OCS advises that there is no correct pre-med mold, Aung has noticed that many pre-meds spend freshman year trying to live up to what they believe pre-meds should do.
“You’re asking: ‘What should I be doing?’” Aung says. “Everyone’s very eager and enthusiastic and it’s great, but it also leads to individuals really wanting to follow the set path.”
Christian Ramirez ’15 entered Harvard expecting to be pre-med after spending time on his parents’ farm in rural Ecuador. He came face-to-face with the lack of health care in the region, which sparked the idea that he might want to later work for Doctors Without Borders.
So, falling in step with his fellow pre-meds, Ramirez enrolled in LS1a his freshman fall. Ramirez’s freshman advisor, with whom he had little contact, quickly approved his course selection.
“My freshman advisor really didn’t do much, to be completely honest. I don’t even remember his name,” Ramirez says. “He told me to take things that I already knew I had to take as a pre-med.”
In hindsight, Ramirez realizes that he should have instead taken the alternative course, Life and Physical Sciences A, a more foundational class that also fulfills pre-med requirements.
However, Ramirez explains that “people are coming into this with the idea that they’re too good for LPS A.”
After his freshman fall, Ramirez decided to quit the pre-med track when he realized he no longer wanted to be a doctor. On top of disliking LS1a, Ramirez also discovered a passion for studying classics. In making his decision, he did not reach out to Harvard’s pre-med advising network.
Although pre-med advising for freshmen exists in the form of OCS drop-in hours, pre-med events, and freshman advising (albeit without mandatory scheduled check-ins), the system requires students to be proactive about seeking advice.
“As a freshman, I had no idea what to do,” says Katie C. Gamble ’15, a social studies concentrator, Peer Advising Fellow, and former pre-med. She wears a sweatshirt after staying up late to finish a paper for a social studies course. “You definitely have to do some work to get access to the advising,” she says. “It’s great and it’s there but you have to know what you’re doing to get to it.”
Without a highly structured advising system, freshmen are more likely to worry that, for example, a bad grade in one class spells disaster for their medical school application. Their preconceptions about the model pre-med student are more likely to inform their decisions about classes, extracurriculars, and whether to be pre-med at all.
Kruti B. Vora ’17 volunteered at Newton-Wellesley Hospital the summer after ninth grade. She loved it and the experience inspired her to pursue a career in medicine.
However, two weeks into the school year, Vora says that she is still unsure how pre-med advising works.
“I don’t know too much yet about pre-med advisors and who I’m supposed to talk to specifically about pre-med advising,” Vora says. “I saw some things at the Activities Fair that would pair me with hospitals and volunteer activities.”
One such group is the Harvard Pre-medical Society, whose purpose is to be “a student-run organization at Harvard College committed to providing educational support and volunteer opportunities for the campus pre-medical community.”
Grace ’15, who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because she did not want her comments to affect medical school applications, decided to be pre-med sophomore year. She has noticed that Harvard’s peer pre-med advising cannot fill in all of the gaps left by an incomplete freshman advising system. “The Pre-med Society has to use their own people and they have juniors and seniors who mentor freshmen, but seniors and juniors haven’t applied to medical school, so it’s really just a shot in the dark,” Grace says.
Grace believes that if she had entered her freshman year as a pre-med, she would have dropped out. “I would have done all those things I think you’re supposed to do and wouldn’t have done the things I’m interested in like theater because I would have thought, ‘No, I have to do the pre-med stuff to get into medical school,’” Grace says.
Harvard’s pre-med advising is led by the OCS’s two pre-medical advisors, Oona B. Ceder ’90 and Sirinya Matchacheep. Students say that meeting with Ceder and Matchacheep can be remarkably helpful. But the two of them are responsible for all pre-med students at the College, not just freshmen, which means that younger students sometimes take a backseat to those who are currently applying to medical school.
“If you want an appointment with them, it’s often backed up for weeks,” Aung says.
The choice to have less structured freshman pre-med advising stems from Harvard’s philosophy that students should keep their options open freshman year, as well as its commitment to providing a liberal arts education.
“If we had pre-med advisors—this is the way everything is at Harvard—we’d have people saying where are the pre-law, where are the engineering advisors?” Mount says.
Once in the House system, students are each assigned a pre-med tutor, which results in more individualized guidance and support than freshman year. “Harvard’s pre-med advising within the House system is incredibly strong compared to other schools,” says Joshua H. St. Louis ’09, who is now in his last year of Tufts’ MD/PhD program. The House advising system offers assistance including mock interviews, personal statements, and advice on application deadlines.
However, many freshmen drop out of pre-med before they are even given access to the strong Harvard House advising network. At the cost of encouraging greater exploration, pre-meds are left largely on their own freshman year to grapple with the realities of being pre-med.
A Lack of Community
Many of those who have remained on the pre-med track find that there is a lack of community and pride among pre-meds. These students explain that strongly identifying as pre-med will lead peers to judge them as cut-throat, intense, and grade-obsessed. Therefore, they often socialize outside of the pre-med community, prioritizing their concentration or their extracurriculars.
“You want to express your passion for medicine, but you don’t want to be a stereotypical pre-medder,” says Anna ’16, a pre-med who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because she did not want her comments to affect medical school applications. “It creates a very anti-intellectual community.”
For Grace, being identified as pre-med takes on the form of an insult. “People are like, ‘Do you do social studies?’ And I’m like, ‘Oh my gosh I wish, thank you for thinking that. I wish I was that cool,’” Grace says. “It’s kind of a badge of shame to be called a pre-med.”
Because of the negative connotations surrounding the pre-med personality, many students on the track to medical school actively seek out the company of non-pre-meds. St. Louis says that as an undergraduate, he “found [pre-meds] to be super stressed out and always wearied.” He remembers working with a friend in Cabot Science Library on Friday afternoons alongside a table of pre-meds, sobbing and breaking down as they worked frantically up until the 5 p.m. problem set deadline.
St. Louis ultimately decided to distance himself from the pre-med community: Of his four roommates at Harvard, only one other was pre-med. Because his concentration—Organismic and Evolutionary Biology—and his roommate’s—Mind, Brain, and Behavior—were not the quintessential pre-med concentrations like Molecular and Cellular Biology and Neurobiology, they didn’t have much contact with pre-meds outside the required curriculum.
St. Louis says that many of his friends who were devoted to helping people wound up falling off of the pre-med track, whereas those who stuck with it were largely driven by money or parental pressures. “I felt like most of them weren’t really going into medicine for the same reasons that I was,” St. Louis says, referring to his peers who continued on the pre-med track.
Hillary ’13, who was granted anonymity because she did not want her comments to affect medical school applications, also expressed discomfort with the motivations of her fellow pre-meds. “You’ve got everyone trying to get A’s in a class where they give out like five to ten percent A’s and the rest B’s and a few Cs,” Hillary says. Although she stayed with the pre-med program, this mindset meant that she “didn’t want to be around pre-meds 24/7.”
Although Hillary originally declared MCB as her concentration, she later switched to History and Science, which she says has fewer pre-med students. “I wanted to experience other people, and experience other concentrations,” Hillary explains.
For some pre-meds, the fragmented nature of Harvard’s pre-med community causes them to rethink their intent to apply to medical school. “I think I’ve realized, if I really don’t like the pre-med culture, then med school is really just a bunch of pre-meds. That’s all there is...It makes me re-evaluate if that’s a culture I want to be in for the next however many years,” Grace says.
For Grace, this lack of camaraderie might be endemic to a program in which few  students are fully engaged in their coursework. “I think every concentration has one or two requirements people aren’t thrilled about but have to do. But pretty much every pre-med class, people aren’t excited about.”
A For Application
“One could argue pre-med students do obsess on the specificities of the grade,” Lue says, referring to his LS1a students. “Because pre-med students are worried about their ability to get into medical school, there may be a little bit more focus on that.”
Harvard’s advising staff emphasize that one or two bad grades will not sink a medical school application. According to OCS’s medical school admissions data, Harvard pre-med applicants with a 3.50 GPA or higher had a 93 percent acceptance rate to medical schools in 2012.
Ceder says that she sees “many students who come in with a couple of B minuses or a C+ or even a B or a B+ and they’re concerned that this is now going to keep them out of medical school.” Medical schools, she says, are more interested in “the passion vocation piece”—commitment to a sport, for example—than simply straight A’s.
But pre-med students are not just concerned about getting into a medical school: They want to get into the best medical schools.
As a result, students often choose concentrations and courses based on what will do the most to boost their GPA. “When you’re choosing Gen Ed, you’re choosing them to get A’s. Generally people will be like, ‘I just need the A for medical school,’” says Sasha ’14, who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because she did not want her comments to affect medical school applications.
In the lab component for some of her pre-med courses, Hillary encountered lab partners who were driven almost entirely by their medical school aspirations. “If you didn’t do the one extra question on the lab report, you were a bad lab partner and would bring down the whole group and then the whole group wouldn’t get an A and then everybody would be upset,” Hillary says.
One consequence of this obsession with good grades is a less intellectually diverse pre-med community. “I think they’re discouraging people who could potentially bring something new to the table in terms of scientific innovation,” Ramirez says.
If Not Med School…
Harvard students are also pulled away from the pre-med track by the appeal of more lucrative jobs, such as finance or consulting, which hire straight out of college. These career paths offer the dual incentive of high compensation and immediate reward. Students are looking at earning between $50,000 and $100,000 the year after graduation, rather than paying tuition for four years of medical school, followed by a residency of up to seven years.
Gamble, who was pre-med until the end of her freshman year, says that the delayed benefits of medical careers played into her decision to pursue an alternate path. In high school, she worked with a reconstructive surgeon. While learning the ropes, Gamble encountered a 35-year-old resident with two children, which “really threw [her] off,” Gamble says. She had trouble imagining herself trying to raise a family while still training for her profession.
She is now aiming to get a job in consulting after graduation. “It’s something I discovered that I really, really like a lot,” Gamble says. “I know I obviously want to do something I love, but I also want to make a fair wage.”
“I realized that kind of career timeline didn’t align with what I want in a career,” Ramirez says, echoing Gamble. “Time for me is really important, and I don’t want to wait until I’m forty.”
For those students who decide to delay applying to medical school—whether to take a break from academics, or to help finance their medical school tuition—the timeline to becoming a doctor is even longer. As a result, many Harvard students decide to get consulting or finance jobs because of the compensation, with the full intent of later applying to medical school.
In addition, these companies often don’t have any structured requirements for their entry-level positions. “I know people with no business experience who started consulting after graduating,” says Jen Q. Y. Zhu ’14, who decided to stop being pre-med with one requirement left.
Pre-med students have to weigh the cost—in both time and money—of pursuing a medical career against the attractiveness of other careers that can promise larger paychecks immediately.
Is it Worth It?
Clearly, not all pre-meds who enter Harvard expecting to be pre-med will graduate and go to medical school. According to Ceder, one of the OCS advisors, students must ask themselves, “Do I need the MD to do what I want to do?”
For many, the answer is no. Some have become disillusioned, others discouraged, the path to medical school looking less attractive than they had first imagined.
This shift away from the pre-med track is already apparent for some at 2:30 p.m., when  Robert A. Lue’s LS1a lecture is about to go overtime. A few students quickly pack up their bags and climb over their peers to head elswehere. Most, however, stay to hear the professor’s final thoughts. After all, the concepts might appear on a future exam.
After a few moments, Lue wraps up and Science Center B becomes fully alive again. Students huddle afterwards. Some talk about pre-labs. Others admit that they “weren’t paying attention the whole first half.”
Sections
I first entered the Beat Hotel not long after it opened under the Gap store on Brattle St. a week earlier. I had just gotten over another day of classes that I won’t get into here, except that it had something to do with moral justification and my feeling that Kant’s duty-based ethics were doomed to kill more people in Russia. I hoped that the coming of the Beat Hotel would begin a new part of my life that I could name my first book after. Before that, I’d often dreamed of breaking out from the Harvard bubble, always vaguely planning and never taking off.
For those who haven’t read Jack Kerouac’s “On the Road,” I should mention that it is the revered manifesto of the Beat generation and San Fransisco Renaissance, and the inspiration for the Beat Hotel (and the above paragraph).
The original Beat Hotel of 1950s Paris once hosted the leading figures of the Beat movement, and I was under the impression that my night at the Beat Hotel of Harvard Square would transport me to that filthy hotel that had attracted poets because of its affordability. For better or worse, this one would be slightly cleaner and more decent. The Beat Hotel at Brattle, however, did not resonate with bohemia. Instead, it instantiated a rather severe identity crisis. The neon orange peace sign by the bar and the industrial pipe system on the roof were engaged in silent battle.
I exchanged glances with my fellow beatniks, who seemed to be in disguise for the night. They were not Burroughs/elegant, or Kerouac/bohemian. They looked 35 and regular. I chose to believe that they concealed their soul-searching business under the pretense of exuberant chatter attributed to regular folk.
The stage was conveniently located at the far end of the rectangular room to maximize table space. It was clear that music would be a side-act, a way to neutralize the awkward silences during conversation and justify the prices. I took my seat near the stage under the gazing eyes of a surrealist Giacometti-like sculpture that resembled a pregnant woman saddled on a branch, melting under the sun. The server approached the table with a warm smile, and introduced himself courteously. The menu featured new takes on popular items from world cuisine: The $39 Natural Aged Rib Eye was the highest priced meal, while the “Simple Salad” was only $9. The tuna spring rolls were sliced as club sandwiches, BBQ ribs tamed with a smooth and subtle sauce. My stomach enjoyed the unexpected input of delicious food as I fantasized about offering my doodles on the paper mat as payment.
The buzz of the restaurant did not subside when the music director took the stage to introduce Lamine Touré, a Senegalese Afrobeat singer: “Are you guys okay? I hope you are.” I looked around. Apart from the onset of late adulthood, the crowd seemed to be doing fine, sipping their champagne and engaging in conversation.
Lamine Touré and his band did not give us much harmonic motion, but they surely played some Afrobeat. By the end of the third medley, Lamine hit his drums more rigorously and after he obtained our attention, he said, “Say Wow-wow! It means ‘Good job!” So we said, “Wow-wow.”
The night carried on, and so did Lamine’s medleys. I stopped rummaging for a historical or thematic connection to the Beat culture of Burroughs, Ginsberg, and Kerouac, and acknowledged the contrived nature of allusions of this sort. It was time to cut out.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Patients at hospitals that offer better surgical care are less likely to be readmitted within a month of discharge, according to a recent study from the Harvard School of Public Health.
The study, published last week in the New England Journal of Medicine, provided numerical evidence that surgery, unlike general hospital care, can be assessed through hospital readmission rates.
The usefulness of hospital readmissions rates as a metric for quality of clinical care has long been met with debate in the medical policy field. The controversy stems from the difficulty of determining whether patients’ readmissions are a result of a chronic sickness or the insufficient care in the hospital.
“When it comes to medical conditions like heart failure or pneumonia, what you see is a lot of those readmissions are really because those patients are very sick or they might be poor and not have access to primary care,” said Ashish K. Jha, one of the study’s authors.
Jha and his colleagues found that for the case of surgery, the main contingent that is driving surgical admission is the quality of surgical care. Because elective surgery patients are generally stable before surgery, readmission can more accurately be attributed to surgical intervention, according to Jha.
In addition to adjusted mortality rates, the researchers used surgical volume—the number of surgeries a hospital administers in a given period of time—as an indicator of quality of surgical care. Past studies have correlated high hospital surgical volume with high quality of surgical care.
Further complicating the issue, the validity of the readmissions metric is politically charged, as the Medicare system financially penalizes hospitals with rates of readmission higher than a set standard.
“If we can reduce readmissions, we can cut costs while improving quality, which is good news for everybody,” said Thomas C. Tsai ’05, a postdoctoral fellow at the School of Public Health and the lead author of the study. “For patients, for surgeons, for hospitals, for Medicare, and ultimately for taxpayers as well.”
The study also suggests the benefits of hospitals putting extra emphasis on improving care before, during, and after surgery care to decrease surgical readmissions costs.
“It forces better integration of care, care coordination, and transition of care from the hospital to wherever the patient goes after the hospital,” Tsai said.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Sept. 27, 2013
An earlier version of this article misstated the gender of Harvard Medical School and Harvard School of Public Health professor Ashish K. Jha, who is in fact a man.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Jens Stoltenberg, the current Prime Minister of Norway, laid out his strategy for immunizing his country against the “Dutch disease” during a speech at the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum Wednesday night.
“Other countries in Europe spend money they don’t have,” said Stoltenberg, who will resign Oct. 14 after having been defeated in the most recent election. “Norway doesn’t spend the money we have.”
During his speech, Stoltenberg outlined his three-part fight against the “Dutch disease,” an economic phenomenon that refers to an economy overheating from dependence on natural resources: keeping national spending separate from national earnings, creating jobs, and supporting the private sector.
According to Stoltenberg, to stop the economy from overheating, the Norwegian government has set up a fund for the country’s oil wealth. The fund is invested in roughly 7,400 companies worldwide. The Norwegian government draws all its oil spending from the financial gains the fund generates.
Stoltenberg, who previously served as the country’s Minister of Finance and has been Prime Minister since 2005, acknowledged that this strategy has faced challenges over time.
“If you look at 2008...that was a bad year,” Stoltenberg said. He noted that at the time of the financial crisis, the country’s funds were invested in companies like “Fannie Mae and something Mac” and Lehman Brothers, the financial firm that famously went bankrupt at the onset of the crisis.
The second part of Norway’s strategy focuses on employment rates, which Stoltenberg proudly noted are among the highest in the world and the most equal between men and women. Norway has adopted unique labor policies to encourage its citizens to find jobs, including requiring workplaces to guarantee one year of parental leave for women and 14 weeks for men.
“Much more important than oil and gas is that Norwegians are going to work every morning,” Stoltenberg said.
The final part of Norway’s approach to keeping “Dutch disease” at bay is its focus on maintaining a robust private sector aside from the oil economy. Under this model, the public and private sectors work together to maximize average personal income.
Although Stoltenberg said this three-part approach has been especially successful in recent years, he cautioned that this formula cannot necessarily be replicated elsewhere.
“Countries can’t copy each other,” Stoltenberg said. “They can inspire each other and learn from each other.”
Members of the audience praised Stoltenberg’s speech and approach to leading a country.
“It was really good to see a leader of a state focused on policy, not just politics,” said Max W. Liebeskind ’17.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
David H. Hubel, a founding member of Harvard Medical School’s neurobiology department and Nobel laureate for his discoveries in the brain’s retinal imaging, died of apparent kidney failure in Lincoln, Massachusetts last Sunday.
Hubel and his research partner Torsten N. Wiesel, “will be remembered for a very long time,” said Edwin J. Furshpan, a neurobiology professor at the Medical School and Hubel’s colleague of 50 years.
“Hubel and Wiesel took one big leap forward and the amount of scientists you can point to who have taken a big leap forward is very few,” Furshpan said.
Furshpan, Wiesel, and Hubel were recruited to start Harvard’s first neurobiology department in 1959, an unprecedented move not only at the University but also nationwide, Furshpan said.
The Hubel and Wiesel duo, nicknamed H&W, revolutionized the field of neurobiology when they explained how the brain processed retinal data into images for the first time.
Their research was instrumental in understanding the visual cortex, which recives sensory data perceived by the eyes. The team explained how sensory deprivation early in life could be severely and permanently detrimental to the brain’s image processing.
“[These discoveries are] an achievement which for all time will stand out as one of the most important in the history of brain research,” said David Ottoson, a professor at the Karolinska Institute, in his speech at the 1981 Nobel Prize ceremony.
While the Nobel-winning research conducted by Hubel may become his most long-lasting legacy in the scientific community, Hubel also made an indelible impression on generations of students who were took his introductory course at the Medical School, and Harvard College freshmen who took his seminar, “The Neurophysiology of Visual Perception.”
Jonathan A. Marks ’15 took Hubel’s freshman seminar and said he was impressed with Hubel’s ability to inspire and connect with his students.
“He’s a really impressive guy, but despite [that] fact, his dedication to teaching and to his students was really unparalleled with most of the other professors I’ve had here at Harvard.”
Hubel was, by all accounts, a “gifted communicator” and mentor, said Paul Hubel, one of Hubel’s sons.
“His students were some of the smartest in the world, but many of them could not sew with a needle and thread,” Paul said.
Hubel wanted to teach his students the “important things,” Paul said, regardless of their relevance to neurobiology.
Marks recalled that Hubel wanted his students to know how to build things with their hands. Marks still has what he described as an “electronic gizmo” that he built in Hubel’s class.
His ability to communicate and his desire to educate extended outside the classroom. Paul Hubel recalled freezing winter nights in New Hampshire with his father, when they would go outside and look up at the stars together. His father would talk to him about the stars, an experience Paul described as a memory that will stay with him for the rest of his life.
According to his son, David Hubel believed in living a life of balance and someone who practiced what he preached in the most profound sense.
Those who knew him said that Hubel believed he had a duty to his students, his family, and all those around him to temper his dedication to neurobiology with moderation and balance. He sought to find other pleasures in life and share those pleasures with others.
Although Hubel was often known to conduct experiments until 5 a.m., his friends and family described him as a man who loved to watch his beloved Red Sox, all the while yelling obscenities at the television and weaving on his loom.
Hubel was a Nobel prize-winning scientist and Harvard researcher, but that does not necessarily speak to the kind of man he was.
“He changed people’s lives regularly,” Paul said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Elif Yavuz, a graduate of the Harvard School of Public Health, will be remembered for her witty sense of humor, passion for her work, and desire to help the world, friends and colleagues said after Yavuz died in the Sept. 21 attack on a mall in Nairobi, Kenya.
Yavuz, who graduated from the School of Public Health in May, was killed alongside her partner Ross Langdon, an award winning architect. The two were expecting a child.
A memorial was held for Yavuz at the School of Public Health on Wednesday, with about two hundred colleagues and professors in attendance.
During a statement at the gathering, Dean of the School of Public Health Julio Frenk called on the attendees to carry Yavuz’s legacies forward into their own lives.
“We must remember Elif not by the way in which she died, but by the cause for which she lived,” Frenk said.
A 33 year-old native of the Netherlands, Yavuz had travelled Tanzania after graduating from the School of Public Health to work as a researcher for the Clinton Health Access Initiative. Yavuz was staying in Kenya in order to receive optimal medical care for the impending delivery of her baby, according to Frenk.
Friends and colleagues said Yavuz dedicated her life to helping those in need. After receiving her Masters of Arts from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, Yavuz later worked at the World Bank before enrolling at the School of Public Health.
In 2010, she travelled to Uganda to research malaria for her doctoral thesis.
During her first weeks in Luwero, Uganda, she lived in a one-room cement block with no furniture or toilets, according to Felix Lam, a graduate of the School of Public Health who worked alongside Yavuz.  Lam also said Yavuz taught two of his classes in the Global Health and Population Department.
Lam said Yavuz spent her days and nights gathering data with her research team and correcting surveys on malaria treatment. She continued to work long hours through the weekends, Lam said, and on Saturdays the two would review surveys throughout the day.
“We would listen to ‘This American Life’ while we were numbering these surveys, and just talk and share stories,” he said.
Though Yavuz was hard working and thorough in her work, her friends and colleagues said she loved to lighten the mood with jokes and dancing.
Lam said he remembered on one occasion when, on a break from her project, Yavuz taught the Luwero village children Michael Jackson’s “Thriller” dance.
“Everyone knew her,” Lam said.
Yavuz’s thesis advisor in Uganda, School of Public Health professor Jessica L. Cohen, also said the global health student stood out in the her village. Yavuz often walked around Africa wearing heels and big flowers in her hair, Cohen said, and when Yavuz stepped off the plane in Uganda, she donned a flamboyant outfit, ready for work.
“She was definitely a unique person in her style and demeanor,” Cohen said. “She had a lot of grit.”
Heather E. Lanthorn, Corrina Moucheraud, and Pamela Scorza, students from the School of Public Health, said Yavuz was “fearless in her approach to life” in an emailed statement to The Crimson. Lanthorn, Moucheraud, and Scorza were friends of Yuvza, according to Lanthorn’s mother, Sue Anne.
“Her personality was outsized to her frame,” Lanthorn, Moucheraud, and Scorza said in the statement. “She made you want to work harder, play harder, dance harder.”
Yavuz is survived by her brother and her mother, with whom, Cohen said, Yavuz was very close. Yavuz’s family could not be reached for comment.
Though Lam said he will remember Yavuz as both a long-time mentor and an “absolutely brilliant” teaching assistant, he still remembers when she would bring snacks to class just to get her students excited about global health—even on a Friday.
“She loved what she did,” Lam said. “And she cared a lot about us.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the final phase of the Harvard Art Museums renovation nears completion, the Arthur M. Sackler Museum galleries have been closed to the public since June to allow for the packing and relocation of its collections to the newly renovated Fogg Museum at 32 Quincy St.
But once the collections are moved, the building at 485 Broadway faces an uncertain future.
“The University is discussing the future use of the building,” wrote Lauren M. Marshall, a senior communications officer at Harvard Public Affairs and Communications, in an email. Marshall confirmed that the building at 485 Broadway will “continue to bear the Arthur M. Sackler name.”
Most notably home to art collections, the building also hosts offices, classrooms, and a lecture hall, all of which remain open to faculty, students, and staff despite the closing of the galleries. Harvard Art Museums events and programs will still run regularly in the Sackler building until the renovated museum opens, according to Daron J. Manoogian, director of communications for the Harvard Art Museums.
The Sackler Museum falls under the Harvard Arts Museum umbrella, which also includes the Fogg and Busch-Reisinger museums. Access to the Fogg and Busch-Reisinger galleries has been restricted since the museum at 32 Quincy St. closed for renovation in 2008. However, the Sackler Museum collection on Broadway remained open to the public until this summer.
The closing of the Sackler galleries means that the entirety of the Harvard Art Museums’ physical collections are currently off limits to not only patrons of the arts, but also Harvard students and faculty.
Manoogian said that Harvard Art Museums staff worked closely with academic departments that study the artwork in the collections­—particularly History of Art and Architecture—to ensure they had digital access to the works they needed.
Isaac Dayno ’15, a History of Art and Architecture concentrator, said that while “there is simply no substitute” for access to the physical artwork, the department has ensured that students’ education is not compromised. Dayno said that restricted access to the Harvard Arts Museum has made him explore the Boston arts scene, as well as other archives at Harvard.
Despite the hardships that the renovation has caused for some students, Manoogian said that having all three collections together, though still retaining their unique identities, will be worth the period of inaccessibility.
“It’s the first time the collections of all three museums will be in one building,” he said. “It’s important that the collections be together because they speak to each other.”
—Staff writer Brianna D. MacGregor can be reached at brianna.macgregor@thecrimson. Follow her on Twitter @bdmacgregor
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos outlined his administration’s policy priorities during a public address at the Institute of Politics’ John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum Wednesday.
In his speech before an audience that included both members of his own government and Massachusetts Governor Deval L. Patrick ‘78, Santos named security, modernization, and justice as the primary policy objectives of the past three years of his term.
Just 15 years ago, said Santos, Colombia was on the brink of becoming a failed state, and “Today, we are being [celebrated] as...a working democracy.”
Santos said the courses he took as a student at Harvard Kennedy School, from which he graduated in 1981, have informed his policymaking decisions. Santos has also served as a Nieman Fellow at the University.
To achieve the goal of security, Santos said that he has built upon his predecessor’s policy of “democratic security” that guaranteed safety to all citizens, regardless of status or geography. Santos’s own initiative, he said, was to build on the “rule of law” and the “importance of intelligence” in protecting public safety.
Santos characterized his campaign to modernize the country as a twofold effort, describing the importance of infrastructure improvements, which he called necessary to make the country more competitive, and emphasizing the need to expand broadband Internet access across Colombia.
“When I won the elections, I said to my minister of technology, ‘Why don’t we connect as many municipalities as possible with broadband and fiber optic[s]?’” Santos said.
When his term expires in 2014, he said, every municipality in Colombia will have broadband Internet access.
To harness this capability, Colombia’s government will bring laptops and tablets to remote regions of the country.
According to Santos, when he assumed office in 2010, Colombia was ranked the second-worst country in Latin America for social equality, only ahead of Haiti. In the past three years, however, Colombia has experienced a reduction in poverty of approximately 6.5 percent, placing the nation on par with the average Latin American state.
Still, Santos said, Colombia must work to move past the ongoing half-century war with the Marxist rebel group, The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, commonly referred to as FARC.
Last year, Santos revealed that the Colombian government was engaging FARC in negotiations on Cuban soil. In the meantime, Santos said he will not seek a ceasefire, saying that FARC rebels might use it as a chance to regain the strategic upper hand the Colombian government has only recently secured.
The state-held advantage is in large part due to aid from the United States government, assistance Santos called the best facet of American foreign policy in decades.
“I am hopeful that we can reach an agreement and that my kids and my grandkids will...enjoy a country of peace,” said Santos, adding that peace is a luxury he himself has never personally enjoyed.
—Staff writer Steven R. Watros can be reached at steven.watros@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SteveWatros.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Students, faculty, alumni, and donors gathered in the Faculty Room of University Hall on Thursday afternoon to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Weissman International Internship Program.
The program, established by Harriet Weissman and Paul M. Weissman '52, provides funding for professional summer internships overseas for returning undergraduate students. The program aims to foster students’ understanding of the global community.
Thursday’s celebration framed the program as ahead of its time when it was founded.
“The Weissmans were visionaries,” said Office of Career Services Assistant Director Loredana George. “Fifty students go abroad every year, and they come back transformed.”
Students who have participated in the program also praised the opportunity to experience life abroad.
“To rent in a foreign country, to shop in a foreign country, to travel in a foreign country, to live daily life in a foreign country is really rare for people in college,” said Henry A. Shull ’13, who spent his Weissman Internship in Florence, Italy, where he catalogued art, literature, and media in museums.
Weissman interns also said that the opportunity to intern abroad shaped their career paths.
“I never would have run for public office had I not gone to law school, and I would have never gone to law school had I not had the opportunity to work at the law firm in Shanghai through the Weissman Program,” said Michelle Wu ’07, a Boston City Council candidate who participated in the program as a student at the College.
The event began with attendees socializing and enjoying refreshments, after which a few people—including University President Drew G. Faust, Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris, and the Weissmans—spoke about the program.
“We established the program long before Harvard even thought about allowing students to go abroad to research or work. We were renegades,” Paul said, addressing the forward-thinking nature of the program.
Towards the end of the event, program alumni honored the Weissmans with an engraved display of 87 flags from the 87 countries to which Weissman interns have traveled.
“There was a passive resistance to students going abroad,” Harris said to the Weissmans. “The College has caught up to your vision.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Reza Aslan, whose interview on Fox News about his book “Zealot: The Life and Times of Jesus of Nazareth” attracted national attention, told a packed auditorium Thursday afternoon that controversies like his treatment during the Fox interview provoke positive discussions about religious biases in the media.
In the now infamous interview, Lauren S. Green, a Fox News religion correspondent, repeatedly asked Aslan why he would write a book about Jesus given his Muslim faith. Aslan said the interview represents the inability of many in society to understand the difference between religious scholarship and personal beliefs.
At the Harvard Divinity School event, Aslan said that readers have reacted to his work with praise, criticism, and most often, confusion. Americans find it hard to comprehend studying religion from an academic standpoint, according to Aslan, and he and his colleagues should try to make scholarship more accessible.
Alsan’s attempt to reach a broader audience has led some scholars to criticize his work as simplistic, Aslan said. But, he said, simplicity was his intent.
The research and the sources Aslan utilized are not themselves purely original, he acknowledged. Instead, it is his approachable style of writing—a testament to his work as a professor of creative writing—that makes “Zealot” unique. In the book, for example, the body of the text is separated from notes that reveal the methodology behind his scholarship.
Discussing “Zealot,”  Aslan primarily focused on Jesus as an historical figure rather than a divine being. For Aslan, pursuing Jesus as a man enables “[Jesus] to become more real...more interesting…more appealing.”
Rather than factual accounts, Aslan said, the Gospels are theological arguments intent on revealing transcendent truth. In “Zealot,” though, Aslan seeks to present an account of an historical Jesus who was dissentient and bold enough to receive the special Roman punishment of crucifixion.
Audience members said they understood the significance of Jesus as not just a religious figure but a man. “What’s really important about Jesus is the paradoxical nature of him, fully divine and fully human,” commented Derek C. M. van Bever, a lecturer at Harvard Business School and a graduate of the Divinity School.
Aslan, who graduated from the Divinity School in 1999 with a Master of Theological Studies, spoke with enthusiasm about becoming interested in studying religion.
“The power religion has to shape a society for good or for bad is something I’ve never been able to shake,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Joaquín Almunia, Europe’s antitrust chief, told an audience at the Center for European Studies Thursday afternoon that the international community needs further cooperation to fight cartels and national policies that hurt the competitiveness of the European common market.
“It is important…to build a common approach and send a message that economic cooperation, trade, and investment are important to better organize the governance of the global economy,” he said in reference to new international networks for regulating competition.
The comments by Alumnia, vice president and commissioner for competition of the European Commission, came during a speech about contemporary and historical issues facing market competition policy in Europe.
In his speech, Almunia argued that antitrust agencies should fight “protectionist” trade barriers and encourage growth in European economies. These efforts, he said, are integral parts of the health of the European Union’s common market.
Almunia admitted that competition policy could seem technical, but pointed to three “basic ingredients” that he said make policy successful: a focus on growing economies, improving financial regulations, and enforcing competition rules throughout Europe. He added that there would be “serious consequences” for having unregulated financial markets.
Almunia said that this summer’s launch of negotiations for a new trade agreement between the EU and the United States was an important step towards promoting these basic principles.
During the question and answer session following the speech, Grzegorz Ekiert, a professor of government and director of the CES, noted the “pessimism of an agreement with the US” among many political commentators. While Almunia acknowledged this, he said that a second major meeting would take place in Brussels next month and remained hopeful for an “ambitious agreement.”
Almunia also described major challenges in the realm of competition policy. He said that the modern world is “not a world where industrial economies are masters of the universe” and that current circumstances demand new policy approaches, including greatly enhanced economic cooperation among industrialized and developing economies and a renewed scrutiny on the use of public subsidies.
He said that continued liberalization of various market sectors and distinguishing subsidies that “distort competition” from those that do not would create the kind of market that “will help companies become European champions.”
“I am not crazy, but I am optimistic,” Almunia said about the chance of success of enhanced agreements between the EU, the US, and emerging markets. Only with their passage could the global market create “mutual benefits…for all of us and citizens of other parts of the world,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Nuclear weapons might actually have widespread beneficial effects, especially in states with lower national defense capabilities, suggested Ahsan I. Butt, assistant professor of government and politics at George Mason University, during a presentation at Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center Library on Thursday.
At the presentation, entitled “The More Things Change? Nuclear Sustainability and Pakistan’s Conventional Doctrine After Nuclear Acquisition,” Butt acknowledged that nuclear weapons are a matter of great controversy because they have the potential to “equalize strengths between strong and weak countries, as well as negate the advantages of conventional superiority.”
Still, he argued that nuclear deterrence—a defense mechanism that reinforces one state’s protection against another by threat of nuclear retaliation—is considerably stronger than conventional deterrence, which involves the use of non-nuclear weapons.
Weak states, then, would benefit the most from nuclear weapons, Butt said. He added that by developing nuclear warheads, smaller states could bypass the conventional spending schedule of bulky ground and air units and instead spend more on infrastructure, education, and national development--a phenomenon he called the “nuclear substitution effect.”
During the open discussion period, Sunjar Singh, a researcher at MIT who studies international security, noted that Butt’s thesis is not very different from the usual arguments against nuclear proliferation. “It’s common knowledge that if you have nuclear weapons, you have a basic right to exercise the agenda that you want,” Singh said.
Butt challenged the idea that security and nuclear proliferation are always complementary. He cited Pakistan as an anomaly to the nuclear substitution effect because the country has bolstered its conventional arms instead of focusing on a nuclear arsenal and infrastructural development.
“Pakistan is a premier case study for nuclear substitution. It is a weak state, significantly weaker than its main rival India, and destined to lose any conventional arms race. Pakistan has much more to gain from nuclear weapons,” Butt added. “So why hasn’t it happened?”
HKS National Security Fellow Kevin P. Landers offered an answer to Butt’s question. “Countries like Pakistan still need to have conventional national defense. Nuclear weapons are limited in their capabilities in that they can't be used for on-the-ground warfare, a critical part of any country's military," Landers said to explain Pakistan’s development in both the conventional and nuclear weapons sectors.
In closing his presentation, Butt noted that nuclear discussions usually take place behind closed doors, making definitive reporting on the topic very difficult. It’s not clear, he said, whether states truly have aggressive intentions or are just trying to maintain the status quo. “We really need a deeper understanding of what nuclear weapons do to state security,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
In a weekly Back Page series, two of The Crimson's football beat writers give their take on the Harvard football team. The team has its eyes set on the home opener against Brown this Saturday night.
On Conner Hempel’s strong first start as quarterback:
 
David Steinbach: Conner Hempel was probably envisioning a different beginning to his first career start as quarterback in the season opener against San Diego. Through the first two quarters of play, Hempel had only thrown for 39 yards.
 
Samantha Lin: But all that changed in the second half. Hempel ended the game with 345 yards in the air and four touchdowns, two to sophomore wideout Andrew Fischer. Hempel definitely didn’t play like it was his first start—I think his teammates and Coach Murphy having confidence in him helped him a ton.

DS: He looked like Colton Chapple out there at times, scrambling away from pressure and creating plays on the fly. That’s definitely a good sign for Harvard going forward.
 
SL: Did Hempel figure something out at halftime that helped him establish a rhythm with the receivers? The Crimson came out firing on all cylinders after halftime—it took the team all of two minutes to get from its own 36-yard line to the end zone, much of that thanks to Hempel. He passed for 26 yards on that drive and added another 28 with his legs before Stanton ran in for the score.
 
 
On the Harvard defense:
 
SL: Norman Hayes played a heck of a game Saturday—he had 0.5 sacks, a career-high 12 tackles, and the interception that clinched the victory for the Crimson. Monroe also impressed, notching eight tackles and breaking up four passes.
 
DS: Those numbers are all the more impressive considering the experience of the quarterback they faced, Mason Mills of USD. Last year, Mills set a school single-game record with his 38 completions against the Crimson.
 
SL: The defensive line also had a notable game—early in the second quarter, the Toreros had 1st and Goal at the 8, and the line held its ground, forcing Mills to make a bad throw to set up a field goal.
DS: That’s not to mention the two fumbles Zach Hodges recovered, one of which he ran back for the first touchdown of the game.
 
SL: Turnovers were key for both teams in that game—Harvard coughed the ball up twice as well, and a botched snap to the punter led to a turnover on downs.
 
DS: That aspect of the game will have to be cleaned up as the Crimson heads into its Saturday night showdown with Brown.
 
 
On facing Brown:
 
DS: This will be an interesting matchup because Brown finished a strong third in the Ivy League last year. The Crimson faced off with the Bears in the second game of the season in 2012, with Harvard prevailing in a 45-31 shootout.
 
SL: If Hempel’s offensive prowess continues, it might be yet another shootout—Brown’s returning a third-year starting quarterback in Patrick Donnelly, who torched Harvard’s secondary with 336 passing yards and three touchdowns last year.
 
DS: In that game, now-graduated running back Trevor Scales rushed for 136 yards and four touchdowns to carry the team. With no go-to playmaker having emerged out of the backfield so far this season, Harvard will likely need more of a balanced attack to move the ball this Saturday.
 
SL: The O-line did a good job of protecting Hempel on Saturday, but the real question will be whether they can open holes for Paul Stanton and Zach Boden, who at times struggled to find gaps. Playing at home should give the Crimson an edge, though—the team has won 13 straight at home and hasn’t lost to Brown in Harvard Stadium since 1998.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
One game after recording its first win of the season, the Harvard men’s soccer team (1-4-2) extended its unbeaten run to two games with a 0-0 double-overtime tie against the Boston Terriers (3-3-1). Despite multiple chances at the end of regulation and during overtime—the Crimson took six of its 15 shots in the game’s final 30 minutes—the team was not able to capitalize.
“BU is always a good side,” senior Kevin Harrington said. “We play them every year, and I have a lot of respect for their team and their coach. They always give us a good game, and they are always a good rival.”
After struggling in the first half—Harvard was outshot overall, 8-6, and BU had a 5-1 edge in both corner kicks and shots on goal—the Crimson came out in the second half and took control of the game, according to Harrington. The team outshot the Terriers in the second half, 5-3, and routinely generated chances in front of the net, like in the 52nd minute, when a header by junior Phillip Fleischman found the back corner of the net but was waved off by an offsides call.
“We had much better chances in the second half than they did,” Harrington said. “That was a result of guys coming out and putting in more effort and really going after it in the second half and overtime. It was a shame that we didn’t get the win, but we are very happy with the way we played up until the finish.”
A CHIPPY AFFAIR
The intra-city rivalry picked up in intensity during the second half, where chippy play led to physical play from both sides. The teams were called for a combined 20 fouls in the second half, and the Terriers picked up four yellow cards in the final 47 minutes of play, including two in the overtime periods alone.
Harrington said that as the game’s physicality increases, the job of the team is to focus even harder on what it can control—its own play—and not its opponents and referees, which it cannot.
“The number one thing is to stay focused on the game plan and not get caught up in the antics and the chippiness,” Harrington said. “Your job is to focus on the role that you have to play, and if we do that, we are going to get chances.”
A GAME OF CHANCES
In the end of both regulation and overtime, Harvard was unable to convert on a number of key chances. In the 79th minute, senior Ross Friedman launched a cross from the right side of the field that found streaking sophomore Andrew Chang in the box. Chang’s header missed the goal right, but the second-year forward got a chance to redeem himself shortly thereafter.
In the 87th minute, a Friedman cross hit sophomore forward Andrew Chang on the foot in the box. Chang corralled the ball and on his second touch, launched a shot towards the goal that was blocked wide by the Terrier goalkeeper.
In overtime, the Crimson was twice able to isolate players at the top of the box, but both shots were blocked wide by Terrier defenders. Two headers that went wide of the net constituted the other shots for Harvard. The team managed one shot on goal during the overtime period, equalling their total for the rest of the match.
Coach Pieter Lehrer said that despite the lack of goals, he was encouraged by the team’s ability to create a number of promising chances in front of the net, though only two of the Crimson’s 15 shots were on goal. According to Lehrer, it is only a matter of time until the team routinely turns the chances it creates into goals, as it did in its most recent two-game stretch, where it netted four goals—its highest two-game scoring output of the season.
“I think we are about to turn the corner and have multiple [good] games soon,” Lehrer said. “We are trying to get a little more composure in [the offensive] area of the field, [but] they are working hard in the practice field and in the locker room every day, and it is a good step forward.”
—Staff writer David Freed can be reached at david.freed@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter                     @CrimsonDPFreed.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Coming off a win at the Princeton Invitational last weekend, the Harvard women’s golf team tied for sixth in the Golfweek Women’s Conference Challenge this week at the Red Sky Golf Club in Vail, Colorado. The team faced both a difficult course and challenging conditions on its way to a score of 925 over three rounds.
“It’s a really difficult, severe golf course,” head coach Kevin Rhoads said. “It took a lot of local knowledge, it was hard to make a lot of putts, and it has a difficult setup. The scoring wasn’t fantastic, but relative to the field, we did pretty well.”
The weather also showed no sympathy, as the entire field was forced to deal with lightning, rain, and strong winds throughout the tournament.
“We had to face all these obstacles, not just playing golf, but also facing the elements,” sophomore Courtney Hooton said. “But I thought we did a really great job of focusing on our process and our goals as a team. I think we handled everything that was going on around us very well.”
After finishing tied for fourth individually at Princeton, freshman Anne Cheng once again excelled in Colorado. In just her second collegiate tournament, Cheng ended the tournament tied for eighth place, only 15 strokes behind first-place finisher Grace Na of Pepperdine.
“She played really solidly all week,” Rhoads said. “Her ball striking was very solid throughout three rounds, she made a lot of pars, [and] she gave us a lot of birdie chances. Besides the fact that some putts didn’t fall, she played extremely well.”
While Cheng finished over par in each of her three rounds this weekend, it was her consistency that allowed her to stay within the top ten. The freshman shot 75, 74, and 76 over the three rounds.
“I think I played pretty consistently with my iron shots and my driver shots throughout the week,” Cheng said. “But I wasn’t really expecting anything. I took everything shot by shot and didn’t really focus on the end result.”
Defending champion Pepperdine easily cruised to victory on the 1-2 finish of Na and sophomore Marissa Chow, winning by 36 strokes over runner-up UC Davis with a score of 869. Harvard finished 57 strokes behind the 15th-ranked Waves, who won their second consecutive and third overall title at the event.
“The scoring was high for everyone except Pepperdine,” Rhoads said. “They went crazy. They shot normal scores, and no one else really seemed to be able to do that.”
After finishing last year ranked 26th in the country, Pepperdine appears poised to do well again this season. The decisive win in Colorado came after a win at the Dick McGuire Invitational in New Mexico on Saturday. Additionally, Na is currently ranked 10th in Golfweek’s national ranking of individual golfers. She and Chow were the only two to finish the tournament under par this weekend.
Harvard started off well on Monday against the national competition, posting a score of 312 and sitting in seventh place after the first round. The team then improved Tuesday, shooting a 309 to pass Florida International University and finish the day in sixth. On Wednesday, the Crimson shot a 304 to finish tied for sixth overall with Saint Mary’s University.
“We can play one out-of-region tournament for the fall, and it’s a really good way to keep us on our toes and to play against the best competition we can find,” Rhoads said. “On the flip side, it also lets people outside the Ivy League know what we’re doing and see the level at which we’re playing.”
Junior captain Tiffany Lim struggled with illness after her win in Princeton last week, finishing the tournament in 42nd place. Senior Bonnie Hu and Hooton picked up the slack, finishing in 28th and 37st place, respectively.
“I always feel like when we go to a tournament, we have the potential of getting first place because we all have the potential to go low,” Hooton said. “It’s just a matter of us all doing that at the same time.”
The Harvard Invitational is the next event for the Crimson, and the squad will be hoping it can carry forward its recent form back on its home turf.
“We have a very solid team,” Rhoads said. “As long as they don’t take the scores as too much of a hit to their confidence, I think there are actually a lot of positives to take from the week.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just one year after escaping Nickerson Field with an unexpected double-overtime victory against Boston University, the Harvard men’s soccer team found itself deadlocked with the crosstown-rival Terriers on Wednesday night.
However, this time neither the Crimson (1-4-2) nor BU (3-3-1) could find the back of the net, leaving Soldiers Field with a 0-0 draw. Despite a lack of activity on the scoreboard, there was no shortage of action on the field. Both teams had several chances to net the winning goal.
With just a minute remaining in the contest, Harvard nearly capitalized on a critical Terriers error. With much of the BU squad upfield following a Terriers corner kick, senior midfielder Kevin Harrington stole the ball off the foot of BU junior defender Parker Powell at midfield. Harrington sprinted the length of the field with Powell in pursuit and earned a corner kick. Off the set piece, Harrington headed the cross over to junior defender Tyler Evans, who sent a rocket flying towards the net. But another chance was stifled, as the ball found the back of a BU defender rather than the back of the BU net.
“We are creating chances, but we are not getting the final product,” Crimson coach Pieter Lehrer said. “We are working on it. [The players] are making steps in that end, and hopefully it comes to fruition.”
Evans was not the only member of the Harvard squad who had an opportunity to put away the Terriers late in the contest. Before the game reached overtime, sophomore midfielder Andrew Chang had his biggest opportunity of the night. With under two minutes to play, Chang charged up the left side of the pitch after shaking away from a BU defender and blasted a powerful shot at Terrier freshman goalkeeper Matt Gilbert, who made his second save of the game to preserve his third shutout of the season.
“Our confidence went up, and we are a second half team,” Harrington said. “We are well conditioned and have really good endurance as a group because of what Coach Lehrer put us through in the preseason and the beginning of the season. We thrive when it gets tough.”
BU also had a fair amount of chances to come up with its fourth win in its last five games. The Terriers were dominant in the first half, and the offensive onslaught began just five minutes into the first half. Led by senior midfielder Anthony Ciccone and junior midfielder Cameron Mouri, BU had the center of the field under control in the early going. Capitalizing on the precise passing of the Terrier midfielders, senior forward Ali Sozeri came away with the ball and blasted a curling shot from 25 yards out. Crimson goalkeeper Evan Mendez—in his second consecutive start after the Crimson’s win over Massachusetts last weekend—got his fingertips on the Sozeri strike, sending it high over the net.
After the first half, the Terriers led Harvard in shots on goal, 5-1.
“At halftime, the players sit down and go over their collective thought and then we talk as a group,” Lehrer said. “They were spot on with their ideas of what to do: need more energy, winning the first ball and competing for the second ball, and finishing when we get the chances. They are very tuned in, and I think it is a great step forward.”
As play resumed, Chang dazzled the crowd with a back-heel flick to Friedman, who sent the ball left-to-right into the box. Junior defender Philip Fleischman was wide open but could not finish as the ball sailed high off his head.  Eight minutes later, Friedman found himself on the receiving end of a cross in the box, but his shot went wide.
“In the second half, we really came out refreshed and went after their defensive backs with everything we had, and it showed,” Harrington said.
Harvard has now earned a result in three of its last four contests after opening the season on a three-game losing streak.
“The win would have been great, but getting a shutout is always a positive and something that we can build off of,” Harrington said. “We are happy coming out of here knowing that, if a few chances went our way, then the win is ours.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
This is Part I of Flyby's two-part Sober in the Square mini-series. Look out for Part II tomorrow!
If red Solo cups and sweaty grinding isn’t your scene, then try hitting up these non-alcoholic venues this weekend (or pre-game them, it’s your call).
Whether you find yourself with nothing to do on a Friday night, or you need to entertain relatives visiting for the weekend, these venues will keep you excited and entertained, sans alcohol.
1. Brattle Theatre
40 Brattle St., Harvard Square
If the recommendations on your Netflix account include the categories “black-and-white foreign films featuring characters who smoke cigars and make ironic statements about the bitterness of life” or “critically-acclaimed documentaries that you can bring up to sound more cultured than your friends and colleagues,” this Brattle Street hipster haven might be for you. Currently screening its film series “The Best of Bogart,” this cozy theater serves delicious soda and looks oddly like your middle school auditorium.
2. The Taza Chocolate Factory
 561 Windsor St., Somerville
 This is a tour of a chocolate factory—need we say more? Check out Taza’s vintage chocolate making machines, and sample massive amounts of its organic dark chocolate. Afterwards, become depressed about gaining the freshman fifteen, and drown your sorrows by eating more chocolate from its gift shop. Unfortunately, contrary to popular portrayal in the media, most tours do not end with the eccentric factory owner naming you as his successor.
3. Charles River Canoe and Kayak
500 Broad Canal Way, Cambridge
 Glide across the serene Charles on a beautiful autumn day, and you just might be featured in a postcard of the campus or a Harvard admissions video. If you’re up for a challenge, the service also offers rentals of stand-up paddleboards and faster sea kayaks.
4. Mt. Auburn Cemetery
580 Mt. Auburn St., Cambridge
 During the day, take a beautifully scenic and historic walk through America’s oldest garden cemetery. At night, take a spooky tour of the graves, and entertain yourself by jumping up behind your easily-startled friends. Open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Sections
 
 
So you saw someone cute but didn’t really feel like talking face to face (trust us, it’s way overrated). You were smitten. You don’t know his/her name and are in the mood for a little internet creepiness. For anyone who doesn't yet know of its existence, we've got good news: there’s a website that’s perfect for you.
 
I Saw You Harvard, which draws inspiration from Craigslist’s “Missed Connections” page, enables users to leave posts about that special someone who caught their eye. With over 22,000 posts to browse from, you’ll surely have more than enough to distract yourself from that p-set at 3 in the morning. But if you don’t have time to waste and want a recap of some of the site's classics, just check out these posts—the must reads of I Saw You Harvard. Put on some James Blunt and enjoy.

1) You’re a Jerk.
 Lowell
Posted at 2013-09-20 14:11:17, F spotting M
I saw you... I like you but I don't want to because you're a jerk. Anyway, you probably don't care that I exist.
2) Berg Love:  
In Annenberg Dining Hall
Posted at 2013-09-25 15:06:56, F spotting M
I saw you... Card swiping guy at the 'Berg. Oh how you handily manage those ID cards, flipping them up and deftly, smoothly, beautifully, passing them through without resistance. I wish you knew me, but I am just another face out of 1600...
3) The Struggle:
Everywhere
Posted at 2013-04-01 12:32:18, M spotting M
I saw you... attractive/interesting/nice gay guys that are interested in everyone else but me. #foreveralone
4) The Romantic: 
Annenberg
Posted at 2010-04-05 21:27:15, M spotting F
I saw you... three times today. Twice in Annenberg and once in the yard in front of Widener. I know, I know. Pathetic. I know, but I will never know you. I'll never make you laugh, or show you how to eat a burrito without dropping a thing. I'll never share my stories with you or listen to yours. You, in that beautiful brown dress with the cardigan, will never get one of my hand painted easter eggs or even a cute card or two in your room. I will never surprise you in your room nor will we have inside jokes. You gave me the same blank look you give all strangers, but girl, to me, you may as well been scintillating. I will never drive in your car and blast my bad music. We will never see a sun set together. You'll never see past the black hair. I will remain a vague memory, a hidden person. I won't call myself an admirer: while you are gorgeous and have a beautiful attitude, I don't want you. Similarly, you don't want me. I just stopped to daydream for a second today and realized that we will never exchange names. Continue laughing though because when I see you smile, you make my day. Odds are you won't even see this post, and even when you do you'll attribute it to someone else. But it was me all along. To be frank, I feel stupid doing this, but I just wanted to let you know I saw you too.
5) Animal Attraction:  
River
Posted at 2013-09-21 18:28:49, F spotting M
I saw you... Roommate of my wonderful boyfriend. I love my guy and am so happy with our relationship, but I can't shake this animal attraction that I feel for you. Nothing can ever come of it, but I'll continue to feel butterflies and imagine...
  
6) Spurned Circus Guy:
Unicycling down Shepard St.
Posted at 2013-09-17 20:43:03, F spotting M
I saw you... unicycling in the Quad. I was practicing my unicycle and I saw you ride by where the shuttle passes and turn down Shepard St. I ran after you and ran / rode all the way to the yard, and I even asked a random woman if she saw you, but you were gone. Who are you? Do you even go to Harvard?
 
7) Look out HUPD, you’ve got a secret admirer:  
Widener, Science Center, etc.
Posted at 2011-12-14 21:03:34, M spotting F
I saw you... HUPD officers staying up all night guarding the gates. I appreciate the work you all do protecting us students. Thanks.
8) Radio Question
Posted at 2013-09-05 19:51:04, M spotting F
I saw you...does anyone know what radio station all shuttles and dhalls seem to be tuned to?
re: Radio Question
Posted at 2013-09-06 17:53:53, M spotting F
Maybe it's changed since I was a freshman, but the radio station for Annenberg is "Someone Like You."
 
9) Writing to Harvard:  
 Harvard
Posted at 2010-12-10 17:24:11, M spotting F
I saw you... Harvard, being mean to me sometimes. Yet as I sit here in the cold writing my paper I can not help but realise how badly I've fallen for you. Sure you can be stubborn and strongheaded at times, and it's ok if I fail Life Sci, it's ok if I dont get a date for the formal, it's ok if I feel alienated sometimes, cuz I know that at the end of the day, I'll see Memorial Hall tower gleaming in the moonlight, I'll see the River Houses being beautiful, I'll see John sitting eternally in his chair and I'll see myself in your eyes and realise how far I've come and how far I'm willing to go. So it's ok if you don't see me, cuz I see you, and I love you :)
Sections
Well, Dunkin' Donuts is still in business, and Ted Cruz has finally finished reading out of the phone book. Enjoy the sun today—maybe one of the last days to jump off of Weeks Bridge?
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
Today will be another crisp-but-not-quite-cold day, with a high in the mid-60s.
IN THE D-HALLS
On the Lunch Menu:Roasted Honey Lime ChickenGrilled Cheese Sandwich with Tomato and Red OnionTofu, Broccoli and Walnut Stir Fry
On the Dinner Menu:Chicken Pot PieEmerald PorkCreamy Chilaquile Casserole
ON CAMPUS
Law School 101: Applying (for Juniors and Seniors)A short presentation followed by Q&A. 3:00-4:00pm, 54 Dunster St. Register here.
H.E.B. Lecture, Book Launch, and ReceptionDaniel E. Lieberman ’86, a professor of Human Evolutionary Biology, discusses his book The Story of the Human Body: Evolution, Health, and Disease, which will be available for signing. 6:00-7:20pm, 24 Oxford St. (Harvard Museum of Natural History).
Job Talk with the CIAMeet CIA reps and learn more about post-graduate opportunities at the agency, which provides global intelligence on the always-evolving political, social, economic, technological, and military landscapes. Dinner will be served! IOP Conference Room (L166), 7 p.m. – 8 p.m.
 
This week, the Admissions Blog conducted an interview with Andrew Ho, an associate professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education whose research has focused on measuring student and school proficiency and on standardized testing metrics.
Admissions Blog: What is the value of standardized testing in college admissions?
Andrew Ho: There are at least three possible answers to that question. The first is that it can add predictive value above and beyond everything else in the college application—beyond the essay, beyond the high school grades, beyond teacher recommendations and your transcript and the kind of high school you went to. The second way is that it’s formative. Studying for the SAT and the ACT, arguably, can improve skills that are necessary for college and a potential career. The idea that studying for the SAT and ACT can be formative goes against sort of our old-fashioned—and incorrect, frankly—notion that we have a set of abilities in our head that tests measure but that can’t be changed. This kind of idea is not very useful in education, and so what we think of instead is this idea that we can improve our academic achievement and increase our proficiency by studying for exams like the SAT and ACT. The third answer is an extension of the first. Instead of thinking of the predictive value of a test score, we can think about its value to an admissions officer. Admissions officers don’t have equations, they work with context. For example, if an admissions officer knows that a particular high school has a particular grading procedure that doesn’t allow for much distinction at the top of the student ranking metric, then the SAT and ACT scores may provide valuable insight.
AB: How are standardized test scores evaluated in the context of a college application?
AH: I have never participated in an undergraduate admissions process and I don’t know the particulars of how they work, but it’s safe to say that if you take the readership of your blog and ask them to guess how much the SAT or the ACT matters, they are going to overestimate by a considerable amount. There are a couple of reasons for that. The first is that in general there isn’t that much variance in SAT and ACT scores among applicants to universities like Harvard. The second reason is that no matter how much you tell somebody that words matter and essays matter and recommendations matter, numbers tend to have a hold over the public and students and parents in general, in a way that makes them seem as if they are more objective and certain than they actually are. But it should be a relief to your readership that admissions officers I’ve talked to across the country are not as weak to numbers, and that the are interested in richer portraits of students.
AB: What is the difference between SAT and ACT?
AH: Historically, the ACT has been much more tied to the high school curriculum, and the SAT had its historical roots in IQ-like tests. The ACT meanwhile developed out of the Iowa Tests of Educational Development, so it was meant to provide useful information to teachers—high school teachers in particular. Now, currently there are fewer differences, and in the future I suspect there will be even fewer differences. They are both trying to provide value to colleges and their admissions decisions, but they are both also increasingly trying to be valuable to students. They are both getting in the game of trying to encourage students and parents and schools to focus on the skills necessary for careers and college.
AB: What is your opinion on the commercialization of test preparation?
AH: It is unsurprising and dangerous. It’s unsurprising because there is a market, so it’s not surprising that we have this industry. It’s dangerous if we value the idea of meritocracy where merit has a very low correlation with income or wealth. It’s a difficult problem to solve because again the degree to which people think these numbers matter exceeds the extent to which they actually do. Test scores are an imperfect predictor of career and college readiness. They are a proxy on which there are high stakes, and the extent to which they are high stakes causes them to be inflated, so they are no longer as good as indicator as if we could truly measure college readiness.
AB: What is your opinion on the College Board president’s proposal to change the SAT as to make it more relevant to high school and college curriculums and less coachable?
AH: I think it’s an exciting goal. This is a very exciting time for both the College Board and the ACT, as well as an opportunity to advance assessment and use it to provide value to high school students, teachers, and parents. There is also room to advance online assessments, to increase relevance, and answer questions about college-relevant skills. I think it’s a great proposal. It’s also extremely challenging to deliver on those promises, but he’s a good person to do it and he’s done good things in the past, particularly in his work on the national standards movement. As much as the public likes to demonize testing companies, these are generally well-intentioned organizations in my experience and they are trying to make a positive influence and open up college access to a broader range of students than previously.
