Sections
 
Wisps of steam hang in the air in front of Holden Chapel. It's a cold winter night, especially for the 12-odd students shaking and seeing their breath as they wait naked for the strike of midnight, at which point they’ll launch into a mad-dash lap of Harvard Yard. Though the students don’t know it, this late-night run in 1995, one of the first few Primal Screams, will become part of something that will last years after they graduate, a small legacy of sorts.
 
Katina W. Lee ’97, one of the first streaking Primal Screamers, remembers this winter night vividly. “I don’t know how you prepare for Primal Scream now, but I prepared by being in my dorm room and having one of my teammates writing the number seven on my back,” says Lee, who played varsity softball at Harvard as number seven.
 
As Lee waited outside of the church, she spotted a student on a bicycle preparing to ride the lap naked. “Make sure you put things in the right place,” she remembers thinking. 
 
Once the clock struck midnight, the run began. “The one thing I remember very vividly is running from the little church building past Matthews and then making a left turn because we went counterclockwise around the Yard,“ says Lee. “I just remember running past Grays and feeling piercing ice-cold water all over me.” Lee pauses for dramatic effect. “And, like I told you, it was the wintertime.”
 
Today, it is said that there are three things every Harvard student must do before graduating: pee on the John Harvard statue, run in Primal Scream, and have sex in the Widener stacks. While, according to The Crimson’s Senior Survey, only 6.6 percent of men and 2.9 percent of women in the Class of 2013 completed the trifecta, campus dialogue frames these actions as central to Harvard lore. Though each challenge could be punishable by law outside the University, the Three seem exempt from severe consequences on campus. They are, instead, a group of feel-good, watered-down rebellions that give students today the illusion of connecting with generations past.
 
The lore of Harvard’s “Three Things” has, however, developed quite recently. In fact, just 20 years ago, nude Primal Scream was unheard of and the other two traditions were only hazy challenges, far from the trifecta they are today.
 
LET THERE BE NUDITY
 
Standing waist high in the waters he began to take off his dress suit calling upon the men in the adjoining dormitories to join him in his midnight bath. Naked forms darted from the darkened doorways and raced over the green grass in the moonlight.
 - Richard Arnout Stout '29, “The Yard”
 
An inebriated senior returning from Boston late on Class Day in 1909 spots a fountain in Harvard Yard. Moved by the May heat and the heat of his liquor, he jumps in and disrobes. A call moves others to do the same, and, just like that, a now-lost tradition is born. According to Stout’s essay, which was published in “The History and Traditions of Harvard College” in 1928, “The two temporary fountains [were] calculated to bathe over a hundred men on Class Day every year as soon as the last guest has departed.”
 
These days, Harvard leaves the fountain jumping to our Cardinal colleagues on the West Coast, but the Yard has maintained its role as the site for organized exhibitionist behavior. Primal Scream is the most commonly completed of the three challenges—32 percent of the class of 2013 did it at some point in their college careers, according to The Crimson’s senior survey—and the only one that occurs in a communal setting at consistent times.
 
Before the early 1990s, Primal Scream aligned more closely with its name. The night before finals started, students in the Yard would open their windows and scream for 10 minutes to release stress. (An older term for the tradition was the Yard Howl.) As they do today, the Harvard Band would accompany the proceedings, which traditionally did not involve naked runners. By 1992, however, nudity had begun to play a role in the event. That year, many students, including Corey O’Hara ’96, witnessed several streakers amidst the screamers in the Yard.
 
“I remember my freshman year, I was in Hurlbut, and I remember Hilary from Hurlbut, who had, well, there were several folks in Hurlbut who just liked to get naked,” says O’Hara. In Primal Scream winter 1992, these freshmen would find the perfect outlet for their affinity to the nude.
 
“I was playing in the band at Primal Scream,” he continues, “and we were all screaming, and all of a sudden I see naked Hilary running by.” Although O’Hara recalls that a student named Hilary was one of the first midnight runners, The Crimson was not able to confirm the student’s identity.
 
While O’Hara recalls only a couple other streakers besides ‘Hurlbut Hilary’ that winter, the behavior quickly grew in popularity. In a reversal of the current trend—more students today run nude in December than in May—more participated in spring 1993, solidifying the role of nudity in Primal Scream. “I remember the crew team was running,” recalls O’Hara. “There was a team that ran naked, and it was suddenly much more of a thing.”
 
Despite the participation of an athletic group, Primal Scream in the ’90s never featured the current number of frost-chapped appendages flying through the air. It’s humorous, even quaint, to hear students from O’Hara’s time recall the scope of the event.
 
Trying to emphasize the presence of a significant number of participants, Lee remembers, “there were definitely not just two or three people. There had to have been at least a dozen of us. At least.”
 
Lee, who ran Primal Scream in 1995, claims she would never have participated with just a couple others à la Hurlbut Hilary, but what constitutes a significant group or event for her is bizarrely different from the tradition’s manifestation today. In Lee’s time, tourists were nonexistent, and she describes the run as “under the radar” and “very, very hush-hush.
 
THE RINEHART YELL
 
Uttered in repetition, like this, it’s exhausting enough, but chorused by a hundred male voices on a summer’s evening, with Harvard Yard for an echo chamber? well ... on the Tibetan prayer-wheel principle, repeat it enough and at some point something unspecified but miraculous will come to pass. Harvard in a nutshell, if you really want to know.  
 -Thomas Pynchon, “Against the Day”
 
A bored undergrad opens his window in Weld on a mild spring night. “Oh, R-i-i-n-e-HART!” he begins to chant. He hesitates, uncertain if anyone has heard him. A moment of silence, and then it comes, loud and echoing throughout the Yard. “Oh, R-i-i-n-e-HART! Oh, R-i-i-n-e-HART!” swells as hundreds of students join the chorus.
 
Though the timing of this event has little to do with Primal Scream—mild spring or summer nights instead of sub-freezing winters—the Rinehart Yell traces a peculiar pattern of hollering back through the 20th century. According to a 1952 Time article, John Rinehart, who graduated in 1900, was such a gifted student that desperate undergrads would throw their pride aside and yell in the open air for his help. When Rinehart left Harvard, the tradition only grew in popularity, becoming an institutionalized chant that lasted for years. 
Known as Harvard’s unofficial rebel call, it is said that the Rinehart yell could be heard from Cambridge to Cuba. It was a way for alumni to recognize each other, to feel connected to a common history even if they had attended Harvard a decade apart.
 
Though voiced in times of merriment far from its origin, the call remained firmly grounded in the physical and cultural features of the Yard. There, the echoes and repetition could achieve the “prayer-wheel principle” that has earned the call a place in locations as diverse as Pynchon’s novel and the John Barrymore film “The Great Man Votes.” 
 
Primal Scream and its close relatives may be surprisingly new developments, but that does not mean they were created out of nothing, that they do not connect to any sort of cultural precedent. Traces like the Rinehart yell and Stout’s fountain tradition have a certain resonance with Primal Scream today. Our modern practices, in many ways, reach back far more than their clear-cut beginnings imply.
 
THE THIRD COMING
 
In 1776, as Congress formally detached from the English crown, Harvard students were in the midst of a revolution as well, but theirs focused on butter. The university had shifted its supply of the dairy staple, opting for Irish imports that were cheaper in mid-winter than local producers. Incised that now-rancid butter was still being used in the spring, undergrads decided they’d had enough and went on strike. Stout’s essay “The Yard” cites one disgruntled rebel who claimed the butter was “so bad that a farmer would not take it to grease his car-wheels with.”
 
Two hundred years later, butter antics would re-emerge as integral to the student dining experience, offering a strange prologue for the development of the modern Three Things. Around the 1980s, but before Primal Scream had evolved into its modern form, a loose version of the trifecta began to coalesce. It featured two of the classics—statue urination and stacks intercourse—but the third took place fully clothed and had a one year expiration limit: flipping a pat of butter in the freshman dining hall. 
“The challenge when I was a freshman was getting a butter pat on the ceiling of the Freshman Union,” notes O’Hara. “The Freshman Union, which is now the Barker Center, had these huge, high wood-panel copper ceilings, and there were a lot of attempts to get butter up there.” Often this feat would involve complex feats of engineering, as students would use belts or other tools to generate the necessary lift.
 
Then, in 1996, Annenberg reclaimed its old dining services role, this time for freshmen, and the challenge became preposterous. Annenberg’s ceiling was inaccessible, even to the best-designed catapult, and the butter tradition faded into obscurity, though not before The Crimson had time to express its concern. A 1998 Crimson article panics at the disappearance of the tradition and wonders what would rise to occupy its place in the holy trinity.
 
What’s intriguing about this article aside from the outlandish substitutes its interviewees offer for the butter challenge—like taking a final drunk or slathering a lover in chocolate yogurt in Annenberg—is that it is the earliest mention in The Crimson of the Three Things Harvard students must do before graduating.
 
Alumni from earlier decades are similarly unaware of the trifecta. Stephen P. Seligman ’71 noted in an email, “As for sex in the stacks: there were only 1200 women [...] vs. 4800 men, and I never heard of this as a tradition. For all I know, they didn't even let undergraduate women in the stacks.
 
A 1979 graduate knew of the Widener exploit but had no recollection of the other two challenges, writing “back then it was defined as making it with a Cliffie in the stacks, clearly an antiquated view.” He was granted anonymity by The Crimson because he did not want to be associated with this topic.
 
Alums who graduated 20 years later consistently recall the butter challenge but similarly consider instances of sex in the stacks to be random behaviors rather than firm traditions. Peeing on John Harvard is even more scantily remembered. In fact, the practice of rubbing the statue’s foot only dates back to the 1990s. Tourists began rubbing the foot for good luck after being told Harvard students did so before important tests or events. Accounts vary as to the origin of this rumor. In a 1999 Harvard Magazine article, then Dean of Students Archie C. Epps took credit for initiating the tale in 1997, while others blamed tour guides for artificially crafting Harvard lore. Humorously, the Harvard Magazine article argues this practice posed a greater danger than peeing, noting that “the Reverend Mr. Harvard can survive the occasional youthful indiscretion of a male undergraduate.” 
Only at the end of the ’90s would these three casual acts become an established triad. Just as nude Primal Scream was rising in popularity, the butter challenge became an impossibility. Space then opened for discussions on what would replace it, allowing for the modern conception of the Three Things.
 
THE MOST DIFFICULT
Though students may feel that they’re outsmarting tourists when they pee on the John Harvard Statue’s foot, visitors have their chance at revenge come Primal Scream. Every year, spectating tourists capture hundreds of Harvard butts on-camera by photographing passing runners.
 
The Harvard Band, which attends every Primal Scream to provide music and atmosphere in front of the John Harvard statue, has a laugh of their own at the tourists, though. “We sometimes bring cameras and take pictures of the tourists, which we say will be on the front page of The Crimson tomorrow,” says band member Eloise M. Wheeler ’16. “And that makes them feel pretty uncomfortable, which I think is an okay thing.” 
While the band is usually seen in the stands behind the fully-clothed football team, once a semester they alter their routine and repertoire to perform for a different sort of audience. “We usually play themed music like ‘The Stripper’ or ‘Centerfold,’ just pieces related to nudity and running in general. It’s pretty funny,” says Wheeler.
 
Wheeler also points out a part of the tradition that runners never experience: “After Primal Scream, we go to Lamont Library and play Ten Thousand Men of Harvard really, really loud, which is actually my favorite part because everyone comes out of their slumber of studying and is happy for a while, which is good.”
But are Bandies, as the players call themselves, missing out on the “full monty” of the Primal Scream experience by performing? Wheeler clarifies that “A lot of band people are, in fact, runners themselves. Not my year but the year before, once the runners went by, the entire percussion section dropped their instruments, dropped their pants, and ran.”
Though the band isn’t daunted or made uncomfortable by their task, Harvard’s Three Things are intended to be challenges. Each component of the Three contains uncomfortable or mildly rebellious elements that some students would prefer not to undertake, and many students choose which challenges to attempt based on which they feel most capable of completing.
While many students find Primal Scream daunting or unthinkable, for some students, like O’Hara, streaking isn’t considered a challenge. “I mean, come on,” he says, “just pick up your clothes and don’t get caught.” Streakers are, after all, somewhat cloaked by the large pack of fellow students they run with.
For many, the John Harvard statue challenge seems more difficult than Primal Scream, not only because it entails the risk of getting caught, but also due to the sheer logistical difficulty it presents for girls—Johnny is seated on an engraved marble cube that is at or above eye level for most people. There appears to be a vast disparity between the number of men and women who complete this challenge. The most-completed task for men is peeing on the statue, achieved by 41.3 percent of the Class of 2013, according to The Crimson’s senior survey. However, a mere 9.9 percent of women from the same year peed on the statue. For reference, that’s fewer women than have had sex in the stacks: 11.0 percent of 2013 grads.
 
Though she completed Primal Scream, Lee opted not to tackle the Widener Stacks challenge. “The obscure parts of Widener are a little bit freaky,” she says. “I don’t know if that was my reason, but I would hate to have been caught with my pants down, or so to speak, if anything crazy ever did happen.”
 However, the existence of the Stacks challenge as part of the trifecta means that many people do pull it off without getting caught…well, mostly.
 
CAUGHT WITH YOUR PANTS DOWN 
In a library frequented by students, staff, and faculty alike, it’s inevitable that Stacks challengers will occasionally be spotted, though the results aren’t always disastrous. Kevin, a graduate of the Class of 2012 who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because he didn’t want others to know he had engaged in a risqué tradition, said he and his girlfriend had attempted to take on all three challenges within 24 hours. But, due to a series of conflicts, they hadn’t completed the Stacks challenge by Class Day.
He recalls the experience, saying, “My girlfriend and I decided to have sex in the stacks as soon as Class Day was over, but there were two speakers, Barney Frank and Andy Samberg, so it ran a lot longer than it was supposed to. There were 30 minutes left until Widener was supposed to close, so we ran into the stacks, found a very random place, and took a cubicle.”
Since a cubicle only provides limited coverage, the two constructed a makeshift blockade: “It must have been raining that day because I had an umbrella that we put up as a sort of block, or at least to warn people that we were there,” he says.
The couple started and the lights turned off, but quickly flickered back on, signaling that someone must be approaching. “I leaned over and peeked my head out the side of the umbrella,” Kevin recalls. “A security guard was walking towards us.”
Kevin and his girlfriend panicked and started getting dressed, trying to finish before the guard reached their cubicle. “He must have heard all the clothing rustling and our belt buckles, but as he passed he just acknowledged us briefly,” he says. “I’m positive he knew what was happening, but he just said, ‘The library is closing.’ We left right as it closed.”
 
He and his girlfriend left Widener (and Harvard) with a funny story rather than one that could have jeopardized their diplomas. The Three Things maintain their status as challenges due to the rebellious natures of each activity: public sex, streaking, and urination are all punishable by law. However, there was no accessible evidence of students suffering expulsion, or even severe punishment, after getting caught during a challenge. 
Secretary of the Administrative Board John “Jay” L. Ellison declined to comment on the Ad Board’s disciplinary policy when dealing with the Three Things, though he wrote in an email that “The Board takes seriously its responsibility to the community to uphold the community’s standards in a thoughtful and educational way.”
THREE FICKLE FRIENDS
For Harvard’s most conspicuous habit, it seems to me, is the habit of inconspicuousness; its chief custom is to have no customs, its manners are studiously free from any significant mannerisms.
- William Ichabod Nichols, “Habits, Customs, and Manners at Harvard”
If regulation of the Three Things challenges comes off as relaxed, this passive acceptance might simply reflect the knowledge that these customs will soon pass. The University may be appear steeped in legacy, and in many ways it is, but its culture is controlled by a constantly changing undergraduate community. Every four years one student body entirely replaces another, and old habits pass into hearsay, their continuation left at the discretion of a new populace.
Current Harvard students might expect the traditions to be historically entrenched, but they spring from a specific context of habits and events. Sometimes it might take a small group like the Hurlbut streakers to turn a new page in Harvard tradition. Other times it hinges on factors like a relocated dining venue, or even trends that reach far beyond Harvard.
“By the time I was a sophomore in 1968-69, counterculture and political Radicalism was in the ascendancy as the Civil Rights movement, Black activism and most of all, the antiwar movement was alive as can be,” Seligman writes. “In that context, my friends and I would have seen these last two traditions [peeing on the statue and sex in the stacks] as silly and really Harvard bullshit. Why pee on John Harvard when you can take over University Hall (which we did, in April 1969) and end up achieving our goals?”
Perhaps The Three are the 21st century’s Rinehart Yell: a Yard-based tradition that will unify student experience for the next few decades. Maybe they’ll last far longer, maybe for only one more cycle of undergraduates. When Nichols refers to Harvard’s only habit as that of “inconspicuousness,” he doesn’t seem to mean that it is bland or covert—enter Primal Scream—but rather variable and shifting in a way that prevents longstanding typification.
Being hundreds of years old grants Harvard no special privileges when it comes to change. Its customs, like those of all other institutions, are flimsy and circumstantial, small interludes not unlike that of this week’s freezing, photographed spectacle in an expanse of exam preparation.
Despite their temporary nature, however, these blips remain worth savoring. “I would definitely say that was one of my proud moments as a Harvard student,” Lee says, “It’s a little corny, but I like to say that I did the Primal Scream.” Just make sure you watch out for the ice water.
This article has been revised to reflect the following corrections:
CORRECTION: December 13, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the location in Harvard Yard where the Primal Scream run began in 1995. In fact, it was Holden Chapel, not Memorial Church.
CORRECTION: December 23, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the decade in which the tradition of fliging butter pats to the ceiling of the Freshman Union began. In fact, the tradition, which was for a time one of the "Three Things," began in the 1980s.
 
 
Sections
 
A scribbled-on notebook and a cup of lukewarm coffee vie for space on a table strewn with a fine trail of muffin crumbs. Looking up from the chaos, I survey the room. The warm, bright lighting of Lamont Café stands in stark contrast to the pitch-black night outside the picture windows.
 
Armed with hearty doses of caffeine, dozens of students flock to Lamont Library each night, fighting the urge to sleep amid a perpetual illusion of daytime. Sinking down into the cushion of my chair, I, too, struggle to keep my eyes any higher than half-mast. The time is 2:30 a.m.
 
Since its opening in 1949, Lamont Library has been more than just a hub for research and study. Open for a full 24 hours every Sunday through Thursday, Lamont also serves as a haven for that particular breed of Harvard student, the “Lamonster.” The species walks among us each day, but by night, the Lamonters nestle into the comfortable library chairs, sometimes not to emerge again until morning.
 
Though reports vary as to what it’s like to spend a night in Lamont, it’s clear that as the night drags into morning, the library ambience changes drastically.
 
“I think there is a certain hour when the atmosphere becomes one of desperation,” said Ariel R. Walzer ’15 of Leverett House, seated at a table in Lamont Café earlier that evening. “Most people have trickled out, but there are a few people who are about to commit to an all-nighter.” 
 
Another student, Yoav Shaked ’17, situated not too far from Walzer with little more than his laptop and some coffee, dislikes the relaxed, solitary atmosphere of the library late at night, he said while preparing an outline for a Gov 20  paper.
 
“Sometimes the library changes for the better when you can tell that everyone around you is working,” said Shaked. “It pushes you to work a little harder yourself.”
At 2:00 a.m., Jack C. Smith ’15, a rower in Kirkland House, begins closing down Lamont Café, where he works occasionally. From behind the counter, Smith has had a unique vantage point from which to witness the student experience at Lamont, able to track trends in their purchases and behavior as the nights progress.
 
“You can tell when it’s a p-set night, because the café will be packed until midnight,” Smith said. “You start to see people bleary-eyed and walk[ing] like zombies toward the counter. Especially as the night goes on.”
 
Savory and salty snacks, for example, tend to be in high demand as the hours tick by. Red Bull and espresso shots become equally popular: “People definitely ask, as the night goes on, ‘What has the most caffeine per milligram?’” Smith said.
 
Smith himself is not entirely exempt from this phenomenon: Apart from facilitating the Lamonster habit, at times he verges on becoming one himself. Early-morning crew practices, combined with the the late nights working at Lamont Café, “can lead to some very irregular hours,” Smith said.
 
Smith tends to think that since he’s going to be up late anyway, he might as well get paid to do so. Still, he claimed, “I’ve never fallen asleep on the job.” 
 
After about a year working at the café, Smith has also become well acquainted with a number of “regulars,” students who stop by night after night to satisfy a craving or down a caffeinated beverage.
 
“People who work different shifts and different nights will tell you that there are different regulars for different days of the week, too,” Smith said with the authority of a zoologist well-versed in the ways of the Lamonster. “But there are some people who are just here all the time.”
 
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At the stroke of midnight, the ordinarily humorless air of Harvard Yard during reading period gave way to the exhilaration of Primal Scream as clothes flew off, towels were flung, and boxers dropped to the ground. 
Among the mass of Harvard undergraduates letting loose at the beginning of exam period were would-be Vikings in rock-climbing gear, students in santa hats, a number of sombreroed gents, and one naked student pushing a shopping cart with a passenger inside and another riding a skateboard tethered behind.
Occurring biannually, Primal Scream marks the first day of exams with a nude jog around the Yard. The tradition is said to date back to the 1960s, when students would howl out their windows to relieve the stress of reading period. The more risqué element of nudity was added to the mix in the 1990s.
“Oh, hell no,” said a security guard standing by Boylston Gate, as three male students covered in red clay cycled past on a tandem bike. When asked by her colleague if she planned to watch, the guard answered, “I don’t want to see!”
By the John Harvard statue, the band gathered and worked up an anticipatory and visceral rhythm to accompany the cheers of students in towels, bathrobes, and parkas. To mark the occasion, band members sported their trademark crimson jackets, but lacked pants. A few members had elected to wear festive or sequined underwear.
When the time came, a cheer went up and the mass took off, streaking down the pavement and around the Yard. 
The tandem bike rolled forth majestically, slowly careening across the grass.
Patriotism seemed to be a theme of the night, as a number of gentlemen ran with American and Canadian flags tied to their necks as capes. More Canadian flags were spotted than American ones, even as Harvard students failed to name the capital of Canada in a Crimson video earlier this year.
Indeed, while many ran in a variety of costumes, or in nothing at all, others chose to clutch their clothes and towels as they ran, hoping to block any frontal nudity. This practice led to a number of hard falls, but other nude runners did pause to help.
Despite their willingness to disrobe in front of their fellow undergraduates, students were less forthright when approached for an interview by The Crimson. 
When asked if she would like to comment on her experience, one student promptly and nervously disengaged herself from a hug with a fellow runner.
“Nope,” she said, her smile vanished. 
Participants ended the night with cheers and hugs. The sound of backslapping and yells of “Did you do it?” and “Where’s my coat?” echoed across the Yard. 
As a last hurrah, one student, clad in only his boxers, attempted to climb a street post in front of Panera.
 —Staff writer Joanna R. Schacter can be reached at jschacter@college.harvard.edu.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Dec. 12, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the material in which three Primal Scream participants riding a tandem bike were covered. In fact, it was red clay, not green paint.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Hasty Pudding Institute of 1770—comprised of The Hasty Pudding Club, The Hasty Pudding Theatricals, and the Harvard Krokodiloes—will relocate its clubhouse from 2 Garden St. to 96 Winthrop St. later this month, according to Hasty Pudding chairman and “Grand Sphinx” Andrew L. Farkas ’82.
According to Farkas, one of the Institute’s main benefactors and the founder of the merchant real estate bank Island Capital Group, the Institute has been searching for a new space for some time in anticipation of their lease on Garden Street expiring at the end of the year.
The Winthrop Street building, known as the Hyde-Taylor house, currently houses the Irish pub Tommy Doyle’s, which is set to close on Dec. 22.
In a statement to be released Thursday morning, the Institute wrote that negotiations with Tommy Doyle’s and the landlord began at the end of the summer.
The relocation process will begin immediately after the Institute acquires the building in late December. Some renovations will be undertaken, and artwork and furniture will be removed from the current location, Farkas told The Crimson.
An inauguration of the clubhouse will take place in January before the Hasty Pudding Institute hosts its annual Woman of the Year celebration on Jan. 30. The Hasty Pudding Theatricals annual production will continue to take place in Farkas Hall, which was renamed in 2011 after a donation by Farkas.
For Farkas, it was important that the new clubhouse meets several requirements. The Institute announced a merger among the three separate organizations in September 2012, a revitalization of previous collaborations under the umbrella organization called the Institute of 1770, and Farkas noted that as multifaceted institution, Hasty Pudding has members with a range of interests and believes the clubhouse should be compatible with the needs of all members, who will have equal access to the clubhouse.
“We wanted a place that was conducive to the cultivation of all of activities in which the Pudding engages,” Farkas said.
The Institute sought a space that would allow for members to socialize, study, and dine. In particular, Farkas wanted a venue with a stage that would allow the organization’s members to practice and perform for the public.
“Our new home had to allow us to do that, while also being able to develop all the skills, resources, and talents that are inherent within the members of the various different Pudding organizations themselves,” Farkas said.
The Pudding Club, which is described in the press release as the oldest collegiate social club in America, has a more than two-century long history at the College. The new clubhouse will be the Pudding’s sixth. The organization has spent a decade at 2 Garden St. after acquiring the space in 2003.
Farkas said that the Institute as a whole prides itself on making philanthropic efforts, by promoting “freedom of expression in all aspects of the performing arts” and encouraging “satire, comedy and the cultivation of young talent,” the press release said.
Farkas said he hopes that the new location will allow the Institute to fulfill this mission. The building at 96 Winthrop St. once housed the original House of Blues before it closed in 2003.
“The Pudding will aim to further the great traditions deeply rooted in its new home and add their own to the centuries-old history of 96 Winthrop Street,” the press release read.
—Staff writer Celeste M. Mendoza can be reached at celestemendoza@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: December 12, 2013, at 10:20 p.m.
Despite repeated requests from The Crimson, administrators have not released Administrative Board statistics for cases in 2012-2013, the academic year that saw the adjudication of Harvard’s largest cheating case in recent memory.
That year’s cheating numbers were inflated by the Government 1310 cheating case, in which about 70 of the roughly 125 students investigated by the Ad Board for plagiarizing or inappropriately collaborating on the course’s final take-home exam were required to temporarily withdraw from the College.
As a result, the unreleased statistics are expected to show a number of forced withdrawals in academic dishonesty cases at least three-and-a-half times higher than the previous five-year average of 21.
Records for academic and social misconduct cases that went before the Ad Board between 2005-2006 and 2009-2010 are available online in a five-year summary on the Ad Board’s website, and The Crimson was provided with statistics from 2010-2011 and 2011-2012 upon request last fall.
Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Jeff Neal and Secretary of the Ad Board John “Jay” L. Ellison declined to comment this week on the status of the 2012-2013 statistics.
The 2012-2013 Ad Board statistics are not the only records that the Ad Board has yet to make public. A long-awaited database that would include more detailed information about the Ad Board process has yet to be released roughly three years after administrators originally said it would.
The database, which Ellison announced in September 2010, would include a compilation of detailed case summaries of past Ad Board cases made available online, while keeping out information that could identify the students involved. The database would go back three years for academic integrity cases and 10 years for peer dispute cases, such as those involving allegations of sexual assault.
The database was originally planned to be made public online sometime in fall 2010, but its release has been repeatedly pushed back in the semesters since.
Last spring, Neal wrote in an emailed statement that “the large volume of work this year necessarily took precedence over this project,” writing at the time that the Ad Board was “continuing to consider ways in which it can release more detailed statistics.
Neal declined to comment on the database’s status Wednesday, and Ellison could not be reached for comment Thursday.
—Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Of the 1,439 students who applied, 93.7 percent—1,349 students—were granted requests for housing on campus during winter break, according to Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Colin Manning. 
Of those 1,349 students with approved winter break campus housing, 353 were approved to stay on campus during Winter Break I—which runs from Dec. 22 to Jan. 1—and 1,322 students for Winter Break II, which runs from Jan. 2 to Jan. 16. Those 1,322 students include some approved for both parts of the break, Manning wrote in an email.
Last year, nearly 96 percent of applications for winter break housing were approved, and 94 percent in 2011. 
The approved applications fall under several categories, including students writing senior theses and volunteers with the Phillips Brooks House Association. Other permitted students include those seeking campus employment of 20 or more hours a week, pursuing—as Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Jeff Neal called them last year—“purposeful non-credit educational opportunities,” working Boston-based internships, and studying for graduate school exams.
Housing for all undergraduates opens for Wintersession programming on Jan. 17, 10 days before the start of spring semester classes. 
 —Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Well, you've survived Primal Scream. Good luck on finals!
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
A high of 24 degrees today—keep warm!
IN THE D-HALLS
On the Lunch Menu:Chicken Pot PieSalmon with Green CurryTuscan Chickpeas
On the Dinner Menu:Grilled Pepper SteakHome Made Fish CakesSweet and Sour Tofu
ON CAMPUS
OCS Summer Funding 101 SessionOCS can tell you what to expect and how to apply. 2 p.m. and 3 p.m., 54 Dunster St.
Sections
 
The end is near, hear hear! Times may seem dismal, but soon enough the worst of these cold, dark days will be over. Instead of throwing up your arms and going HAM because YOLO—let's be real, that's been done—here are some more creative ways to celebrate the end of these endless days:
1. Go for a Primal Scream Round 2, last-day-of-finals version. This is your chance to set a new tradition for Harvard and become a legend forever. So go send out that mass blast to your class and tell them they’re in for a “special treat.”
2. Throw a gigantic rooftop party atop none other than the glorious Widener Library. No need to worry about waking up the proctor next door or having to call Yard-Ops about the hole in the ceiling from opening that champagne bottle.
3. Invite tourists to the party (see #2), to make up for all the photobombing and smack talk you did throughout the semester. Tell them it’ll be a once-in-a-lifetime chance to see what the life of a Harvard student is really like, and of course, refreshments are on you.
4. Treat yourself out to some oysters at Russell House Tavern, and bask in that luxurious life. Maybe you can bring home a few more bucketfuls for the roommate that is still suffering from studying for that Ec 10 final that was conveniently scheduled for the very last day of finals.
5. Coordinate with your classmates to bring along a hat to wear for your very last final, whether it’s the faded hand-me-down baseball cap from Uncle Joe or the super-hip straw hat borrowed from a Hahvahd tour guide, and have everyone throw theirs up as high as they can once the TF calls out those momentous words, “time’s up.”
6. Time for that upgrade to your midnight diet! Now that you have some time to step outside your cave, take a break from your stash of chicken-flavored ramen and go for some actual chicken wings. It’s good to shake things up once in a while.
7. Before you can celebrate some more, you should really get on that giant pile of laundry sitting in your room. To give yourself some incentive, promise yourself an Insomnia cookie (or a shot of whiskey, whatever floats your boat) for every load you throw into the washer.
 
 
Sections
 
While Harvard students can count on a median grade of A- at the College to pad their egos, it seems that in the arena of physical appearance, many can only scrape a B. A recent report by BusinessInsider—a leading authority on the attractiveness of co-eds—ranks all eight Ivy League schools in “hotness” using impeccably culled data from College Prowler and DateMySchool.com's "National Hotness Index" (which is conveniently organized in a Google spreadsheet with lots of numbers).
 
Harvard College, whose “guys” and “girls” received ratings of B+ and C+, respectively, comes in second to last, followed in eighth place by a homely Columbia University. Brown, by contrast, leads the pack with A women and A- men, while the University of Pennsylvania finishes at a close second. 
Skeptical of these so-called rankings, Flyby investigated further.
 
On College Prowler, a database that rates schools based on anonymous "student" responses, mixed opinions abound. “Taking into consideration that about 25 percent to 50 percent of [Harvard] students don't leave their rooms, the student population you actually see out is a fun, good-looking bunch,” writes one Prowler. With regards to the male population, another Prowler states it plainly: “Dorks. However, the women in Boston have impressed me. The guys are jerks.”
 
Yet despite the apparent gender disparity in hotness levels, Harvard males still seem to know where to go to find a suitable mate. “Since joining Harvard I've seriously improved my pillow-talk,” writes another contributor to College Prowler. “But usually with non-campus chicks with Headlamp eyes for the College. Where I used to try small talk the morning after, now I just scream at them to leave.”
 
At least Harvard offers variety. As one Prowler writes, “You've got your drop-dead-gorgeous, good-looking, okay, and dog-ugly.” Well, that just about covers it.
 
We at Harvard can, however, take solace in our victory over Columbia, the Plain Jane of the Ivy League. Columbia, which ranks 742nd in Friendliest Guys on College Prowler, earns a disappointing B- in looks for both genders. However, some Columbians prefer to ignore the mediocrity by focusing on their studies: “I wouldn't know. I didn't go to school to check out people,” writes one contributor to Columbia's Prowler page.
 
Columbia is like that acquaintance who, while not hot, is still a “nice person.” “Hot isn't the word I'd used to describe Columbians,” a Prowler explains. “We are better known for our ‘good personalities.’ You want hot? Head down to NYU.”
 
As for the Ivy League beauty pageant winner, Flyby can’t help but wonder what makes people think Brown is a veritable Garden of Eden for attractiveness. Brown’s College Prowler page elicits a showering of praise: “When I first got here, I was like, ‘Wow, everyone here is so attractive!'’’... “We're certainly hotter than Harvard or Columbia.”...“Beautiful women. So many beautiful women.”
 
Is this real? What are they smoking? Oh wait...
 
Sections
As the Fall 2013 semester draws to a close, Flyby reflects on four of the many things that made it a great one.
Donald Pfister as Interim Dean of Harvard CollegeYou know you love this fungi enthusiast, who just so happens to be a veritable genius when it comes to crafting the perfect email update to blast out to undergrads (See Exhibits A, B, C, and D). Interim Dean of the College Donald H. Pfister has proven to us not only that botany can somehow relate to any and all events here at Harvard, but that we, too, are capable of writing about just about anything if we create an abstract enough metaphor. Finally, let's not forget that time we looked like we could use a cupcake, and Pfister delivered.
 
#Winning – Harvard Beats Yale (again)With our seventh consecutive domination at The Game (and 12 W’s in the past 13 years), some are wondering why Yale even has a football team anymore. But Harvard’s 2013 win extends beyond football—we also proved our academic prowess this fall. Just look at our Rhodes Scholars: six Harvard students won Rhodes Scholarships, compared to three Yalies—three! Out of 32 scholars! That’s not even a tenth!
If all that isn't enough to convince you, check out Flyby's guide to Harvard's superiority. And we haven’t even started talking about fungus yet (see: Pfister, Exhibit D).
 
He wasn’t interrupting anyone this time – Kanye speaks at the Graduate School of DesignAlright, so the speech didn’t even last ten minutes. But let’s be honest, who knows architecture better than this mediocre rapper/Kardashian baby daddy? Kanye made some deeply inspirational points, including his belief “that utopia is actually possible” (there’s more to that quote, but it didn’t really make a sentence). He even had a rare moment of humility upon admitting the flaws in the stage design for his performance at TD Garden later that evening, though we can’t judge him too harshly on these imperfections—we all know, after all, that a stage is “an expression of emotion.” And we'll always remember Kanye’s Oprah Moment. We’re not sure if he actually said the words “look under your seats,” but we do know he gave a way a ton of free concert tickets.
 In all seriousness, though, Kanye and Kim’s campus appearance was a major swag boost for Harvard, and raised some much-needed awareness for the GSD.
 
Harvard learns how to laugh – the “Joke Ticket” takes the win in 2013 UC electionsNo one was ever 100 percent sure how serious these two campus comedians were about running for Undergraduate Council, but apparently a plurality of voters figured they were serious enough to vote for. Yes, the toilet paper enthusiasts’ #tombasrav platform attracted significant criticism. But it also made for a witty Facebook page (and a great Flyby interview) that addressed issues like what constitutes an attainable goal and why there’s such a stark UC/student disconnect, all while maintaining a relatively decent entertainment value. The elections themselves proved that this honesty-underneath-a-veil-of-humor is the secret to winning a UC campaign. Bonus: now we get tomato basil ravioli soup every Thursday. Coincidence? The world may never know.
