News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Is privacy in its death throes?
If so, the Founding Fathers are rolling over in their graves—when they penned the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution, protecting citizens from searches performed without probable cause and a warrant, they enshrined privacy as a defining feature of American democracy. The rise of the information age, however, has marched privacy up to the gallows and threatened to tighten a noose around its neck.
In the 1967 case Katz v. United States, the Supreme Court devised a concept that remains the go-to reference for deciding whether or not the government has performed a search that triggers the requirements of the Fourth Amendment: the reasonable expectation of privacy. The test is two-fold. First, an individual must have displayed an objective intent to keep whatever the government uncovers to him or herself. Second, the government’s actions must conform to a societal understanding of what doors should remain closed and what doors the government should be allowed to fling open.
The reasonable expectation of privacy test renders U.S. citizens particularly vulnerable in an era of rapidly advancing technology. As new invasive techniques of surveillance become more common and accepted, what once were reasonable expectations of privacy become unreasonable.
Take drones, for example. Even if they can’t constitutionally kill Americans not engaged in combat on American soil (thanks for the clarification, Mr. Attorney General), drones certainly pose other threats to United States citizens. Sometimes larger than real airplanes and other times smaller than toy ones, unmanned aerial vehicles whiz through the air not only to nab terrorists overseas, but also to aid in domestic surveillance operations on our own turf. In fact, the Federal Aviation Administration predicts that 30,000 flying electronic spies will loom over the nation as soon as 20 years from now.
Like most technological advances, drones have the potential to effect positive change. Their capacity to record video and produce heat maps makes them useful in locating criminals, missing persons, and bombs alike. But many Americans today fear, maybe justifiably, that unmanned aerial vehicles could find and monitor them without due cause and without any chance of their noticing. So where does the government draw the line? Is aerial surveillance without suspicion or a warrant constitutional?
According to the Supreme Court, that depends. In Dow Chemical Co. v. United States, the Court held that the Environmental Protection Agency did not violate the Fourth Amendment when it employed a commercial mapping camera to spot a chemical plant from above without a warrant. Yet at the same time, the Court noted that the use of “highly sophisticated surveillance equipment not generally available to the public” might constitute such a violation.
When a case regarding the constitutionality of warrantless drone monitoring inevitably makes its way up to the Supreme Court, perhaps the precedent set in Dow Chemical Co. will hold some weight. Drones undoubtedly qualify as cutting-edge technology, and your average citizen can’t hop on Amazon to order one. On the other hand, that understanding eventually will change. After all, many kids today likely take the internet for granted. They can’t imagine a world without it, but it wasn’t long ago that their parents couldn’t imagine one with it.
When Americans begin to think of drones not as unsettling earmarks of a brave (and scary) new world but rather as familiar fixtures in their lives, the government’s using them to watch over citizens will fall in line with social norms. Then, if the Court continues to apply the reasonable expectation of privacy test, its Justices very well might deem warrantless drone monitoring an acceptable and even expected practice.
The Founding Fathers wrote privacy into the Constitution for a reason. The United States was formed as a haven for individual liberty in response to an oppressive foreign regime, and the Fourth Amendment safeguards that freedom. The amendment guarantees a private sphere outside government purview in which we can express our ideas, beliefs, and relationships without fear of scrutiny or judgment. In order to preserve the critical protection the amendment provides, the Supreme Court must develop a new legal test for when the government has performed an illicit search, a test that prevents privacy from withering away little by little, technological development by technological development.
Privacy may be ailing, but it’s not dead yet. Let’s keep it that way.
Molly L. Roberts ’16, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Holworthy Hall. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays. Follow her on Twitter at @mollylroberts.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Monolithic, separate, inferior, enemy, manipulative. These were the adjectives that the British think-tank Runnymede Trust found were commonly associated with Islamic communities in a 1997 report about social perceptions of Islam. Many years later, these biases have not disappeared on either side of the Atlantic. Last spring, the Joint Forces Staff College of the National Defense Unit was engulfed in scandal when Army Lieutenant Colonel Matthew Dooley presented deeply Islamophobic material in a course for military officers. Dooley said in a presentation that “[Muslims] hate everything you stand for and will never coexist with you, unless you submit.” NPR journalist Juan Williams had made remarks of a milder yet comparable nature at the end of 2010 while a guest on the O'Reilly Factor, saying that he would become nervous whenever seeing someone “in Muslim garb” on a plane.
In light of common misunderstandings of Islam that are unfortunately still present in U.S. society, the events organized on campus this month by the Harvard Islamic Society for its annual Islamic Awareness Month are a valuable initiative that prompts us to reflect on an important component of the American community. It is particularly salient that Islamic Awareness Month is organized by students from Harvard’s Muslim community: Much of our knowledge (and often misperception) of Islam is informed by non-Muslims, not by the voices of Muslims themselves. Beginning last Monday night with a talk by Lesley Hazleton called “What Muhammad Stood for,” Islamic Awareness Month is a good opportunity for students to become aware of the tenets and traditions of one of the largest religions in the world, which are all too often perceived to be at odds with the values of other cultural and religious traditions.
Hazleton has herself both written and spoken at length about stereotyping and misrepresentation of Islam, and it is fitting that she opened Islamic Awareness Month. Pointing to the frequent misconceptions that surround Islam in the English-speaking world, Hazleton has tackled such themes as the reasons behind the negative perception of hijab-wearers in European and North American societies and the commonalities between Islamic thought and diversely defined Western values.
Several other events planned as part of the Islamic Awareness Month promise to foster good discussion on the relationship between Islam and other belief systems, both religious and secular. Professor of Comparative Religion Diana L. Eck, who is not a member of the Muslim community at Harvard but serves as the director of the Pluralism Project, will speak on her longtime experience confronting religious diversity both within and outside of academia at a closing keynote address.
It is particularly heartening that Islamic Awareness Month is happening in the context of a broader discussion on faith, which has been occurring on campus through such events as the Atheist Coming Out Week that took place in February. We welcome Islamic Awareness Month as a contribution to an open and tolerant campus discourse about religion and spirituality.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The outpouring of opposition to the College Events Board’s decision to make Tyga the headline act of Yardfest has been entirely warranted.  The lyrics that have been circulated around campus attached to petitions for the last week are utterly vile, and anyone who objects to his coming to Harvard is justified in doing so.  We should be careful, though, not to object on the grounds that Tyga is “offensive,” for the real problem is not that he is offensive. That charge alone does not provide sufficient grounds to rescind his invitation, and when the College Events Board and Harvard Concert Commission attempted to assuage concerns about “offensive content” in Tyga’s music in a statement released last Monday, they were dodging the issue entirely.
The charge of offensiveness is problematic for a number of reasons, all of which suggest that we have no absolute right not to be offended. First, the phenomenon of offense exists in two parts: that which gives offense and he who takes offense, and the existence of offense in any particular situation says as much about the latter as it does about the former. Sometimes, people are rightly offended at bad things. At other times, they are wrongly offended at things that are not so bad. The difference between being rightly and wrongly offended, moreover, can only be determined on a case-by-case basis.
Offensiveness is entirely unworkable as a standard of conduct, that is, as a standard by which we determine whether speech, behavior, etc. is acceptable, as it could easily include or exclude things improperly. Take the hypothetical example of a very misogynistic campus community. This community would not be offended by a speaker or performer whose message was degrading to women. On the other hand, it probably would be very offended by a guest lecturer who upheld the equal dignity of the sexes and condemned misogyny in the strongest possible terms. The problem in such a scenario is not the fault of the offending lecturer, but with the community that receives him with hostility. Furthermore, in this case, the community would be better served by hosting the offensive guest than the non-offensive one.
Finally, we must resist using “offensiveness” as a litmus test because its chief effect is putting a damper on discussion. There is little, if any, room for debate about whether something is offensive. Those who are unbothered by the matter in question will find the mere assertion of offense thoroughly unpersuasive, while to those who are offended will find that no further discussion is necessary. We can see this in recent debates over Tyga. While many students have signed a petition asking that he be removed from the program for Yardfest (and rightly so, I believe), other students have effectively responded, “I don’t find Tyga that offensive,” leaving the discussion at an impasse.  In the interest of robust dialogue, therefore, we must resort to better, more engaging, albeit more complex, reasons to oppose bringing Tyga to campus.
The real reason to oppose bring Tyga to Harvard is that his music celebrates and promotes a debased and corrupting sexual culture. It strips sexuality of any semblance of dignity or beauty, replacing those attributes with a mentality of selfish exploitation. It removes love, commitment, and authentic and healthy relationships from consideration and views human beings as sexual objects, convenient tools to be used for one’s own pleasure. This view of human sexuality is incredibly degrading, especially to women, in Tyga’s case, and ought not to be celebrated at Yardfest.
In light of this, the CEB and HCC’s response to the controversy is unsatisfactory. They have moved Tyga’s performance to later in the evening, so that students will be able to eat dinner and leave before he takes the stage, but the problem with his appearance is not that his lyrics will shock and offend some ears. Rather, it is that he expresses themes about women and sexuality in his music that should not be welcome at all on this campus, regardless of whether or not certain offended students are made to listen to him.
As an academic community, Harvard should not be in the business of banishing that which some of the people in its community find offensive, which is largely a matter of perceptions, feelings, and visceral reactions. That which is socially corrupting, degrading to our humanity, and detrimental to our community, is a very different matter. Tyga’s music fits this description in its lyrics and themes, and it is for this reason that the College Events Board should never have invited him in the first place.
James P. McGlone ‘15 is a history concentrator in Kirkland House and the Vice President of the Harvard College Anscombe Society.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
So who and what exactly is a Native American, an American Indian, or an Indigenous person? There may not be very many of us here on campus, but we have brought our cultures to school with us and we consider our tribal affiliations to be the foundations of our identities as Natives at Harvard. In Native Americans at Harvard College, Harvard’s only undergraduate Native students’ organization, we often consider ourselves to be cut from the same cloth. We are familiar with powwows, Indian tacos, and the issues that Indian Country faces every day. We are interested, curious, and connected.
For as much as we have in common though, we’re all very different from one another. Think of the identifier “Latino.” This term allows peoples with many different Latin American heritages to come together and celebrate their similarities, but it cannot account for the individualities of cultures rooted in Peru, Ecuador, Honduras, or any other country. Latino is to Native American as Peruvian is to Jemez Pueblo. All tribal communities are different from one another, and each individual identifies with his or her specific tribe within the Native American aggregate. While the media (in its perpetual search for politically correct language) generally refers to our communities as “Native American Tribes,” we more often refer to our homes and peoples as “Indian nations.” We are all quite different; an Oneida Indian cannot describe the heritage and customs of the Mohegan or Shoshone Tribes and while we identify with one another as Natives, we come from so many different cultures. NAHC constantly celebrates the diversity of its members and the Indian nations that we represent by sharing the customs and norms of our individual communities. Our dances, stories, regalia, and foods are different and the purpose of NAHC is to share and celebrate all of this.
And when a Native person makes it big, we all celebrate because, no matter what tribe, reservation, or state we come from, indigenous pride is strong. When Patricia Michaels, a Native fashion designer from the Taos Pueblo nation was announced as a contestant on the 11th season of Project Runway, Native peoples everywhere smiled and turned on their televisions because our designs, traditional and contemporary, are beautiful. When Nelly Furtado featured Tony and Kevin Duncan, award winning hoop dancers from the Mandan, Hidatsa, Arikara, and San Carlos Apache nations and Violet Duncan, a fancy shawl dancer from the Cree and Taino nations, in her “Big Hoops (Bigger the Better)” music video, we were ecstatic to have the opportunity to share our dances. When news sources began to talk about Shoni and Jude Schimmel, sisters from the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Reservation who propelled Louisville University’s women’s basketball team to the NCAA finals, we all cheered… and when we heard that the championship game would be preceded by a documentary on the girls titled Off the Rez, we cheered even louder, knowing that the Schimmel sisters have become national icons.
And what about John Herrington, the Chickasaw astronaut who was the first Native American to fly into space? Or Denise Juneau, of the Mandan and Hidatsa tribes, the first Native woman elected to a statewide executive office? Or Winona LaDuke, the Anishinaabeg activist and writer who ran for Vice President in 2000 on Ralph Nader’s Green Party ticket? These figures are well known by all American Indian peoples for their leadership and accomplishments.
As Native peoples, we celebrate our differences and our similarities on a daily basis. Each one of us will only ever be experts in our own Tribes’ histories, customs, and cultures, but at the same time, we love being Native Americans.
We want to share our culture with the Harvard Community. Please visit us at our annual powwow this spring for traditional dancing, food, crafting, and an all-around good time. Stop by the Radcliffe Admissions Quad on April 27. We’ll be there all day and we would love for the Harvard community to come celebrate with us.
April A. Sperry ’13, an English concentrator, lives in Winthrop House. She is the Secretary of Native Americans at Harvard College.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Since we are stuck with him for Yardfest, FM has rewritten some of Tyga’s lyrics to make them a little less blatantly sexist and a little more in line with an open dialogue on social issues.
 1. Rack City to STACK City (Thesising)
 BEFORE:
Rack, rack, city bitch, city bitch
Rack, rack, rack city bitch, city bitch, rack
Rack, rack, rack city bitch, city bitch
Mutha on the beat
[Verse 1]
Rack city bitch, rack, rack city bitch
Ten, ten, ten, twenties on ya titties bitc
hHundred deep V.I.P. no guest list
T-Raw you don’t know who you fucking with?
Got my other bitch fucking with my other bitch
Fucking all night nigga we ain’t celibate
Make it sound too dope I ain’t selling it
Bar fresher than a motherfucking peppermint
Gold Letterman last kings killing shi
tYoung money young money yeah we getting rich
I got ya grandma on my dick (ha ha)
Girl you know what it is
 AFTER:
Stack, Stack, city chick, city chick
Stack, Stack, Stack city chick, city chick, Stack
Stack, Stack, Stack city chick, city chick
Readin’ there all week
[Verse 1]
Stack city chick, Stack, Stack city chick
Ten ten ten books for ya thesis chick
Hundred deep pages written, I so quick
Thesis writing’s FTW flippin easy trick
Got another source counterin’ my other source
Workin’ all night man we ain’t quittin’ it
Make it sound so smart I am killin’ it
Haven’t brushed my teeth—I could use a mint
Gold markets and Brit kings, colonists
Ethnographic research funding yeah we feelin’ rich
I got ya Grandma readin’ it (ha ha)
Summa you know what it is
 2. Lap Dance to Feminist (WGS and Feminism)
 BEFORE:
Benzo, Batman, big ho, lap dance
Ass so fat need a lap dance
Ass so fat I need a lap dance
(Repeat)
[Verse 1]
Shit straight killer, Max Payne, Travis Porter, make it rain
Young Money gang, put you on the team
All my bitches fly, put you on a plane
Hundreds in your face, why you broke boy?
Not from Chi city but I make the Illinois
Let your pride gone walk it out
In the bank and I’m only cashing large amounts
One, one, two, two bitch what it do? three, four, drop it to the floor
Five, five, six, six, rub her on the tits
Seven, seven, eight, eight, make that ass shake
 AFTER:
Susan B Anthony, Sheryl Sandberg,
Gender roles need a feminist
Gender roles I need a feminist
(Repeat)
[Verse 1]
Strong female figures, Aphra Behn, Eleanor of Aquitane
Female CEOs, want them on my team
Lady Samurai, their katanas clean
Women in your face, why you hatin’ boy?
WGS classes teach ya that they ain’t a toy
Lose your pride, boy, suck it up
Indira Gandhi rulin’ all of India
One, one, two, two, womyn how it do? three, four, glass ceiling now the floor
Five, five, six, six burn that binder owned by Mitt
Seven, seven, eight, eight future leader of the state.
Sections
 After reading the Princeton mother’s life advice, I too have advice for all the daughters I never had—as well as for the daughters I did have but refuse to acknowledge: find a Harvard husband before you graduate.
 That’s right, I said it. I said it, and then I thought it would be a good idea to write a letter about it. Our clocks are ticking. We have an expiration date, unlike men and canned fruit, which last forever. So freshmen get on it! Once you become an upperclassman it may be too late. Seniors obviously can’t marry anyone younger than they are, so all that leaves for them are other seniors and that one junior who took a year off to study abroad. But that guy is probably already engaged to some girl he met in Italy. She’s Italian, how can we compete with that? We can’t, her clock is Venetian!
 Then once you graduate, it’s over. You’ll have to join a nunnery, and boy, let me tell you, your Women in Business experience is not going to help you there. You will have to make all new business cards. Although, you won’t have to change your wardrobe.
 Men don’t have this problem; once they graduate they have their pick of women. They can be eligible bachelors and then marry younger and less hideous looking women. But depending on where we live, we can’t do this. Until the Supreme Court makes a final decision, marrying younger women is not an option for us.
 My advice is to find a smart husband now. Not just a smart one, but also a rich one. One who doesn’t have a problem supporting the mother-in-law he never had. Maybe he can buy her nice things or take her on a Caribbean cruise. I’m a fan of Bentleys, but I’d settle for a Jag.
 So freshman ladies, put on your highest heels, three shades of blush and your girdle, then skip class and loiter around campus all day looking presentable. Sit in the library, the gym or Annenberg and remember to look the part of a “lady” as you catcall those freshman boys.
Sections
For a pointed response to their dreams of higher education, undergraduates need look no farther than the Office of Career Services homepage. Long before extolling any benefits of a master’s or Ph.D., OCS challenges students with questions like, “Are you aware of the marketability of your degree and the job prospects following completion?” and “Are you considering graduate school as an exciting intellectual and professional challenge or is it a way to delay entering the ‘Real World’ or avoid a job search?” While these questions might seem aggressive, they address two very real concerns held by Harvard students considering advanced degrees: employability and one’s conviction in the enterprise.         
For many students at Harvard, this conviction began with a deep interest in academia. Adam B. Kern ’13, a philosophy concentrator who will attend a two-year graduate program at Oxford next year, originally considered pursuing an advanced degree when first introduced to philosophical texts. “I remember just reading these things,” he said, “and thinking the most wonderful thing I could do with my life would be to write one of these.”
The importance of this confidence is consistent across disciplines, as both students and professors can attest. Associate Professor Ethan C. Garner, whose research intersects cellular imaging and biophysics, noted, “If you’re going to go into research science, you really have to love it. It has to be something you really enjoy, something you thirst after, something you love. It’s not a job—it’s an entire obsession.”
Kern responded similarly, citing his choice to pursue a two-year program rather than a Ph.D. because he was only 80 or 90 percent confident that he wanted to follow a career path in philosophy.
That such a high level of assurance is required might seem extreme, until contextualized within the long, thorny journey of a Ph.D. candidate. Even after obtaining a doctorate, a student faces a series of difficult obstacles: acquiring a postdoctoral position, then finding a tenure-track faculty spot, and finally obtaining tenure itself. “You have to be on your game for really about 15 years continuously,” Kern said, speaking to the system’s arduous and prolonged nature.         
Yet not all view entrance into graduate school as demanding such an extreme level of certainty. Antonia M.R. Peacocke ’12, a former Crimson Arts Chair, was a philosophy concentrator and is currently pursuing a Ph.D. in the subject at UC Berkeley. Peacocke claimed that “trying out” graduate school isn’t as risky as some might think, particularly if students are able to benefit from scholarships. That is not to say that she made the choice on a whim. “Essentially,” she said, “my attitude was that, if I hated it, there were other options for me. I wasn’t locking myself down, but I was very serious about it.” Flexibility and escape routes remain.
Indeed, although Peacocke and other students interviewed for this piece said that the vast majority of their doctoral classmates wanted to enter academia, they also noted that it was not uncommon for these viewpoints to change over time. One of the OCS’s guides to pursuing a Ph.D. references research that shows half of doctoral students never complete their program. Even those who receive degrees can diverge from an academic route.         
For certain advanced degree holders, such as those in the sciences, this process is relatively more streamlined. Careers in biotechnology companies, scientific consulting, and patent law are all examples of alternative professions facilitated by a master’s or doctorate. Christina C. Saak and Leonardo M.R. Ferreira, second-year Molecular and Cellular Biology graduate students, became interested in pursuing a graduate degree while performing laboratory research. Neither has seriously considered paths other than a Ph.D. program.
Saak addressed the range of opportunities available to those who pursue a graduate degree in the sciences saying, “It’s not that the jobs are limited; it’s just that a lot of people have this narrow-minded thinking that once you’re in grad school, you have to be on the faculty track.” She herself remains unsure of whether she will pursue academia.
The ease of changing routes, and the utility of an advanced degree outside of academia, is a common difference cited between the sciences and humanities. Many believe that those engaged in the humanities have no other option than to seek an academic position. Peacocke countered this argument, however, saying, “I don’t think it’s fair to say when you enter a philosophy Ph.D. program you’re narrowing yourself.”
“It requires skills that are required in so many areas, like very clear writing, an ability to express yourself, a talent of keeping judicious when choosing to confront those who are more experienced than you,” she continued. Citing individuals like David Foster Wallace and Terence Malick who temporarily pursued philosophy degrees, Peacocke contended that while her studies may not seem directly suited for other vocations, they offer these kinds of key, implicit advantages.
None of these benefits, however, negates the challenging prospect of uncertain employment, regardless of discipline. A dearth of employment options for those holding Ph.D.s may contribute to a relative lack of interest among many undergraduates in entering into academia. There are certainly more info sesions for consulting firms than for Ph.D. programs in English or History.
Kern links the difficulties inherent in obtaining a Ph.D. and aquiring a job to his belief in the high level of conviction and determination necessary to pursue that path. “Given the state of the job market, and this is what professors have told me, you should only go for a Ph.D. if there’s nothing else you can do that would make you happy. It’s the same advice actors give to aspiring young actors,” he said. While such a comment might sound cynical, it addresses perhaps the central motivating factor for those attending graduate school: a community of like-minded, scholarly individuals that they couldn’t imagine living without.
It is perhaps for this reason that all those interviewed said their families and friends reacted with universal positivity to their choices to attend graduate school. Regardless of employment qualms or arduous 15-year paths, these supporters understood that continued academic work would fulfill these undergrads in a way private sector careers, for example, could not.
Professor Garner responded to this point. “I can’t imagine not being around people where my mind isn’t blown daily,” he said. “Once you start feeling that, it’s so completely addictive.”
Sections
My grandma screens my calls. When I call she lets the phone ring, waits for me to identify myself on the answering machine, then picks up the receiver hastily. I can’t see her, but I imagine her adjusting the phone carefully so as not to offset her gray permed hair, which she bobby-pins every morning. “Am I holding the phone to my ear correctly? Can you hear me?” she asks.
I usually do more of the talking, first telling her about the crisp weather and later bringing up a piece of news she may find interesting, or a new factoid I have overheard. At 93 years old, Bubs, my grandmother, spends her days nibbling at three newspapers and the American Heritage dictionary that sits on the dinner table next to her seat.
I ask Bubs about her weekly trip to the community center in Japantown to play bridge with other seniors. Her partner this week also has two grandsons and two granddaughters. She trails off and a pregnant pause hangs in the airwaves. Bubs freezes up under the pressure of being live on the air, even though it’s just me. We’ve reached an inevitable dead end in the conversation. “Well, you’re busy, go have fun,” she says.
Bubs and I have lived in the 21st century for the same amount of time, but she has no interest in embracing new methods of communication.  Bubs can talk to me on the phone, but a pen and paper are all she really needs to stay in touch.  Bubs is conscientious about corresponding. When I first arrived at school the fall of my freshman year, there already was a letter waiting for me in Harvard Yard Mailbox 2432. She has kept it up ever since, sending along letters once every couple weeks.
Anticipating a letter from Bubs, I go down to the mailroom almost every week, so frequently that I have memorized my lock combination. I pull at the adhesive on the envelope lips and remove her letter, which is written on gray and sturdy paper, slightly longer than eight and a half by eleven and folded into fourths rather than thirds. Her notes have traces of blue carbon from the paper she uses to make literal carbon copies of each letter. While I archive mail only through gmail, Bubs stores away written letters herself in one of her meticulously organized manila folders.
I unravel the page and see Bubs’s handwriting. It is a narrow scrawled cursive, elegant, but not intimidating or formal.  Her exclamation points add particular emphasis, as the dot under the long vertical line is a drawn circle or spiral. Occasionally she writes something in Japanese, even though I do not speak, read or understand it. She sometimes forgets to give a translation and I smile, assuming that it probably says something encouraging.
Many of her letters are almost like a travelogue of what happens at home, broken into section by days of the week about what she did, where mom went, or what she read.  My parents and Bubs are off to Arnie’s for dinner tomorrow night. My brother Cyrus was down in Palo Alto yesterday. King Richard III’s skeleton was found.  Serena Williams has made it quite far in the tournament. And as I fold up the letter to put back in the envelope, I notice a small cut out, a Peanuts comic.
I don’t have perfect pitch, but while I’m reading Bubs’s letters, it’s her voice and her characteristic chuckle and tongue-clicking that I hear, and no one else’s. I see her sitting at her old roll top desk in her room, down the hall from my room at home, using her old stamps and quietly sealing the envelope shut.
I should write back to Bubs more often, but I usually just send an email to my mom which she prints and leaves at Bubs’s spot at the dinner table, next to the dictionary. Bubs earnestly reads every word during her afternoon “tea time” break, as she sits with a mug of hot water and maybe a shortbread cookie. She takes note of things she finds particularly interesting, and in her next letter asks me what I mean by the word “deets.”
I have my own manila folders at school, safely on the bottom shelf by my bed, with all the letters Bubs has sent me. I don’t reread the letters often, but I do stare at the folder from my bed before I go to sleep. I feel comfortable knowing I have saved these letters. I’ll be able to introduce my children and grandchildren to her and also to myself, the college-aged Ezuchan.
Bubs uses pencil to write many things. When she annotates books around the house, or keeps score while playing bridge, she likes the security of knowing it could be erased and corrected. Yet all my letters are written with everyday ballpoint pens, that won’t smear in the way that graphite falls off of paper with time. Bubs’s letters are not muffled by phone static, and do not cease to exist when we hang up. At the bottom of every letter, after I make it through the weekly curated newsreel, the Japanese and questions about classes, she never forgets to write, “Love and BIG HUG, Bubs.”
Sections
After weeks of speculation, the Office of Student Life announced on Tuesday that Henry Louis Gates, Jr. will perform at this year’s Yardfest. The concert, which will take place this Saturday in Tercentenary Theater, will feature two unnamed opening acts in addition to the Alphonse Fletcher University Professor of African and African American Studies.
“We are delighted to announce that Henry Louis Gates will headline Yardfest,” the statement from OSL read. “As a distinguished researcher, generational icon, and overall class act, Gates exemplifies Yardfest’s core values.”
While Yardfest typically attracts big music names that have included Sam Adams and Far East Movement, this year’s festival organizers opted to “mix things up” according to the statement. Though some event organizers expressed their concern over the choice, the professor himself had no doubts of his own.
“Why did they choose me?” Gates told The Crimson, cracking his knuckles. “I don’t know. Maybe because I’m a beast.”
While Gates is a leading scholar in his field, he acknowledged that his music career was somewhat more obscure. Interested in music from an early age, Gates didn’t break into the entertainment scene until last April, when he began street performing in Harvard Square with the breakdancing group W.E.B and The Boys.
“I was their hypeman,” Gates remembered fondly, his eyes beaming. “I was responsible for running around and getting the crowd amped.” He reclined in his chair and spent a moment reminiscing.  “Man, those were the days.”
However, Gates’s time with the group was short-lived; the group kicked Gates out after learning the 61-year old couldn’t remain standing for more than 30 minutes at a time.
“That was kind of a setback,” Gates muttered, his tone hitting a sudden grave note. “Punks.”
Never one to give up, Gates pursued his solo career street performing in front of Au Bon Pain. With a voice best described as a combination of Justin Timberlake’s and Yoko Ono’s, Gates lifted the Cambridge community with his soulful rendition of “My Humps.”
“I was absolutely mesmerized,” remembered Jane R. Baker ’14, founder of the Facebook group “Bring Alphonse Fletcher University Professor of African and African American Studies Henry Louis Gates, Jr. to Yardfest.” Though the group stood at 17 members strong as of press time, Baker insisted she was the biggest fan. “He even signed my copy of Wonders of the African World.”
While Gates admitted that he didn’t know what exactly he would perform at Yardfest, he did have a few ideas. “The usual stuff, plus I might throw in some Cher or Ying Yang Twins. It really depends on what the crowd is asking for.”
Gates is confident in his abilities. “The kids are in for a real treat,” he promised The Crimson. He winked, adding, “Just don’t blame me if we get in a little trouble.”
Sections
Ten people carry 10 identical dossiers into Massachusetts Hall at 10 a.m. on select mornings throughout the academic year. The dossiers vary in size depending on the person under consideration for tenure—some are thick like a phone book, others are thinner. Each of the 10 dossiers opens to a special letter from the chair of the candidate’s department outlining the tenure recommendation. Each contains a full-scale report on the candidate’s academic history: published works, research summaries, peer reviews, course evaluations, a résumé. Each has been read in its entirety before the committee meeting begins.
After a seven- to eight-year track, every tenure case at Harvard ends at an ad hoc committee meeting chaired by the President and Provost of the University. The meeting lasts around three hours. No notes are taken. No votes are taken. In addition to the President and Provost, the dean of the school, the divisional dean, and the Senior Vice Provost on Faculty Diversity and Development sit in ex officio. Five others join them: three area experts from co-divisional departments within the University and two from outside Harvard. Depending on the needs of the committee, Harvard will pay for experts from around the world to fly to Cambridge to participate in person.
“The ad hoc process is greatly shrouded in mystery; remarkably little is written about it,” says current Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Diversity and Development Judith D. Singer. She smirks wryly as she swigs coffee from her mug, as if this is something she’s explained a hundred times before.
“What the ad hoc process does is it takes a recommendation that has come up out of a department, been through a dean, and says, ‘Let’s look at this with a fresh set of eyes. Let’s look at the totality of the evidence and make a dispassionate decision about whether the recommendations that have come up are really in the best interest of the University,’” says Singer.
In addition to the dossiers and area experts, the committee brings in a set of witnesses from the candidate’s department, typically the department chair and the chair of the committee that did the promotion review, among others. As the witnesses arrive at half-hour intervals, they see the membership of the committee for the first time. Until that point, the identities of the panel—except, of course, those who are ex officio—are kept confidential to prevent advance solicitation.
“We hear the testimonies from the witnesses,” says Singer. “We’re really counting on the expertise of the people who are in the field. And it’s not typically a 'yes' or a 'no' or a 'maybe'; it’s what are the strengths, what are the weaknesses, and on balance, where do you make a decision? There’s much more nuance than many people think. I think a lot of people think it is about voting; that it’s very hard and fast. It is more about understanding the contribution of this individual.”
Following testimonies, the ad hoc committee deliberates: Is the candidate’s research up to par? What about the candidate’s teaching? Does the faculty balance necessitate someone of the candidate’s specific field? Is the candidate of the highest caliber to be tenured at Harvard? Can the University do better?
“They do really look at everything,” says English professor Louis Menand, who says he has been a witness on a number of ad hocs. “They really vet people. It’s like a full body search. Everything comes out and everything is discussed. It’s one of the places where there is a real frank discussion about the value of somebody’s work.”
The cases are rarely cut and dry. Negative witnesses are often called in to dissent the promotion. “Even in a canonization there’s a devil’s advocate,” says Singer, “and that’s part of what the ad hoc process is designed to do: to raise all of the questions and say, ‘Are they of sufficient concern to not make a tenure appointment?’”
The ad hoc is the mostly anonymous end to Harvard’s tenure process—when the dozens of classes and published papers boil down to a single decision. Many tenured and tenure-track professors say the process is unfair, that it is too subjective, too anonymous, and too unpredictable. But fairness may be beside the point. Those familiar with the process say Harvard is not interested in promoting good junior faculty, but rather in making sure it has the very best.
Soon after lunch, the President adjourns the ad hoc session, generally without announcing a decision. Sometimes additional evidence needs to be gathered, additional experts need to be called upon. In easy cases, the President will make a decision before her next appointment that day. She alone has final say. Once decided, the dean informs the candidate of the outcome. The candidate, in turn, receives no report or explanation, simply the decision itself: a yes or a no.
A Lifetime Guarantee
Members of Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences, junior and senior, gather once a month for a formal meeting in University Hall. They weigh proposals, hear updates on committees, voice concerns, and at a few meetings throughout the school year, they take time to recognize the newest members of their ranks. It is the only real moment of public recognition in an otherwise private process.
As University President Drew G. Faust calls out their names, the newly senior professors make their way one at a time to the front of the portrait-lined faculty room. Most smile. Some cry. Those who do not already have Harvard degrees are awarded honorary ones, and faculty applaud.
For scholars, History Department chair David R. Armitage says, tenure is the “ultimate prize.”
“If one wishes to keep doing what one loves, that is to analyze ideas, create arguments, to influence people through teaching and through publication,” he says, “the tenure track and tenure itself is a dream job in a way because it gives you the option to do all those things.”
Tenure at Harvard is very difficult to get, particularly promotion from within. From job offer to tenure offer, scholarship and teaching are intensely scrutinized. For young scholars hired into the tenure track and brought up from within, evaluation occurs in Harvard’s classrooms and among its academic circles. Of the 20 or 30 assistant professors who are hired into that track across the University each year, many will not make it through a full seven years to tenure review.
At the same time as junior faculty are moving up within the University, more senior scholars will be recruited from the outside. Though reputations and their own tenure positions have been earned elsewhere, ultimately these “stars from afar,” as Singer calls them, will compete with those closer to home for the same small number of positions.
For those within the tenure track, the official weeding out process begins in the fourth or fifth year, when assistant professors are put up for promotions to the associate professor level. Throughout the process, junior faculty are reviewed and advised to leave if their work is not up to department standards; others quietly get the message that their chances of promotion are slim.
The ranks will grow narrower still in the next two years leading up to tenure review. In total, of those who make it to final tenure review in the seventh year, roughly two thirds will be granted tenure, a figure far greater than at any point in recent history. Of the 43 tenured appointments Harvard made during the 2011-2012 school year, the last for which there is complete data, 73 percent were internal hires.
Whether from within or without, Singer says, tenure should be difficult because the payoff is potentially huge: access to an elite intellectual community and the guarantee, barring academic or legal misconduct, of lifetime employment without fear of being fired.
“It’s basically a decision that universities make—and most universities in the United States do have a tenure system—designed to protect the academic freedom,” Singer says. “We as a university, Harvard, [are] looking to confer tenure on scholars of the first order.”
No single factor is enough to earn tenure at Harvard, those involved in the tenure process say. Prize-winning work may not be enough. Excellent teaching almost certainly is not. The quality and quantity of research is probably most important, they say, but even superstars are sometimes rejected. Past record must demonstrate future promise. If tenure is a financial and intellectual wager by the University, a scholar must prove himself a pretty safe bet.
“To get a job at Harvard University, a tenure job, is to get one of, if not the toughest, most competitive jobs in the Anglo-American world, or in the world full stop. So it should be really, really tough,” says English department chair W. James Simpson.
Even those who argue that the process can be inhumane and, in some cases, even lead to wrong outcomes, tend to agree that the process most often works as it should. Obtaining tenure at Harvard should be difficult; it is a question of whether the process is straightforward, or even works in the best interest of the University.
“I think the expectations are clear, but they aren’t trivial expectations. It is necessary to become a world expert in your field, publish great papers in good journals, develop a healthy funding pipeline, and do responsible service for the College and the University,” says David D. Cox ’00, an assistant professor of molecular and cellular biology and of computer science in his first year of the tenure track. “The part that is challenging is figuring out how one does that, and that is a path each person must find for themselves.”
Old Harvard
If today’s tenure process lacks transparency, for much of Harvard’s history it has been opaque. Before 2003, Harvard did not have a defined tenure track. Assistant professors were hired with no promise of tenure review, much less promotion, and most often did not receive either. In some departments, decades passed between internal promotions.
“The joke among Cambridge realtors was get an adjustable rate mortgage, because you’re not going to be here long enough to actually pay off a 30-year mortgage,” Singer says, laughing. “[The] logic was, get new blood in, get new ideas, and if we see one we want, we’ll pluck that person out.”
That is how it was when Singer arrived in 1984. Most tenured positions were filled by academics who had already made it big elsewhere and could be lured away by Harvard’s reputation. Often those same professors had been denied tenure at Harvard years before, only to be called up one day, without notice, and told that the President had approved their appointment.
At the time, the logic made some sense. According to physics professor Cumrun Vafa, when he arrived at Harvard in 1985 as a Junior Fellow, the standard was that if Harvard made an offer to an outside professor, he came.
“That was the case also for best faculty and best researchers in the world,” Vafa says. “If you had reservations, could it be salary, could it be housing issues, could it be spousal issues in terms of jobs and so on, Harvard would move earth and whatever to get it done, to get you happy.”
By the late-1990s, Singer says the market began to change. Professors who had spent their careers somewhere else, whether it be the University of Chicago or Yale, became harder to convince to leave, and talented young assistants began to take real tenure-track positions at places like Stanford, where they often never left.
“Where that might have worked in the past, what we’re hearing now especially from younger generations of scholars is that they want a community and they want colleagueship, and if they’ve spent time on a tenure track somewhere moving up in the ranks, I think they're going to be a lot tougher to pick off just because Harvard comes knocking,” says Cathy A. Trower, an education researcher at the Graduate School of Education.
Reacting to that shift, former University President Lawrence R. Summers began to lay the groundwork for a tenure track at Harvard in the early 2000s. By the time it was instituted in 2003, Harvard and Yale were the only schools among their institutions without a tenure track.
“From the point of view for the University, it’s a much better system, because we’re now moving from a system where disproportionately the people we were tenuring were from outside, now roughly two thirds of the people we tenure in any given year are our own junior faculty,” Singer says.
By shifting to a tenure track, the University also shifted its expectations. Instead of hiring a lot of junior faculty and tenuring very few, it started hiring fewer, but trying to ensure that junior faculty were of a high enough academic caliber to earn tenure. The move essentially put Harvard back into the marketplace, so that it now competes against peer institutions for the top young talent, instead of waiting to recruit it later.
Since 2003, when the tenure track was put into place, the number of assistant professors across the University has fallen by a third, from 335 in the 2003-2004 school year to 224 this year. In FAS, that number has dropped by roughly half from 121 a decade ago to 66 today.
At the same time, the numbers of associate and tenured professors have climbed to all-time highs as more from within move up the ladder. In 2003-2004 there were 199 associates and 907 tenured professors, compared to 240 and 1084, respectively, today.
But that shift, from tenure offer to tenure track, is not without critics. Senior professors who have been here since before the system was put in place say that the University may have overcorrected when it comes to junior faculty. The promise of internal promotion, they warn, may be hurting Harvard’s commitment to offering tenure to only the very best in a given field. At the very least, internal promotion need not be given priority over external recruits, they say.
“I am not completely sure that we are still going in the direction of maintaining that leading role that we have had,” Vafa says. “Harvard really should have that duty to help its people in any way that they can, but I don’t think that that should be sacrificed in the quality of Harvard.... I think that we can maintain being a nice, gentle environment to help junior people to accomplish their best research without sacrificing the quality of Harvard.”
Simpson, who saw the English department through the transition and praises the tenure track, still says the internal appointments are not enough to maintain Harvard’s academic standing.
“By all means, create a sense of community coherence by encouraging the strong possibility of tenure from within, but an institution like Harvard is always going to need also to appoint laterally,” Simpson says. “It simply won't retain its reputation by appointing from within.”
Publish or Perish
The path toward tenure begins the first day an assistant professor is hired, and usually lasts eight years for those who stick around long enough to complete their appointment. Those on the track form a fairly selective group. Of 624 current ladder appointments in FAS, the University’s flagship faculty, only 144 are tenure-track and just 66 are assistant professors, the lowest rung on the tenure ladder.
Assistants are hired depending on the needs of individual departments. All offers must be approved by the Dean of FAS, and vary depending on the academic marketplace and broader economic factors. In the humanities, most new assistants are hired from Ph.D. programs. In the sciences, most will have had a post-doctoral fellowship in a lab at Harvard or a peer institution.
For the most part, junior faculty will teach courses, go on leave, and publish writing and research just as their senior colleagues would do. According to Singer, the University tries to protect junior faculty from committee work and other University service usually taken up by senior faculty. That way, junior faculty can focus on building their academic reputation, which is the most important factor in promotion.
“I did get tenure, though it was very clear in my seven or eight years up to tenure that one had to publish a great deal, publish it in prominent places, become very prominent in one’s field through publication and other forms of activity as well as through teaching load and other various forms of service. I think that’s a familiar story,” Armitage says. Though he was tenured at Columbia before being recruited by Harvard in 2004, he says the process there is much the same.
According to recently tenured history professor Alison Frank Johnson, in the humanities this means publishing a “big second book.” In the research sciences, it means innovative lab work as well as securing the external funding to make that work possible, Cox says. Though the specifics are very different, for David Rodowick, director of the Carpenter Center and department head of Visual and Environmental Studies, it means evaluating the venue and reception of artistic work.
“It’s difficult to understand that the process of getting tenure at a place like Harvard is not the sort of thing where you check all the boxes,” says Statistics department chair David P. Harrington.
The quality of that research and of a junior faculty member’s teaching is evaluated throughout the process. Senior faculty mentors formally and informally advise junior colleagues on their early courses and help facilitate research and publishing opportunities. In their second and fourth years, junior faculty go through a series of reviews meant to give them a sense of how far they have climbed up the tenure ladder. The former is meant only to be an informal corrective, while the ladder brings the opportunity for promotion to the associate level.
Here, the tenure-track splits. With the advice of the department chair and a letter from the FAS-wide Committee on Appointments and Promotions, some will continue up the ladder and others will begin the job search elsewhere.
Unlike other universities, which grant tenure at the associate level, Harvard is one of two institutions that only confer tenure on full professors. Though it leaves associates vulnerable to being lured away by other institutions, Singer says that by not tenuring at the associate level Harvard is able to maintain otherwise higher tenure standards. However, many senior faculty members find this explanation insufficient and worry that Harvard is losing talented faculty to the lateral recruiting of peer institutions.
“I don’t really see why we make this a rank problem because it is just anomalous,” says Menand.
Associate professors at Harvard are usually put up for final tenure review in the seventh year. For those who have had a child during the process, another year is automatically added, but their work is essentially done by the time review comes around. The same steps that were taken during the fourth year review are taken again.
“It’s like the making of sausages and legislation,” Armitage says, “you don’t want to know any of the details, you just want to know the result one way or the other.”
Still, many involved in that process say that lack of transparency poses problems. It is one thing to say, as the FAS Handbook does, that Harvard will tenure scholars “of the first order of eminence,” but defining what that means is much harder, at least for those going through the process.
Trower, who studies the tenure process at various institutions around the country, says that on a transparency spectrum, Harvard is pretty much at the bottom.
“We certainly see that expectation of young scholars saying, look, ‘I want to work here, I want to succeed here, so tell me what it takes to succeed here, and I’ll do it. But tell me what it is. It shouldn’t be archery in the dark,’” she says. “That doesn't make anyone feel good.”
While Trower and other professors who have gone through Harvard’s tenure track say that the anonymity and confidentiality of the ad hoc process is important to maintain, Harvard could do a better job of laying out expectations for junior faculty.
“If we know what it takes to achieve tenure, and we know what kind of people we’d like to tenure, we ought to be able to tell people what those criteria are, because otherwise how are you making the decision?” Tower asks.
Where Teaching Falls By The Wayside
“They will tell you that teaching ability is important to tenure decisions,” Menand says. “I am skeptical. It is about publication. It has always been about publication.”
Menand keeps his office door open. He has no qualms loudly upbraiding administrative opinion because his job at Harvard has always been secure. He received tenure from the City University of New York in 1988 after being denied a permanent position at Princeton in 1987. “By the time I got tenure, I was kind of like, it is about time,” he says. In 2003, Harvard hired him externally to the post he is in now.
Menand is a staff writer for the New Yorker, was a regular contributor to the New York Review of Books, and the recipient of the 2002 Pulitzer Prize for History. “I was hired because of my writing. The University wanted information about my teaching, which I provided, but I was on their radar because of what I had published,” he says.
Despite the widespread view that teaching ability is entirely ignored by ad hocs, the tenure review process has, in fact, increasingly attempted to recognize teaching over the past several years.
“I would say teaching is taken into account seriously at every tenure review,” says Singer. “What we’re looking for are people who are basically good researchers and good teachers. Is it a 50-50 mix? Is it a two thirds-one third mix? I mean there isn’t some special formula for that, but in general, we find that...undergraduates and our graduate students want to be taught by people who are at the cutting edge of their field and also very, very good teachers.”
In actuality, Menand says, the split is still severely skewed, “It’s true that, at the margins, a person that is an unsuccessful teacher or irresponsible, or a person that is an especially charismatic and successful teacher, that it can make some positive or negative difference in the case, but absent publication, nothing else really matters.” Of course, teaching and research are not mutually exclusive; good research often begets good teaching.
“Tenure decisions in which research plays a large role is one way for the University to ensure that the people who are in the classroom are current and not teaching something that became stale 10 years ago,” says Harrington. Still, by not raising the stakes for teaching performance, the temptation to scrimp on classroom work is almost irresistible.
There were occasions when professors would make their grad students write syllabi for their courses or turn out translations for no pay, recalls Selena, a former Harvard College Fellow in the Humanities, who left Harvard for a tenure track position at Wesleyan. Selena was granted anonymity by The Crimson because she did not want her identity to reveal the name of her former department, and thus damage the reputation of her former colleagues. “There’s no accountability in the process,” she says.
One major limit when it comes to including teaching performance among ad hoc considerations is the feasibility of teaching evaluation. A tenure dossier is well equipped to render opinions on research ability. Book reviews, citations, and the amount of work generated by one’s ideas yield a great deal of reliable evidence. What’s lacking, however, is a reasonably objective yardstick for testing performance as a teacher.
An annual course evaluation guide published by the Committee on Undergraduate Education—known as the CUE or “Q” guide—provides some measurement of teaching ability. Johnson considers the CUE Guide to be the “only systematic way of evaluating teaching at Harvard,” though, she says, “it is a terrible way of evaluating somebody’s teaching.” Although some students take the evaluations seriously and write helpful comments, Johnson says such instances are few and far between.
Ideally, research and teaching go hand-in-hand—the great professor contributes to the scope of knowledge while at the same time dispensing it. But without a means to measure—and reward— teaching, students are often left with senior professors who conduct their classes with unconcealed distaste, rehashing old overheads compiled a generation ago, stifling the bothersome questions at office hours, and begrudging every minute stolen from the lab. There are, of course, the occasional geniuses whose level of research covers all defects and makes them essential hires even if their lectures are grunted and monotone. But geniuses are rare even among Harvard’s professoriat. The lay-professors ought to be skilled at teaching and research, but the Harvard’s current tenuring process hardly allows it. “I’m told often that teaching really matters but I don’t see a lot of evidence that being an exceptional teacher will result in a real reward here,” says Cox.
“My sense as an untenured person was that if you’re a great teacher but your research isn't up to snuff, it’s not going to help you,” says Selena. She explains that the predominant attitude among junior faculty is not to take teaching too seriously as something to help them get tenure. It’s an attitude that discourages naturally good teachers from putting in the time in the classroom.
“Being a faculty member here is like having three full time jobs on top of each other,” Cox says. “There are only so many hours in the day.  An hour spent on teaching is an hour not spent in the lab doing research or an hour not spent writing a grant proposal.”
Rodowick, the VES department head, has noticed the opposite. He says the introduction of a tenure track system has actually helped to redress the understatement of teaching. “In the absence of a ladder rank system, you put younger faculty in a situation of insecurity in which they will be very risk averse, or they are too careful about their teaching and don’t want to leave their comfort zone and don’t want to be innovative,” he says.
Though the tenure track might offer the freedom for junior faculty to innovate in the classroom, there’s little evidence that it actually pays-off in the ad hoc. Associate English Professor Matthew Kaiser is arguably among the most innovative instructors at Harvard. In Fall 2011, his course “Literature and Sexuality” had the fourth highest enrollment, right behind Ec 10, CS50, and LS1a. The course was an elective and neither a prerequisite nor an officially listed Gen Ed. But students flocked to the course because of its lewd subject matter and Kaiser’s nonpareil teaching marks in the CUE guide. Yet last year, Kaiser was denied tenure. One can only assume the ad hoc found his level of research inadequate.
A Superflux of Core Non-Ladder
Harvard has attempted to rectify its teaching problem over the past decade by increasing the number of core non-ladder faculty in its ranks. These are the senior lecturers, preceptors, and professors of the practice whose primary role at the University is to contribute to its teaching mission. They are neither tenured, nor tenure track. According to the 2010-11 Harvard University Fact Book, core non-ladder make up over one-third of FAS—a number that has been steadily increasing.
The core non-ladder includes many of the more prolific instructors among undergraduates: David J. Malan ’99 whose computer science course CS50 has seen enrollment triple since he took over in 2007; Robert A. Lue who helped found and still teaches LS1a; Michael I. Parzen who teaches the current most-enrolled  course Stat 104; Timothy P. McCarthy ’93 whose name is eponymous with the History and Literature department and Carr Center for Human Rights Policy; Jeffrey A. Miron who leads the second largest course in the Economics department.
In an email, Miron explained the purpose of non-ladder faculty at the University: “Non-ladder faculty often bring exceptional teaching talents to the University, and their budgetary costs are typically below those of ladder faculty in the same fields.”
Though the rise in the number of core non-ladder over the past few years can be attributed largely to the University’s attempt to enhance its teaching reputation, it is well-known that non-ladder also offer a pragmatic solution to dealing with the limited resources of the University in the economic downturn. Even the senior-most non-ladder faculty members are paid substantially less than tenured professors. They are cheaper, expendable, and, of course, fireable.
“On the one hand,” says Selena, “I totally understand that there are very practical, financial reasons, but on the other hand, I wonder to what extent it actually serves Harvard to have this mass of laborers who make barely any money, basically, because a lecturer at Harvard makes, what, 45,000 bucks or something like that, maybe even less.”
That being said, non-ladder faculty members are sometimes very well-respected among the tenure and tenure-track cohort. Harrington refers to Parzen’s job as “a relatively prestigious and highly sought after teaching-oriented position in the department.”
The best are rehired indefinitely. With many of the lesser known non-ladders, however, the issue of job permanency strikes deep. Most come in on a rotating basis of fewer than five years. “When you talk to non-ladder faculty, many of them say they would really like some kind of position that was more secure, more longer term,” says Singer. Like Selena, when many non-ladder faculty members leave Harvard they go to liberal arts colleges where the tenure track is less research-arduous and more considerate of teaching ability.
“There’s this sense that the curriculum is always off balance,” says Rodowick, noting that VES is largely composed of non-ladder faculty. “You don’t know who is teaching from year to year. You don’t know who is advising students. You don’t know who is around long enough to develop a relationship with a student or advise a thesis.”
Where teaching benefits from tenure is in the fact that professors are better able to maintain academic relationships with their students. While big name lecturers certainly pay their dues to pedagogy, the rest—so long as their position at Harvard is transient—are a makeshift solution to a tenure system in which teaching is not the first priority.
An Imperfect Process
When a beloved junior faculty member is denied tenure, we often lunge for the throat: How can the administration “fire” such a good teacher? It’s easy to accuse the tenure process of failing because, indeed, it is far from perfect. Harvard loses good professors all the time.
“There have been decisions I disagreed with,” Menand explains in a follow-up email, “but not that I could not understand the reasons for—including my own case at Princeton. There are almost always reasons not to tenure someone. It is supposed to be a steep hill to climb.”
Given such limits and what some characterize as Harvard’s proclivity to lag in modernization, Harvard’s ad hoc process remains among the most thorough and fair tenure systems in higher education.
“[The ad hoc process] is a massive investment of intellectual capital in the future of the junior faculty. I take great reassurance in the care and massive amounts of great work that goes into putting together the materials and putting the committees together,” says Armitage.
There are certainly ways to tighten the process, to give greater weight and measure to teaching, for instance, but as it is in all other industries, investing in human capital is a volatile operation. A brilliant young scholar might turn slothful and negligent once given tenure. He might become what Larry Summers once called “an extinct volcano.” A junior faculty member might be denied tenure only to be recruited back a few years later—Theda R. Skocpol, professor of sociology, “is probably the most famous example of that,” says Singer.
For the last five minutes of the interview, Singer perfunctorily glances at her watch. She wants to make her point, so she gestures to three ream-sized file-folders piled on her desk nearby.
“See those dossiers sitting on the corner of my desk? The green one and the others...we do our homework and read all of them. And then come in and have a meeting.”
One of the dossiers behind her is for an ad hoc meeting scheduled for that afternoon.
“But no decision is foolproof,” she says, her voice compelling. “We acknowledge that.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction and clarification:
CORRECTION: April 12, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that assistant professor David D. Cox ’00 is a member of the Biology Department. In fact, Cox is an assistant professor of computer science and of molecular and cellular biology.
CLARIFICATION: April 12, 2013
An earlier version of this article stated that the fall 2011 offering of “Literature and Sexuality” was not a Gen Ed. To clarify, while the course was not officially listed as a Gen Ed, it did count for Gen Ed credit.
Sections
Munch, The Anscombe Society, and Hyperion Shakespeare Company host...
“To Tap or Not To Tap: That Is The Question” 
Produced by Anonymous Submissive Male 
Directed by Anonymous Dominant Female
Music directed by Anonymous Virgin
Free Belts! (Chastity, Leather)
Show Starts at 8 p.m. on the Loeb Mainstage, Party to follow
Ezra 9:8: “God gives light to our eyes and a little relief in our bondage”
The Chess Club, Black Men’s Forum, and the Hasty Pudding Club host...
“Black and White”
A Knight to Remember
11 p.m. by the chess players outside Au Bon Pain
Get stoned at... 
“Rocks, Eh?”
hosted by The Geological Society and The Canadian Club
Yep, We Exist
4 p.m. Montreal Time, Lowell Rock Climbing Wall
Must be 18+ to drink. 
The Delphic & Dorm Crew host...
“Get Down And Dirty”
(‘Cause We’ll Clean It Up) 
The messes will be hot. 
 Only freshman girls.
$12.25/hr
Sections
I. THE DECISION
It seemed obvious to Jacob that he would graduate Harvard as a member of the football team.
When Harvard recruited Jacob, a student at the College who has been granted anonymity by The Crimson because he did not want to draw negative attention to himself, he was confident in his choice to play football for Harvard. The highly-prized recruit had turned down multiple scholarship offers at Big East schools before choosing Harvard over other Ivy League programs. Local papers reported the news; a blogger from a rival college lamented that Jacob chose head coach Tim Murphy’s program over theirs.
But the summer before his freshman year, Jacob started to have second thoughts about his football career.
“My love for [football] kind of diminished after high school,” Jacob said. “I wasn’t really sure if I wanted to spend so much time with something I didn’t want to do with the passion that I used to.”
Jacob arrived in Cambridge for summer training camp weeks before freshman move-in day. After a week, he had made up his mind. He informed Murphy that he did not wish to play.
Murphy’s reaction surprised Jacob.
“I spoke to the head coach, and he took it very hard,” Jacob said. “[He] actually tried to tell me that I wouldn’t be able to attend school because my admission was contingent upon playing, which I knew wasn’t true.”
Murphy remembers the exchange differently.
“I questioned whether [Harvard] was the right place for him,” Murphy said. “We emphasize very early and very often, not only with the student-athletes but also with the parents, that you don’t have to play. It’s your prerogative. But we also emphasize, very vigorously, that your commitment to play football at Harvard is something that neither one of us should take lightly.”
II. THE ADMISSION
Jacob returned home after walking off the team and planned to enroll in a community college for the first semester. He said that he was not sure whether he would be able to attend Harvard until his mother contacted the admissions office in an attempt to refund his deposit.
“I was in the state of mind that I wouldn’t be able to attend Harvard because of [quitting the team],” Jacob said. “I was actually in the process of signing up for community college classes just for a semester, and then transferring, when my admissions officer called and explained to me the situation. [He] told me that what I had been told was completely erroneous and that I could actually attend, that I got in off of merit.”
Ivy League recruiting policies require that admitted student-athletes must meet certain academic standards determined by the Academic Index, a conference-wide performance measurement that incorporates GPA and standardized test scores. According to Dean of Undergraduate Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons, athletic ability is just one factor that his department considers when admitting student-athletes.
“I would start with what we call the broken leg test—a term we’ve used in Harvard admissions for many decades,” Fitzsimmons said. “Say a student who happens to be an athlete or a dancer breaks his or her leg in five places and can never participate. Is this still a good admission? Will the person be able to take the energy, the drive, the commitment that went into becoming a great dancer or great athlete...and turn it into something positive?”
While potential Harvard student athletes are evaluated holistically in the admissions process, an athletic commitment nevertheless carries a special weight. It provides a means through which a student-athlete may reserve a spot on a coveted team and, by extension, a spot in a coveted school. In his interview, Murphy emphasized the moral implications of a student-athlete’s agreement to play for Harvard.
“If you do have kids who show up and decide not to play at all, you’re taking away someone else’s spot who would have, forgive the expression, given their right arm to play at Harvard,” Murphy said.
Frank, a student at the College who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because of the sensitive nature of his decision, was recruited for football but walked off the team during his freshman spring. In an email interview, he acknowledged the complexity of his decision.
“Not only was I abandoning the team, but I essentially ‘used’ the recruiting process to get accepted, and then quit,” Frank wrote. “I understand why people have a problem with that—it’s unfair to the hundreds of kids who don’t get accepted, including other football recruits who wouldn’t have quit.”
Because Ivy League schools do not offer athletic scholarships, leaving a team may come at a smaller cost to a potential athlete at Harvard than at another Division I school, where a former athlete can lose his or her scholarship and the financial support it provides. Yet Jacob’s case was an unusual one, according to Murphy.
“We’ve been really fortunate that in the 20 years we’ve been here, we’ve only had two kids in 20 years basically show up and say ‘I’m not going to play’ without ever putting a pad on,” Murphy said. “In that situation, to be perfectly honest, I’m not only not happy about it, but I tell them, ‘Listen, when you make a commitment in life—you look someone the eye and you shake their hand—and then you don’t honor that, that is very unethical, it shows a lack of integrity.’”
Jacob considers his decision unfortunate, but justified.
“My intentions were never bad in any way,” Jacob said. “I wasn’t using it or anything. It was just a genuine change of heart and change of mind that led to me not wanting to play.”
III. THE MOTIVATION
Reasons for leaving a team are often more nuanced than they are clear-cut, with various push and pull factors separating athletes from the sports they love. Not every split is motivated by changes of heart; injuries and academic pressures play large roles in the decision. Joey G. Wall ’14 decided to leave lightweight crew after walking onto the team freshman year and experiencing multiple injuries.
“The reason I stayed after my freshman year is because I thought I had potential in the sport,” Wall said. “I felt the sky was the limit my freshman year, and my sophomore year I felt like I hit a glass ceiling.”
Spencer L. de Mars ’13 applied to Harvard without being recruited for basketball but learned senior spring of high school that he would have a chance to play for the team. After playing for Harvard for a year, de Mars stopped to pursue other opportunities on campus.
“Playing a varsity sport was not the best fit for my goals and how I wanted to spend my time at Harvard,” de Mars said. De Mars said that at Harvard, a stat that features over 400 extracurricular clubs and activities, there are many other opportunities for students to enjoy if they decide not to pursue a collegiate athletic career.
“At Harvard, the opportunity cost of your time is a lot higher because there is so much else going on at the school,” de Mars said. “Because athletes are talented in other areas, that means that there are a lot of other things you could be doing with your time.”
Wall noted that the emphasis here is on the student aspect of student-athlete. For a lot of his peers on the team, balancing academics and athletics had become difficult.
“I think the first things for walk-offs are academics and balancing your time,” Wall said. “Crew is something that you have to schedule your life around. You can definitely do it if you set your mind to it...but it takes a discipline to do. You need to be really purposeful with how you spend your hours.”
IV. THE DROP
Not all walk-offs are recruited athletes. Scott J. Yim ’13 walked onto the men’s volleyball team midway through his freshman year after playing on the club team. Yim played for teams that competed at the junior Olympic level during high school and after a rash of injuries depleted Harvard’s varsity team, he was brought up from the club team.
“I thought it was a really neat opportunity,” Yim said. “I could have played Division III somewhere else but the academics weren’t what I wanted. I met with my coach and went to a few practices and realized I could keep up with the [varsity] team.”
After growing close to his teammates, Yim said that quitting the team sophomore year was not easy for him. A biomedical engineering concentrator, Yim was torn between a series of extracurricular opportunities and felt like he was sacrificing physical and mental health to stay on the team.
“I really wanted to maximize my time at Harvard,” Yim said. “I began to feel that with only 24 hours in a day there were so many other things I wanted to do. I wasn’t spending enough time with friends or sleeping enough and I was getting sick during season. Fighting that is difficult when you aren’t 100 percent and my mental health and physical health [suffered].”
Yim’s experience is far from unique. According to coach Linda Muri, lightweight crew can take up to 80 walk-ons in a given year. It is one of two sports (along with its female counterpart) to offer freshmen-only teams. Although Muri said that almost all the team’s recruits stay for the team, she said that a 75 percent attrition rate for the walk-ons is normal.
“I don’t see it as a horrible drop-off,” Muri said. “I think that is understandable.” For many freshmen who have never rowed before, the experience can be foreign and demanding. “It takes a bit to go out and try something you have never done before and learn how to do it and compete against guys who have achieved [in the sport] nationally and internationally. Coming out for the team alone says a lot about the character of the team.”
For Eamon C. O’Brien ’16, academics and the time commitment were key factors in causing him to drop the sport. Although he said that rowing has a lot of prestige—calling it the “quintessential Harvard extracurricular”—ultimately he did not have the 20 hours a week to give to rowing that the sport demanded.
“Practice would be maybe 90 minutes to two hours but we would be doing two hours of stuff outside of practice,” O’Brien said, adding that having friends quit the team provided a ripple effect across the freshmen group. “It got down to the recruits and a couple guys who were really dedicated to it. A friend of mine dropped with another guy and they started a domino effect. After them, everyone started dropping.”
V. THE SACRIFICE
Unlike Jacob, Frank entered Harvard without doubts. But his love for football collided with the demands of college sports. Frank struggled through a freshman football experience and described himself as “unhappy.”
“I had to make a choice—either continue and have my grades and happiness drop, or stop playing the sport I love,” he said.
Frank turned to Harvard’s Bureau of Study Counsel for advice before informing the football staff of his decision. He now watches from the sidelines with a new perspective and appreciation for the demands on student-athletes. While other students see only the results, Frank said the experience is more about the process, the sacrifices that people can’t see once the whistle blows.
“I think some people view their position as glamorous, but they spend countless hours training for their sport, and then countless hours studying even though they are dead tired,” Frank said. “That’s the hardest part about being an athlete here. It’s not the 5 a.m. wake up. It’s the exhaustion that comes with it afterwards.”
For some student athletes, that exhaustion becomes unendurable, and a decision that had once seemed unimaginable, to leave a sport that may have brought them to Harvard in the first place, becomes inevitable.
Sections
Last week, I sat outside the Café Gato Rojo smoking a hand-rolled cigarette and mulling over some poststructuralist text for a seminar I’m taking. I wore yellow pants and a flannel shirt, my face accented with thick-rimmed glasses. I was staring out aimlessly at the Yard, hunched over on the steps.
“Hipster Jose!” my friend Rebecca shouted when I self- effacingly described the scene to her. I swallowed the cursory “I’m-not-a-hipster-I-just-like-these-yellow-pants-and-Foucault” anxiety, and we settled on turning Hipster Jose into an alter ego. He is a twentysomething queer latino, he is well educated, he likes whiskey, and he lives young and wild and free. (Rebecca is a small white girl from Kansas, but sometimes she quotes Wiz Khalifa.)
“I’m sure I’ll see him around soon,” Rebecca said.
I thought about a scene in the first episode of “Girls,” when, in a fit of earnestness, Shoshana tells her bohemian cousin Jessa, “Oh my god, you’re so hip I could puke.” She means it as a compliment, but I receive it with an inkling of suspicion. Jessa is very hip—a little too hip. While a useful foil for the other characters, the too-trendy Jessa seems like a lie.
But here I am uncomfortably checking a few too many boxes in the pseudo-intellectual checklist and finding myself becoming something of a trope. It may be that descending into a world of typecasts can happen without much effort in college, one of the dangers of living with 6,500 other 18-22 year olds.
I get the sense, though, that this red brick hegemony is something more widespread that extends beyond Harvard. Meaningless as the archetypes of youth are, they reveal an impulse to categorize ourselves and to categorize others. In the midst of our approving nods (“that’s brilliant”) and our deep existential equivocations (“it’s, like, whatever”), we unthinkingly carve out niches for ourselves to avoid disappearing into the scenery, regardless of where we are. Staking claim to our own pose, we Instagram our lives to show everyone that we’re individuals.
At the heart of all these tropes is a deep anxiety about our own authenticity and the need to claim our own identities before someone else does. Lena Dunham’s character in “Girls,” Hannah, hits the nail right on the head when she flippantly outlines her day to her parents: “I have work, then a dinner thing, and then I am busy trying to become who I am.”
Today, we tend to think of this as a new problem of the millennial generation living in a state of drift. The thinking goes that a new drawn-out adolescence and a run of historical bad luck has stunted our generation and is turning us all into eccentric neurotics. Overeducated and underemployed in a bad economy, we’re told, college grads today are finding new ways to express themselves. This has various incarnations: the hipster intellectual, the affectless hacker, the fed-up activist, the tuned-out club kids, et cetera, et cetera.
The melodramatic anxieties of twentysomethings are, however, nothing new. Two decades ago, the zeitgeisty Generation X film Reality Bites—starring Winona Rider and Ethan Hawke—touched on similar themes. Rider’s character, Lelaina, looks at her automaton employer one day and, in a line suffused with 1990s camp, declares: “He’s so cheesy, I can’t watch him without crackers.” In a later scene, Hawke’s character, Troy, melodramatically references Shakespeare when he muses, “You have reached the winter of our discontent.”
“Millennial drift” might be true, but it is not unique: Our nervous quest for authenticity precedes us. It’s captured in the film adaptation of Truman Capote’s “Breakfast at Tiffany’s, when Paul Varjak confronts Holly Golightly: “You call yourself a free spirit, a ‘wild thing,’ and you’re terrified somebody’s gonna stick you in a cage.”
The big reveal at the end of Varjak’s speech is key: “Well baby, you’re already in that cage,” he says. “You built it yourself.”
Even a film released over 50 years ago is saturated with the same anxieties about authenticity, identity, and meaning that our generation lives out today. In the movie, they’re both good-looking and it’s all very meaningful and easy to parse.
In the practice of our daily lives, the markers of freedom and youth are harder to identify, and don’t lead to a neat and romantic denouement. The fear that we’ve trapped ourselves into a web of performances and a burden of cultural meanings is all-encompassing, but there’s no clear narrative.
There’s some truth to Hipster Jose, but there’s a lot of reduction too. The way I see it, today’s specter of hipsterdom is really just a red herring for other anxieties about the end of youth and beginning of adulthood. It’s the same story, maybe just told in a new, mass-cultural way.
At Harvard we say that we’re stifled by our workload and by the crushing pressure of our own ambitions. But that’s not quite it. We’re all anxious; none of us know why. We’re at that age.
Jose A. DelReal ’13 is a Social Studies concentrator in Lowell House. He refuses to move to Brooklyn after graduation.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In an effort to make student life more accessible to students with families, Harvard Kennedy School students are working together with the Kennedy School Student Government to introduce family-friendly social programming.
“If our parties are running from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m., then it’s not super ideal for those with two-year-olds,” said Maggie M. Williams, KSSG vice president of student activities.
Six weeks ago, KSSG approved a sub-committee of the Student Activities Committee named HKS Families. Richard J. Witt—the only parent on the KSSG and a member of the sub-committee—said the new body will help ensure that improvements to student life made this year will be permanent.
Amendments to the KSSG bylaws necessitated the allocation of funds for family-involved socials, and the creation of the subcommittee helps fulfill that requirement.
While on average students enter the Master in Public Policy program at age 26, Williams said that students in the Mid-Career Masters in Public Administration program tend to be older. With no available childcare, these students can feel excluded from the social atmosphere created by their younger classmates, Williams said.
Earlier this year, Witt and a group of students with families organized an alternative to the HKS-wide Harvard-Yale Tailgate, offering a screening of the game in the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum.
“Whether you have kids or not, [having kids around] just lightens the mood of an event,” Witt said.
Williams is organizing a Facebook page that will offer prospective students advice on places to live and how to find schools for their children.
Alvin H. Warren, a Kennedy School mid-career student who serves on the Families Committee, said he believes the family initiatives will improve student recruitment.
“This will enhance the Kennedy School’s ability to attract and support established leaders with families,” said Warren, who is a father of three,
—Staff writer Steven R. Watros can be reached at watros@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @SteveWatros.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
An internal investigation by Harvard Medical School into scientific misconduct by one of its former stem cell researchers used information from the researcher’s colleagues and computer hard drive searches to confirm a breach of academic integrity, according to the investigation’s official report.
Released to The Boston Globe through a Freedom of Information Act request, the report outlines the process by which Shane R. Mayack, formerly a post-doctoral fellow in the lab of professor Amy J. Wagers, misrepresented results in two papers that she co-authored while working for the lab.
According to The Boston Globe, Mayack’s fellow researcher became suspicious in spring 2010 after he tried and failed to replicate Mayack’s experimental techniques. He realized that an image from a paper she authored in 2008, although rotated, appeared similar to an image published in 2006 by a different author, prompting the investigation.
Both the 2008 paper—published in the journal Blood—and another published in Nature in 2010 were retracted by her fellow co-authors. Mayack did not sign either retraction, maintaining in both cases that the results were valid.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Research Integrity publicly released a report on the investigation last August. Mayack was sanctioned for falsely representing results in both her 2008 and 2010 papers, according to the Federal Register. She agreed to a settlement at that time but refused to confirm or deny the allegations.
Downloaded copies of two images from the 2006 paper were found on Mayack’s hard drive during the Medical School investigation, according to The Boston Globe. Mayack admitted that the images were identical, the report states, but she attributed the mislabeling to her poor filing.
“We are fully committed to upholding the highest standards of ethics and to rigorously maintaining the integrity of our research,” Medical School Spokesperson Katie DuBoff wrote in an email. “Any concerns brought to our attention are thoroughly reviewed in accordance with institutional policies and applicable regulations.”
Mayack studied young mice and compounds in their blood that she claimed could be used to rejuvenate blood stem cells in older mice. Her results had promising implications for slowing the aging process. The findings seem to be corroborated by further research despite the retractions, according to The Boston Globe.
—Staff writer Ryan M. Rossner can be reached at rrossner@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Alyza J. Sebenius can be reached at asebenius@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @asebenius.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
New York City Council Member Brad Lander and Somerville Mayor Joseph A. Curtatone discussed the role citizens can play in crafting a local budget in a talk about urban democracy and civic engagement at the Harvard Kennedy School on Wednesday.
“Recently, there’s been a rebirth of urban democracy. You see this in community policy, school involvement, etc,” said Kennedy School professor Archon Fung, who introduced the panel. “The deepest, most notable form of participatory democracy in the urban setting, however, is participatory budgeting.”
The process of citizens drafting their own communities’ budgets, known as participatory budgeting, has been adopted in locales around the world.
Lander—whose New York district engages in participatory budgeting—said he believes that participatory budgeting encourages community involvement at the grassroots level.
“Budgets strip away the rhetoric, people are paying attention and they know its their money at some level so the opportunity to engage a deep level of participation is very high,” said Lander.
The city of Somerville, where Curtatone serves as mayor, also engages citizens in the budget process. Curtatone said he believes that budgeting encourages a sense of shared public responsibility in decision making.
Duval B. Guimaraes, a second year Kennedy School student, suggested that the school consider establishing its own participatory budgeting process.
“We do have a student government budget, but it’s a good idea to consider having a participatory budget per school,” he said. “It’s always good to check throughout the process whether it’s a good idea to spend so much money on one thing rather than something with a much bigger impact on students.”
Both Curtatone and Lander said it was important not only to involve citizens in the budget conversation, but also to respond to public opinion about the municipality’s decisions.
Somerville does this in part by conducting a happiness survey, according to Curtatone.
“We have a very satisfied and happy constituency,” said Curatone. “But understanding what you can do with that information and how you can get more people to engage is most important. We’re tapping into subconscious preferences to make real world changes.”
Lander said many cities—not just Somerville—are introducing new ways to fold citizens into discussions about their representatives’ actions.
“There is much going on in terms of using data to think about cities,” said Lander. “But the idea that citizen engagement and data involvement should go equally together seems obvious, and it’s great to see that happening more often in places like New York City and Somerville.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University President Drew G. Faust acknowledged in an interview Tuesday that administrators do not yet have a complete picture of the sequence of events surrounding secret searches of resident deans’ email accounts, but said she hopes a forthcoming review by esteemed Boston attorney Michael B. Keating will clarify lingering uncertainty.
“It should have been evaluated more carefully,” Faust said. “I think that Michael Keating is going to help straighten out some of the facts surrounding what were the searches, who knew what, and we’ll have a better answer for some of those questions.”
Faust first announced Keating’s investigation at a April 2 faculty meeting where administrators admitted to inaccuracies in their original account of events put forth in a March 11 statement. She said on Tuesday that the original statement contained errors because administrators were under “a lot pressure” to respond quickly to a March 9 Boston Globe story first reporting the searches.
Keating’s review, she said, is intended to “make sure that all the facts that we now understand to be the facts about the searches are indeed accurate and complete, because you’ve obviously seen that we’ve found the record-keeping spotty.”
In their March 11 statement, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith and Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds said that the email searches only queried subject lines and were limited to resident deans’ administrative accounts. At the faculty meeting, they said that neither claim was true. And on Monday, four other College administrators told The Crimson that the administration’s updated account of events contained even more inaccuracies and mischaracterizations. Faust said she was unaware of those additional accusations when she spoke with The Crimson Tuesday, and FAS spokesperson Jeff Neal has declined to comment on the matter.
Amid the opposing narratives, Keating will attempt to set the record straight. Following his review, Keating will report to a newly created subcommittee of the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body.
Four Corporation members will comprise the special subcommittee: Faust, intellectual property attorney William F. Lee ’72, trial lawyer Theodore V. Wells, Jr., and Tufts University President Emeritus Lawrence S. Bacow. Lee, a former visiting lecturer at the Law School, will serve as the subcommittee’s chair.
In an emailed statement Wednesday, Keating wrote that he met with Faust on Tuesday and was “impressed by the seriousness with which Harvard is approaching the issue.”
Even though Keating will report to that subcommittee, Faust said he adds an external perspective and “doesn’t take our procedures for granted.”
“He understands that universities are special places,” Faust said. “They’re not law firms, or corporations, or governments. And he has just a sterling record as a person of integrity and accomplishment in the legal world here in Boston. So we thought he would give us a judicious and fresh view.”
Renée M. Landers, a former president of the Harvard Board of Overseers and the Boston Bar Association, said it is “very typical in these kind of situations to bring in someone who is outside the organization to bring some credibility to the investigation.”
How exactly Keating’s review will be conducted is unclear. Faust told faculty at the April 2 faculty meeting that Keating would “verify” the information presented that day, but she said Tuesday that the details and timeline have yet to be worked out.
Keating, the leading trial lawyer at Boston-based Foley Hoag, brings almost 50 years of legal experience to the case. He served as president of the Boston Bar Association from 2001-2002 and has been appointed twice as Special Counsel to the Commission on Judicial Conduct of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court.
Margaret H. Marshall, former Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court Chief Justice and former Harvard University General Counsel, said Keating is one of the most highly regarded lawyers in the Massachusetts legal community. Harvard, she added, picked the right man for the job, no matter what that job is.
“Anybody who selects him to advise them on any complex matter is in wise and excellent hands,” Marshall said. “He is a wonderful lawyer, a man of extraordinary integrity and judgment.”
A 1962 graduate of Williams College, Keating served on the institution’s board of trustees from 1996-2011. He earned a degree from Harvard Law School in 1965, and has also been an adjunct professor at Northeastern University School of Law since 1995 and a visiting lecturer at Harvard Business School.
Marshall and other Boston lawyers who know Keating and are familiar with the searches at Harvard said that his knowledge of the law, coupled with his understanding of academic institutions, make him uniquely suited for the job.
“I think that the service as trustee of any of these institutions gives one a very clearly perspective on matters that are concerning to students, for faculty, and for the alumni of the University,” Marshall said.
—Staff writer Nicholas P. Fandos can be reached at nicholasfandos@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @npfandos.
—Staff writer Samuel Y. Weinstock can be reached at syweinstock@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @syweinstock.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 11, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Lawrence S. Bacow is the president of Tufts University. In fact, he is president emeritus at Tufts.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
San Jose State University will offer more courses that integrate Harvard’s virtual learning platform edX into their lesson plans, as well as work with other California universities to replicate this initiative at schools across the state, SJSU and edX announced Wednesday.
In these blended courses, also known as flipped classrooms, students watch video sequences and complete online exercises at home. Class-time is then used to review the difficult concepts, ask the professor questions, and test understanding of the material through quizzes and practice problems.
This past fall, SJSU Lecturer Khosrow Ghadiri supplemented his introductory circuit course, EE98: “Introduction to Circuits Analysis,” with material from the edx class MITx 6.002: “Circuits and Electronics.” When he did so, the pass rate for his class grew to 91 percent, a massive increase over the 59 percent of people who passed the class when it was taught in the traditional lecture format.
“We believe we have provided a new set of tools for a professor. The textbook was invented 500 years ago, the chalkboard in the 1800s. What tools have we given since then?” said edX President Anant Agarwal during a press conference Wednesday.
California State University Chancellor Timothy P. White pointed out during the press conference that blended learning might be a potential solution to funding shortages facing public universities.
An enormous number of people that seek admission to public universities each year, White said, “but we cannot meet student demand.”
Additionally, SJSU announced that it will establish a Center for Excellence in Adaptive and Blended Learning, where faculty from other universities will be trained on how to use blended classrooms.
“I believe the future of public universities rests in our willingness to collaborate and innovate,” said SJSU President Mohammad H. Qayoumi.
So far 11 of California State University System’s 23 campuses have expressed interest in offering MITx 6.002 in their classrooms in the model of SJSU’s pilot program.
In the fall, SJSU plans to pilot a course that incorporate material from four other edX classes, including offerings from HarvardX. Their decision to do so will expand the blended classroom into disciplines including the humanities and social sciences.
Ghadiri, who will offer the blended course on circuits again next semester, said that the collaboration between edX and SJSU has served as an asset in his classroom.
“The faculty should not be scared that they will lose their jobs, and students should not be scared that they are in the cold by themselves looking at some videos,” Ghadiri said. “This blended model of learning will be the future of academia.”
—Staff writer Amna H. Hashmi can be reached at amnahashmi@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @amna_hashmi.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In an era of massive consolidation in the healthcare industry, two major teaching hospitals, including Harvard-affiliated Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, and several large physicians organizations expressed interest in merging, according to a memo obtained by The Boston Globe last week.
This alliance would create the third largest health care system in Eastern Massachusetts, rivaling Partners HealthCare System Inc. and Steward Health Care System.
The new merger would include Boston’s Beth Israel and Burlington’s Lahey Health coupled with the Newton-based Atrius Health, the largest physician organization in Massachusetts, and five smaller groups.
Howard R. Grant, the president and chief executive officer of Lahey, said in a statement to his staff, obtained by the Gloucester Times, that the merger has a “50-50” chance of success.
There has been a general trend toward consolidation in the Boston area healthcare system, beginning with the creation of the two conglomerates, Partners HealthCare System and Steward Health Care System.
The Partners HealthCare System, which runs Harvard-affiliated Massachusetts General and Brigham and Women’s Hospitals among others, is already under an antitrust investigation for controlling an unfair share of the highest caliber healthcare market.
Beth Israel Deaconess’s chief executive officer Kevin Tabb argued that hospitals need to team up with primary care providers in order to stay competitive and improve the quality of care.
“One of our objectives for the future is to expand and strengthen our network of partnerships and relationships,” he wrote in the memo obtained by the Globe. “It is part of our strategic imperative to rethink how we deliver care to patients in light of the rapid and fundamental change in health care.”
Already, five organizations in eastern Massachusetts, including Beth Israel and Atrius Health, care for 75 percent of Medicare beneficiaries, according to a report in the New England Journal of Medicine.
Though these conglomerates were created to reduce expenses, costs have gradually increased since they were formed, according to the report.
Beth Israel Deaconess and Lahey are considered expensive hospitals and further consolidation in the industry could give further monopoly power to the current players.
Others argue that an alliance between these hospitals and doctors groups could help increase quality, as there will be an increased network of expertise.
None of the parties involved in the potential merger have responded publicly to the leaked information.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The three Republicans vying for Massachusetts’ open Senate seat debated gun control regulations at the WBZ-TV studios in Allston Wednesday night, hours after news outlets reported a bipartisan Senate compromise on the issue.
State Representative Daniel B. Winslow and former U.S. Navy SEAL Gabriel E. Gomez, said they would support the compromise—which proposes the extension of background checks to firearms purchased at gun shows. But former U.S. Attorney Michael J. Sullivan, who served as the director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, struggled to make the same commitment, even when pressed by his fellow Republicans.
“The issue is whether or not [the compromise] really solves the problem [which is] keeping guns out of the hands of criminals and...the adjudicated mentally ill,” Sullivan said. “And it doesn’t.”
When Winslow interjected to ask if Sullivan would clarify his vote—yes or no—Sullivan countered with a question, prompting a parlay of hypothetical questions between the two men until Winslow demanded a direct answer for the sixth time.
“You’re in the United States Senate: how would you vote on the compromise?” he asked.
Sullivan did not change his tack.
“It doesn’t address the problem,” Sullivan said. “I’m not going to do something just because it feels good.”
The debate covered a number of other issues, including President Barack Obama’s budget proposal—which all three candidates said they oppose—as well as entitlement reform and immigration.
Gomez and Sullivan tussled briefly on the issue of a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, a policy that Gomez has supported in varying forms and one against which Sullivan has cautioned.
Still, the exchange over gun control was the story of the night. Gomez, who has campaigned on his status as a political newcomer, told the media afterward that the gun regulation discussion was especially revealing.
“I think what you saw today was one person who has never been in politics... and two other people who have been in politics since the 1990’s, bickering back and forth and giving a very clear example of what is going on down in D.C.,” he said. “I was psyched to be out here. It shows exactly...why I stand out among the other two.”
“They proved my point today,” he added. “I couldn’t be happier.”
Winslow appeared just as confident.
“I’ve been to a lot of debates,” he told reporters. “I’ve never seen somebody duck a question the way Mike Sullivan did today.”
Sullivan remained consistent in his post-debate media session. Asked about his vote on the gun law, his first words aptly summarized his position.
“I don’t know,” he said.
—Staff writer Matthew Q. Clarida can be reached at clarida@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @MattClarida.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Upperclassmen and freshmen alike were drawn to the African and African American Studies Advising Fortnight event “Savoring Success” on Wednesday evening, which used alumni stories to inform potential concentrators about career opportunities open to undergraduates who study in the department.
Naseemah Y. Mohamed ’12, a joint social studies and AAAS concentrator, was one of four alumni featured in a video describing the range of careers that AAAS concentrators pursue. Mohamed described studying AAAS as “the highlight of my Harvard experience.”
One of the biggest advantages of the concentration, she said, was the opportunity to write a “social engagement” thesis, which requires seniors to complete on-the-ground research on social projects.
Mohamed said her thesis on Zimbabwe’s educational system may have helped her win a Rhodes Scholarship, with which she will study comparative and international education policy at Oxford this coming fall.
“I think doing the ‘social engagement’ thesis set me apart from other candidates,” she said.
Some alumni speakers also presented in person about the advantages their degrees have provided.
Enoch O. Woodhouse ’07, who worked in finance and now works on education reform with Michelle Rhee, former chancellor of Washington, D.C. public schools, said the AAAS department provides “absolutely unrivaled” attention from professors who are “celebrities in their fields.”
The concentration designed the event to give students “tangible examples” of the opportunities available to AAAS concentrators, according to AAAS Director of Undergraduate Studies Tommie Shelby. He said it also addressed potential concentrators’ concerns that an AAAS degree might prevent them from finding a job after graduating.
Students said that message hit home.
“The value of the experience is different from the typical Harvard experience,” said Sarah F. Cole ’16 of what she learned about the department.
Alumni also stressed the uniqueness and intimacy of the program. According to former concentrator David A. Wallach ’07, who is now a recording artist, the AAAS concentration is the “least pretentious and the coolest” at Harvard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 12, 2013, at 12:46 a.m.
A single suite in Adams House represents one eighth of this year's Phi Beta Kappa “Junior 24.”
Roommates Diana Li ’14, Caitlin M. Ballotta ’14, and Emma Lucken ’14 all had dinner together after they found that they were among the 24 members of the Class of 2014 who were inducted into the Harvard chapter of PBK, the nation’s oldest honor society. The chapter announced the selections Thursday afternoon.
“The Junior 24 are among a highly select group of students recognized for extraordinary academic achievement,” wrote Jeffrey M. Berg, an assistant director at Harvard’s Postgraduate and National Fellowships Office, in an email announcing  the selection on behalf of the chapter on Thursday. Students who were selected for the honor were privately notified of their election on Wednesday.
“It’s a great honor and I am very humbled to be joining this organization,” said Roland Yang ’14, a government concentrator who was elected to PBK.
The “Junior 24,” the first members of the current junior class to be elected to the prestigious academic society, are selected based on a number of factors, including GPA, breadth and difficulty of coursework, and two letters of recommendation.
Neurobiology concentrator Justin Mathew ’14 was studying for a math exam in Widener Library when he received the unexpected but welcome email notifying him of his induction.
“I took a couple of minutes to pause,” said Mathew. “I am excited to be part of this group, but I recognize PBK merely reflects the cumulative years of support from teachers, mentors, and friends. There are many people who I know would have deserved this award at least as much as I do, if not more.”
Li, a social studies concentrator, defined her academic career at Harvard as “really challenging, but also really exciting,” and said that she discovered issues that she cares deeply about throughout her time at the College.
“I did not come here knowing what I would want to work on, but...I [then] discovered I have a passion for prisoners’ rights,” said Li, who is writing her senior thesis on prisoner integration.
Naomi R. Genuth ’14 saw the notifying email as she was walking out of class. The subject line of the email was truncated to “Phi Beta Kappa” by her phone.
“I was nervous, and then I saw [the word] congratulations”, said Genuth, who is studying molecular and cellular biology.
“It’s amazing to be one of 24 students selected. It really just blew me away,” Genuth said, crediting  the receipt of her award to a strong work ethic and a passion for her studies.
“I think the people who get this [award] are really academically motivated in the sense that we’re all taking classes that we love and that we’re willing to put effort into,” said Genuth. “It’s a pleasant form of recognition for the hard work that we’ve put in, and I think this award will motivate us to continue to put hard work into our courses and enjoy the amazing academic experience we’re getting at Harvard.”
 
A complete list of the members of the 2014 “Junior 24” is below.
Caitlin M. Ballotta ’14, an English concentrator in Adams House
Amy Z. Chen ’14, a physics concentrator in Adams House
William M. Clerx ’14, a molecular and cellular biology concentrator in Cabot House
Rainer A. Crosett ’14, a philosophy concentrator in Pforzheimer House
Irving F. Dai ’14, a mathematics concentrator in Currier House
Lauren M. DiNicola ’14, a psychology concentrator in Lowell House
Daniel J. Frim ’14, a folklore and mythology concentrator in Adams House
Naomi R. Genuth ’14, a molecular and cellular biology concentrator in Eliot House
John W. Heilbron ’14, a social studies concentrator in Kirkland House
Kaiyang Huang ’14, a social studies concentrator in Eliot House
Lutai Ju ’14, a mathematics concentrator in Adams House
Christopher R. Kilgore ’14, an applied mathematics concentrator in Kirkland House
Andrew S. Lea ’14, a history and science concentrator in Lowell House
Diana Li ’14, a social studies concentrator in Adams House
Devi K. Lockwood ’14, a folklore and mythology concentrator in Dudley House
Jenny Lu ’14, a chemical and physical biology concentrator in Mather House
Emma Lucken ’14, an environmental science and public policy concentrator in Adams House
Yueran Ma ’14, an applied mathematics concentrator in Adams House
Justin Mathew ’14, a neurobiology concentrator in Adams House
Younghoon Moon ’14, a social studies concentrator in Eliot House
Daniel H. Ranard ’14, a physics concentrator in Kirkland House
William L. Whitham ’14, a social studies concentrator in Dudley House
Jennifer S. Wu ’14, an economics concentrator in Leverett House
Roland Yang ’14, a government concentrator in Kirkland House
—Staff writer Antonio Coppola can be reached acoppola@college.harvard.edu. Follow him @AntonioCoppolaC.
—Staff writer Melody Y. Guan can be reached at yguan@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @MelodyGuan.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 12, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the name of the history and science concentration.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a game on Sunday that totaled 39 runs, the Harvard baseball team was hard pressed to find offense at Northeastern’s Friedman Diamond on Wednesday night.
In the first round of the Beanpot, the Crimson (6-22, 3-5 Ivy) fell, 10-2, to the Huskies. Northeastern (20-13, 7-8 CAA)led from start to finish and scored nine of its ten runs in two big innings.
Harvard will take on Boston College in the tournament’s third-place game on April 29 at Fenway Park.
“They were hitting the ball, they were scoring runs, and they were a good team,” freshman catcher DJ Link said. “Their lineup was doing a good job putting the ball in play, and they were making things happen. In baseball, you put the ball in play, good things happen, and that’s what they were doing off us.”
The Huskies got the scoring started in the home half of the opening frame, pushing two runs across the plate before the Crimson could record an out. A two-out single brought home the third and final run of the inning to give Northeastern an early lead.
After a scoreless second, Harvard notched a run in the top of the third to cut the deficit to two. Link singled and was brought all the way home after the Huskies pitcher made an errant throw on a sacrifice bunt from junior outfielder Jeff Hajdin.
But the Crimson stranded Hajdin on third, as the next three hitters were unable to drive the junior home. Harvard left 11 men on base during the game.
“The bats weren’t really there today,” Link said. “Our two pitchers didn’t throw bad games; we just didn’t swing it and didn’t support them too well with the bats.”
Riding the momentum picked up by preventing additional damage in the third, Northeastern put the game firmly out of reach in the bottom half of the inning with a six-run rally.
Huskies junior Sean Lyons provided the first blow with an RBI triple to left field, and he scored two batters later on a wild pitch.
Freshman pitcher Shaun Rubin would replace senior starter Jordan Haviland, and he appeared to end the Northeastern threat by striking out infielder Will Dougherty with two outs. But the ball bounced away from Link, and a run crossed the plate as Dougherty reached first.
The next two batters took advantage of the mistake, and a bunt single followed by a two-RBI double down the line from junior Brad Burcroff pushed the score to 9-1.
The Huskies would push across their final run of the day in the bottom of the fifth, after an error in the Harvard infield allowed a run to score with one out.
Haviland struggled on the day, giving up six earned runs to take the loss.
Rubin was the only other player to take the mound for the Crimson, and he held Northeastern to one earned run while striking out seven batters in 5.1 innings, the longest outing of his career.
“I struggled a little bit early on, but as the game went on I was able to settle down,” Rubin said. “In the last couple innings I threw the ball pretty well.”
One bright spot for Harvard came in the top of the eighth, when sophomore outfielder Brandon Kregel stepped to the plate and smacked a line drive over the left field fence, past the Crimson bullpen for his second hit of the day. The solo shot was Kregel’s second on the year, a team best.
After an explosion of early offense, with a total of ten runs scored in the first three innings, both teams combined for only two tallies in the remaining six innings.
Harvard had trouble figuring out the Huskies pitching throughout the game. Northeastern starter James Mulry went seven innings, allowed one run (zero earned), and struck out eight.
But some Crimson batters were still able to post solid days at the plate. Link, the reigning Ivy League Freshman of the Week, continued his hot hitting by going 2-for-3 while scoring a run.
“It was definitely a great honor,” Link said. “I wasn’t really thinking about it as I was playing. If you have a good weekend it’s definitely nice to get rewarded for what you’re doing, but basically I don’t get too high or too low. I’m not going to let it affect the way I play.”
In addition to Kregel, freshman third baseman Mitch Klug and junior shortstop Carlton Bailey each notched two hits. But those performances would not be enough to pull Harvard back into the game.
“We struggled a bit out of the gates, and we got down early,” Rubin said. “In games prior to this we were able to come back from big deficits, but today we just couldn’t pull it off.”
 —Staff writer David Steinbach can be reached at dsteinbach@college.harvard.edu. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s lacrosse team was unable to overcome an early deficit en route to a dropped contest to Holy Cross (6-8, 2-2 Patriot League) on Wednesday night at Holy Cross Field, 17-12. The loss was the fourth straight for the Crimson (2-8, 1-3 Ivy).
Midfielder Laura Ryan led the offensive effort for the Crusaders with a game-high five goals on seven shots. The sophomore also doled out an assist on Holy Cross’ final goal of the game, and proved aggressive on the draw, winning five controls. Ryan was closely trailed by teammate Taylor Zebrowski, a senior attack whose four goals and three assists gave her a game-high seven points.
It was Ryan who opened the game with a successful free position shot in the first 45 seconds of the half. She and four other teammates would go on to score seven more unanswered goals, two during man-advantage situations, to bring the Crusaders to an early advantage, 8-0, with half the frame remaining. Holy Cross would retain their lead for the entire contest, with its size never shrinking to fewer than two goals.
“I think that’s a function of draw controls,” Crimson coach Lisa Miller said. “They won the early draw controls and got the ball down the field. They went to the cage really hard and we needed to step in front of them to push them out but we kept coming in from the side. We struggled to make a stop.”
Captain Micaela Cyr finally led Harvard onto the scoreboard on a free position attempt with 12:51 left in the first.
“I thought the kids fought back and managed to go on a run of their own again,” Miller said. “Again, it was draw controls. We shoot the ball pretty well so I’m pretty comfortable if we come up with a draw control and we’re on attack.”
Midfielders Catherine Brown, Nina Kucharczyk and Chelsey Newman, along with freshman attack Alexis Nicolia each found the back of the net to continue Harvard’s 5-0 spree, which ran to the half. The Crimson headed to the break down by just three.
The Crusaders received their sole yellow card of the contest three minutes into the second half. After a successful clear attempt by the Harvard squad, Holy Cross sophomore defenseman Sophia Agostinelli drew a major foul and put her team into its sole man-down situation of the game.
The Crimson capitalized on a depleted Crusader defense unit as Kucharczyk converted a free position attempt for her second goal of the contest to bring her team within two, 8-6. The senior scored a career-high four goals, leading all Harvard scorers.
“[Kucharczyk] is a fantastic athlete,” Miller said. “She can turn the corner and accelerate. She’s shooting the ball a little bit better this year. I think she’s been pretty steady and pretty consistent all year. She’s probably the best athlete on the team so it’s good to see her starting to gain confidence.”
The momentum stopped there, however, as Holy Cross completed a four-goal run over the next seven minutes. The two teams would trade points for the rest of the game, with the Crusaders’ lead hovering around five goals.
Holy Cross was aided by plenty of man-up situations through the second half of the closing stanza. Harvard drew eight yellow cards through the game, six of which came during the final 14 minutes of the game, and held an overall advantage in fouls, 24-20. Crimson players were, however, crafty on free position attempts, connecting with the back of the net on four of five tries. The Crusaders drew just one yellow card through all 60 minutes of play.
Holding an edge in shots, 32-27, and draw controls, 18-13, the Crimson attack and midfield units were able to penetrate the offensive zone, but unable to effectively evade Holy Cross goaltender Sarah Weber. Weber made seven saves as she spent the whole game in front of the net.
The loss comes in the middle of a six-game road effort for the Harvard team.
“I think ultimately it comes down to the draw controls,” Miller said. “We need to stay on attack as much as possible. We need to keep the ball on attack and get ground balls.”
—Staff writer Cordelia Mendez can be reached at cordeliamendez@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @CrimsonCordelia. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Things are firing up as the 2013 men’s lacrosse season comes to a close, and a spot in the Ivy League Championship is on the line. Harvard has three more games, all against league competitors, including Penn on Saturday at 1 p.m.
The Quakers (6-3, 2-2 Ivy) currently sit tied for third place in the Ancient Eight and 14th in the nation, recently moving up two spots in the rankings
The Crimson (5-6, 1-2) is tied for fifth in the conference but is not ranked nationally. Harvard is considered the underdog in Saturday’s matchup against its more highly-regarded opponent.
“It’s a big Ivy League game,” Harvard coach Chris Wojcik ’96 said. “All the Ivy League games are big, but this one especially because we’re in the same position in the league; we both have two losses.”
At stake for both teams is the Ivy League playoffs, for which only the top four teams in the standings qualify in the two-round series. The games will take place in the first week of May.
“This would be a big gain in terms of helping us qualify,” Wojcik added.
Both teams have not won this title for over 20 years.
As important as this game is for the Crimson, the signs are pointing to a Penn victory.
In the last three springs, the Quakers have defeated Harvard by a small margin, despite losing in the 2009 season, 11-4.
Penn has qualified for the NCAA tournament three times in the last decade, including the 2011 season. Harvard has only stepped into the tournament once in this millennium.
“I think, across the board, they bring a lot to the table,” captain Jason Gonos said. “I think they’re going to challenge us all over the field.”
Another indicator that the Quakers are favored to win in Saturday’s match is the results that have come from common competitors in this season. Penn’s performances in these games has been markedly more successful than those of the Crimson.
Penn opened its season with a statement, beating No. 7 Duke, 14-9, while weeks later in the season, the Crimson lost to the Blue Devils in a close game. The same pattern showed itself against Brown, which sits tied at fifth with Harvard in the Ivy League.
“[The Quakers] have proven that they can beat some of the best teams in the country,” Gonos said.
Penn won two other games against ranked teams, No. 18 Lehigh and No. 10 Princeton, whom Harvard will face next week.
The Crimson knows that this Ivy League game will be a challenge.
“They have athletic players in the midfield, smart players in the attack, and a solid goalie and solid face-offs,” Gonos said. “I think across the board, they bring a lot to the table, I think they’re going to challenge us all over the field.”
“They have a very salient fundamental defensive system,” Wojcik added. “We will have to really play strong offense to generate high quality shots against their defense.”
Despite the chances of a win for the Quakers, the home team is prepared for what they will bring to Cambridge on Saturday.
“We have a solid defensive foundation, and our goalies have been playing well all season,” Wojcik said. “We really have seen progress in our overall faceoffs. We really have seen a marked improvement offensively, especially in the last three weeks. We have been playing better and better in the last few weeks, and we’re looking to continue that.”
Harvard ended its three-game losing streak with a major win against Quinnipiac on Tuesday. The Crimson lost two very close games to teams in the top 10 in the nation in the past few weeks.
“Going into this game on Saturday, we’re just feeling good and, we know that we have the confidence that we know we can pull out the win,” Gonos said. “As long as we finish out a game, we know that we can really beat any team in the country.”
“We have been improving in every area of the field,” Wojcik said. “What we have been building off of with our performance and the quality of lacrosse has shown itself in how we have been playing in the past three games.”
The evidence shows that Harvard will have to fight hard for a victory against Penn. Important in the transition from the locker room to the field will be the right mentality.
“I think they main thing for us is just to focus on what we do, and play Harvard lacrosse,” Gonos said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Crimson will take to the baseball diamond against the school’s biggest rival on four different occasions this weekend with second place in the Ivy League’s Red Rolfe division on the line.
Harvard hosts the Bulldogs at O'Donnell field with the traditional back-to-back double headers that mark the start of division play.
More than just bragging rights will be at stake, as the Crimson (6-22, 3-5 Ivy) and Yale (6-19, 3-5) are both one game behind division-leader Dartmouth, which sits at 4-4 in the conference.
The Ivy League is split into two divisions, and only the winners of the divisions move on to play in the Ivy League Championship. This weekend marks the first games of division play for Harvard and Yale, and whichever team comes out on top will have the best shot at challenging Dartmouth for the division lead and a shot at postseason play.
“These four games against Yale are huge,” freshman catcher DJ Link said. “We’re in a good spot right now; we control our own destiny. If we can take this series, we’re in a good position.”
In its last three matchups against teams in the Ancient Eight, Harvard has split its double headers. The Crimson has won the second game of all three series, against Penn, Cornell, and Princeton.
Yale’s three Ivy victories have also come in the second game of double headers. Just like the Crimson, the Bulldogs have notched wins over Penn, Cornell, and Princeton.  Both Harvard and Yale dropped their two games against Columbia earlier in the season.
The Rolfe division is the weaker of the two Ivy divisions this season­—leader Dartmouth would be in last place in the Lou Gehrig divison. Columbia leads the Ivy League with a 6-2 mark and every team in the Gehrig division has at least five wins.
“We put ourselves in a good position by winning a few games in the Ivy League early on,” Link said. “We’re able to go into conference and division play with a few wins.”
Link, sophomore outfielder Brandon Kregel, and junior utility man Carlton Bailey have been the strongest parts of the Crimson lineup this season. Kregel, who has a .301 batting average on the season, leads the team in hits, RBI, and runs scored. Link and Bailey each have 27 hits on the year, tied for second on the team.
Yale’s offense, meanwhile, has been carried by junior first baseman Jacob Hunter and sophomore outfielder Eric Hsieh.  Hsieh has 23 hits and a .299 batting average on the year while Hunter has posted a .310 average with 26 base hits.
Each of the past two years, the teams have split the annual four-game series evenly.
This year, Harvard enters the weekend fresh off of a loss to Northeastern in the first round of the Beanpot tournament. Harvard will not play in the consolation round until April 29, so the team will need to shift its focus away from the annual Boston competition.
“We just have to come out with a lot of intensity,” freshman pitcher Shaun Rubin said. “We have to put this game behind us and focus on going back to Ivy League play.”
Yale also enters the weekend after suffering a midweek loss to a non-conference opponent. The Bulldogs lost 3-2 to Farfield on Wednesday.
Yale’s top performers from the mound so far this season have been junior starting pitcher Rob Cerfelio and freshman relief pitcher Chis Moates. Cerfelio is 1-3 on the year, but has posted a 2.45 ERA through 33 innings of work. Moates has a 2.67 ERA through 25 innings of work in his nine appearances.
Harvard’s top hurlers so far this season have been junior Sam Dodge and freshman Sean Poppen, both of whom are starters. Dodge has 24 strikeouts in 31 innings of work this year, while Poppen is 1-1 in five starts on the year and a 4.40 ERA.
With the race for first in the Rolfe division wide open, both teams recognize the chance this weekend’s games represent.
“I think we’re in a good spot and are going to come to play these next three weekends,” Link said. “It starts with Yale; we have to worry about that first game, first pitch, and prepare these next two days for that.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When the Harvard softball team takes the field against Yale in its annual divisional matchup this weekend, the team will find itself in a drastically different situation than it was in last year.
The Crimson (12-17, 4-4 Ivy) will host Yale (8-22, 3-5) in two doubleheaders to kick off divisional play that will round out the rest of the Ivy League season.
Before the rivalry matchup last year, the Crimson were 7-1 in Ivy League play, while the Bulldogs were 1-7. If the outcome of last year’s contest wasn’t clear from the start, Harvard’s momentum alone must have been apparent.
The Crimson swept the Bulldogs through all four games and outscored them, 49-6, with Harvard going on to win the Ivy League crown and Yale finishing dead last.
This year’s contest looks like it will be closer, with the Bulldogs only one game behind the Crimson in the Ivy League standings. Yale has several new faces, including first-year head coach Jen Goodwin.
“We’re excited for the matchup,” Harvard coach Jenny Allard said. “I think Yale will definitely be better than last year. They’ve got a few new players and a new coach, and they’re battling harder. Their sweep of Cornell was impressive. On the other hand, I think we’re playing really confidently, we’re pitching the ball harder, our defense is solid, and we’re getting some timely hits.”
The four games will be followed by consecutive double-doubleheaders against Brown and Dartmouth in the coming weeks that will shape the outcome of the Ivy race.
The Crimson is currently tied with the Big Green atop the North Division standings.
“They’re really important games,” freshman pitcher Morgan Groom said. “We really need to come out strong, pitching strong, batting strong, because we want to get a leg up for the rest of the Ivy League games. These last few weeks are going to decide a lot of the season for us.”
Harvard will have to deal with a Bulldog offense that is coming off of some key wins, including a two-game sweep of Cornell. Harvard split games with the Big Red last weekend.
Yale sophomore Sarah Oronato is having a very impressive second season, with 10 home runs and a .440 batting average on the season. The catcher had a 20-game hit streak snapped earlier this week against Wagner, the fourth-longest in Ivy history.
Allard thinks the Crimson is up to the task of minimizing the damage Oronato can cause.
“I think we’re doing a good job of just challenging opponents,” Allard said. “I think nothing is going to be different. We know that, if a player is playing hot, we’re not going to put them in a position to hurt us. We’ll respect how Sarah’s swinging her bat, but we’re still going to be aggressive.”
Oronato highlights an offense that has otherwise been struggling to produce throughout the season. Yale has been outhit 202-293; the disparity in runs is even higher, at 99-186.
The Crimson offense, on the other hand, has outhit their opponents 215-190 and has been getting help from all over the bench. The team has a .279 batting average, and six players have crossed home plate 10 or more times on the year.
Junior Kasey Lange, who leads the team with eight home runs and 26 RBI, has helmed the batting lineup with a .433 batting average, tied for best on the team. Sophomores Emily Gusse and Katherine Lantz have helped bolster the offense, combining for 31 RBI off of 23 hits.
The veteran offense will be looking to take advantage of a Bulldog pitching rotation that has recorded a 4.67 ERA on the season, split between four different pitchers. Junior Chelsey Dunham has the most playing time with 14 starts and has given up 108 hits and a whopping eight home runs on the season.
The mismatch on offense is good news for a young Harvard pitching squad that is still figuring out how to work best together. The trio of sophomore Gabrielle Ruiz and freshmen Groom and Jamie Halula have a collective 3.71 ERA and have traded off starting and relieving throughout the season.Groom has the most innings pitched with 81.2 and Halula has the second-most with 67.1.
The weekend games will be a statement for the race for the Ivy League title as Harvard moves into the last few weeks of competition.
“It’s critical to continue to play well going into the final stretch to put ourselves in the position to play for a championship,” Allard said. “Consistency is something we haven’t focused on enough, so we’re looking to put more effort into being more consistent in certain aspects of our game.”
—Staff writer Alex L. Saich can be reached at asaich@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter at @Sensaichonal.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It's not your home. It's not your work. It's the "Third Space."
On Friday, in the basement of Cabot House, a new art space will open. Third Space, the brainchlid of co-founders Sarah A. Moon '15 and Sammy G. Young '15, started out as a simple plan to get a pottery studio in the faraway Quad. But the space opening up tomorrow will be far more than just a pottery studio.
"We're really hoping to have a collaborative environment," Young said. "We're hoping that the people who are more experienced will be able to assist and help out those who might be new."
Moon and Young have been working toward the opening of Third Space for most of the school year. Cabot House Master Rakesh Khurana, with help from Cabot tutors, has been instrumental in getting the project off the ground.
"We saw there was a need for a space on campus for students who aren't very comfortable with art where they will feel welcome and be able to try out new kinds of art," Young said. "That's where a lot of the motivation came from and that's what we hope to do with the space."
Indeed, as support has swelled from interested students, ideas have been pouring forth as to what to do with the space. (One proposal involved a loom!) The problem has not been finding uses for the space, but rather having to turn down a number of creative proposals due to space constraints.
"We've narrowed it down to painting, drawing, jewelry, sewing, and finally some pottery and sculpture," Young said. "But we're also always looking for other fun things to have there."
The space is having its grand opening on Friday a 4 p.m. Word on the street is that attendees may be able to make their own paintbrushes and then use them to paint. What more could you want?
