News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
The federal government has fined Harvard Medical School $24,036 for multiple animal welfare violations, including numerous infractions that resulted in four primate deaths in fewer than two years. The fines were announced on Dec. 18 by officials from the Department of Agriculture.
 
As stated in a citation released by the United States Department of Agriculture, between February 2011 and July 2012, Harvard researchers—mostly those at the New England Primate Research Center in Southborough—violated 11 regulations of the Animal Welfare Act.
 
On two separate occasions, primates had to be euthanized due to dehydration. Another died after it became entangled in its cage, while other animals were subject to inappropriate care from under-qualified staff, according to the citation.
 
Despite these violations, a statement put out by Harvard Medical School said that the school has again been granted full accreditation from the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care, an organization that assesses animal care standards.
 
The statement also called the USDA review and associated fine “appropriate.”
 
“The leadership of the School cares deeply about upholding exemplary standards of care and attributes these outcomes [of the AAALAC and USDA reviews] to the excellent work of those members of our community who took aggressive action to institute rigorous quality improvements that benefit animal safety and welfare,” the statement reads. 
  
The NEPRC first came under fire for animal welfare violations in 2010. Since then, the center has made leadership changes and announced in April that it will close in 2015. According to a statement released by Harvard officials in April, the planned closure of the Southborough lab is not a result of animal welfare violations but rather is needed because of financial constraints. 
According to the Globe article, the center could have faced a larger financial burden if the USDA had decided to impose the highest possible fine, $10,000 per infraction. Such a scenario would have resulted in a total fine of $110,000.
 
“For an institution that receives $185 million annually in taxpayer funds alone, half of which is spent on animal experiments, a $24,000 fine for years of abusing and neglecting monkeys won’t motivate Harvard to do better by animals,” wrote Justin Goodman, a spokesman for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), in an email to the Boston Globe.
 
Still, the USDA rarely financially penalizes academic institutions, according to the Globe article. Although labs are often cited by the USDA for animal welfare violations, only eight such research facilities have been fined in the last two years.
—Staff writer Steven R. Watros can be reached at steven.watros@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @SteveWatros.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
The elixir of youth may no longer be a myth! In a recent study conducted by the Harvard Medical School and the University of Wales, researchers discovered a compound that reversed aging in mice. Hopefully the success will extend to more than just rodents when the compound is tested on humans next year. In light of this breakthrough, we've come up with a few things we'd like to see Harvard researchers put their brains to to make our lives a bit easier.An Elixir for FocusingWouldn’t it be amazing if your desires to compulsively check Facebook every 5 minutes, watch another episode of Portlandia on Netflix, or stalk your best friend’s Instagram down to his or her very first picture all disappeared when you have a 10-page paper haunting you? Those late nights of desperation, sadness, and inordinate amounts of caffeine would be history.Teleportation DeviceWe’ve all had those mornings where every extra minute of sleep makes a difference, so wouldn’t it be great if you could wake up at 9:05 and still make it to your 9 AM on Harvard time by teleporting from your bed to class? It would also be really nice to teleport from your desk at Lamont to outside the library, thus bypassing the dreaded bag check.Photographic MemoryYou’re trying your best to stay awake, but you keep falling asleep and rereading the same line of your reading for section tomorrow. How convenient would it be if you could train your brain to have photographic memory, so you can go to bed without actually doing your reading but still make insightful contributions during your section that’ll impress your TF?
Sections
 
If you're a big Clover fan, then you have something to look forward to when you get back to campus! The local favorite is currently renovating, and they’re completely changing up their set-up. The renovations will include more seating space, a re-designed kitchen, a new order-taking area and a new condiment station. Get excited! If you're around Cambridge before term begins, you'll be able to enjoy the new re-design even earlier as they re-open on January 2nd.
Maybe they’ll give the space a garden theme? Make it more colorful? Decorate the walls with tealeaves? We’ll just have to wait and see!
