News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Shovels in hand, University President Drew G. Faust, Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino, and Allston community members gathered Friday to ceremonially break ground on the Barry’s Corner Residential and Retail Commons, the first of many construction projects Harvard will be carrying out in Allston over the next ten years.
The groundbreaking came after months of heated negotiations over the $43 million Allston Community Benefits Package, which was approved by the Harvard-Allston Task Force and presented to the Boston Redevelopment Authority in November. The Commons will be located on a 2.67-acre site at the intersection of Western Avenue and North Harvard Street, and will be home to 325 rental units and more than 40,000 square feet of retail space.
At the groundbreaking, which took place at the Harvard Allston Education Portal on the site of the future development, Faust, Menino, and members of Harvard’s real estate partner for the project, Samuels & Associates, spoke about the significance of the project for Allston and the importance of cooperation within the community throughout the planning process.
“It’s a $150 million project, just think about that, it’s going to make our economy grow,” Menino said, adding that the combined residential, retail, and open-space development represents the first time Harvard has built a mixed-use space on its property.
Speaking after a brief promotional video on Allston and Cambridge’s combined role as “a campus for Harvard’s next century,” Faust said that she expects the new development will bring “new energy to the intersection between Harvard and the Allston community.”
Faust and Menino both spoke about the successful relationship between the University and the city, with each emphasizing the congenial relations under their respective administrations.
After remarks by the two leaders, representatives from Samuels & Associates spoke about the importance of the Barry’s Corner project, the “launching point” for Harvard’s Institutional Master Plan for Allston, according to Leslie G. Cohen, the senior vice president of development at Samuels & Associates.
Allston community members who gathered for the groundbreaking, which featured catered food from Clover and The Taco Truck, expressed their support for the new development, even if the planning process has been taxing.
“I’m really excited, I think it’s great. Anything is better than a parking lot,” Allston resident Jessica Robertson said, gesturing out the window of the Education Portal. In particular, she said that the new gathering spaces are much needed, noting that the state senator from the area holds his office hours at the Swiss Bakers cafe for lack of other options.
Robertson said that she hopes the development can begin mending relations between the University and the neighborhood after a difficult planning process.
“I hope that we can build some trust...improve the process going forward as people regain trust,” Robertson said.
Kathy Moody, an Allston resident and employee at Harvard Business School, added her own support and said she looks forward to new shopping options in the development. “We’ve lived in this neighborhood for 32 years. It’s nice to see progress,” she said.
Even detractors of the project said that Harvard has been diligent about listening to community feedback. Robert Breslin, an Allston resident and a Harvard-employed accountant, said that although he believes there are too few parking spaces in the project, the planning was done responsively.
“There’ve been so many meetings. They’ve been very good in working with the community,” he added.
—Staff writer Ivan B.K. Levingston can be reached at  IvanLevingston@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
Writing a senior thesis is an exhausting process full of serious and thorough research—not to mention hours of writing. So who can blame the creators of lolmythesis for starting a blog that is a safe space for seniors to finally express their inner emotions about their thesis? The site is gaining popularity fast, especially among Harvard students. Lolmythesis is an important resource for everyone writing or thinking critically about their thesis. Here are some gems that reflect the best of what the blog has to offer—divided into categories of “way too real” and “good luck with that....”
Way Too Real:
A lot of the problems that crop up when you try to contextualize object-oriented ontologies within process philosophy stem from—oh, fuck it, I’m just gonna go into consultingPhilosophy, Harvard
 
Images are worth a thousand words. Especially if they are Jesus’ words.History of Art and Architecture, Harvard
 
Someone wrote a book about my thesis which was published in the last month I was working on it, so here are some fun facts about San Francisco.History, Scripps College
 
Byzantine military scholars wrote books about how to kill people; Byzantine generals seem to have read these books, and then killed people.History, Carleton College
 
I am going to write my thesis about how dicking around on the internet is important for art and intimacy and stuff, just as soon as I get off this tumblr.English and Gender Studies, University of Chicago
 
Good Luck With That...:
Beetles were forced to have sex and then frozen in the act.Biology, University of Notre Dame
 
I used a computer to simulate firing two lasers into a jet of plasma and seeing what happens. Turns out either not very much, or you get a bigger laser. Still no closer to creating a lightsaber.Physics, University of Oxford
 
Funny Conservatives are beautiful, majestic creatures- let me sing you the song of their people.Government, Harvard
We can count how often computers do this one thing and how often brains do this other thing. Both numbers are meaningless but their comparison is also meaningless.Cognitive Science, University of Texas at Dallas
 
People listen to music, even when they aren’t supposed to. This happened in China in the 1960s. Seems symbolic.History, Harvard
 
Maybe my thesis idea on the Kanye West effect isn’t so ridiculous after all...
