News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The search for a permanent director of the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response is underway with the search committee planning to begin on-campus interviews early next year in hopes of filling the position during the spring semester.
The committee has finished the initial review of applications for the position and has begun screening applicants, Harvard University Health Services spokesperson Lindsey Baker wrote in an email, citing Director of the Department of Health Promotion and Education and Office of Alcohol and Other Drug Services Ryan M. Travia.
She added that Travia, who is overseeing the search for the new director, said he expects the committee to start the on-campus interviews during late January or early February.
Former OSAPR director Sarah A. Rankin departed Harvard after seven years to become the Title IX Investigator for MIT at the end of September, leaving the office without a permanent director. Alicia Oeser, who previously worked as DePaul University’s coordinator of Sexual Violence Support Services, currently serves as OSAPR’s interim director.
UHS Director Paul J. Barreira announced Rankin’s departure in an email to colleagues in late August, writing that administrators would conduct a search to fill the position but not then specifying a timeline.
Throughout much of Rankin’s time as director, student groups and others on campus discussed and debated Harvard’s sexual assault policy. A referendum on the 2012 Undergraduate Council presidential ballot, which called for a reconsideration of those policies, passed with 85 percent of the vote.
The new director will need to understand Harvard’s sexual assault policies and have a sense of “why the student body voted” to reevaluate them, said Sally M. Castillo ’14, who worked with Rankin as a member of Consent, Assault Awareness, and Relationship Educators, or CAARE. Castillo added that Rankin was “very, very familiar” with the strengths and weaknesses of Harvard’s sexual assault policies.
“Whoever is coming in will need to familiarize themselves with that extensively, because in order to work on this reform, you need to know what’s working and what’s not,” Castillo said. 
“I’d really love for this director to be open to talking with students about the types of reforms that we need and not just working within the administration,” Castillo said.
 —Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Dec. 12, 2013
Due to an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the name of the organization that sponsored the referendum on Harvard’s sexual assault policy. In fact, it was the Undergraduate Council.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Happy Human Rights Day!IN THE ATMOSPHEREIt's going to be a chilly one, with a high of 34 degrees and an 80% chance of snow.IN THE DINING HALLSOn the Lunch Menu:Grilled Citrus ChickenPork SpetsofaiFalafel SandwichOn the Dinner Menu:Lemon Pepper TilapiaPumpkin Gnocchi with SageGarlic Mashed Red PotatoON CAMPUSVES Student Film/Video and Animation Screenings7 p.m. - 10 p.m. in the Carpenter Center Lecture Hall.Marketing Scandivicious: Swedish Crime Fiction as World LiteratureA talk with Louise Nilsson from Uppsala University, Sweden, about how maketing strategies transformed Swedish national literature into internationally shared literature.12 p.m. - 1 p.m., Dana Palmer House, 16 Quincy Street.IN THE SQUAREConcert: Goblin at The SinclairCult legends Goblin come to Cambridge on their long awaited debut North American tour. VIP ticketing is available, which allows fans to meet the band, see part of the soundcheck, and leave with a commemorative poster. This event is 18 and over. Tickets cost $25 general admission, $65 VIP.Doors at 8 p.m., show begins at 9 p.m.. The Sinclair, 52 Church Street.
Sections
 
The end of the semester is a stressful time, and we all need to remember to relax every now and then. Flyby is here to help! This is the sixth installment in our Seven Days of Reading Period series, inspired by "The Twelve Days of Christmas." Stay tuned for more!
On the sixth day of reading period, Flyby gave to me six things to look forward to about going home. Free timeNo more cramming for exams or frantically writing papers at the last minute! You can watch all the TV or movies you want without feeling guilty! FoodDelicious home-cooked food, family style. Does it get any better?SleepYou no longer have to feel guilty about sleeping for 12 hours. Hibernate all you want!Friends and FamilyPlenty of time to catch up with everyone you've been missing. And while you probably love and will miss your roommates, distance makes the heart grow fonder and you'll be extra excited to be together in January!PrivacyEnjoy being able to do exactly what you want without the fear of a roommate awkwardly intruding. Play loud music and dance around your room naked all you want!Time to ReadYou may have been averaging 1000 pages a week all semester, but now is the time to finally catch up on all those books you've been wanting to read for pleasure but haven't had time for.
