News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
"No person who denies the existence of a Supreme Being shall hold any office in this state,” Mississippi’s constitution still proclaims, in words similar to those of six other state charters. Although not enforced in practice, provisions such as Mississippi’s betray the reputation of ignominy and amorality that has been attached to atheism at many points in time. Atheist Coming Out Week, sponsored by the Harvard Community of Humanists, Atheists, and Agnostics, is a welcome occasion to generate dialogue on humanistic and nonreligious value systems, counter to the myth that living without God means living without morals.
Though nominally a secular, pluralistic society, the prevalent rhetoric of American public life retains an unduly religious character. Presidents, judges, and civil servants take their oaths of office upon copies of sacred scriptures. The Pledge of Allegiance refers to the United States as “one Nation under God.” Banknotes bear the familiar phrase: “In God we trust.” Each of these conventions is a testament to the enduring notion that religion holds a monopoly on ethics, contributing to the perception that atheism is necessarily an anti-civic and amoral belief system.
HCHAA board members Sarah E. Coughlon ’15 and Elliot A. Wilson ’15 noted in their recent op-ed that the stigma surrounding atheism is in fact very visible, powerful, and unfounded. The writers cited a significant disparity between the 26 percent of young American adults identifying themselves with no established religion and the mere three percent willing to call themselves atheist. Part of this disparity is conceivably accounted for by a sense of unease and stigma that all too often accompanies atheism. Anecdotally, Professor of Psychology Steven A. Pinker '79 recounted at a panel held in Lamont Library on Monday evening that his “coming out” as an atheist “felt like...confessing to murder.”
Harvard, like many other secular institutions of higher learning around the country, offers an environment that is perhaps extraordinarily accepting of religious beliefs of all kinds, or lack thereof. Harvard Divinity School graduate Alan Jones was the subject of media attention in December when he was appointed an atheist chaplain at Stanford, interestingly demonstrating that even theological schools can be fertile breeding ground for secular moral thinkers.
Nonetheless, some of the students who attended Monday evening’s panel on Why Atheism Matters did mention the difficulties of proclaiming oneself an atheist—even at Harvard. So deeply entrenched is anti-atheist sentiment in the U.S. that it would be unreasonable to suppose that atheism carries absolutely no stigma at Harvard.
Atheists and believers alike should never feel the need to be apologetic about their stances on religion. Atheist Coming Out Week is a very valuable initiative that we hope will raise awareness of the value of nonreligious ethics, as well as promote further dialogue and coexistence between those who seek their codes of conduct in the realm of the divine and those who don’t.
CORRECTION February 22:
The Crimson editorial ,“Out of the Profane Closet,” misidentified Stanford’s new Humanist Chaplain as Alan Jones. In fact, Stanford’s Humanist Chaplain is John Figdor.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“After enduring nearly a century of systematic resistance to the Fifteenth Amendment, Congress might well decide to shift the advantage of time and inertia from the perpetrators of evil to its victims,” wrote former Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren in the Court’s decision on South Carolina v. Katzenbach in 1966.
 
It’s not too hard to puzzle out.  The perpetrators here are discriminatory state and local governments, and the victims are minority voters deprived of a voice at the polls.  On paper, the Fifteenth Amendment enshrined the right of all Americans to vote regardless of color.  But in practice, the altered Constitution did not stop local legislators from twisting their voting codes to shut African Americans out of the political process.  It was not until nearly a century later, when President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act of 1965 into law, that what was once only a theoretical right became reality.
The Voting Rights Act, widely hailed as a watershed piece of legislation, changed our country’s political landscape in a profound and lasting way.  In fact, Congress considered the law effective and necessary enough to renew all of its special provisions in 1970, 1975, 1982, and most recently, in 2006, for another 25 years.  Next Wednesday, however, the Supreme Court will hear Shelby County v. Holder and may well strike down Section 5, the heart of the act.  It shouldn’t.
Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act identifies nine states—Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Texas, and Virginia—and a number of counties and municipalities in other states with a history of discrimination and declares them “covered jurisdictions.”  These covered jurisdictions cannot alter their voting policies without first appealing to the Department of Justice or to a federal court for “preclearance.”
Prior to Section 5’s passage, the government scrambled to keep pace with officials meddling with voting laws by suing case by case, state by state.  But those officials shifted discriminatory tactics constantly, and the government fell behind.  Section 5 put an end to that.  But now, some claim that our nation’s transition to what they see as a post-racial age has rendered the Voting Rights Act irrelevant.
Opponents of Section 5, like Shelby County, Alabama, see the provision as an un-American infringement on state sovereignty.  Their argument has some force: Holding state policy hostage to federal approval does not jibe with the federalist ideals that define our Constitution.  Indeed, if we truly did live in a land where race had faded into the background and discrimination disintegrated with it, the government could not justify stepping on states’ toes any longer.
Yet we do not live in a land where race has faded to the background and discrimination with it.  Yes, the U.S. has made great strides since 1965.  And yes, its citizens have reelected a black man to sit in the Oval Office.  But no, racial prejudice is not a thing of the past.
Congress did not extend Section 5 in 2006 based on a hunch.  Rather, legislators held 21 hearings and amassed over 15,000 pages of evidence chronicling ongoing voting discrimination in covered jurisdictions.  In Evergreen, Alabama, only hours from Shelby County, 74-year-old Jerome Grey nearly missed his chance to vote this past election.  The local government had attempted to remove him and 800 others from the voting rolls when they failed to meet certain utility requirements—measures of wealth eerily reminiscent of poll taxes during the Jim Crow era.  Luckily, Section 5 blocked the change.
Federalism is an essential part of the United States’ political tradition.  But ensuring a vital democracy must trump states’ rights.  The threat of discrimination still looms large over countless Americans, and when that discrimination prevents or dilutes minority votes, the democratic process begins to break down.
As the Court said in Yick Wo v. Hopkins years ago, the right to vote is “a fundamental political right, because [it is] preservative of all rights.”  In other words, if a citizen cannot choose who represents him, he has no power to ensure that the laws his government enacts treat him fairly.  When that citizen is a member of a class that has historically been excluded from the political process, the need to protect his voting rights is particularly pressing.  That’s exactly why the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments allow Congress the authority to enforce equality under the law through “appropriate legislation”—legislation like the Voting Rights Act.
President Johnson called the Voting Rights Act “a triumph for freedom as huge as any victory that has ever been won on any battlefield.”  A Supreme Court ruling that gutted the act would be a defeat of equal magnitude.
Molly L. Roberts ’16, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Holworthy Hall. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
You do not become schizophrenic overnight. When I began to hear voices, I told myself that it was some peculiar coping mechanism that was benign and would soon go away. Around the same time I had been in an accident, was dealing with a family crisis, and as a corollary was off-and-on homeless for a few weeks. Such occurrences would make anyone momentarily mad, right? This is what I told the social worker the first time I went to Harvard University Health Services. I was depressed: These were odd shock symptoms that would heal and fade away like bruises. We never talked about the voices. It was a topic that terrified me, and she was no more eager to ask me about them. She encouraged me to drink chamomile tea and to practice breathing exercises to cope with stress.
I knew I needed more help than tea, but as a poor, financially independent student from a poor family, my options were limited. I was lucky to enroll in a research study that gave me psychotherapy in exchange for serving as guinea pig for new social workers. By October 2012, I was seeing a therapist at least three times a week and sleeping the rest of the time to hide from the voices, which were getting worse and handicapping my ability to listen to my own stream of consciousness. Have you ever tried writing a paper when roommates are having a loud conversation? Now imagine they are screaming at you. This is how I feel every day. I experienced other symptoms I did not expect, such as forgetting words, and instead of my once photographic memory, I often cannot remember in the evening what I did in the morning.
December came, and with it, exams and final papers. I had to pull endless all-nighters to complete the work I had missed, and forsaking sleep meant that I was abandoning the only effective refuge I had from my screaming demons. I survived by the compassion of my roommates, who made sure I was eating and would hold and soothe me when things became unbearable. After exams, I was supposed to start antipsychotics. I was surprised to find out that my insurance company would not cover the drug, which cost $850 a month. I successfully petitioned to have the drug partially covered by insurance; still, $650 a month.
Even on full financial aid, I work two jobs to pay for my education, and there is no money to spare. I wrote to my financial aid officer, and he still has not responded. I made an appointment with the patient advocate, but because I am not on Harvard’s student insurance plan, nothing could be done. My resident dean could apply for a special fund, but only after my financial aid officer officially refuses my petition.
Two months have passed. What can I do? My resident dean, academic advisor, and psychiatrist strongly encourage me to take the semester off. I want to, but my family situation makes living at home a non-option. Where else can I go? I am too sick regularly to be in class; how can I hold a job? I decided to stay as I fight for treatment. Harvard may not be willing to pay for treatment, but at least as a student I hope that they are too afraid of bad publicity to let me die should I need hospitalization. At least here I have food and housing through financial aid. As a student on leave, I would have no such reluctant advocate. I am lucky to have enrolled in a trial that pays for a month’s treatment, but I have no idea from where the money will come next month. I just know that I would not have survived the last month without treatment.
What they never tell you about schizophrenia is that you never really believe it, internalize it, identify with it. Mornings are agonizing because every day in the haze of waking up I briefly remember all over again who I am and what I have lost. I remember the friends that I am terrified will see me differently if I tell them; I remember that on my bad days I scare people in class and on the subway; I remember that the academic career for which I had worked is now improbable. I remember that the measure of success for too many of my days will be that I have not killed myself.
So Harvard, friends, peers, anyone who might be reading this: I am asking you to advocate for me and the other statistically 70 or so students here who are struggling with schizophrenia or other acute illnesses. The average age of onset for schizophrenia is 18 for men and 25 for women, meaning that it often occurs during college. Most of you who are reading this assume that Harvard provides some end-of-the-line safety net for poor students in such calamitous circumstances and that Harvard would never let a student fail, drop out, or not receive medical care for lack of money. I write to assure you that there is no end in sight to the falling. I can apply for $5,000 to study bat droppings over the summer, but there is no application to pay for the treatment that enables me to function. Dear Harvard College Research Program, will you finance an application for me to study the effect of treatment on the schizophrenic brain? I know just the test subject.
Scientists have not yet decoded the medical and psychiatric workings of schizophrenia, but there are a few obvious reforms Harvard could implement that would allow students like me to have the support and treatment we need to succeed and survive. These policy changes need to be implemented transparently: Currently, most leave of absence and mental health policy is nebulous, unofficial, unpublished, and only policy-as-practiced through the decisions of the Administrative Board.
First, Harvard should guarantee that anyone who seeks treatment be able to see a therapist within a week, and if desired, to see a therapist on a weekly basis. Currently wait times can be as long as a month, and anecdotal evidence from friends and a conversation with a Harvard therapist suggest that they are pressured to cap the number of appointments covered by Harvard insurance. While Harvard has taken steps forward in covering up to 24 visits to outside providers, Harvard can continue this progress by hiring enough therapists at HUHS to meet student need and covering as many outside visits as are recommended by the therapist.
Second, Harvard should abolish the present oft-coerced leave of absence imposed on students who admit themselves to the infirmary. Students who decide to go on leave are often unaware that in order to return, they must prove that they have held a job or internship and that they have been seeking treatment. The burden of this policy falls brutally on students from poor backgrounds, students lacking robust health insurance, and students with unstable family situations. Ironically, these are the very students who are more likely to have experienced trauma.
This policy typifies the hostility with which mental illness is treated by the Harvard administration. The administration is pursuing what can—despite the University’s belief to the contrary—only be described as punitive courses of action that do not take into consideration the wellbeing of students. If your financial situation is such that Harvard is your only hope for treatment, your options are to seek immediate help and forego longer-term treatment or to try to fight through the darkest nights in hopes that maybe things will get better. I have lost too many friends at Harvard who did not survive that fight. An alternative option would be to implement a program for students on financial aid: Give us housing, allow us to stay with the therapists who know us best, and finance the program through a combination of grants, subsidized loans, and a work program.
Third, the administration should guarantee reasonable turnaround times for decisions from the Financial Aid Office in emergency situations, institute a reasonable cap on health spending in a given year, and provide grants for any additional amount for students on financial aid. Need-blind financial aid allows me to attend Harvard regardless of my financial situation; it should also allow me to stay regardless of a treatable medical condition.
In a recent letter, Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds encouraged students to “not suffer in silence. We are here to support you.” I was not silent: I sought and was refused help. I am asking you to join me in a loud appeal to the administration for quality mental health support. If there really is such a thing as a Harvard community, then our shared resources should be allocated according to our values. If Harvard is willing to cut hot breakfast to restructure its budget, then surely mental health is important enough for us to demand adequate resources and to implement serious and necessary reforms.
This is not crazy talk, but I am mad. We can do better.
—The writer can be reached at wecandobetterharvard@gmail.com.
Editors’ Note: We made the decision to run this op-ed anonymously due to the private and intensely personal nature of its content. It is our hope that this piece will bring to light issues that affect many members of our community and inform campus-wide conversations on mental health and health services at Harvard.
—Marina N. Bolotnikova and Michael F. Cotter, Editorial Chairs
—Robert S. Samuels, President
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
"It's so cold out here," one freshman grumbles, buttoning up his polo outside The Bee, "I wish I wore a thermal. God why did I shave this morning?"
"We should have pregamed in Pennypacker," his roommate says. "I could use a beer blanket right now."
They are first in a line of at least 30 freshmen, which slowly grows longer as boys stumble in from the yard and as the occasional taxi arrives from BU.
"Are you on the list?" a Bee girl asks, standing in the doorway. "This is a list party, the theme is lumber-jack-o'-lanterns. I don't see your pumpkin."
The freshman turns to his friends, a group of six boys and a girl from Canaday C-entryway. With the exception of Chris, who always wore flannel, none of them are “in theme”.
"We could try La Vie?" Chris suggests, "Jeff texted me, he says it’s good, lots of girls. At least five."
"I just want to get drunk with my boys and dance on a table, is that too much to ask?" another says.
While the group is discussing possible options, a pair of freshman boys linked at the elbow stumbles out of the final club.
"Kathryn ignored me again," one of them pouts. "Do you think I wasn't obvious enough? I kept walking past her suggestively, but it was such a sausage fest she didn't even notice me. God, I'm gonna be alone forever. Maybe I should text Jenna..."
The other checks his watch. "We should hurry. Noch's closes in 10 minutes."
The rest of the line grows impatient. There is a gentle hum of boys complaining about the wait and complimenting each other's lumberjack apparel. "Your jack-o'-lantern is phenomenal," one says, "I just don't have the facial hair to pull that off."
"Can we get in soon?" One boy calls from the back, "Also, I love your jeans, are they from the basement of Urban Outfitters?"
The Bee bouncer, who is growing impatient herself, catches sight of a particularly young looking boy in the group and perks up. "Freshman?" she asks. "I guess you guys can come in, but the girl has to stay outside."
Sections
L'Académie française, a branch of the French government that aims to save the French language from bad, bad external cultures, has banned words like “blog” (no one was checking theirs often enough, perhaps), “supermodel,” and “hashtag.” It’s replaced hashtag with the word “mot-diese,” which, ironically enough, doesn’t even work as a hashtag. In response to these censorings, FM has compiled its own list of French things that should be #banned.
1. The Farewell GreetingsMixing it up when it comes to your goodbyes is a must, but au revoir should never be acceptable, not even online. Just say “see you next time,” or whisper softly “I love you” the next time your friend walks away.
2. Shaved Poodles Embarrassing for everyone involved: the owner, bystanders, the dog, and the razor.
3.  Handlebar Mustaches This mustache is an invitation to steer the owner around everywhere except in the Yard, where the Handlebar Mustache must be walked. Handlebars really should only be on bikes.
4. Smart CarsLike clown cars, but you can’t fit as many people in them.
5. SpeedosYou’re not swimming fast enough for people to not see your hideous bathing suit. Especially if you’re older than 25.
Sections
Hey girl… I mean, woman.
Only a woman would pick at the minute differences that distinguish those two words, right? Not quite. Though used almost interchangeably, “girl” and “woman” connote two distinct ideas of what it means to identify as female.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, “woman” is defined as “an adult female human being. The counterpart of man.” (“Man,” on the other hand, is not defined as “the counterpart of woman.” Figures.) “Girl,” however, is usually meant to signify “young woman.” Technically, those are correct. But to some, their usage in the wrong context can range from being inappropriate to just plain offensive.
At the most basic level, it’s an age thing. Many refer to females as “girls” until they are around college age, then switch to the term “young women.” When females reach the dreaded age of thirty, they are referred to as, simply, “women.”
For the sake of having a pop culture reference to work with, let’s look at HBO’s acclaimed/decried show about the lives of four twentysomethings in New York City. The main characters are routinely portrayed as whiny and careless. Like anyone who refuses to grow up, they keep stumbling, not quite coming to terms with the fact that there’s more to life than their small, racially homogeneous social circle. Perhaps not coincidentally, the eponymous title dubs these characters “Girls.”
Whether having the title speak to the blatant capriciousness that is associated with being a “girl” is a deliberate stroke of Lena Dunham’s creative genius is up to you. Her choice to equate “girls” with puerility and immaturity is not unlike tropes such as the “girl next door,” a “girly girl,” or the high school favorite “Girls Gone Wild."
"Woman,” then, serves as a contrast to this youthful depiction of females. Second-wave feminists, especially, preferred the term: they emphasized the drawbacks of using a term like “girl” when talking about females, for it implies a certain docility that they believed stripped women of control. In any case, “woman” is meant to indicate an acquired sense of maturity and self-respect that “girls” lack.
Professor of Anthropology Susan Greenhalgh believes that the “girl/woman” problem “highlights the limits of our language.”
"The terms 'male' and 'female' are gender-neutral, but not especially desirable for describing social issues, since they signal biological aspects of gender," she said in an email, because she was unavailable to meet with FM this weekend. "For college-aged 'males,' we have the helpful term 'guys,' which allows us to avoid both 'men' and 'boys.' For 'females,' there is no similar term (the comparable term, 'gals,' having gone out of fashion a long time ago), forcing us to choose between 'girls' and 'women.'"
While there may indeed be ways to add misogynistic undertones to “woman” as well, there seems to be less implicit devaluation in the term. It might have to do with how the concept of being a “woman” is also connected to motherhood—and we’re all supposed to respect our mothers. As comedian Louis C.K. eloquently puts it, being a “woman” is “when people come out of your vagina and step on your dreams.”
To Greenhalgh, the potential pitfalls of the word “woman” are outweighed by the term’s benefits. "Either we need to reshape the meanings of our language or we need to introduce a new term," she said. "I vote for young women to embrace the term 'woman' and work harder to create meanings around it that are positive and empowering."
More recently, however, pop culture has attempted to reclaim the word “girl” and liken it to the respectability that accompanies “woman.” One need look no further than Beyoncé’s almost annual female empowerment track release, “We Run the World (Girls),” or the Tumblrverse’s “Feminist Ryan Gosling,” which depicts “girls” as both intelligent and playful, in control and with a splash of youthful sass—the best of both sides of the “girl/woman” divide. To give you a better sense of what we mean, try a telling meme quote attributed to the sensitively imagined stud himself: “Hey girl. Derrida thinks language is fluid enough to break the gender divide, but nothing will split us apart.”
Well said, boy.
Sections
The night before Jean Berko Gleason’s final exam in a competitive class, she could not sleep. The phone in her dorm room was ringing every 10 minutes, into the early morning. But whenever she picked up the phone, the caller—one of the male students in her class, she was convinced—hung up.
“I hope they’ve fixed Cabot since I was there,” says Gleason, Radcliffe ’53. “It was just horrible.” Although Gleason was not a fan of the tiny bathrooms and bunk beds, her sentiment reflects a distaste for the restricted social space Radcliffe women were allowed during her years as a student on Harvard’s campus.
In the early ’50s, women at Radcliffe were expected to abide by codes that extended beyond a strict curfew: They could not wear pants into Harvard Square or below the second floor of their buildings past 5 p.m., try out for bands or be elected as official editors of The Harvard Crimson, or even study in Lamont Library. “Harvard thought that if we were there, the men would become so excited that they wouldn’t get any work done,” Gleason says with a laugh. But Radcliffe’s women were determined: Every year, she remembers, a group of Radcliffe students would dress up as men and sit in Lamont until they were thrown out.
“It was true that we were second-class citizens in a lot of ways,” says Lilla Waltch ’53, one of Gleason’s classmates. Life at Radcliffe wasn’t miserable, of course; restrictions from Lamont meant that students planned study dates at Widener and then went out for beer together after. (Still, Harvard men often disregarded Harvard women: “They always said they didn’t want to take out Radcliffe girls and that they’d rather go to Wellesley,” Waltch says.)
Radcliffe women acknowledged that they were receiving an education for which they could be grateful, but it was one that perpetuated stereotypes about women’s roles in the workplace, such as encouraging women to enroll in courses at the Radcliffe Secretarial School. Waltch recalls that Radcliffe students took turns wearing hairnets and serving their classmates in the dining hall, “being on bell” to take phone calls as they came in and sending them to the appropriate floor, and remained under close watch of a house-mother, a practice not mirrored in the men’s river dorms. Gleason remembers that the social relations class she took her freshman year was the same exact course taught on Harvard’s campus at 10 a.m., but the professor trekked to Longfellow Hall to teach it at 11 a.m., separately, for women.
Once most classes became coeducational in 1950, Waltch and Gleason’s sophomore year, their male classmates snickered: They insisted that when professors said, “Good morning” to the class, the men returned the greeting, while the women wrote it down in their notes.
Gleason stresses that Radcliffe and Harvard were never distinct schools; rather, Radcliffe was just a means by which women could attend Harvard. “By having the fiction of Radcliffe,” Gleason says, “Harvard was allowed to discriminate against women, long after it should have stopped—just because they were let in through another door. Harvard may have been at the forefront of scholarly things, but it was not at the forefront of civil rights.”
The restrictions imposed on women’s access to Harvard were not applicable in the opposite direction: “Men could come and go as they pleased,” Gleason says—they had open access to Radcliffe’s library, for instance. “They were free people, and we were not.”Real structural change would come later, but attitudes among those attending Radcliffe were already shifting. “Don’t think we didn’t notice. The women’s movement came at a time when many people had been brewing over these things for a long time.”
*******
It was, Carol R. Sternhell ’71 insists, as if she had stepped from the ’50s into the ’70s from one day to the next. When Sternhell was a freshman living in Barnard Hall in the Radcliffe Quad, students still lived under the restrictions of curfews, sign-ins, and house mothers. But two years later, the University undertook an experiment: 150 Radcliffe women moved into rooms in Lowell, Adams, and Winthrop, and 150 Harvard men moved up Garden Street into the Quad, in an attempt at integration beyond the classroom. (The University only afterward added a bus serving the Radcliffe Quad.)
“All the rules were gone in every aspect of life,” Sternhell says. Sternhell, who had moved to Adams House and later became the second female managing editor of The Crimson, already considered herself an activist, though she wasn’t focused particularly on gender: “We were fighting for so many things at once, and this was part of it: freedom, freedom, freedom.“
Even with the increased liberties for women on campus, Esther Dyson ’71-’72 noticed certain reinforcements within the deterioration of these norms. “It was the ’60s,” Dyson, another Crimson editor, explains. “It was certainly a world where we were supposed to be decorative, and the boys were supposed be smart.” Dyson does not remember being too confined by this conception, though. She does remember attending student-worker alliance meetings, swimming naked in Adams pool every morning, and “kidnapping” Hasty Pudding Theatricals Man of the Year Dustin Hoffman from a party.
Radcliffe women were negotiating space for themselves beyond the river houses—a role in which women could speak and impact change outside of the classroom. One of Sternhell’s most vivid memories is reporting on the student takeover of University Hall in 1969. “Do I remember any classes?” she jokes. “Not really. Do I remember any protests? Many.” Dyson, too, says she “rarely went to class.”
It was a dramatic environment, Sternhell says, one in which she and her classmates "felt we had to save the world." There was already a revolution of sorts that had seeped into campus and spread. But it was a movement that Sternhell believes wasn’t analyzed or recognized at the time: the growing conceptualization and consciousness of modern feminism. “We stopped calling ourselves girls and started calling ourselves women, overnight,” she explains. “It was revolutionary to say women should have equal rights—it was unbelievable.”
By senior year, Dyson says she had grown up, and Sternhell says she was indignant. They were Radcliffe students who went to school at Harvard; they weren’t going to spend their lives answering phones. Sternhell and her classmates would wear raised fist silk-screenings on the back of their graduation gowns to advocate for equal admission of women to the University. They were revolutionaries: They were feminists.
This article has been revised to reflect the following clarification:
CLARIFICATION: February 24, 2013
An earlier version of this article stated that Radcliffe women could not try out for organizations like The Harvard Crimson in the early 1950s. To clarify, while the first woman was not elected as an official editor of The Crimson until 1959, female students could contribute to The Crimson as Radcliffe correspondents beginning in 1947.
Sections
1:04 a.m.: It is so cold that I can’t feel my legs. Poor decision to choose the stone steps next to John Harvard, but he’s quiet company and so I sit. He looks out over the snowy Yard nonchalantly, observing the small mountain ranges of snow that have formed between dry pathways. I have not really looked at the Yard in John’s serene way for a long time. Its magic is lost on me during the hectic daytime, as I rush to turn in a problem set or actively avoid tourists. But tonight, as I attempt to return feeling to my toes, I am once again enchanted. The Yard is surprisingly quiet for being the “historical and geographical center of campus,” as tour guides like to say. Maybe it’s the weather, or perhaps the fact that it’s Valentine’s Day, but there is barely anyone treading these paths except for a lone pair returning from a late night of work.
1:07 a.m.: I check my watch; I am here for 12 more minutes. I am taking notes about everything, and everyone I see, as if I haven’t walked through this yard a million times before. And it’s then that I notice the most beautiful aspects of this ancient place. The way the reflections of the street lights dance on the first floor windows of Grays, the strong facades of Matthews and Weld, their scale more comforting than intimidating. There is a melody to the Yard at night: the sound of Hollis’ doors thudding as they close, the distant urban murmur from the Square, the low conversations of neon-clothed Securitas guards. The aged gates that surround this yard create a silent safeness, serving as a threshold rather than a barrier; crossing this threshold from the outside world, you enter into an enclave of stillness and calm, of respite.
1:15 a.m.: Four more minutes. Still cold. Though I am convinced of the quiet calmness of this place, I am still expecting at least a sampling of errant, drunk freshmen to stumble by the John Harvard statue and consider peeing on it. I am mostly disappointed until a strangely dressed freshman male struts past. Clad in a hockey jersey and flags tied around his wrists, he is the most uncommon thing I’ve seen in the last 11 minutes. He swaggers more emphatically when he spots his audience of one, almost dancing past the statue and on his merry way.
1:19 a.m.: It’s time to go. I am mostly glad because my extremities are frozen, but partly glum to leave my observation post. There is comfort in knowing that this space is always here for me to pass through—to sit down and observe. When I give them the time, the minute details bring the grandness and the history of this yard to life. I am humbled and reminded of my enchantment with these tall elms, with these ornate buildings, with this still safety. I pack up and turn left, wandering down the dark paths and eventually through the gates.
Sections
 “We have talked a bit about the vulva, which makes me kind of feel uncomfortable,” says Mason S. Hsieh ’15, chuckling with a mixture of boyish embarrassment and self-deprecation. “I don’t have one,” he continues, “but you know, it’s kind of theoretically fun.”
 Such is the ostensible plight of the male enrollee in Anthropology 1882: “The Woman and the Body,” a course title that likely evokes horrifying anatomical analysis and indignant feminist angst in the male mind. 
 That “cult of the feminine” image is a far cry from the hospitable environment Susan Greenhalgh, a professor of Anthropology, establishes in class. Despite its alleged lecture format, the course often feels far more like a large-scale seminar, with Greenhalgh requesting not only theoretical analysis, but also personal commentary from her students. Her openness encourages the class to draw on their own experiences as they engage with the material. When two images of Serena Williams project on the screen, 10 hands shoot up, and the room fills with the women’s testimonies on athletic feminization.
 The male students, four out of 83 this semester, are far from mute acolytes. Three comment over the course of an hour, one citing a female family member, another challenging the claim that shopping functions as a unifying experience. To do so, he speaks of the sartorial history he shares with his father.
 Indeed, many female students find a male lens on this material critical. Helen C. Clark ’15, who took the course last year when there were no male enrollees, notes how a different perspective can break women out of their “bubble of awareness,” highlighting which concepts men find alienating.
 Greenhalgh cites males as some of her most frequent contributors. Both Hsieh and Nathan H. Pointer ’15, another male student in the class, say they feel empowered rather than burdened to represent a male lens. Such a focus runs the risk of essentializing them, but their tendencies to speak from the first person and even resist expected masculine perspectives belies that claim.
 Empowerment, beloved contribution, and wonderful male-female ratios create a delightful ambiance to be sure. But these brave men must have little connection to the material. Cue vulva slide.
 However, lectures range across many topics that are pertinent to both genders. For example, Greenhalgh leads discussions about non-gendered Foucaultian power theories and the definition of “biocitizenship,” a gender-neutral term denoting the moral and productive member of society as both healthy and policing the health of others.
 Greenhalgh’s course may be founded on feminist theory, but a shifting cultural discourse on the “obesity epidemic” in America has increased its relevance to men.
 On the disconnect between this pertinence and male enrollment, Pointer says, “Everyone can relate to this kind of material. What’s disappointing is that once you enter the WGS department not many people do. It’s mostly women. Well, it’s women and sexual minorities, honestly.”
 While Anthro 1882 is not actually housed within the WGS department, these isolating concerns ring true here as well. Men who take the course and others like it tend to already identify as feminists or allies. Greenhalgh notes that all the male students she has spoken to in “The Woman and the Body” have been gay. While understanding gender power structures is, of course, edifying to such communities, the class runs the risk of preaching to the choir. Presumably, the population that could benefit the most from this material, both personally and societally, is that of heterosexual males.
 “I think that’s one of the main points of WGS: How do you disseminate that information?” says Pointer, though he, like many others, seems unsure of how to achieve such an end, except to allow the nascent course to grow in notoriety and popularity.
 One potential route may involve emphasizing how gender dynamics are critically interlaced with other domains such as race and class. As Greenhalgh points out, “These are postmodern times when our understandings are far more fluid and contingent.”
Sections
 After Elizabeth Warren's hard-fought race for Senate, the most expensive in the nation's history, many supporters had high hopes for her early days in office. But after her dramatic win against incumbent Scott Brown, Warren has shied away from the limelight. In the early days of the new session of Congress, her presence in the national spotlight has faded, leaving some to speculate about possible reasons for her absence.
 During the campaign, Warren was known for her fierce stump speeches criticizing the Republican Party for its ties to big money—Warren has been a staunch advocate for financial reform and regulation in her tenure as a Harvard Law professor.
 But she has not maintained the barrage of impassioned (opponents say 'canned') lines issuing from the bully pulpit. Rather, Warren has assumed a low public profile in the opening weeks of the 113th Congress. She has given few interviews to national media outlets. She has only appeared in two press conferences since the beginning of the session, both to discuss Richard Cordray's renomination to the directorship of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. (In 2008, Warren played a crucial role in drafting the structure of the CFPB.) Though Warren jumped to the forefront of the public spotlight on February 14 when The Huffington Post posted a video of the senator scolding bank regulators, she has continued to decline opportunities for public statement.
 Political observers have taken note of Warren’s silence.
 On February 13, Politico published an article titled “Elizabeth Warren's quiet plan for the Senate,” wondering whether it all might be part of some larger plan. The article's thesis is a two-parter: one, that Warren has flown under the radar on purpose, and two, that her purpose is to prove that she's not a “bomb-thrower.”
 But perhaps Warren has not spent more time in the limelight simply because there is not much of a limelight for what she is doing. “The nitty-gritty of politics sometimes is not that interesting to the average person,” said Lawrence S. DiCara ’71, a Boston political veteran.
 Warren now spends most of her time on exactly those nitty-gritty details: attending committee hearings, familiarizing herself with procedure, scheduling and rescheduling meetings. Her primary role is no longer that of the incendiary leader, the Democratic rallying cry.
 Said DiCara, “It's not easy being a rookie senator.... [Warren is] going through orientations...and there's not that much going on yet.”
Sections
"Five years ago I was presenting to a group of 160 managing directors, all women, in New York. I was the only man. I have to say it was a humbling experience presenting and participating—truly transformational. I never anticipated being in the minority based on gender. I’ve been the minority in so many different ways, growing up in another country. But this was really different.”
Harvard Business School Professor Boris Groysberg continues to describe his discomfort throughout the all-female conference, after which he approached one of the female organizers of the event to explain how strange it had felt for him to be such a minority. She responded, “Well, now you finally understand how women feel every single day.”
Groysberg sits in a rolling office chair. Tall towers of printer paper surround him on all sides as he elaborates on why he felt so out of place at this conference of female managing directors. He recalls how after joining a breakfast table at the conference the conversation completely died. While walking away from the table after eating his meal, he noticed that the conversation at the table he vacated was picking back up. His outsider presence was significantly changing the group dynamic.
“I always hated inequality, but I always understood it as more of an analytical point about fairness and many other things. That was the time when gender inequality became not only analytical but also emotional. I experienced it,” Groysberg says. “I don’t remember any other project that moved me so much and made me question a number of other things.”
*****
It was a typical day of math team practice at The Dalton School in Manhattan until a teacher interrupted practice looking for girls to join the school’s brand new computer science department. A high school freshman at the time, Anne W. Madoff ’15 loved math and decided she would go ahead and give computer science a try. Now a sophomore at the College, Madoff is concentrating in computer science—a predominantly male field.
“Before coming to college, I had never noticed that I was a woman in an academic setting. I don’t think I would have called myself a feminist—it wasn’t a cause that I took any interest in. And then when I got to Harvard and started sitting in computer science classrooms where all of a sudden it was all guys and then me, I paid attention. If I noticed it, and I felt uncomfortable, other people must have.”
*****
In 2013, the national debate regarding the equality of women in the workplace still rages, with countless studies, women’s leadership initiatives, and op-eds in many major publications proving the relevance of this question. While many college women today aspire to be Fortune 500 CEOs, the data surrounding women in the workplace is dispiriting: Women hold less than 15 percent of executive positions at S&P 500 Companies, and female workers receive 81 percent the salaries of their male counterparts.
Anne-Marie Slaughter, a Princeton professor and the former Director of Policy Planning for the U.S. State Department, initially believed that any ambitious woman could rise to the top of her chosen field. But working one level under Hillary Clinton while simultaneously raising two teenage boys led Slaughter to a breaking point: She resigned after two years in Washington. Her lingering frustrations from the gendered world she experienced in DC inspired her to write the now ubiquitous article, “Why Women Still Can’t Have it All,” the cover story of The Atlantic in July/August 2012. It soon became the most-read story in the publication’s history.
In addition to the national media coverage of her story, Slaughter explains to FM that the individual responses to her article were staggering: “I didn’t expect how many women would write me and say they thought they had really failed because they couldn’t have it all: a career with no tradeoffs and a family,” she says. “These were women who felt like it was their fault. But it wasn’t.
”Along with Slaughter, Facebook CFO Sheryl Sandberg has emerged as another leading voice in the national conversation about women’s empowerment in the professional world. In her 2011 commencement address at Barnard College, Sandberg warned the 800 female graduates of workplace inequality, urging them to take charge of their own careers and find spouses who will stand by their sides. Since the speech, Sandberg has been busy speaking publicly about women’s issues and writing a book on the subject, “Lean In,” which will be released this March.
Every year, Harvard graduates a new class of ambitious women, many of whom are striving to reach the top of their respective fields. Some female students acknowledge that gender may influence their career trajectories, but prefer not to address the issue now while they are still young undergraduates. Others simply do not think their gender will have an impact. But the data surrounding the issue, as well as stories by Slaughter and the countless women who responded to her article, appear to contradict such hopes.
Fifty years after the publication of Betty Friedan’s “The Feminine Mystique” and the admission of women into Harvard Business School’s full-time MBA program, Slaughter urges the younger generation of American women not to ignore the role of gender in the workplace. “My judgment was that having this conversation and turning it into action is the only way to get to the next step,” Slaughter insists. “We have to get beyond 20 percent of women at the top.”
 A Dangerous Fiction
“Maybe I’m just really lucky and I don’t want to say [gender discrimination] doesn’t exist, but I’ve been able to get anything I’ve wanted and being a girl hasn’t stopped me,” says Carolyn S.M. Stein ’13, an applied math concentrator specializing in economics.
But Stein’s case may not be typical, and she even acknowledges that hopefulness in her own assertion. She continues, “I think also though, partly, very purposely, it’s a mindset I want to stay away from—that it’s not fair I’m a girl. I don’t want to even give myself those excuses.
”Viroopa Volla ’14, an economics concentrator, believes that students of different genders are treated equally at Harvard, at least in the areas that matter for career advancement. Sitting in Adams Dining Hall, a place that 50 years ago would not have served women, Volla explains that she doesn’t believe that gender will play much of a role in her professional life. “I think in all of the different areas that I have been in, whether it comes to finance or innovation or social entrepreneurship, the key is to be motivated and have that initiative…I have never come across gender inequality,” Volla says, her voice assertive and confident.
When Timothy P. McCarthy ’93, lecturer on history and literature and on public policy, sees Harvard students who feel like their gender has never set them back, he fears that they may begin to extend these perceptions of equality into their visions of the world outside Harvard. “I think there’s always a danger when you’re at a place like Harvard of being blind to the kinds of inequalities that still very much exist in the world,” McCarthy asserts, his orange Converse shoes tapping along with his argument. “When you yourself are able to walk through a door of opportunity and dream big dreams, you think that because you have those opportunities then everyone around you has those opportunities, and that’s just not the case. That is a fiction, and a dangerous fiction.”
Undergraduates do not even need to step outside of Harvard to witness the fiction in their perceptions of workplace gender equality. A hop across the Charles River to Harvard Business School reveals first-year classes with assigned seating that appears to minimize the school’s obvious gender disparity by distributing the women evenly around the room. “They kind of have to do that,” says Brooke D. Boyarsky, a second-year Business School student, as she describes the seating chart of her first year classes. The Business School Class of 2013 is just under 40 percent female, while the faculty has a more dramatic gender divide of around 30 percent female, 70 percent male, according to the Harvard Provost’s Fact Book.
Numbers look similar at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, whose four graduate degrees also skew male by about 60 percent on average, according to the Kennedy School website. Hannah Schafer, a first-year Masters in Public Policy student at the Kennedy School, describes a recent occurrence encountering an older male from the Kennedy School’s executive education program who was lost and approached Schafer and her male friend for directions. The man reached out to shake the hand of Schafer’s friend and neglected to extend his hand to her, then he asked the friend for directions, refusing to make eye contact with Schafer.
“I answered him,” Schafer explains, her weight forward, arms stiff and determined. “I’m conscious of [gender biases] so I made a clear effort to call his attention to me, to know that I am also capable of giving directions. So I mean it’s all these small battles [at the Kennedy School] in addition to the formal problem of not enough tenured, female professors.” Only 19 percent of senior faculty and 27 percent of junior faculty is female at the Kennedy School.
While the gender dynamics at the Kennedy School may appear to be a world away from those at the College, the same gender imbalance exists within the College’s undergraduate political entity, the Undergraduate Council (UC). September of her freshman year, Tara Raghuveer ’14 decided to run to be a representative on the UC. Like most of the other candidates, Raghuveer made a Facebook group declaring her Ivy Yard candidacy and knocked on doors in every dorm she could. The voting took place online and an email the next day announced the results: Raghuveer was not among the 12 elected representatives. In fact, only one of the 12 freshman seats on the UC would be filled by a female.
“That was a surprising realization,” confesses Raghuveer, admitting her shock upon learning that only one of the 28 freshman women who ran to be representatives was elected. Undeterred by her freshman year loss, Raghuveer won a spot on the UC her sophomore year, and then was elected the sixth female president in UC history her junior fall. Raghuveer says she didn’t consider that her freshman UC election loss could have been influenced by gender until she learned how few women had been elected.
Raghuveer continues on the subject of gender and politics. “I’ve become more and more convinced that there has to be some sort of inherent bias in our society. That is definitely something I’ve realized,” she pauses for a few seconds, then continues, “since I’ve been in college.” Again, she pauses, remembering times past, considering her next words seriously and completely. “Since I’ve been in college, I’ve become acutely aware of those things.”
 You’re Doing Fine for a Girl
When Barbara Hackman Franklin arrived for her first year of classes at Harvard Business School, she could barely find a ladies restroom on campus. It was 1963, the year that a United States Presidential Commission issued a report finding discrimination against women in every aspect of American life. Franklin was one of the 12 women in a Business School student body that included 680 men.
“There was suspicion of women in some careers, and business was not considered to be a woman’s purview,” Franklin explains of the 60s and 70s, her voice frank and good-natured. These suspicions didn’t stop Franklin from graduating with a Harvard MBA in 1964, one of the first women to do so, and going on to a full career: assistant vice-president at Citibank, staff assistant to President Nixon, Secretary of Commerce under George H.W. Bush, and now CEO of her own private international consulting firm Barbara Franklin Enterprises.
Despite her significant multi-sector achievements, Franklin’s passage through the American workplace involved episodes of sexual harassment and gender discrimination that many college students today have only witnessed in “Mad Men.” She recalls times when she was paid less than male employees in her same position, “chased around the desk” by her advancing male colleagues, and told “you’re doing fine for a girl,” (a direct quote, Franklin makes clear) in a performance review.
“I thought that was unfair,” Franklin remarks, referring to the performance review. “But who was I going to tell about that? I couldn’t tell my boss—he was the one who said it.”
Franklin feels that while workplace culture has improved dramatically in the past few decades, many of these stereotypes and inappropriate behaviors persist. “Not everyone is going to take women as seriously as you might like,” she warns. “I still run into men who just don’t get it. I don’t think they take women as seriously as they should.”
Franklin, who never had any children of her own, agrees with many of the sentiments in Slaughter’s article about the difficulties women face in balancing careers and family life. “Back then society did not have consensus that it was okay for women to have careers and families both,” Franklin remembers.
Slaughter concurs with Franklin’s assessment of how women were perceived in the 1970s American workforce. “The first generation of feminists—the generation ahead of me—you basically had to be a man. You couldn’t talk about kids; you couldn’t acknowledge any tension,” says Slaughter. “If you had to go see your kids, you said it was a doctor’s appointment or something. You could never, ever, ever acknowledge things that might reinforce stereotypes.”
In 2013, many women do indeed find ways to balance active careers with full family lives, yet most of the top positions across all sectors continue to be dominated by males. The gender disparity at the Business School and the Kennedy School may not seem too surprising because, in their imbalance, they reflect the imbalance of the outside world.
Kathleen E. Goodwin ’13, a Social Studies concentrator, got her first taste of the gender imbalance of the financial world during her junior summer when she interned at a banking firm in New York. Although the intern class was split equally among males and females, the rest of the firm did not maintain that same gender ratio. “It is very clear when you walk into a bank that all the executives are men,” Goodwin asserts. She describes the layout of her workplace: all men with big offices in the higher executive positions, with female assistants sitting outside to support them.
Volla, the economics concentrator who also spent last summer interning at a large New York bank, claims that though banking is a male-centric industry, it is easier for females to get jobs in the industry because of the external resources available for women to gain a head start. Eyes flashing with conviction, Volla defends the business workplace. “People say, ‘Well women aren’t rising to the top because of this glass ceiling, and it’s always been a guy’s world in business,’ but I think that they’re not striving hard enough,” Volla says.
Volla sees the workplace as much more meritocratic, more objective. “When it comes to business, it is not a gender based thing,” she asserts. “It is who can make the most money.”
Most women interviewed for this article, however, voice their belief that it would be impossible to completely ignore the importance of gender in workplace dynamics. Beyond issues of paid leave, women have consistently been paid less than men over the past few decades, a trend that continues through today.
“The gender gap in pay is smallest among white women and white men, and grows as you add women of color,” explains Gina Helfrich, the director of the Harvard College Women’s Center. Helfrich notes that Massachusetts ranks 34th of the 50 states in gender pay equity, a surprising fact, she says, considering the liberal character of the state. She attributes this pay gap to the fact that workers in Massachusetts are very well-paid overall, so their comparatively high earnings distract them from realizing the discrepancies between male and female salaries.
Raghuveer, UC President, says it would be “naïve” of her to hope that gender will not play a role in her life, but hopes it will not be a determining factor in her career. “I would like to think that I am the type of person who is confident in her abilities, in her substance, rather than resting on the fact that I’m a female or blaming the fact that I am a female for any shortcomings I might have,” she says. Still, Raghuveer concedes, “I know [gender] is going to come up, it’s just that my hope is that it doesn’t.”
Separate but Equal?
When Madoff, the student who discovered computer science at her New York high school, enters a Harvard computer science lecture, she notices the dearth of other females in her class. Madoff does not believe that she has faced gender-based discrimination at Harvard, but she describes the environment in her college computer science classes as “weird,” because members of her gender are so clearly in the minority. This weirdness is palpable and affecting, she says.
“When you are the only member of an isolated group, I think there’s a lot of pressure on your shoulders,” Madoff says. “Because of that, it makes me feel that much more nervous about saying the wrong thing in section or having a silly question in office hours,” she admits.
Surprised that her department did not already have some sort of group to support female students in computer science, Madoff reacted to the strange gender dynamics in her classes by taking action. She approached members of the department about the possibility of starting a new club called Women in Computer Science, held a preliminary interest meeting, and was astounded when a flood of women chose to attend. “The volume was just really, really overwhelming,” Madoff remembers, “People really wanted [this club] and saw a need for it.”
Though the Harvard Computer Society, which welcomes students of all genders, already existed, Women in Computer Science holds a slightly different mission: to establish a community of computer science-inclined women, both at Harvard and outside of Harvard, and also to raise awareness of and create opportunities for women in the field.
The segregation of common interest groups along gender lines is starting to become a trend among extracurricular groups at Harvard. Among finance-related extracurricular groups, the Harvard Financial Analysts Club and Veritas Financial Group are open to both genders with memberships that skew male, while newer groups like Harvard Women in Business and Smart Women Securities are now catering specifically to women with these interests.
“It’s an experience tailored to women,” explains Meredith L. Toman ’14, co-president of Smart Women Securities, which has a membership of around 200 women. Toman hails from Atlanta, Ga., and her singsong voice hints at a Southern backstory. Toman emphasizes the importance of a safe environment. “I do think there’s something to be said for learning in an environment where you completely feel comfortable and relaxed,” she says.
Madoff agrees. “To me, the best thing is that [these groups] provide a forum for conversation,” Madoff says. “I don’t consider myself timid at all. But the thing is that there are things I might not want to say in front of a guy.” She cites one speech given by a CEO concerning her time running a company during pregnancy as an example of this sort of conversation.
“I think that’s my biggest pet peeve at Harvard. It’s not that [women] don’t have questions; rather, they aren’t in an environment where they’re 100 percent comfortable speaking up,” says Inesha N. Premaratne ’15, chair of the Women’s Initiative in Leadership at Harvard’s Institute of Politics. After spending her last semester interning in the White House, Premaratne now helps organize seminars, discussions, and workshops through the Women’s Initiative in Leadership that seek to develop aspiring female leaders.
“Having a single-sex situation where we can build a community of girls who are dealing with similar problems across different disciplines allows us to tailor it more to these girls,” says Premaratne. “They really are walking away with not just a community of people who are going through what they’re going through, but with an understanding that they’re not alone.”
But not everyone agrees that segregating common interest groups by gender is beneficial. Though Stein plans to work in finance post-graduation, she has never wanted to join a relevant undergraduate group for girls. “The reason I never participated is because I always thought business is a place dominated by men, so the best practice probably would be to put yourself in a situation where you’re surrounded by men,” Stein asserts. “My gut would be that if you struggle to speak up in a room full of men, you might feel more safe participating in one of these all-girl clubs, but maybe you’re not tackling the real thing that you struggle with.”
For her thesis, Stein is focusing on the achievement gap between the genders in math and sciences. She has observed that while men and women are relatively equal in most academic qualifications, twice as many boys as girls will score an 800 on the math SAT and girls comprise only about 2 percent of all American International Math Olympiad participants. “I’m finding that girls are less likely to participate when they’re put in a competitive environment,” Stein says. “So it seems like there is some sort of intimidation or lack of confidence going on.”
Can Women Have it All?
Despite the continual dialogue concerning women and the workplace, the ubiquitous question, “Can Women Have It All?”, lingers.
“I think the answer to that question is that no one can have it all. No one can be president of the PTA and president of a company,” says Stein in response to Slaughter’s article. “I think that if you look at a lot of men who have really high-powered careers, it’s probably a big regret of theirs that they don’t get to spend more time at home, just like it’s a big regret for women who stay at home that they’re not able to have a high-powered career.”
That said, not all men expect that they will need to make the same kind of compromises in their professional life as their partners might once the pair decides to start a family. “One of my friends from home told me that he could never marry me because he would want to be the breadwinner, and he knows that I personally wouldn’t want that,” Toman, co-president of Smart Woman Securities, comments. “So I think that when I’m going to marry someone, we’re really going to have a lot of conversations about exactly how the relationship will work.”
“If I could find a guy who wants to be a stay-at-home dad and I make enough money so that’s plausible, that would be great,” the banking-bound Goodwin adds. “I hope that there’s a cultural shift so it’s acceptable for men to make professional decisions based on their family. But I am also realistic, and know there are compromises people are going to have to make on both sides.”
Elizabeth S. More, a lecturer on history and literature and studies of women, gender, and sexuality, is offering a new class this semester called “Home/Work” that covers the history of working women in the United States. More believes that the “Can Women Have It All?” debate is only really relevant to women who have access to maternity leave and sick days—a luxury that many working women do not have.
“Right now the US has extremely weak family leave policies, by far the weakest in the developed world,” says More, explaining that American employers have the freedom to decide their own leave policies, which can put a lot of strain on employed parents. Paid maternity leave is another major issue, as new mothers are expected to either take six weeks off or exit the workforce. Leaving work, even for just a few years, can have a lasting impact on a woman’s career.
Equalizing the workplace benefits not only female professionals, but also the performance of companies and organizations overall. Research has shown that gender-balanced teams are more effective problem solvers, and that a diversity of perspectives and styles leads to more informed decisions and enhanced results. The same could be true of households. As Sandberg asserted in her 2011 Barnard commencement speech, “A world where men ran half our homes and women ran half our institutions would be just a much better world.”
 Unhappy Equilibrium
In the Mather dining hall, the discussion with Premaratne is drawing to a close, the noise in the background fading as people finish their meals. However, Premaratne still has a few final things to say. “We always say ‘these are first world problems,’ but I sort of hate that phrase, to be honest,” Premaratne admits. “We do have problems that women face—here and abroad—and there are a whole scale of approaches and a whole scale of sensitivities we have to employ when we deal with them.”
Achieving gender balance in the workplace will require significant changes: shifts in both cultural paradigms and workplace policy. For McCarthy, these transitions will grow out of increased conversation. “Instead of saying ‘Can women have it all?’ let’s flip the script and ask ourselves why men think they can have it all,” he says. “One of the reasons why men have always assumed they can have it all is that women are doing a lot of the work to allow them to have it all. So let’s have that conversation.”
Though Franklin devoted her time in the Nixon administration to increasing the number of women in upper-level government positions and made much progress in doing so, she explains that Americans have not yet eliminated workplace discrimination completely. “There’s discrimination afoot,” Franklin warns. “I hope you don’t face it. But if you do, you should prepare yourself. Not everyone is going to take women as seriously as you might like.”
Slaughter agrees. “We are at an equilibrium, but it’s not a happy one,” she says. “No individuals feel like they can shift that [equilibrium]. Now we have to take this conversation that shows us how many people feel the way many of us do, and make change.”
Sections
The start of our night could have come straight out of  one of Non Sequitur’s “Famous Last Words” strips. The ones where the last phrases people utter before they find themselves six feet under are etched on gravestones over their heads for all eternity:
“Let’s go on an adventure…”
It was the ellipsis. That should have been enough to tip us off. There is no grammatical structure in the world more dangerous than an ellipsis. It is, after all, the invisibility cloak of the English language. An audible dot, dot, dot…and no one knows what’s happening. Besides, we had more important matters on our mind. Boredom is all consuming.
Arm in arm, the three of us sat on the common room couch. Our heads lolled against the plain white wall behind us, eyes rolled back in our heads from the sheer exhaustion of a week spent immersed in the busy endlessness of life and schoolwork. It was 10 p.m. on Friday. We were in college. Everyone else in the world had either gone out or gone to bed.
Not us though. Too tired to go out, too stubborn to go to bed, there we sat, stewing in our discontent.  Until it started up: the thinking.
It began with a walk. Because all adventures must begin somewhere, and we didn’t have bikes, and we didn’t have cars, and cabs are too expensive, and to take a train, you need to know where you’re going, and we didn’t know where we were going. So we started to walk.
It was early December. We had on fleeces but no coats, hands but no gloves, heads but no common sense. And so we kept walking until we ended up at MIT. Because around here no matter which way you head you will eventually end up at school—maybe not your school, but school nonetheless.
At MIT, we ended up at one of those outdoor staircases. The ones that are made out of concrete with shiny, steely smooth handrails running down the middle for grasping onto. In that instant, when we saw that handrail, all three of us had the same thought. All at once, we reverted to being nine years old again.
I once promised my mother that I would be as much a child at 90 as I was at nine. It was a warm day, and I had been picking forget-me-nots, which I still called “forgive-me-nots” at the time—one of those last childhood idiosyncrasies I was slow to give up. The morning had been spent on the backyard swing set, the afternoon skipping around, climbing the plum tree and chasing our cats while my mother gardened. It was a day of simple delights. Was this not all that life had to offer? That senseless, inexplicable, unstoppable joy of childhood, I decided, would be my own measure of success. If I could still call that sense of wonder to me when I had a stooped, crooked back and salty grey hair, I would have lived as I should.
Now, my two friends and I stood at the top of the stairs, looking at each other for a good quarter of a second before we lunged, each one of us grabbing for the top of the handrail. I got there first, I think. To be honest, I don’t remember. It didn’t matter. What matters is that we slid down that handrail and raced back up those stairs again, over and over and over, giddy with the novelty of it. For 10, 15 minutes we just kept going and going. What matters is that I was nine years old again. What matters is that our hands were so cold when we stopped that they were shaking and we had to shove them into our coat pockets so we could push forward, because there was no way we were going back after that.
We pressed on, and soon found ourselves at the Harvard Bridge. The whole bridge is 364.4 Smoots plus or minus one ear—to use the unit of measurement invented in a historic 1958 MIT prank—and we only made it through the first 180 before the race started. One of us broke ahead, and the other two chased, arms pumping, fighting for air, pushing ahead, scrambling, dissolving in laughter. We shed our 19-year-old selves again as we collapsed into each other, wheezing from cold and carefreeness. We were so out of breath that we had to walk all the way back across and start trekking home along the Charles, intoxicated by life and adventure.
Noses dripped; hands shook with the cold. It was long past midnight. At last we sensibly headed home towards sleep and maybe a cup of hot chocolate. The night was done and life was good.
Then, we saw the shopping cart, idling alone under a single low lit street lamp. It sat sweetly between a playground and an empty parking lot of smooth black asphalt. It beckoned, it begged, it pleaded. It drew us round in a worshipful circle. Within a minute we were pushing each other in it, taking turns, climbing in and out, seeing how fast we could go, toying with the line between perfect freedom and perfect insanity. We may have crossed it, I can’t really say. Here we were. Life was ours.
And then it wasn’t. We lay sprawled across the asphalt. Knees in shreds, elbows the color of tomato paste, eyes beginning to tear, starting to lose that Mad Hatter gleam they’d been hinting at all night.  Beside us the cart lay upturned, wheels still spinning treacherously. We got up gingerly, arms around each other, grimacing slightly, grinning wide.
Three hours and we’d lost 10 years. 30 seconds, and we had them back again. Aventure, as I said, is a dangerous, dangerous creature. At 19 years old, we had been nine for the night, and scraped knees were all we had to show for it.
Lily C Sugrue ’16, an FM staff writer, is a first-year living in Straus Hall. Her favorite song, funnily enough, is not “We Are Young” by fun.
Sections
Memorial Hall—a massive structure that commemorates the lives of Harvard alumni lost in the Civil War, feeds freshman, and attracts performers from around the world to the Sanders Theater—has undergone a series of changes since its conception. FM returns to The Crimson’s archives to explore Memorial Hall’s history and to imagine the memories made there through the years.
 
October, 1874: The College’s new dining club meets in Memorial Hall.
This massive building—reminiscent of a church, topped with peaks and spires—commemorates those lost in the War. It is still somewhat controversial that only the Union men are remembered, a fact that is sure to be one of the topics under discussion at the Dining Club tonight, perhaps murmured under hushed breath while students are served their roast beef.
The largest room in Memorial Hall is a splendid place to host the new dining club, many students think; the arching ceilings, high windows, and assorted paintings remind its members of their stern and white-wigged ancestors. Among the diners are men who carry themselves with a similarly luxurious air, speaking of their fathers’ plantations back at home. They whisper disdainfully of the outcome of the War, or lament that their deceased kin are not memorialized by the Hall.
After several meetings of the Dining Club, it becomes evident that even these men, who seem to blur together in a general clatter of spoons and forks, laughter and shouts, can be dichotomized into three distinct types, categorized and analyzed by current Crimson editors. One kind was influenced by his childhood etiquette classes and eats very delicately: His elbows remain off the mahogany tables, napkin tucked into collar, a flurry of “please” and “thank you”s. A second type appears to be consumed with the notion that this is his last meal, that his fellow diners are  his disciples in this da Vinci moment.
He eats at an alarming pace, asking for more before he has swallowed whatever grotesque matter he is chewing. This type uses his napkins the least, although he appears to require them the most. A third type forgets the existence of knives and mashes meals with the side of a fork. An unconscious effort, yet a messy and undignified one all the same.
Both those who criticize and favor the club worry about its future attendance rates; it is costly to dine in the great Hall. It has been suggested that games and prizes be administered at each meal in order to ensure attendance. Students doubt that Memorial Hall will ever be a major dining destination.
April, 1932: Memorial Hall has recently been hit with a series of pranks.
The most notable of these pranks featured an ancient clapper’s being stolen from Memorial Hall’s bell. The bell’s newfound silence, while  welcomed by those in dorms near the building, is causing quite a ruckus among the staff and administration. It appears that the thieves gained entry into the Hall through the most innocent of entrances—Sunday morning church services, of all things—to then commit the peculiar sin of lowering the entire bell apparatus and removing the clapper.
The students have found it strange not to hear the tolling of the bells these past few days. Weekly practices at the pistol range in Memorial Hall’s basement seem somehow changed—many have come to rely on the vibrations that seem to shake the whole foundation as the signal for the end of their sessions. The lack of bells is a reminder of the oddity of the structure itself: a pistol range in the basement, an almighty bell above, church services in between.
One question at hand concerns how the robbers managed to steal such a large piece of equipment while the rest of the students sat quietly in sermon. Speculative conversations have pegged the theft on Yalies, still sore from the last Game Day prank. The administration believes it was a group of technically-inclined grad students who were overeager to show off their wits and expose the University’s weak spots.
March 1966: Whether it’s a trend of universities alone or human nature itself, everything old seems in constant danger of being destroyed in order to make room for the new.
As the University ramps up efforts to fund new projects such as an underpass beneath Cambridge Street, it seeks space to remove old buildings and replace them with shiny new ones that will invoke the honor and the prestige of the University. Mem Hall is the latest target.
Mem Hall—the place where students have eaten since freshman year, seen concerts at Sanders, and met up between class—is Harvard’s geographical heart. Yet rumors have been circulating that the administration finds it an ugly, archaic piece of architecture, and that they toasted to its demise when the building went up in flames in the ‘50s. It has since been restored, memorialized, and lauded by alumni. But these days, few doubt it will be saved from the impending bulldozers. Dissenting students complain that only at Harvard  would a massive, functional, memorial building be torn down because professors and officials find it aesthetically displeasing.
As much as some students love Mem Hall, it’s going to be the alumni who will have to fight for its continued existence. Current students are glued to the TV, or to the papers: Some joke about the fact that they may be sent to Vietnam before they’re handed a diploma.
Whatever its fate, Mem Hall continues to be saturated with over a century of memories. Without a tangible structure to hold them, students wonder, where will its stories and people go when it’s gone?
Sections
Lawrence G. Wright has traveled all over the world, but he still speaks with a Texas twang. On Jan. 31, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author spoke at the Brattle Square Theatre about his latest book, “Going Clear: Scientology, Hollywood, & the Prison of Belief.” Between several book talks and a trip to London, FM caught up with Wright over the phone to ask him about his career and the controversies surrounding his new book.
1. Fifteen Minutes: How did you first become interested in pursuing writing as a career?
Lawrence G. Wright: It happened when I was in ninth grade in Dallas, Texas. I had an English teacher who would write little essays, which I thought were delightful. It was the first time I really considered the possibility that writing could be my life.
2. FM: You’ve written magazines features, screenplays, stage plays, and books. How does your writing style vary throughout each medium?
LW: Fundamentally, it’s all storytelling. For me, it’s very helpful to have the experience of writing in different mediums. Each form enriches the other. What I learned from writing non-fiction was how to research. What I learned from writing plays and movies was the importance of theme and character in telling a story.
3. FM: What was it like conducting research for “The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda and the Road to 9/11”?
LW: Writing “The Looming Tower” was more of a mission than just taking on a book. I had co-written a movie called “The Siege” with Bruce Willis and Denzel Washington and it prefigured a lot of what happened on 9/11. I had lived in the Arab world, so in some ways I was not uniquely qualified, but unusual in terms of my experiences. I thought I should go and try to find out what had actually happened. I really wanted to get it down and get it right. Writing that book taught me a lot about journalism and how to write that kind of book.
4. FM: You taught in Cairo for two years when you were much younger. Did your experiences in Egypt influence your writing of “The Looming Tower”?
LW: The culture wasn’t that exotic to me; I’d lived in it. I felt like I could write more authentically about the personalities, especially Al-Zawahiri, al-Qaeda’s number two guy at the time. I felt like I was much more acquainted with those personalities than a lot of people would have been because I had taught there, had a lot of Egyptian friends, and loved the culture.
5. FM: What was it like to perform your one-man show, “My Trip to al-Qaeda”?
LW: When I finished “The Looming Tower,” a lot of people asked me, “What was it like to talk to those people and what were your experiences?” I realized I hadn’t processed that thought myself, and I hadn’t really had time to sit down and think about how the experience had changed me. I decided that this would be a way for me to explore these questions as well. I like the intimacy of theatre. I call what I did nonfiction theater. This was really a blending of documentary filmmaking with the actual theatrical experience.
6. FM: Summarize your new book “Going Clear” in 15 words.
LW: Why do people join Scientology? What do they get from it? Why do they leave?
7. FM: What prompted you to write about Scientology?
LW: In America we can believe anything that we want, and in a lot of countries that’s not true. In America we have so many different religions, and we are constantly inventing new ones. I had written a good deal about religion in the past. I’ve written about the Amish and the Mormons, the Southern Baptists and the Pentecostals. I’ve really done a lot of writing about religion because I think that religion is much more accountable than politics in terms of shaping actual behavior and changing society. I was interested in Scientology for years, and I was looking for a way to get into the story. When Paul Haggis talked out, I thought there—that’s my way in.
8. FM: The book hasn’t been released in the U.K. because of a libel review. Do you think that the suit will be dismissed and your book will be distributed soon?
LW: I hope to get a British publisher. I have a meeting with Penn International tomorrow. They’re trying to get the libel laws changed because in the U.K. it’s so restrictive. It’s very difficult for people to have access to information about organizations or personalities that might be doing things that are really sinister. Under the libel laws, people don’t have access to that information. For example, there is a British journalist named David Walsh who did an investigative report on Lance Armstrong and had many witnesses that Lance had been doping despite his denials. They published that information and Lance Armstrong sued in a British court and won. Now we know Lance was lying, but that reporter and the newspaper that published it paid dearly for telling the truth in a country where those freedoms are not very well protected.
9. FM: Church of Scientology officials have declined to speak with you despite your persistent efforts to contact them. What do you hope to gain by arranging interviews?
LW: When you are reporting you always want to get everyone’s perspective. That’s the first law of journalism: Talk to everybody you can. But you can only talk to the people who are willing to talk. I would have loved to have more inside information from the Church to convey to my reader. It was very frustrating to me that they denied me the chance to speak with upper level executives.
10. FM: You spoke with over two hundred people for your book. How did you go about finding sources?
LW: When I start a project, I take a yellow legal pad and I write down the names of the obvious people that I should talk to. When I talk to them I ask who else should I talk to and they give me other names of people I haven’t heard of or hadn’t thought of. The roots go deeper and deeper into the soil and eventually you run out of names.
11. FM: What role do you think that celebrities involved in Scientology like Tom Cruise have in spreading the religion?
LW: I think that for celebrities, in particular Tom Cruise, there are moral responsibilities to examine what’s happening inside the Church. There’s no telling how many people have gone into Scientology because of their example. There are very few ways that you can change Scientology. The only way that occurs to me that might be effective is if celebrities that have been exploited by the Church actually begin to take stock of the organization and demand change themselves. Otherwise, I don’t see any way to change Scientology.
12. FM: Many of the books that you’ve written have been centered on controversial, hidden groups like al-Qaeda and the Church of Scientology. What was it like reporting on these topics and then facing the controversy after you published your books?
LW: When you write about a controversial subject like Scientology, you are going to be attacked. I knew from the very beginning that I would have to defend my work, and I’m happy to do that. I’m proud of it. But I knew that they would try to find any weaknesses that they could. A lot of what you’re hearing from the media is that the Church is unhappy [with the book]—and they are likely to be. I am defending my work against the onslaught of the attack that the Church has been launching against me. I expected that.
13. FM: What are some of the next topics you hope to write about?
LW: I’m in the market. I’m frustrated because I wish I had the next project in hand, but right now I’m looking at some different possibilities. I’ve got three plays that I’m working on. One of them just started rehearsals this week. It’s about Oriana Fallaci who was like the most famous journalist in the world. Then I have a play about captives. Then I’m going to London because I have a reading of a play called “Saturday.” So I have a lot of that going on.
14. FM: Outside of writing, what are some other things you do?
LW: I took up the piano when I was 38-and-a-half, and I’ve been taking lessons since. It’s terrific. I wish I had played music all my life. But I’m glad, at least, that this later part of my life is just full of music.
15. FM: The New York Times has reported on your commitment to preserving long-form narrative journalism. What are some of your favorite long-form pieces you’ve written for The New Yorker?
LW: I grew up reading The New Yorker and I idolized one of the writers that wrote for it. One of the biggest moments of my life was when I actually got a job at The New Yorker. You know when I was working on “The Looming Tower,” The New Yorker underwrote a lot of my articles that became sources for my book. I could never have done it on my own. It was very expensive. I went all over the world. That kind of commitment is very hard for a magazine to make, but I was really lucky to have The New Yorker behind me.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Law Review, which has historically been staffed by disproportionately more men than women, has expanded its affirmative action policy to include gender as a criteria in its editor selection process.
Following a year in which just 20.5 percent of its elected editors were female, the Law Review will consider gender when choosing some of its applicants for the first time ever this year.
The majority of the Law Review’s returning editors approved the policy change this January in an attempt to increase the number of female editors on the staff. Because of the specific nature of the Law Review’s admissions process, the new policy will be used in choosing 12 of the Law Review’s next 46 editors.
Second-year Law School student Gillian S. Grossman ’10, the recently elected president of the Law Review who will lead the organization’s 127th volume, wrote in an email that the policy change was among many considered to “enhance the diversity of the editorial body.”
“Volume 127 decided that adding gender to the list of criteria considered by the discretionary committee was one good step in that direction,” she wrote.
The changed affirmative action policy was one of several initiatives passed by second-year editors last month in preparation for taking over the leadership of the Law Review. The editors also approved a change that will add two more students to this year’s pool of rising editors—increasing its size from 44 to 46—in the upcoming application process.
The Law Review, whose total staff is currently 25 percent female, selects new editors using three distinct application processes. Of the 44 editors elected in recent years, 20 are anonymously selected based solely on their performance on an annual writing test administered to first-year law students after their semester ends in May. An additional 14 editors are chosen based on a combination of their writing scores and their grades.
The remaining 10 spots are filled by a discretionary committee that incorporates applicants’ grades, writing test scores, race, and any physical disabilities into their decisions.
But this year, the discretionary committee will fill 12 spots and consider gender in addition to its existing criteria.
The first group of applicants to be elected under this changed policy will be the editors of the 128th volume, who will be selected over the summer.
Grossman wrote that it remains to be seen how effective this policy will be in increasing the percentage of female editors.
“Because the Law Review has not yet started the selection process for Volume 128, it’s too soon to tell what impact the policy will have,” Grossman wrote. “As a historical matter, the Law Review has tended to have a higher percentage of female editors than does Volume 127, so it is not unlikely that we would see an increase in the number of female editors in the next volume regardless of this policy, though of course we cannot know for certain.”
The Law Review’s new policy comes in the midst of a national debate over race-based affirmative action in college admissions, an issue on which the Supreme Court is expected to rule this June.
—Staff writer Dev A. Patel can be reached at devpatel@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @dev_a_patel.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The average net tuition cost for Harvard undergraduate students is $18,277—the cheapest in the Ivy League—according to the new “College Scorecard” web tool that President Obama revealed in the State of the Union Address last week. The “College Scorecard” aims to give families more information on the price and value of colleges by providing an interactive tool showing what, on average, undergraduate students are expected to pay after grants and scholarships are subtracted from the school’s cost.
Harvard’s net cost of $18,277 made it more affordable than Princeton ($18,813), Yale ($18,934), Columbia ($19,073), University of Pennsylvania ($20,592), Dartmouth ($20,814), Brown ($22,743), and Cornell ($24,249), as well as several of the more expensive Greater Boston schools.
Harvard also offered a significantly lower median borrowing amount per student. With typical Harvard families borrowing $7,700 in Federal loans, the new interactive “College Scorecard” listed the monthly loan payback for a Harvard student to be $88.61 compared to the monthly values of the other Ivy League schools, which all exceeded $100.
“Today, skyrocketing costs price way too many young people out of a higher education, or saddle them with unsustainable debt,” Obama said in his State of the Union address, claiming that with this newly released “College Scorecard” parents and students can “compare schools on a simple criteria: where you can get the most bang for you educational buck.”
An online tool designed by the U.S. Department of Education, the scorecard shows a college’s cost, graduation rate, loan default rate, median borrowing amount, and employment information on any school through a simple search. In the search, students and families can feed in their rankings of important qualities such as majors offered, awards offered, location, enrollment size, campus setting, etc., and then select specific institutions to see their “scorecards” which offer price tags for the schools.
“The new scorecard highlights Harvard’s considerable efforts to offer an affordable college education for undergraduates from all economic backgrounds, whether they study at Harvard College or at the Harvard Extension School,” a Harvard spokesperson wrote in an email to The Crimson.
From 2007-2009, Harvard University has seen a reported decrease in average net price by 15.5%. Harvard College Office of Admissions and Financial Aid reported that for the 2012-13 academic year, the total cost of attendance for students (including room, board, and health fees) was $54,496.
—Staff writer Zohra D. Yaqhubi can be reached at zyaqhubi@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @zohradyaqhubi.
This article has been revised to reflect the following clarification:
CLARIFICATION: February 24, 2013
An earlier version of this article stated and included a headline stating that the College Scorecard ranked Harvard's tuition as lowest in the Ivy League. To clarify, the College Scorecard evaluated Harvard's net tuition cost, including tuition and required fees.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Bauer Fellow Peter J. Turnbaugh and coworkers published work last month that could pave the way for techniques in “personalized medicine”—treatment which caters to an individuals’ unique genetic makeup.
The paper, which was published in the research publication “Cell,” demonstrated some of the specific effects certain drugs have on microbes in the human body.
The results of this study could help scientists and doctors predict and avoid side effects that may arise from their patients taking oral medication.
Even with advances in medicine, there are still a significant number of drugs that come with side effects of varying degree. These side effects are difficult for scientists to eliminate because every person’s response to drugs is individualized and unique.
In order to begin to understand these unique responses, Turnbaugh’s group analyzed the responses of various microbes found in the human gut, and their responses to various drugs and antibiotics.
After the microbes were treated with doses of the drugs, researchers inspected them for changes in their structure and gene expression.
By noting which groups of microorganisms changed in response to the treatment, Turnbaugh’s group was able to conclude which microbes interact most strongly with a series of six drugs and eight antibiotics.
Turnbaugh said that knowing these specific responses could help determine which drugs might prove damaging to specific patients.
According to Turnbaugh, the techniques used in the study were relatively new, and would not have been monetarily feasible for many research groups five years ago.
“There has been sort of a resurgence in the field in the last three years, primarily driven by the fact that [genetic] sequencing costs have decreased,” Turnbaugh said. “There’s a lot of feedback… and a lot of tools that tell us what genes are in [different bacteria’s] genome.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Using data generated by planes that traveled between the North and South Poles, Harvard researchers generated the first set of highly detailed measurements of greenhouse gas levels across the globe. This comprehensive data set is now available to the public.
The researchers were part of the HIAPER Pole-to-Pole Observations team, comprised of scientists from Harvard University, University of Miami, Princeton University, the National Center for Atmospheric Research, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Scripps Research Institute, and Scripps Institution of Oceanography.
“We were filling in some important new pieces of information about what controls the climate system,” said atmospheric and environmental studies professor and lead principle investigator Steven C. Wofsy.
He said that, while satellites have long gathered data on carbon dioxide and other trace atmospheric gases, distance prevented them from measuring at a more refined level.
The HIPPO project utilized manned flights to investigate the seasonal factors which have a significant effect on the distribution of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, said team member Gregory Santoni, a graduate student in the department of earth and planetary sciences.
Data collection took place between 2009 and 2011 in five missions, each comprised of roughly 10 to 12 flights and each of which lasted three-week flights.
The flights traveled across the Pacific Basin, maneuvering through different altitudes to obtain data from a large cross section of the atmosphere.
In all, the team obtained 785 vertical profiles and 4,000 flask samples from the atmosphere in over 600 hours of flight.
The data set contains a number of new insights regarding atmospheric gas concentration. For instance, researchers found evidence that Southeast Asia is a vigorous source of the greenhouse gas nitrous oxide, a fact that was previously unnoticed. According to Santoni, the data set also suggests that current models used to predict the removal of black carbon—a substance considered to significantly contribute to global warming—are inaccurate.
Additionally, researchers found  evidence that, as human activity has caused the ice cover over the Arctic Ocean to recede, significant amounts of methane are being produced by previously submerged biological processes occurring on the ocean’s surface.
“You wouldn’t necessarily think of human impact as being something that has a chain of events,” Wofsky said.
The team is hopeful that the data set can be applied to research involving climatological issues in a number of different fields.
—Staff writer Alyza Sebenius can be reached at asebenius@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @asebenius.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 9, 2013
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the number of flask samples that a team of Harvard researchers obtained from the atmosphere. In fact, they collected 4,000 samples, not 400. The story also incorrectly stated that they collected these and other measurements in under 600 hours of airplane flight, while in fact they obtained their data in over 600 hours of flight.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
According to a recent study by a team of Harvard researchers from across the University, specialists in thermoregulation, dermatologists, and hair experts have one thing in common: the EDAR gene.
Using a tool she has developed over the past several years, Pardis C. Sabeti, one of the lead researchers of the study and an associate professor of organismic and evolutionary biology, was able to identify EDAR as an evolutionary advantageous gene. With this study Sabeti and her co-workers sought to understand what makes the gene so advantageous.
To clearly identify its effects on physical traits, Yana G. Kamberov, a research fellow in genetics at Harvard Medical School, isolated and implanted the single gene into laboratory mice. The resulting mice exhibited not only thicker hair and altered teeth shape but also an unexpected increase in sweat glands and diminished mammary gland sizes.
EDAR’s importance to sweat glands was further confirmed by analyzing the genomes of living humans of Han Chinese descent. Those with a similarly high frequency of sweat glands also possessed EDAR.
The ability to sweat bears great evolutionary significance as it is one of the characteristics that distinguishes humans from other animals. Now that the researchers have established causality between the EDAR gene and its many physical manifestations, they can begin to investigate whether sweating­—or one of the other many traits expressed by the gene—makes it evolutionarily favored.
The gene’s many roles have brought together a diverse range of specialists to collaborate on this project. From specialists in thermoregulation—how the body maintains its optimum temperature—to dermatologists to hair experts, each scientist offers a unique perspective on “why we are the way we are,” Sabeti said.
“Because I work on hair, I spend a lot of time talking to cosmetic companies,” said Bruce A. Morgan, an associate professor of dermatology at Harvard Medical School. “When this gene first came out—a gene that will make your hair thicker—all the cosmetic companies thought, ‘Oh, there’s the secret to life.’”
Eventually, Sabeti hopes to apply her gene-identifying technology to epidemiology in an attempt to correlate certain genes with increased odds of immunity or disease-resistance. She has located over 400 candidates for evolutionarily favored genes that will potentially shed light on ways to prevent or treat illnesses.
“Anything that’s been critical for our survival in the past may unlock mysteries of how to keep human survival going forward,” Sabeti said.
—Staff writer Jessica A. Barzilay can be reached at jessicabarzilay@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @jessicabarzilay.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
An advancement in soft robotics by Harvard-affiliated researchers allows these flexible robots to react faster than ever and jump more than a foot in the air.
The study’s critical innovation was the incorporation of an internal gas combustion engine for the robot’s motion, according to Adam A. Stokes, one of the authors of the study. Gas combustion, as opposed to previously used gas compression, enables motion at a much faster pace. Now soft robots jump within four milliseconds of initiation.
“Jumping is a side effect of exploring combustion as a propulsion and power source for soft robots,” said the study’s lead author Robert F. Shepherd, a former postdoctoral researcher at Harvard and now an assistant professor at Cornell.
The three-legged robots are made of compressible material, such as silicone, that can return to its shape. Each leg contains an internal chamber that wires inject with explosive gases. In an emailed statement to The Crimson, Stokes compared the technology to the “spark plug in a car engine.” Upon gas combustion, the volume of the robot changes, exerting a force against the ground and causing the jump.
This study, funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency,  is the latest installment in the Whitesides Research Group’s work in soft robotics. In 2011, a team of researchers under George M. Whitesides ’60 first developed a robot to imitate the motion of a squid.
Made using 3D printers, soft robots are cheaper and more easily manufactured than hard robots. This lower price and ability to avoid obstacles will potentially make them more useful than hard robots for search and rescue missions, Shepherd said.
Still, despite the large potential for soft robots, Harvard research associate and study author Jabulani R. Barber said that scientists “aren’t trying to replace hard robots.”
Instead, Shepherd said that soft-robots have the ability to complement hard robots.
“Soft robots are important because they will eventually allow robots to be used in places where hard robots can’t, perhaps in internal surgery,” Shepherd said.
Current and future developments in soft robotics are focused on “trying out new materials and designs for crawling, jumping, gripping, color changing, and ‘looking’” Stokes wrote.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following a recent review of undergraduate curriculum, the government department introduced two new research-oriented courses this spring to improve the quality of its thesis program.
The two courses, Government 61: Research Practice in Quantitative Methods and Government 62: Research Practice in Qualitative Methods, aim to equip students with skills necessary to better conduct research in political science.
Associate professor of social sciences Arthur P. Spirling, who teaches Government 61, said the course deals “primarily in how to model statistical data that the students have in their personal projects or as pertains to their theses.”
Visiting associate professor Frances Hagopian, who teaches Government 62, said that the class aims both to enhance students’ familiarity with research design and to equip them with methodological techniques.
Hagopian’s new course, which enrolls 19 students, most of whom are junior government concentrators, combines theoretical readings with the study of explanatory works.
Aaron E. Watanabe ’14 said that Government 62 focuses on “research design, [on] how to ask a question, [on] how to trace out causal links.”
Government professor Steven R. Levitsky said the motivation for the introduction of these two courses lies in the perennial struggles of government thesis writers.
“Your average honor student did not know how to write a thesis,” said Levitsky, who chaired the committee that reviewed the undergraduate government curriculum. “They started their junior year with zero training on how to do research.”
The government department’s Director of Undergraduate Studies Cheryl B. Welch said that student demand drove the push for more research-oriented classes.
“One of the things that the students told us is that they wanted both more practice and more opportunity to do research in political science,” said Welch.
According to Levitsky, while undergraduates certainly expressed their concerns, many faculty members were also critical.
“The old situation, prior to this class existing, of students being in this very awkward position of having to learn statistics [quickly] while they’re trying to write their thesis was not really good for their thesis writing,” said Spirling.
Four weeks into the semester, students and faculty members have expressed satisfaction at the course’s progress.
“It sort of filled a really important gap in the curricula they had before,” Cody R. Dean ’14, a student in Government 61. “It’s a great class...I hope they continue and grow it.”
The department’s effort to offer more research opportunities began last semester when assistant government professor Ryan D. Enos and other faculty members pioneered the course Government 92r: Faculty Research Assistant. The course, which is offered again this spring, allows students to participate in research projects with faculty members.
“Students do a lot of consumption of research design in government class, but they never really get to see how it comes about,” said Janet I. Lewis, a post-doctorate fellow who is assisted by two students for her comparative study of insurgent groups.
“I think [Government 92r is] a fantastic window for students into the world of research, to see how the research process actually works behind the scenes,” she added.
—Staff writer Francesca Annicchiarico can be reached at fannicchiarico01@collge.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @FRAnnicchiarico.
—Staff writer John P. Finnegan can be reached at johnfinnegan@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @finneganspake.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Earlier this week Eric S. Lander, founding director of the Broad Institute at MIT and Harvard, received a call saying he had been awarded $3 million.
Lander was one of 11 scientists, announced Wednesday, awarded the inaugural Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences Award, which recognizes scientists in the field of curing intractable disease and extending human life.
The prize was founded by Russian entrepreneur and venture capitalist Yuri Milner in conjunction with a board of tech industry leaders, including Harvard dropout and Facebook founder Mark E. Zuckerberg.
The award honored Lander for his contribution to the field of genetics. As the leader of the Human Genome Project, Lander has helped advanced the field of genomics through publically-available genome sequencing.
“For the last 25 years or so I’ve been very interested in trying to understand what’s in the human genome,” said Lander. “In the last decade, the methods have just exploded. Its become possible to read out genetic information about a million times cheaper and faster than you could do before.”
The Breakthrough Prize is the most recent in a series of prizes given by Milner. Last summer, he launched the Fundamental Physics Prize, which awarded nine physicists $3 million dollars each.
With the prize money, the board hopes to enable scientists to increase their engagement with the public and support other future endeavors.
Lander said he plans to put some of the prize money towards EdX—the nonprofit virtual learning initiative launched by Harvard and MIT last May.
Lander, who will be teaching an introductory biology course through EdX this spring, said he wants his EdX course to not only teach students but also be a resource for teachers.
“In addition to my research I care a lot about teaching,” Lander said. “I think there is a great partnership to be had between universities and high school teachers, and middle school teachers.”
This year’s recipients will be a part of the selection committee for future winners. The board plans to award five prizes per year to researchers in the life sciences.
Lander said he looks forward to contributing to the selection process.
“When they give you the prize you feel pretty positively disposed to helping them, so I think we all said sure,” Lander said.
The guidelines for the selection process include that the prize should recognize major achievements, but there are no age restrictions, many people can share it, and it can be received by the same individual more than once.
—Staff writer Rachel J. Sapire can be reached at rsapire@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @racheljsap.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At the head of an intimate round table at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, Harvard Law School professor Noah Feldman conversed with professors and community members about the transforming cultural politics of the Salafi movement in the wake of the Arab Spring.
Feldman highlighted that a deeply unconventional form of Salafism has become a common mode of expression for rebellious middle class youth, who are coupling traditional Salafi customs to unorthodox practices.
The new Tunisian Salafis, Feldman noted, wear traditional attire alongside non-traditional clothing. For example, a woman might wear a head scarf with a mini-skirt.
“Nobody dressed this way in urban areas of Tunisia [before the Arab Spring],” Feldman said. “It would have been culturally unthinkable.”
The cultural aspects of this new Salafism intertwine with political motives. The new Salafis are covering the whole spectrum of political action, from peaceful reactionary protests to violent actions.
“It looks like a youth movement...but there is something even noble about it,” Feldman said.
Feldman underscored that between naiveté and religious belief, the Tunisian Salafis are attempting to change the world around them.
Sarah C. Plana ’12, a research assistant in the government department who attended the seminar, said Feldman’s discussion captured the complicated nature of the Tunisian Salafi movement and its potential repercussions onto area politics.
Feldman elaborated on the potential impact of the Tunisian Salafi movement in the broader Arab world.
“[The Salafi movement] jumps across borders incredibly effectively,” Feldman argued, citing the rapid spread of this cultural trend in countries other than Tunisia.
Feldman argued that the split between moderate Islamists and the Salafis may become an issue of central significance to the politics of the Arab world in the near future, especially if it were to erupt into violence.
“It would not take many Salafis to make a general turn to violence,” Feldman said.
—Staff writer Antonio Coppola can be reached acoppola@college.harvard.edu. Follow him @AntonioCoppolaC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Entering in plain blue jeans, a black blazer, and bright red nails, Edward J. “Eddie” Izzard flaunted his observational humor as he accepted the sixth annual Outstanding Lifetime Achievement Award in Cultural Humanism in Memorial Church on Wednesday. Though comedic in tone, Izzard’s acceptance speech—delivered as part of Harvard’s Atheist Coming Out Week— delivered a serious message encouraging audience members to believe in each other instead of an “invisible person.”
“Science is full of theories. Religion is just full of stories,” Izzard said. “They’re stories, in which case Lord of the Rings is the same.”
Izzard questioned the religious figures present in many faiths, taking issue with the notion of a religious leader who demands human sacrifice and constant praise, but does not make an appearance in times of extreme suffering.
“No God has ever turned up. No God has ever, ever turned up,” he said.
Izzard poked fun at the lack of this “invisible figure” in the lives of both believers and non-believers.
“Don’t send a bush down...and set it on fire,” Izzard said, referencing religious “stories” which he contrasted to scientific theories.
Izzard also made light of recent growth in the number of followers of the Catholic Church.
“People say that Catholicism is the fastest growing religion, and that just cannot be. Even the Pope’s getting out,” he said.
In his introduction, Harvard’s Humanist Chaplain Greg M. Epstein said that the members of the Humanist community at large believe in a simple truth: “good without God.”
Epstein said that this belief and the values of the Humanist community are among many things that have contributed to a society of humanists that has grown “too big for little spaces.” These values include “compassion, creativity, justice, awareness, feminism, science, and progress,” Epstein said.
Izzard also discussed the growth of the Humanist community.
“Humanist Society, it’s the fastest growing, not religion, thought process...fastest growing sensibility in the world,” he said.
Epstein described Izzard as a product of the culture of the growing Humanist community.
“Culture is what we create to remind us in every aspect of our lives to love, laugh, cry, feel...connect,” Epstein said.
Izzard expressed a similar sentiment about humanism.
“I believe in us, I believe in other people,” Izzard said. “I think Heaven and Hell are here on Earth and [are] what we make of it. I’m happy to be proved wrong on this, but until then... I’m going to stand by this.”
Throughout the speech, Izzard repeated a short statement that encapsulated the central point of his talk: “It’s just us, guys.”
—Staff writer Zohra D. Yaqhubi can be reached at zyaqhubi@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @zohradyaqhubi.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the midst of a national debate regarding gun-control policies, National Rifle Association President David A. Keene called on the government to better enforce existing laws regarding firearms before making legislative changes during an event in the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum at the Institute of Politics on Wednesday night.
“Before you start expanding this system, you need to make it work,” said Keene of existing legislation.
Keene spent half of the hour-long discussion deflecting largely critical questions from audience members from across the University. One Harvard undergraduate asked Keene to reflect on the controversial NRA commercial that labeled the president an “elitist hypocrite” for sending his daughters to a school with armed guards. A Harvard Kennedy School student asked if he thought America’s founders would consider the Second Amendment “necessary and constitutional” in modern times.
Keene was defensive in his responses, reiterating points that have been made by members of the NRA in the past.
Popular semi-automatic firearms should remain legal, Keene said, “because they’re legitimate under the constitution, [people] enjoy them, millions of people use them, very rarely are they used for criminal purposes.”
Many lawmakers have recently sought to renew the ban on assault rifles which expired in 2004. Assault rifles have been the weapon of choice for many of the perpetrators of recent mass shootings.
Such weapons were addressed in gun legislation passed by the New York State Assembly and Senate following the December shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School—policies that Keene said were “rammed through” in the wake of tragedy.
“It’s a mistake, for policy reasons, to be making legislation at the height of an emotional moment,” Keene said.
Although the mass shooting at Sandy Hook was not central to the discussion, the Progressive Caucus, a student group at the Kennedy School, handed out green ribbon pins to audience members prior to the event. The ribbon, worn by President Barack Obama during his State of the Union Address, commemorates the victims of the Sandy Hook shooting.
Many across the United States have advocated for universal background checks for those who want to purchase guns. When event moderator, CNN Chief National Correspondent, and IOP Fellow John King brought up the idea, Keene criticized this, calling it burdensome and restricting to law-abiding citizens.
While Keene said that the NRA did not want to shut down any conversation, he said that NRA “will not support something which we think burdens the innocent to try to find the very few who are guilty.”
Debates over gun regulations taking place nationwide have found their way to Harvard’s campus, where the Undergraduate Council recently released a report examining the University’s gun policies. Harvard’s official rules ban “[p]ossession and/or use on University property of firearms or other dangerous weapons.”
During an interview with The Crimson, Keene said that although the University is a private institution that has the right to make its own rules, “from a policy standpoint, the students probably would be safer” if Harvard lifted its ban on guns.
“A very strong argument can be made that you’re better off from a security standpoint to allow responsible people to carry arms,” Keene said.
—Staff writer Steven R. Watros can be reached at watros@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @stevewatros.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard has hired a Title IX Coordinator to oversee the University’s compliance with the 40-year-old gender equality legislation, according to a Harvard spokesperson.
The new appointee, whose name will be announced when he or she begins work in March, will monitor Harvard’s policies “to ensure compliance with state and federal law and regulations,” wrote Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Jeff Neal in an emailed statement.
According to the statement, the new coordinator will work across the University’s various schools and departments to collect statistics about sexual harassment on campus, disseminate educational material related to sexual assault prevention, and provide annual compliance reports to students and administrators. The appointee will also coordinate efforts to promote equal access for all students in admissions, athletics, and academics.
Neal wrote that the position was created last fall and the new coordinator was hired “in recent months.” He declined to comment on why Harvard decided to create the new post.
According to the Department of Education’s website, Title IX requires all colleges and universities to maintain a Title IX coordinator and notify all students of the coordinator’s name and contact information.
In recent years, Harvard has faced considerable external pressure to reevaluate its compliance with Title IX.
In April 2011, the Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights sent a “Dear Colleague” letter containing a new set of Title IX guidelines to colleges and universities receiving federal funding. The letter recommended that every school “designate at least one employee to coordinate its efforts to comply with and carry out its responsibilities under Title IX.”
That same month, New England School of Law professor Wendy Murphy filed a Title IX complaint against Harvard Law School, alleging that the school’s sexual assault policies did not comply with the latest guidelines issued by the Office for Civil Rights.
The Office for Civil Rights launched an official investigation, but the case has yet to be resolved.
Harvard’s move makes Dartmouth the only school in the Ivy League that does not employ an administrator officially designated as a Title IX coordinator.
In November 2011, Yale named a campus Title IX coordinator as part of a response into an Office for Civil Rights investigation into its procedures.
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, signed into law by Richard Nixon, forbids discrimination based on sex in “any education program or activity receiving federal financial assistance.”
Although the legislation is widely known for increasing the participation of women in high school and collegiate sports, it also treats sexual harassment as a form of discrimination.
—Staff writer Michelle Denise L. Ferreol can be reached at mferreol@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @michiferreol.
—Staff writer Jared T. Lucky can be reached at lucky@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @jared_lucky.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: February 21, 2013, at 10:46 p.m.
Nicole Scherzinger, the former lead singer of the Pussycat Dolls, has been named the Harvard Foundation’s 2013 Artist of the Year.
The musician, who now performs as a solo artist, has won two MTV Music Video Awards, as well as three Billboard Music Awards for the Pussycat Dolls’ 2005 hit song “Don’t Cha.”
Scherzinger will be honored on Saturday at the 28th annual Cultural Rhythms festival, a day-long campus diversity celebration that will also feature performances and cuisine from student groups.
Scherzinger, whose father is of Filipino descent and whose mother is of Russian and Hawaii descent, is the first woman of Asian American heritage to be honored with the award, according to S. Allen Counter, director of the Harvard Foundation.
“It’s a real honor for us,” Counter said of Scherzinger’s selection.
In past years, Scherzinger has been nominated for the award several times by Harvard students, particularly those of Hawaiian and Filipino origin, Counter said.
On Saturday, Scherzinger will be roasted at 12 p.m. in Kirkland House, dine with students at a luncheon, and then receive her award at Cultural Rhythms’ 3 p.m. matinée show.
In choosing its Artist of the Year, the Harvard Foundation seeks to honor people of diverse backgrounds who have also dedicated time and effort to philanthropy, Counter said.
Scherzinger has been active in supporting individuals with Down Syndrome and raising money for breast cancer research.
In celebration of its 30th anniversary this year, the Harvard Foundation has also invited United States Treasurer Rosa G. Rios ‘87 to appear at the festival. Rios, who helped found Cultural Rhythms as an undergraduate, will introduce Scherzinger at the matinée show.
Student performers from a handful of student organizations across campus, including Harvard Bhangra, Mariachi Veritas de Harvard, the Kuumba Singers, and the Harvard Breakers, will also showcase their talents at the matinée show. More student performances will follow during an evening show later that day.
Last year Grammy Award-winning musician John Legend was honored at the festival. Other past honorees include Shakira, Wyclef Jean, Jackie Chan, and Matt Damon, formerly of the Class of 1992.
“The diversity of Harvard has changed considerably,” Counter said. “We celebrate our cultural diversity.”
—Staff writer Laya Anasu can be reached at layaanasu@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @layaanasu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Crowdsourcing, posing a question, problem, or idea on the internet with the hope of soliciting responses from other web-users, has emerged as a valuable new method of soliciting ideas and solutions in the medical field, according to a case study conducted jointly by researchers at Harvard Medical School, Harvard Business School, London Business School, and web-based innovation company TopCoder.
“The beauty of crowdsourcing is that it provides access to people that you would never normally meet,” said Ramy A. Arnaout, an assistant professor of pathology at the Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center.
Arnaout, who co-authored the study, examined the impact of providing cash prizes to software developers and programmers on the web to encourage responses to a computational biological problem.
Arnaout said that the study—which was released in the scientific journal Nature Biotechnology on Feb. 7—showed that crowdsourcing is “100 percent beneficial,” calling the solutions from TopCoder users “mind-bogglingly elegant.”
Of the 122 responses to Arnaout’s TopCoder post, 16 of the algorithm solutions were more efficient and accurate than the ones produced by Arnaout and 30 beat the well-established National Institute of Health’s MegaBLAST benchmark, according to the study. Associate professor at the Medical School Eva C. Guinan, who also worked on the study, said that while researchers had originally been working with four to five approaches to the problem, the submissions provided 89 new ways to approach the problem.
Although crowdsourcing traditionally only has been employed in more commercial settings, the scope of the study suggests that there is a place for crowdsourcing in scientific and medical fields.
“In our pursuit of knowledge we can leverage the knowledge of other people around the world,” said Harvard Business School assistant professor Karim R. Lakhani.
Robert Hughes, the president of TopCoder, said he believes that scientists will soon be able to use crowdsourcing to sift through large data sets, utilizing a global community to answer complicated problems.
Guinan echoed Hughes, saying that web-based crowdsourcing could prove valuable in academic problem-solving.
“I think that in many ways the core message here is that in a complicated world where time and resource are limiting, you need to be aware of the means at your disposal to make progress in the most efficient way you can,” she said.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Feb. 24, 2013
An earlier version of this article misidentified the gender of associate professor at the Medical School Eva C. Guinan, who is in fact a woman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Biology professor of practice Robert A. Lue was named the first Faculty Director of the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning Thursday, a sign of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ increased emphasis on innovative teaching, both in person and online.
Lue currently serves as director of the life sciences and faculty director of HarvardX—the University’s online education platform launched last spring as part of EdX. A key figure in reshaping aspects of the University’s curricula in the classroom and online in recent years, Lue said he will serve to unite those two areas in his new role at the Bok Center.
“I really do feel that we’re at a particularly exciting moment in terms of both faculty and students being ready to embrace new ways of teaching, and I really want the Bok Center to be a catalyst where undergraduates, graduate students, and professors can come together to push the envelope of how teaching is done at Harvard,” Lue said in an interview Thursday.
The Bok Center traditionally focuses on hands-on instruction and academic research to help young faculty and teaching fellows become better teachers.
Lue said he hopes that by coupling the educational tools provided by HarvardX with the Bok Center’s personal instruction, the center can more actively set the pedagogical agenda for 21st century faculty and students.
Administrators praised Lue as an innovator on Thursday, saying that under his leadership, they expect the Bok Center to take on increased importance for faculty members.
“We are very excited to have Rob’s vision, energy, and leadership at the Bok Center,” said Terry Aladjem, executive director of the Bok Center. “He has been an inspired innovator in science education, and in shepherding HarvardX, and he will certainly give the Bok Center and its mission new and greater prominence within the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.”
Lue’s appointment is part of a broader administrative shift by the University to further develop HarvardX. FAS Dean Michael D. Smith announced in January that Colorado State University’s Huntington D. Lambert, a major figure in online education, will take over as head of the Division of Continuing Education in April. Lambert is the founder of CSU’s Global Campus, the first state-funded university to be entirely online, and is expected to develop the division’s presence online.
Lue also serves as director of the Harvard Allston Education Portal. He was previously the Dean of Harvard Summer School. He will begin his new role on March 1.
—Staff writer Nicholas P. Fandos can be reached at nicholasfandos@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @npfandos.
—Staff writer Sabrina A. Mohamed can be reached at smohamed@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @sab_mohamed.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Although the Harvard basketball team stole most of the weekend headlines with its important victories over Ivy League rivals Penn and Princeton, a few other Crimson teams had equally impressive weekends.
Men’s Volleyball entered the AVCA Division I-II poll at No. 15 after a weekend sweep, including a dominating 3-0 beatdown of conference rival No. 9 Penn State on Friday night. It was the first time in 51 conference matches—spanning almost five years—that the Nittany Lions lost a conference matchup, and the first time in history that Harvard had defeated Penn State. The Crimson returned to the national rankings for the first time since last season after finishing its weekend with a sweep of St. Francis. Sophomore outside hitter DJ White won the AVCA National Player of the Week after hitting .477 for the week with 4.17 kills per set. Harvard has won seven straight matches at home stretching to last season, and is a half-game behind George Mason in the EIVA standings.
Men’s Swimming and Diving capped an undefeated dual meet season with a victory over Penn last weekend and not only earned the No. 16 spot in the NCAA rankings, but also won the outright claim to the Ivy League Dual Meet title. The defeat of Penn, in which the Crimson won first place in 12 of the 16 events, was preceded by one of the most impressive wins in program history. Harvard defeated Princeton at the HYP dual meet, and became the first Ivy opponent to defeat the Tigers at home. The team will now prepare for the ECAC Championships, which it will host March 1-3, before heading to Providence the next weekend for the Ivy League Championships on March 7-9.
Not to be outdone, Women’s Swimming and Diving entered the top 25 for the first time (at No. 22) after completing its own second consecutive undefeated dual meet season with a win at the HYP meet. Freshman Kendall Crawford set school records in the 100 backstroke and 100 butterfly and also took home the 200 backstroke title. Teammate Stephanie Ferrell, a sophomore, picked up wins in the 100 and 200 breaststrokes and the 200 IM. It is Harvard’s first back-to-back undefeated Ivy seasons since 2004-06. The Crimson will return to Princeton for the Ivy Championships starting February 28 and then focus on the ECAC Championships, beginning March 1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just about a calendar year ago, Jeremy Lin ’10 burst onto the NBA scene, jumpstarting Linsanity. Lin, who then won a job as the New York Knicks’ starting point guard, won over the hearts of fans as he led the Knicks to seven consecutive wins. His 136 points through his first five starts were the most in league history.
In New York, under head coach Mike D’Antoni, Lin benefited from the absence of Carmelo Anthony. In D’Antoni’s offense, the point guard begins almost every play with a pick-and-roll that gives said point guard full responsibility. The offense is predicated on the use of “finesse” power forwards that can stretch the floor—à la Steve Novak in New York as well as Boris Diaw in Phoenix—and shooters from all angles.
Lin is at his best as a slasher attacking the lane, where he is adept at both finishing in traffic and drawing high-percentage free throws. The Harvard alum, who shoots about 80 percent from the line for his career, consistently benefited as a Knick by playing with an exceptional pick-and-roll big man in Tyson Chandler—who shot nearly 70% last year from the center position. He repeatedly ran pick-and-rolls with the option to either hit the rolling Chandler if both defenders
converged or blow by a defender into the lane if his defender went over Chandler’s pick. If his defender went under the pick, Lin had the green light to shoot the three. Although it isn’t his strong suit, Lin shot a respectable 33 percent from deep in the 2011-2012 season. If he drove, Lin would have shooters, including Novak and J.R. Smith, on the edges.
In Houston, Lin is part of a rotating cast of ball handlers. James Harden—who averages 5.7 assists—will often be the one to begin the Rockets’ possessions. Harden is a better pick-and-roll player than Lin and an adept finisher at the rim who draws 10 free throws a game, which he converts at an 86 percent clip. Houston likes to use pick and rolls with Harden and big men Omer Asik and Patrick Patterson that allow Harden to drive inside with the screen man collapsing to the hoop, enabling the former to either dish it off or take it to the basket—where he draws contact better than anyone else in the NBA.
When Harden is handling the ball, Lin will often curl along the baseline and set screens for shooters like Chandler Parsons and Carlos Delfino. Frequently happening at the same time as a pick-and-roll at the top of the key, these screens free up those shooters to rotate towards the top of the arc.
Another intriguing quirk to the offense is using Lin as a backdoor cutter. If Lin can create separation from his man darting to the post, he usually has the option when he catches the ball either to go up for a lay-up or hit a cutting man in the lane. If the defense collapses, Lin can pass the ball back to a shooter on the wing.
When Lin has the ball, he runs sets very similar to the ones D’Antoni drew up for him last year. The Rockets’ league-leading offense is centered around the three (the squad takes about 28 attempts per game) and the free throw (26 tries per game). If Lin gets the ball in transition, he is free to drive up the court and often goes straight to the rim. However, Lin gets less than half—48 percent—of his field goals via assist, one of the lowest rates on the team, evidence of how often he creates his own shot.
Since both Lin and Harden are most effective with the ball in their hands, the duo’s minutes are staggered to minimize the amount they share the court. It’s no coincidence that Lin’s most productive output of the year (38 points against San Antonio on Dec. 10) came with Harden sidelined. Lin has been turnover prone for most of his career—he averages three a game—but is maximally effective as the focal point of the offense.
At this point in his career, Lin is not nearly the player Harden is and is not the focal point of his team’s offense. At Harvard and New York, Lin brought the ball up the floor consistently. In Houston, he has begun working more on his three-point shot, a weaker element of his game. Although he air-balled a game-winning three-point attempt against Miami earlier this year, he is making progress. The combination of Lin’s developing three-point shot and his improved off-ball skills bodes well for his future in the NBA as he adapts to a new role in Houston.
—Staff writer David Freed can be reached at davidfreed@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @crimsondpfreed.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s always intense when a Crimson squad pays a visit to New Haven. The rivalry is a particularly central one in squash, as the two schools have combined to win 41 of the 68 national championships in the collegiate history of the sport.
Both teams will get a chance to add another as the Harvard men’s squash team (15-2, 6-1 Ivy) travels to the home of its foe to attempt to build on Monday’s triumph.
The rivalry recently heated up as the College Squash Association Team Championships come on the heels of an unsuccessful voyage to Cambridge on the part of this year’s hosts. The match, which pitted the Crimson against the Bulldogs (11-3, 5-2), ultimately decided which one-loss squad would go on to share the Ivy League title distinction with Princeton.
“We are really confident coming off a win,” co-captain Zeke Scherl said. “I really just think everyone needs to execute their game plans.”
With a national championship on the line, the squad will look to stay disciplined.
“Early mileage in this tournament has been tough for us in the past,” Scherl said. “We don’t want anyone expending unnecessary energy.”
Having won its last four conference matchups, Harvard will come into the tournament as the third-ranked team in the nation behind Trinity and the Tigers. The latter is currently looking to defend its national championship.
The two schools handed the Crimson each of its 5-4 losses thus far this season.
Yale will get a chance to avenge itself on its home turf in the Potter Cup, or “A division,” which features the top eight teams in the country in a single elimination bracket.
Other schools in contention include Cornell, Franklin and Marshall College, and St. Lawrence University.
As the three seed, Harvard will take on sixth-seeded Rochester in the first round.
“The first match is crucial,” Scherl said. “We are really focused on getting on and off the court. I think we can beat this team 9-0 if everyone comes out and plays their best squash.”
Should it survive the test, the Crimson would likely get a second shot at a defending national champion Princeton squad that it lost to in a heartbreaker on the road earlier this season.
“The best thing that could happen [on Friday] is to get another chance to battle it out against Princeton,” Scherl said. “I think the match would definitely have a different feel about it if we were to get through our first match against Rochester.”
After the 5-4 loss to the Tigers in mid-January, the team found a way to turn it around, emerging victorious in eight of its subsequent nine matches.
“I think the guys will look back in reflection at the Princeton match,” Harvard coach Mike way said. “That moment sort of changed the attitude.”
The only loss suffered thereafter came against the Bantams, a squad that the Crimson has not found a way to down in its last 23 attempts.
“We’ve had good results against some of the competitors out there,” Scherl said.
Harvard’s top performers include junior Ali Farag. The junior hasn’t been seriously challenged all season, dropping not a single match all year playing in the No. 1 position.
Scherl and fellow co-captain Jason Michas have also been a key part of the squad’s success this campaign. Scherl and Michas have combined for 19 wins on the season, including the clincher against Yale this past Monday in front of the home fans.
The Crimson was dropped in the semi-finals of this tournament a year ago to the traditionally dominant group from Trinity by the score of 3-6.
The Bantams were crowned champion in 13 consecutive seasons before being upset last year by Princeton.
This season, Harvard has a checkered record against the top teams in the nation, taking three of five team and 25 of 45 individual matches from squads ranked inside the top eight.
“I don’t think anyone has a bye to the finals this year, so to speak,” said Scherl, referring to the top four seeds, Trinity, the Tigers, Harvard and the Bulldogs, respectively, expected to make the semis.
At least in the eyes of the coach, one key difference this time around should play to the Crimson’s advantage.
“Last year a couple of times we felt like we had a team of teenage boys,” Way said. “This is a team of young men.”
—Staff writer Daniel A. Grafstein can be reached at dgrafstein@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I still remember the day it became clear that Keith Wright ’12 had made the leap.
It was Oct. 30, 2010, and it was at Harvard coach Tommy Amaker’s annual preseason coaching clinic—the first chance for fans to get a glimpse of the upcoming season’s squad.
Almost immediately, it was evident that Wright, then about to enter his junior year, was a different player than he had been the previous season. He had added a short jumper to his arsenal that was reliable and accurate in that first practice, and I knew then that the center was due for a breakout season.
The Crimson’s greatest flaw the prior year had been its lack of a true interior threat, forcing Jeremy Lin ’10 to try to do everything on his own despite facing constant double teams. Defensively, when it came to guarding opposing big men like Cornell’s Jeff Foote, Harvard was left with few options, and without anyone to take pressure off Lin inside, the team finished third in the Ivy League.
But when Wright raised his game his junior season, everything changed. He was a transformed player, and that transformed the team as a whole. In 2010-11, the Crimson had the ability to play inside-out, something Amaker loves to do, and behind Wright—who won Ivy League Player of the Year—Harvard was finally able to take that next step and win its first-ever league championship.
The 2012-13 Crimson, up until last Friday night, faced a similar problem as its 2009-10 predecessor.
The offense had three of the four pieces it needed: a go-to scorer (sophomore Wesley Saunders), dangerous long-distance shooters (co-captains Laurent Rivard and a revitalized Christian Webster), and a distributor to orchestrate everything (freshman Siyani Chambers).
But it was missing the final piece of the puzzle—the interior presence. Sophomore Jonah Travis provided solid production, but not the kind you can run your offense through, and his 6’6” stature greatly limited the team’s ability to slow opposing big men at the other end.
Facing the two biggest teams in the conference this weekend, Amaker thus decided to give Kenyatta Smith his first real opportunity for redemption since the turnover-prone sophomore lost his starting job after five games.
Given a second chance, something clicked for Smith this weekend, and just like Wright two years ago, it was immediately evident that he was a different player. With the emergence of an interior presence, Harvard could play inside-out once again, and everything else fell into place around him offensively.
Just like that, gone were the days of struggling against inferior Ivy opponents. Last weekend, there was no need for a dramatic comeback, as against Dartmouth, or to stave off a collapse, as against Yale, Brown, and Cornell. Nor was this the same team that a week earlier had gotten blown out by Columbia, which has only won one of seven games against the rest of the league.
No, not only did the Crimson sweep this past weekend, but it also dominated, and that was largely the result of Smith’s emergence.
The center shot a superb 13-of-14 from the field over the two nights, but his defensive numbers are even more astounding. According to calculations by the Ivy Basketball Blog, Smith would be leading the country in block rate and rebound percentage if he had played enough minutes to qualify. Over Harvard’s past 17 games, opponents are shooting under 40 percent when Smith is on the court; only Jeff Withey’s Kansas does better in that category.
Can Smith maintain those numbers when his minutes increase? Highly unlikely. But last weekend, they were a huge reason why the Crimson won both games while holding its rivals below 60 points—something it did 19 times last season but had previously not done against a Division I opponent this year.
Sure, it’s only been two games, but as they did for Wright three years ago, things appear to have clicked at both ends for Smith, who has finally tapped into the vast potential that earned him multiple offers from high-major programs.
Nobody’s expecting the center to be Player of the Year—I’m sure he’s more than happy with Player of the Week—but if Smith can stay out of foul trouble (still a big question mark) and continue to provide Harvard with the two-way interior threat it has lacked since Wright’s graduation, the team will have that final piece to the puzzle.
As for the rest of the league, things are a bit of a mess. Since it’s Oscars week, for the third straight year let’s compare each team to a best picture nominee:
Brown is Beasts of the Southern Wild. Neither film nor team has any chance of winning anything, but the Bears do have a pair of beasts in the league’s two leading rebounders: freshman Cedric Kuakumensah and sophomore Rafael Maia, who actually is from the south (Brazil). With two more years of that pair playing next to each other, the future is bright for Brown, just as it is for young Quvenzhané Wallis.
Columbia is Les Misérables. A bunch of solid individual performances, but in both stories, things end up terribly for everyone. To be honest, Javert was probably happier about her fate than Brian Barbour is about his right now. I still have no idea how the Lions could be this bad.
Cornell is Silver Linings Playbook—the darkhorse contender. Shonn Miller is Jennifer Lawrence, the young star who continues to improve. But unfortunately for the Big Red, Errick Peck is Bradley Cooper—he’s good, but even at his absolute best he’s just not good enough to win anything for you.
Dartmouth is Amour. Nobody has seen either (the Big Green are dead last in the Ancient Eight with an average of 800 fans per game). But like France, Dartmouth is used to being a bottom-dweller, so both have to be thrilled they have a decent chance to not be one again this year.
Penn is Life of Pi. Miles Cartwright probably feels like Pi right now, stranded all alone without any help while things fall apart around him. Just as with Pi’s monkey and zebra friends, Miles lost Fran Dougherty and Steve Rennard for the rest of the story due to serious injuries.
Princeton is Argo. Headlined by one true star but average role players, both film and team are one of two realistic contenders for the title. One more loss to Harvard would doom the Tigers, but considering the Crimson hasn’t won at Princeton since before its players were born, Tony Mendez’s confidence about going into Iran and getting the Americans out was probably much higher than Harvard’s is about going into Jadwin and getting a win.
Yale is Django Unchained. It’s fine, but just as Django is pretty much the same as every other Tarantino film, so too are the Bulldogs headed towards yet another third-to-fifth place finish (that would make 11 in 12 years). Both team and film are also still reeling a bit from losing a huge star, be it Greg Mangano or Will Smith (who turned down Tarantino’s lead role), and both take place in pretty terrible settings, whether its New Haven or the antebellum South.
That leaves Harvard and two films: Lincoln and Zero Dark Thirty. Appropriately, the Crimson is a combination of both. It’s the latter because at very different levels, both the film and the movie have faced questions about the methods used to achieve their ultimate goal. Questions have emerged as to whether waterboarding, as depicted in the film, goes against the principles of the country, or whether recruiting elite basketball talent, as Harvard has done, goes against the principles of the school.
It’s also Lincoln, with Amaker playing the titular role of trying to keep a divided house together. The coach was not met with an easy task, trying to win after Kyle Casey and Brandyn Curry seceded from the school. Could he bring everyone together towards a common goal, or would the strength of the opposition be too strong? So far, like Daniel Day-Lewis, Amaker is turning in his best-ever performance.
In both films, the U.S. achieved its goal, whether it was preserving the union or capturing the world’s most wanted terrorist.
Thanks to a breakout performance from supporting actor Kenyatta Smith, the Crimson appears on its way to achieving its own goal—a third straight Ivy title—as well.
—Staff writer Scott A. Sherman can be reached at ssherman13@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Presumably, this is how the discussion in the Harvard men’s basketball locker room went prior to the team’s game last Friday against Penn:
Crimson Coach Tommy Amaker: “…and, you know, we’re going to need our big guys to step up. Jonah has been doing it all season. Steve, we’re going to need a little more consistency out of you. And Kenyatta, I mean…you were a three-star recruit, top twenty in the country at your position, so it’s time—“
Sophomore Kenyatta Smith: “I WAS WHAT?” [sprints to court, blocks ten shots]
I wonder what the Thursday night odds were on Smith winning Ivy Player of the Week. He certainly earned the award, racking up 34 points on 93 percent shooting, 16 rebounds, and 16 blocks in the weekend’s two games, including a near-triple-double on Friday. Those are comical numbers for a guy who came into the matchup against Penn averaging 3.8 points and 3.2 rebounds per game, but the Crimson wouldn’t have swept the Killer P’s without him.
Perhaps more encouraging than the gaudy stats he put up on the Quakers was his play the next night against Princeton, in which he filled Harvard’s biggest hole—an intimidating interior defensive presence to complement sophomores Jonah Travis and Steve Moundou-Missi. If Smith can submit something that approaches that performance on a consistent basis, Harvard’s slim lead atop the Ivy standings starts to look quite a bit more formidable.
HARVARD at BROWN
The Crimson opens its weekend with a light jaunt to Providence to take on the Bears and freshman forward Cedric Kuakumensah, coming off an Ivy Rookie of the Week performance. Kuakumensah was particularly impressive in defeat against Cornell on Saturday, overwhelming the Big Red with a string of seemingly unrelated consonants and vowels on his way to 13 points, 19 rebounds, and four blocks. He may cause one or two problems for Harvard down low, but the Crimson front line is playing with confidence. It won’t take double overtime to put away Brown.
Pick: Harvard
DARTMOUTH at YALE
The Bulldogs will gear up for their rivalry showdown the next night with a home date against the Big Green. Expect Yale to enter the weekend with confidence, fresh off a 19-point dismantling of Columbia in which the Bulldogs shot 62 percent from the field. Expect Dartmouth to play substandard basketball.
Pick: Yale
PRINCETON at COLUMBIA
Embarking on another of its season-ending road journeys—the Tigers will have played seven of their last nine away from Jadwin Gymnasium by the end of the year—Princeton makes the quick northeastern jump to New York to take on last-place Columbia. The Lions’ only real chance lies with Steve Frankoski and his startling 48.7 percent three-point shooting; if he gets as hot as he did against the Crimson (5-for-7 from beyond the arc), things could get interesting.
Pick: Princeton
PENN at CORNELL
In the previous meeting between these two teams on Feb. 2, the Big Red snuck away with a two-point victory at the Palestra, with sophomore guard Galal Cancer’s jumper with 10 seconds left providing the winning tally. Even better for Cornell, the win convinced highly regarded recruits Johnny AIDS and Mike Malaria to sign on for the class of 2017. Ithaca is a dark place.
Pick: Cornell
PENN at COLUMBIA
Thinking about this game for more than five minutes elicited a series of deafening yawns from me. It isn’t good enough to be interesting but not bad enough to be funny. It’s like Thor. I have nothing more to add.
DARTMOUTH at BROWN
In what is undoubtedly some sinister conspiracy, Brown and Dartmouth find themselves at the bottom of the conference standings for yet another year. If the Ivy League is going to continue this whole “no postseason tournament” thing for the foreseeable future, we need to find a way to make things interesting for teams like these, who will now play out the remainder of their schedules with all the enthusiasm of a sleep-deprived tree sloth. As in the English Premier League, let’s introduce relegation to the Ancient Eight: the last-place team in the conference is demoted to Division III to be replaced by some other suitably snooty institution’s basketball program. I’m looking at you, Swarthmore.
Pick: Brown
PRINCETON at CORNELL
If you’ve had the misfortune of talking to a Cornell fan this week, you might have heard that the Big Red still have a shot at the Ivy title—“look, bro, I’m just saying, we’re only two games back,” or some variation thereof. The Ivy Basketball Twitter account compiles projections of the Ivy teams’ chances of winning the league title by simulating the rest of their seasons, given their respective places in the league standings, offensive and defensive Pomeroy ratings, and an estimation of variance. In its model, Cornell currently has a two percent chance of earning a share of the conference championship. Once the Big Red falls to the Tigers, those odds should drop to near zero, and you can tell Andy Bernard to kindly pipe down.
Pick: Princeton
HARVARD at YALE
Harvard has suffered its share of heartbreak at Payne Whitney Gymnasium in recent seasons—a potentially game-winning layup that rimmed out at the buzzer in 2011, followed by the kick in the groin that was the one-game playoff against Princeton—but the Crimson may have permanently marked its territory on the home of the Bulldogs with last year’s 65-35 flogging. Still, this game is about all Yale has left to play for: a chance to earn some redemption for the defeat in Cambridge and knock Harvard off its current perch.
Pick: Harvard
—Staff writer Andrew R. Mooney can be reached at mooney@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @mooneyar.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s lacrosse team commences its season with a matchup against No. 7/5 Massachusetts (2-0) this Saturday at 1 p.m. at Harvard Stadium. After completing the 2012 season with a 6-8 record, the Crimson looks to begin 2013 with a home victory.
“I think our strength coming in right now is our attitude,” captain Jason Gonos said. “We have been working hard this off-season to address a lot of the weaknesses we’ve had in the past…we had a lot to improve all over the field. Even addressing all those things, I think the main thing we’ve improved is our attitude, our confidence. We work hard every day, we come every day to set the bar higher.”
Although Harvard is just beginning its regular season, the Minutemen are coming off of a 12-11 upset of No. 7/4 North Carolina this past weekend. UMass’s first win came in its season opener against Army, in which it toppled the Black Knights, 16-9.
“[UMass is] a great team,” Gonos said. “They’re a physical team, and they work hard in between the lines. Whatever they do, they do it really well. They’ve proven that they deserve to be highly ranked in their first two games.”
Last season, the Minutemen finished 15-1, with its first and only loss coming in the first round of the NCAA tournament against Colgate. UMass has historically dominated the Crimson, with an overall record of 30-13.
“They really took it to us [last season],” junior attackman Danny Eipp said. “It was one of the more embarrassing games for us, especially with them being one of our biggest rivals, so Coach made this our first game on purpose…I think we’re going to match their intensity.”
Gonos leads Harvard on defense after a season filled with career-high numbers. The senior picked up 33 groundballs and forced 14 turnovers during the 2012 season. The NCAA chose Gonos as a candidate for the 2013 Senior CLASS Award, an honor given to only 19 other college lacrosse players.
“[Gonos is] the best leader I’ve ever had and faced in my sports career,” Eipp said. “He really sets the tone…to be completely honest with you, I’ve never been on a team I feel more confident in. Our mindset this year is really positive, and no one cares who does well as long as the team succeeds.”
The New England Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association selected three players from each of the competing squads for preseason All-NEILA honors. Harvard’s selections included Eipp, senior midfielder Alex White, and freshman attackman Devin Dwyer. Eipp has made an appearance on the All-Ivy team twice during his three years, as well as ending last year with 42 points, the team’s second-highest total.
As a midfielder, White was a key component on the Crimson offense, notching five goals and collecting 19 groundballs in his junior campaign.
Harvard must deal with the loss of two high-scoring graduates, attackman Jeff Cohen and midfielder Kevin Vaughn. Cohen tallied a team-high 48 goals in 2012, while Vaughn led the squad with 19 assists.
“Last season we had a lot of great players, so it’s really hard to see your top scorers leave and graduate, but this year so many guys have stepped up in all different positions and all different ways,” Gonos said. “We’ve really kind of come together as a team, playing great team offense, great team defense, and really supporting each other all over the field.”
Along with Eipp, three other upperclassmen look to repeat successful seasons on offense. Seniors Jack Walker and Ryan Stevens put up seven and five goals respectively for the Crimson, while junior Carl Zimmerman posted five goals and six assists this past spring.
The freshmen bring new talent to the team, with Dwyer and Bobby Duvnjak ranking as Inside Lacrosse’s No. 4 attackman and No. 2 defenseman recruits, respectively. NEILA also named Dwyer the preseason Rookie of the Year.
The Crimson men’s lacrosse schedule features two nationally-televised games, with contests against No. 13/14 Duke on NBC Sports Network on March 30 and against No. 14/13 Princeton on ESPNU on April 19.
“We’ve yet to play a game this year,” Gonos said. “We’ve been so excited for this game—we’ve really been looking forward to it—so I think it’ll be all about settling down, managing our emotions, and making sure we execute.”
—Staff writer Kelley Guinn McArtor can be reached at kelleyguinnmcartor@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter              @kgmcrimson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Ivy League championship is now the Harvard men’s basketball team’s to lose.
The Crimson took a 1.5-game lead over Princeton in the Ancient Eight standings last weekend, downing Penn and the Tigers in back-to-back games for just the second time in four years.
With six Ivy contests remaining, Harvard just needs to hang on to secure its third straight title and punch a ticket to the NCAA tournament.
But if the past is any indication, doing so won’t be easy.
The Crimson’s first two challenges will come this weekend, when Harvard (15-7, 7-1 Ivy) heads to Providence and New Haven to take on sixth-place Brown (9-13, 3-5) and fourth-place Yale (10-14, 3-5).
The Crimson defeated both teams at Lavietes Pavilion earlier this season—but not without a struggle.
Against the Bulldogs, Harvard played much of the second half without starting point guard Siyani Chambers, who was on the bench with four fouls, and saw its 13-point lead cut to three. The Crimson hung on for a 67-64 victory but was just one possession away from playing its second straight overtime game.
Harvard got its fair share of extra time the next night, though, as Brown made the Crimson play two extra sessions. Harvard led, 63-41, with 12:58 remaining, but the Bears closed out regulation on a 28-6 run to force overtime. An additional five minutes wasn’t enough to settle the contest, but co-captain Christian Webster posted five points in the second overtime to help deliver Harvard an 89-82 win and preserve the Crimson’s undefeated conference record.
“We know that they’re going to have a lot of confidence against us just the way those two games ended,” Webster said.
But Harvard may have a new weapon at its disposal for its rematches with Brown and Yale.
After being a relative non-factor through the Crimson’s first 20 games, sophomore center Kenyatta Smith exploded this past weekend, racking up 34 points, 16 rebounds, and 16 blocks in Harvard’s victories. When Smith last matched up against the Bears and Bulldogs, he recorded eight total points, seven rebounds, and two blocks.
The performance earned Smith his first-ever Ivy League Player of the Week award.
“Obviously what he did this past weekend was nothing short of amazing,” Amaker said. “We’re hopeful that we can continue to ride the wave or the momentum of his performance.”
If Smith were to turn in a similar performance this coming weekend at Yale and Brown—the Ivy League’s top offensive rebounding teams—the Crimson would likely emerge with two victories.
But the Crimson may not be able to count on a repeat performance. Smith missed Wednesday’s practice due to illness, but he is expected to be back in time for this weekend’s contests.
“Assuming that he’s fine, he’s going to start,” Amaker said.
Particularly critical to this weekend’s contests will be the Crimson’s perimeter defense, as both its opponents receive the bulk of their offense from the backcourt.
On Friday, Harvard will have its hands full with the Bears’ guard duo of Matt Sullivan and Sean McGonagill—the Ivy League’s third- and fourth-leading scorers, respectively. In their visit to Cambridge, the duo combined for 38 points on 11-for-22 shooting.
“It’s going to be important that we [defend] the lines—the three-point line, and keep them off the foul line,” Amaker said. “They’re really good behind the arc.”
The Crimson had more success in its previous matchup with Yale’s Austin Morgan. The 5’11” guard, who is the league’s No. 8 scorer at 11.3 points per game, was limited to nine points on two-of-five shooting.
“We’re going to try to do the same [against Morgan],” Amaker said. “When he plays well and gets easy looks, they’ve been a very, very good team. So our point of emphasis has been to see if we can have an awareness for him. And our kids, they’ve done a really good job with that, so hopefully that will continue on Saturday.”
But unlike in the last Harvard-Yale matchup, Morgan will likely be joined in the lineup by freshman forward Justin Sears this time.
Sears, the league’s No. 12 scorer and No. 6 rebounder, missed the teams’ previous meeting, but has since been effective, posting in double-figures in three of his last four games.
Sears has also been a force on the offensive glass, averaging 2.5 offensive rebounds per game since his return.
“He’s going to give them one of the things that concerns me already—they’re the best offensive rebounding team in our league and then add him now,” Amaker said.
With Sears back in the lineup, the Bulldogs have gone 3-1 with victories over Princeton and Columbia, the teams picked to finish first and third, respectively, in the conference’s preseason poll.
On Saturday, the Crimson will try to avoid being added to the Bulldogs’ list of victims.
“We know it’s a long horse race and there’s a lot of basketball to be played,” Amaker said.
—Staff writer Martin Kessler can be reached at martin.kessler@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter                            @martinkessler91.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Last weekend saw the Harvard men's basketball team sweep the killer P's, Penn and Princeton, at home at Lavietes Pavilion in one of the most important weekends of their year.
The Crimson, now 7-1 in the Ivy League, sits alone at the top of conference standings with just under half the season left to play. Princeton, a game and a half behind, holds an Ancient Eight record of 5-2, having dropped Saturday's game to Harvard a week after their 21-game league win streak at Jadwin Gymnasium was broken by Yale.
So what's next in the world of Ivy hoops? Flyby's resident Crimson sports expert is here to give you what you need to know about our team going forward.
Harvard will hit the road this weekend hoping to sweep southern New England foes Brown and Yale, while Princeton will try to prevent an upset at Columbia and Cornell.
The next weekend will be key to deciding the conference champion. Harvard and Princeton will meet again, this time in New Jersey, in a vital contest on March 1.
Should the Crimson pull off a win in the Tigers' den, a feat they haven't accomplished since Feb. 3, 1989, the Ivy title would be theirs to lose. If Harvard loses, however, Princeton would likely rejoin them atop Ancient Eight. Barring another upset for either team as they close out the regular season, a one-game playoff would be forced to decide which team receives the NCAA berth, and we all know how much Harvard basketball loves one-game playoffs.
With the recent momentum that has propelled the Crimson to two solid victories and the constant threat that is Ian Hummer and his army of orange and black big men, the next couple of weekends will hold the attention of any Ivy basketball fan.
In short, pray that Harvard doesn't drop another game or that Princeton falls to another Ivy opponent, and perhaps the Crimson will get to go dancing again this year.
