News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At the conclusion of the Administrative Board investigations into the Government 1310: “Introduction to Congress” cheating scandal, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith wrote, “We are responsible for creating the community in which our students study and we all thrive as scholars.” Administrators, faculty, and students have a shared sense of a Harvard community, a community of mutual support, trust, and collaboration. The recent news that, in connection with the same scandal, Smith authorized a search of resident deans’ email accounts with the support of Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds is deeply troubling. Their apparent failure to notify the subjects of the search—save for one—is detrimental to our sense of shared community.
The email searches raise issues far beyond questionable email search policies and failed communication. It cuts to the core of what trust and community means at Harvard. The University’s actions fell well short of what should be expected in an open, honest academic environment. While email searches may be necessary from time to time, the University’s failure to notify the resident deans involved is unconscionable. Instead of immediately informing the deans of the search and the reasoning behind it, the University hid the search in a manner that appears to be, at best, sneaky. It is disheartening that the administration only saw fit to notify the deans after reporters began asking questions.
The scholarly community at Harvard is crucial to our success. Students, faculty, and staff all have roles to play, but they are meant to work together in relationships of trust. Harvard breached that trust when it treated its resident deans like a collection of corporate employees rather than members of a community. This incident speaks volumes about the attitudes and relationships at the most senior levels of administration. The search policies may leave room for the University to conduct these kinds of searches, but it is deeply troubling that the administration chose to construe these policies such that they would have a minimal obligation to keep the deans informed.  
The administration’s secretive actions and its confusing, unsatisfying responses in the press leave much to be wondered. The faulty judgment of administrators has reopened the wound of the cheating scandal and created a public relations disaster that harms the University’s reputation. The failure to notify the deans raises the unfortunate question of whether some administrators may be more concerned with shielding themselves from legitimate criticism than engaging with the community.
The University and faculty should clarify the policies on email searches for faculty, staff, students, and everyone in between. This incident serves as a sad reminder that under today’s policies, members of the Harvard community are not secure in the privacy of their email. Except in extreme cases, such as those involving ongoing criminal activity, administrators should be required to inform users—faculty, staff, and students—of email searches. Our community deserves to know when their communications have been examined. Mandatory disclosure serves as a crucial safeguard to intellectual freedom, scholarly independence, and privacy.
The ideal of a Harvard community in which faculty, staff, and administrators work towards common goals in a relationship of trust has been called into question. As tempting as it is to close this disheartening and sad chapter in Harvard’s history, the Harvard community should push for clarification, change, and honesty. The faculty should revisit the rules on email searches and notifications, and the administration should be held accountable for its lapse in judgment. Only time will tell whether the administration can repair the breach of trust.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Overcoming history is never an easy task. Yet recent efforts by student organizations and the administration here on campus are attempting to reverse a century’s worth of prejudice against mental illness by opening new discussions on how it should be addressed. These efforts are commendable and clearly much-needed, given the recent slew of meetings, rallies, and the anonymous Crimson piece about the subject, and as the product of the bring-back-hot-breakfast era,  I am glad to see Harvard unified on a genuinely substantial and often-neglected issue.
What does concern me, however, is whether this sudden urgency to talk about mental illness will last. This is not the first time Harvard was questioned on its mental health capabilities, and their prior solution of hiring psychiatrists is concerningly similar to what they hope to do now to address the issue. Though the current student-led efforts to increase awareness are at a much larger scale than those of the past, more needs to be done to ensure mental illness stays at the forefront of the campus consciousness. Harvard is not the only place that needs to reconsider its efforts on how mental health is viewed; this is something that should be addressed at a national scale.
Almost every opinion piece on mental health in America argues that the stigma associated with mental illness needs to end, and this is completely true. The negative connotations surrounding mental illnesses discourage actively discussing ways to improve its image. But as much as we know the stigmatization must end before any progress can be made in this field, it is difficult to erase our old-fashioned, preconceived ideas of mentally ill people—especially given Hollywood’s fascination with lunatic asylums, and our flippant use of labels like “crazy” or “OCD” in our everyday vocabulary. There is even a “dangerousness criterion” associated with people of mental illness, while they only make up about 3 to 5 percent of reported violent crimes. These and other subtle insults to those with mental illness encourage the misconception that having a mental disease means there is something inherently wrong with the patient, rather than there being something wrong with the patient’s health. Thus, even if people recognize they could be mentally ill, they are less likely to actively seek medical attention for their sickness and more likely to ignore their symptoms for fear of being judged.
To change our attitude on mental illness, we need to end these preconceived ideas as soon as possible. One potential solution could be teaching young adults about mental health early so they can accurately learn what each disease is—before embracing  a biased stereotype of what it means to be mentally ill—and what to do if they think they have certain symptoms.  While attending school, I clearly remember drug prevention and sexual education programs, but no groups discussing mental health. Popularizing such organizations only makes sense, especially given the exorbitantly high suicide rates amongst high school students. If students understand what they are feeling to be symptoms of a potentially serious medical condition that can be treated, this risk of suicide would greatly decrease.  Also, if they feel comfortable seeking help without fear of typecasting, they are more likely to get the help necessary to treat their diseases.
Another popular argument holds that mental illnesses should be treated like “any other disease.” While I agree that it should be treated like a disease, comparing it to other physical diseases is futile given how inherently different the two types of diseases are. One clear difference lies in our understanding of how each type of disease develops. The science behind common physical diseases like AIDS and cancer is fairly well known, but there is still much debate on why common mental illnesses arise. This could explain why many are still skeptical that they actually exist. Another clear difference would be that mental illnesses are significantly more personal than physical diseases. For example, a mentally related diagnosis is only shared with close trusted friends and family, and personal articles about mental health are shrouded in anonymity.  We need to understand these fragile differences intrinsically associated with mental illness before we are ready to successfully discuss how to improve mental health initiatives.
Perhaps the most pitying and disheartening characteristic of many people diagnosed with mental illness is that they blame themselves for their condition. My hope is that America makes a sincere effort to change its views on mental health, so that mental health patients no longer feel any shame. Fifty years ago this past February, President John F. Kennedy opened a charged discussion on mental health practices in the United States that led to a series of improvements in this field.  While we have made progress, there is still more that needs to be done to ensure people with mental illnesses are both properly heard and well-respected. The stigmatization, the fear, and the prejudices against people with mental illness need to end before any substantive progress can be made in this field.
Gina Yu ’13, a Crimson editorial writer, is a biomedical engineering concentrator in Dunster House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It takes a special kind of person to stand against marginalization by a majority community. One such person is Ludovic-Mohamed Zahed, the founder of a new mosque in Paris open to the gay community. Zahed, who I had the pleasure of speaking with in a phone interview, wants the new gay-friendly mosque to be a place that will “allow people as they are.”
Zahed was born in Algeria where he affiliated with a brotherhood of Salafi Muslims. When Zahed discovered he was gay at the age of 17, the only Islam he had been familiar with was a “very radical, homophobic sect of Islam” and he found it was “too hard” to continue keeping up with Islamic traditions. “For 10 years, I wasn’t even able to pray,” said Zahed.  He moved to France during his formative years and studied psychology at the Ecole Normale Supérieure. Stress from work led him to meditation and a rediscovery of spirituality with Buddhism. Before long, he saw the presence of misogyny and homophobia in the Buddhist community and concluded, “Everywhere is the same.” Zahed wanted to come back to Islam, the tradition of his upbringing, to see whether it was necessarily homophobic or just some Muslims.
Before opening the mosque, Zahed never experienced any trouble in the mosques in France. “I look like a man,” he said. However, Zahed received many complaints from sisters in the community who did not want to veil and transgendered individuals in the community who did not feel accepted. Zahed recalled one instance where no one would agree to pray for a transgender sister after she passed. During a Friday afternoon prayer session, Zahed’s South African husband was told to take off his earrings by an elderly Egyptian man who claimed the earrings were “not Muslim.”
Zahed chose to open the mosque so Muslims could have a place to be free from the traditional community’s qualms with expressions of gender identity. The new gay-friendly mosque creates a space for men and women to pray together as equals. While the mosque is only in its beginning stages, Zahed plans to create a mosque where Imams are democratically elected to lead prayers. Zahed does not have plans to duplicate the gay-friendly mosque in other regions of the world, but rather wishes to “influence other organizations to have their own dynamic.” Since the creation of the mosque in Paris and being out, Zahed has been ostracized by many Imams who claim he is “not a good Muslim” or “not a Muslim” at all. For security reasons, the location of the new mosque, which is housed in a former Buddhist prayer hall, must be kept secret, but the problematic decision to keep the location secret poses an obvious obstacle to creating a greater space for tolerance.
When I visited the Grand Mosque of Paris this January, I was so excited when a conversation with a front desk worker in Arabic got me a free visit inside the mosque. As I went to sit down in the women’s only section of the mosque, a woman immediately approached me and said that it was necessary I cover my hair. I looked down at the scarf on my neck, took note of the extra scarf in my bag, and then got up and left. I understand how wonderful it feels to be accepted as part of a community, but I reject the idea that feeling that way requires compromising my own personal beliefs or sense of identity.
The creation of the new gay-friendly mosque in Paris gets to the underlying root of the major problem in Islamic communities and the prevailing radical Islam. The problem is not simply that majority voices in the Islamic community disapprove of homosexual practices; the problem is that the community completely looks down upon any form of heterogeneity. The fact that any modern religious community thinks that it can sustain itself under the façade of a shared common identity is unfathomable.
Communities understandably need time to grow and develop, but this is increasingly difficult in today’s environment fixated on the idea of national sovereignty and a distinct national identity. In both totalitarian regimes and Western environments where ethno-religious groups are the subjects of xenophobia and discourse on radicalism, Muslims feel compelled to cling to narrow understandings of religion and identity.
Zahed believes there will come a time (he estimates in the next 20 to 30 years) when progressive Islam will be the mainstream. He believes that people will come to realize that the radical Islam of today and its resulting “fascism and totalitarianism” is “not helping” anyone. “There is no Islam, there (are) only Muslims,” says Zahed. “It’s only people”. The advancement and true cohesion of a people requires space for individuality.
Shazmin Hirji ’15, a Crimson editorial writer, is a government concentrator in Currier House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
March 8, 2012: a date which will live in infamy. Housing Day for the Class of 2015. More specifically, the day on which a giant red fish came bounding up the stairs of Holworthy East and announced to my blocking group that we’d been assigned to Cabot House.
Class of 2016, if you’re happy with today’s Housing Lottery’s results, congratulations. But if you’re not, and you just can’t seem to convince yourself that Flyby inverted the House rankings, rest assured that your cloud of residential misery has a silver lining. Forgive me, Cabot—it wasn’t you, it was me—but getting a House I desperately did not want turned out to be strangely liberating.
Some of the reasons for my disappointment with Cabot were silly. No debate team president had ever lived in the Quad, or so my Quincy-supremacist debate elders told me. The dining hall (it took my blockmates several weeks of convincing for me to set foot inside it) looked like a nursing home, furnished with aquatic decorations to lift the spirits of the hopeless. Whereas I was a Gryffindor, Cabot seemed like the Best Western across the street from Hufflepuff. And I was not, nor did I ever want to be called, a “sexy fish.”
But some of my reasons felt more legitimate. I spent 7th-12th grades commuting between my home in Queens and my school in Manhattan. It didn’t take me long to learn that I was from the lame (if not quite the wrong) side of the tracks. Maybe 12-year-old me needed a hobby, but I became preoccupied with my badge of bridge-and-tunnel inferiority. Getting Quadded felt like getting outer-boroughed—exiled—all over again.
Other people didn’t make it easier. Friends who got Adams and Eliot offered their sympathies, which was both saddening and maddening. Some bully assigned to Currier gave me 10 reasons why it was better than Cabot, like the second smallest kid on the playground picking on the smallest. My proctor, advisor, and PAF assured me that it wouldn’t be as bad as I thought, all the while keeping me keenly aware of the Interhouse Transfer option.
To top it off, my blockmates had the nerve to be excited. I saw their happiness as an exercise in self-delusion or cognitive dissonance reduction—the kind of thinking that bred complacency and willingness to settle.
“You get what you get and you don’t get upset,” Mrs. Feldman used to stress to my Kindergarten class, suspiciously soon after she ran out of cherry lollipops and starting handing out orange or some similarly horrid flavor. Professor Daniel T. Gilbert makes a similar (if more eloquent) point in his TED Talk: although we think that happiness is what results when our circumstances align with our desires, we can actually synthesize it. He’d say that my mistake in resenting Cabot was in believing “that synthetic happiness is of an inferior kind.”
How might I have synthesized that happiness? I could have told myself that I was overreacting. That the Quad really wasn’t that far, the river had roaches, and Cabot—full of great people (it is)—just needed a better press agent. But it was unsatisfying to plug these standard rationalizations, the ones meant to make you feel better about the Quad without forcing you to suppress your primal desire for House Spirit.
Put housing political correctness aside for the moment. There are some of you out there for whom the idea of loving something just because it is yours is nonsensical—who raised your hand in Kindergarten and said: “Sorry, Mrs. Feldman, but it’s not Pareto optimal for me to keep this orange lollipop. I’m going to trade with Billy, because that will put us both on higher indifference curves.” (Or something to that effect.)
I offer you this. Of course, in the scheme of your life, your House affiliation does not matter. Zooming out—people don’t think it’s cute when you tell them you’re upset because you got put in the faraway dorm… at Harvard. That being said, it’s often unsatisfying to write off our Harvard-related gripes as failures to maintain perspective. These are our lives, and our problems are our problems.
But you can eat in other Houses. You can sleep in Lamont. You can spend so much time in a House that isn’t yours that you get nominated for Currierite of the Week.
Visit friends all over campus. If someone asks you what brings a Cabotian like you all the way to Dunster, you tell them your feet.
Define yourself as a lion, a penguin, or a “sexy fish,” if you wish. But you can always define yourself as a Harvardian. You can make a small investment in convincing yourself that the box you live in is the best box. Or you can choose not to live your life in a box at all.
Lisa J. Mogilanski ’15, a Crimson editorial comper, is an Economics concentrator in Cabot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On March 11, FM sat down with National Public Radio journalist and host Melissa J. Block ’83 before her lecture, “‘All Things Considered’ Considered.” Block has worked at NPR for her entire career, mostly on the program “All Things Considered” where she has served as a booker, tape producer, field producer, director, editor, line producer, and, most recently, a host.
Her tights are purple. For some reason, this is surprising. I feel like I know Melissa Block. I heard her voice on the ride home from school every day in Junior High: Mom drove the car, Melissa drove the conversation. But I never expected that when we met face to face, she would be wearing purple tights.
When she begins to speak she sounds just like herself—her voice even, soothing, composed. She asks me the standard questions about my concentration and year, wants to know how long I’ve been on the Crimson and what it’s like. She asks me where I went to high school, remarks on my distinct lack of a Southern accent even though I’m from Georgia. I’m supposed to be interviewing her, but she’s already started to interview me.
“I like to see that you’re taking notes longhand,” she remarks. “How retro!” That’s my cue. Now it’s my turn to interview her.
Fifteen Minutes: How do you feel when you hear yourself on the radio?
Melissa J. Block: [laughs] Oh god—that’s an ongoing struggle. It’s funny because when I go back and listen to the first stories I did as a host I kind of cringe. It’s been an evolution. If I listen back [to the first broadcasts I hosted] now I think I just sound stiffer. A lot of it is just sinking into the role. Just like anything, the more you do it the more comfortable you get.
FM: You have worked at almost every position possible on “All Things Considered” and you were a correspondent for NPR in New York for nine years. What made you want to switch from being a correspondent to hosting “All Things Considered”?
MJB: It’s just the dream job: to host All Things Considered every day and to have that audience of 12 million people listening every week. The great thing about hosting is you’re not just doing work in the studio but you get out and do reporting. Every month or so I’m traveling and going on more in-depth stories, occasionally internationally and also around the country. You get the experience of hosting a program whose name gives you some indication of the kind of things that any day I might be dealing with, but also to plunge deeper into one story and really sort of exercise that muscle, too. You get the best of both worlds.
FM: What does a typical day of hosting “All Things Considered look like?”
MJB: I get in about 9 a.m. and read as many newspapers and websites as I can before our morning meeting. A shocking amount of the show is actually dreamed up that day. You may think that a lot of it is done ahead of time, but it really isn’t. We all meet at 10 a.m.—the hosts, the producers, the editors, maybe 15 or 20 people, and we kick ideas around. It could be anything from the Harvard email leak that I think is coming up for today’s show or anything quirky, anything joyful, something that will make people come back home over the dinner table and say, “Hey, I heard this great thing on NPR!” These ideas get tossed into a big pile, and some rise and some sink [...] We get assignments that come out at 10:30. Then we have bookers, which is what I started off doing at NPR, whose job is to go to the phone and schedule people for the hosts to interview. Between noon and 3 p.m. is when I do most of my interviews. So I’m crashing and cramming and trying to digest interviews until about 3, then writing the stuff that goes at the top and bottom of the hour between 3 and 3:30 p.m., and then we go on the air at 4. The show is 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. Then you get up and do it all over again.
FM: Tell me about one of the more memorable moments you’ve had working for “All Things Considered.”
MJB: Without a doubt the most memorable was when we were in China in 2008 when the earthquake hit. We were pretty much the only Western reporters who were there at the time. First of all, the sensation of being in an earthquake was something I had never experienced before. Now, any time when the ground starts to vibrate I have a little muscle memory and unpleasant flashback of what that felt like. Being there for those stories and witnessing what happened was a remarkable thing.
FM: Tell me more about that time in China.
MJB: We had just landed the night before at midnight, and we had just sat down and started reporting for our first interview. So we were rolling tape—we were doing a story about religion in China. We were in a big building with a lot of windows and I started hearing this tinkling sound. And your mind kind of plays tricks on you. I thought, ‘There must be a truck going by,’ and then the sound started getting louder and louder. The pastor who I was interviewing got up and bolted—he just left. And I was tethered to my producer. So I’m holding the microphone, she’s holding the taper machine, and she got up and we were tethered to each other, running out of the building. And she was rolling tape and I just started talking.
FM: What is it like to respond in the moment to an emergency as a reporter?
MJB: It just felt like a natural thing to do—it was instinctive to narrate what was happening. You’ll hear on the tape that I am slowly coming to realize what is happening and just describing buildings shaking and pieces of a church falling down and people huddled in the street and somebody who had clearly woken up from a nap or a shower who had just rushed outside naked and all of the streets filling with people and the ground kind of waving under my feet. You don’t think about it. You just do it.
FM: Where did you find the stories?
MJB: My talented producer figured out which direction we needed to go and lined up a driver and we just went and started talking to people. Pretty quickly the stories were all around you; it wasn’t hard to find them. Getting there was the hardest part because so many roads had been destroyed and bridges washed out. Sadly when there’s so much destruction all around the hard part is just choosing where to go because there is no shortage of tragedy and no shortage of really tragic stories.
FM: Do you have any favorite interviews that you’ve done?
MJB: Oh, the one that I’m about to do, probably. The one that I haven’t done yet.
FM: How has radio broadcast changed between when you were in college and now?
MJB: The biggest change is that radio then was terrestrial; it was coming out of a box. Now, you’re streaming—you’re listening on this phone, it comes with you wherever you go. And that is huge. You’re digesting information in a completely different way. It’s something that NPR is really wrestling with as we think about where we go in the future.
FM: Do you have any frustrations with the way that the media industry as a whole is developing?
MJB: I think the pressure to be first, it just is a mine field. I totally understand the need to be first and the desire to be breaking news, but I think there has to be some measure of understanding that this isn’t just a first attempt—you need to get things right. And when media screws up because they’re trying to be first we all lose credibility. It makes everybody look bad. To the extent that everyone can take a deep breath and remember that the most important thing is to be right, not first, I think we’d all be better off.
Sections
“Excuse me, miss,” says Harry G. Gray, as an undergrad with a bulky backpack hurtles past him in the Quincy dining hall servery. Gray’s emphasis on etiquette might seem eccentric, but old-fashioned manners and general goodwill are routine, the man you may know as “That Nice Guy Who Swipes You in at the MAC.”
Gray, a lanky 25-year-old with a beard, his collared Harvard polo tucked into his pants, holds a paper cup of water. It’s Junior Parents Weekend, and the dining hall teems with flower bouquets, chirpy parents, and mountains of food. But Gray’s not hungry.
“I think I might just drink some water if that’s okay,” he tells me. Escaping the hordes, we head downstairs to the Junior Common Room where we can chat in peace.
When I ask about his job, Gray jokes, “I’m manager of the terrycloth affairs.” Besides handling towels, Gray’s duties at the Malkin Athletic Center include swiping in gym-goers, cleaning machines, and re-racking weights. He often works 5 a.m. to 2 p.m., six days a week.
“I’m the only person able to be conscious and in a good mood in the morning,” he says. “I’ve got job security.” Gray has been an early riser since seventh grade, when he had to bus two hours each morning from Lower Allston to Dorchester’s Boston Latin Academy.
Politeness and a positive attitude are Gray’s trademarks. “I usually say ‘sir’ or ‘miss’ when I’m talking to [patrons] to show I take my job seriously. You aren’t just a number on the board. You’re someone who’s coming in here, who I want to make sure has a great time.”
Patrons of the MAC range from Harvard undergraduates, to professors, to dining hall workers. He mentions one staff member in particular who has frequented the MAC for four years. “He came in and said, ‘Harry, I want to tell you—you’re a solid dude.’ And he gave me this brain teaser puzzle thing and a cookie,” Gray remembers.
The job has other perks. “I don’t feel like naming names, but there’s some important people coming through,” he says. They include top Harvard administrators, Massachusetts government officials, political commentators he’s seen on TV, and people who have written books he’s read.
“They’re like the head of some Law Review Board, and I’m like, oh, okay, well, I’m glad I gave them a good towel!” Gray exclaims.
I ask Gray what he thinks of Quincy House. “Very fancy,” he responds. “I went to UMass Boston, so it’s a little bit of a different set-up, I’ll say that, since it’s a commuter school.” The son of a janitor and a data entry worker, Gray was the first in his family to go to college. He studied history as an undergrad, with a loose emphasis on 19th century Europe.
Junior and senior years of college were his wild days. He and his friends stayed up late in the campus game room playing Dungeons and Dragons—a pastime Gray still indulges in most weekends. He and his college friends were into heavy metal concerts, too, and they frequented the mosh pits of Coheed and Cambria, Metallica, and Muse where he suffered blows to the head and fractured ribs, but found it worth it.
“I’m kind of a very deep-level nerd,” he jokes. “There’s ratings to nerds, and I’m in the abyssal level.”
Gray started working at Hemenway Gymnasium almost five years ago, while he was still in college. After graduation, he put an end to his raucousness and turned the part-time gig into a 40-hour-a-week job. Eventually, he moved to working exclusively at the MAC, taking the opening shifts most employees dread.
“You can’t be too proud to do a humble man’s job,” he says. “I have a degree, and I didn’t expect to be doing this job, but I’m still going to do my best to perform it even if it isn’t teaching at Harvard.”
Gray uses his downtime at work to read, sampling authors like J.R.R. Tolkien and Neil Gaiman but prioritizing history. “I flow around different subjects, like I went from China to the Mongol Empire into the Timurid Empire down into India, Africa, back to Europe for a while,” he says. His current project is “The Oxford History of the United States.”
“Buying books is my one big indulgence,” he says. “I’ll spend my fair share of my paycheck. If it ain’t for the family, I’m gonna spend it on reading material.”
He lives in a three-decker house with a backyard in the quiet neighborhood of Lower Allston. “Serves to keep you out of the rain,” he says of his house, chuckling. The house has been in his family for generations. His best friend Lauren—they are Facebook-official siblings—rents a room downstairs from his aunt, and his parents live there, too. He does the dishes, shovels snow, rakes leaves. “When I’m doing laundry at work, I’m practicing for laundry at home,” he jokes.
Sunday is Gray’s day off. He spends too much time at the gym already, he says, to work out in his free time. Instead, he bikes 10 or 20 miles, often along the Charles River and through Boston Commons, sometimes all the way to the shoreline.
In life, as in bike rides, Gray’s not quite sure where he’s going—whether he will next pursue his old dream of becoming a history teacher or build his career at the MAC. At the end of the day, all roads lead to a three-decker in Lower Allston. “I’m a Lower-Allston lifer,” Gray says.
As Gray heads out the front doors of Quincy, I say I’ll see him around. “Oh, okey dokey,” he says. “I’ll be swiping you through in no time.”
Sections
On January 20, Richard Blanco took the stage at the presidential inauguration and read his poem “One Today,” to the nation. He was the first Latino and first openly gay poet—and the youngest—chosen to write the inaugural poem, and tasked with an impossibly daunting project of depicting today’s America. The night before he was slated to speak at Harvard last week, he spent a few minutes speaking with FM about how his identity and journey tied into his experience at the inauguration. 
“My first reaction to being chosen was, of course, that I thought maybe it was a practical joke. It was something so unexpected. But then after it sunk in, I was overwhelmed with a sense of gratitude—I thought of my parents and my grandparents, all the sacrifices and struggle and hard work they went through. I felt like I was the end of a story that began a long time ago, that American Dream kind of feeling, the immigrant story. I thought of all the things my parents went through coming here from Cuba, about how the way I’d gotten to that moment was really because of my parents.
As an immigrant, there’s always still this little thing, where sometimes you feel, you’re not really American. It’s of course a fiction, but you always feel like a little bit of an outsider in some ways—not because of anything somebody does or says to you, necessarily, although that happens as well. But in that moment I felt, I was American all along. My story that was in the poem with my mother, that is America, it’s essential and part of the great American story, and I finally felt like somehow somebody gave me the keys.
The occasion of this poem was about healing, instead of further political divisions—Washington sort of has the upper hand on that. [He laughs] My first impulse was to make this a political poem, representing the struggle of Latinos in America, or gay rights, but at the end of the day I decided that that’s already a conversation that’s being had—very helpfully, I think. I wanted a poem that rose above that, that took another step, toward the idea of embracing America.
Actually being part of the inauguration—besides the reading of the poem—was a really amazing experience, in ways that I didn’t expect it to be. I really understood the ideal, core, essence of what the inauguration was.
I lived in Washington for three and a half years and I never quite understood: Why do people go to the inauguration? But I really, really got it: It’s this idea of bearing witness to something, to this moment—like my poem says, “Breathe.” The country takes a breath.
It’s very palpable, you can imagine it happening a hundred years ago, which is even more startling in a historical context.…That spirit, and you can still feel that sense of everybody coming together for just those couple of hours, and putting everything aside, and saying, ‘We are all here for one purpose.’
It’s really a country, and those ideals that I grew up with, those hyper-ideals, to which over the years I’d sort of thought, ‘Well, I’m just being idealistic, and that isn’t really the way it is,’ but I really, really felt them—it was amazing. I’d never felt more American in my life. And the poem fit into that too.
I hadn’t realized—there was this embrace that I was trying to give America—that what really ended up also happening was America embraced me back, and that was so powerful.
And later on in the streets of D.C., people hugging me and telling me how much they felt part of the poem—that embrace, they’re embracing me back, was something I never really expected.
It was beautiful. I mean, I was bawling up there, even before I read. You know, everybody is there for a moment, where nothing is greater than the country. And all of us together—all of us.
Everyone is at that moment larger than themselves. I did feel it—I don’t know if it was because I was swept away in my own poetic mind, but I did feel it. And I finally understood why all those hundreds of thousands of people come, and why we do it all, every four years.”
 This interview has been edited for concision. 
Sections
Kirkland
HoCo Chair: Let’s run through the plan for delivering the letters.
Junior: Ok. So we enter chanting “Oh Kirkland!”
HoCo Chair: Sounds good…
Junior: We knock on the door, hand over the letter, everyone cheers.
HoCo Chair: Uh huh…
Junior: And then we make out with them!
HoCo Chair: Dammit, no! We talked about this!
Junior: Sorry, I forgot. First we get them to make out with each other!
Adams
HoCo Chair: Sorry I’m late. There was a traffic jam in front of the salad bar. You know how it is--one person decides they want croutons and the whole servery grinds to a halt. Which reminds me, after tomorrow there’s going to be a hundred extra people with dining hall access. It’s time--
Junior:He’s trying to say it’s time to pick the names. We barely fit as it is. Some poor bastards are going to have to eat in Lowell.
Sophomore: Instead of doing this every year, why don’t we just kick out all the Pfoho kids?
HoCo Chair: I wish we could. Look at those two hogging a table.
Sophomore: They don’t even have any food. They’re just staring at us. Are they creeping anyone else out?
HoCo Chair: Don’t worry, it’s just a scare tactic. Ever since they failed at the mascot thing, they’ve been trying to intimidate us in person. They’ll be sorry when they see our real mascot...when we pick it in 2017.
Sophomore: But why do they look so hungry?
HoCo Chair: They’re just tired from walking.
 Winthrop
HoCo Chair: Woohoo! You guys ready to give out some letters!?
Junior #1: Didn’t you get the email? We’ve decided we’re not doing that this year.
HoCo Chair: What? Why? Is it because of the Game of Throp theme?
Junior #2: It’s not that. After they told us we weren’t getting singles we did some calculations.
Junior #1: It turns out if we don’t take in any new students, almost 38 percent of the senior class will get their own room! We may even have enough extra space to let juniors unbunk their beds!
Hoco Chair: But what are we going to do with all these Game of Throp t-shirts?! More importantly, where will all the freshmen go?
Junior #2:  We could send them to Leverett. No one will notice a few extra students there.
 Pforzheimer
HoCo Chair: Mules? Check. Pfood? Check. Sherpas? Check. Ok guys looks like we’re ready for this trek. If we leave now we should make it to the Yard by Thursday morning.
Sophomore: Did we really need to bring a live polar bear? She takes up a lot of space on the sledge, and I’d kind of prefer we had the emergency rations. You remember what happened to those guys that got stuck in the blizzard right? I heard they-
HoCo Chair: We don’t talk about that. Ok? Drew and Vinay have been through enough without you reminding them what they had to do to survive out there in the snow. Besides, she’ll look great next to the “Pfhome Sweet Pfhome” banner. Now iPf that’s all, let’s go. Don’t let me Pforget to tip the Pferryman.
Sections
 Last night, after several weeks in isolation, Tinder passed peacefully away in its sleep with a rosy glow on his screen. He had been left neglected on billions of iPhones worldwide. Tinder was less than a year old.
 Tinder took a deep interest in each of his users, and took care to match users based on proximity and similar hobbies. “I mean, the whole thing was very thoughtful. Tinder was a very well-intentioned little app,” said Tinder’s doctor this morning as he stared forlornly down into his coffee mug during an exclusive chat with FM. “Then again so was Myspace,” he concluded.
 Tinder was known for his love of playing matchmaker with his friends, who ranged from athletes to middle schoolers and every tanned, muscular person in between. He caringly checked to see if matches found each other attractive, and they checked again to see if they found each other attractive.
 Tinder’s doctor glanced uncomfortably down at his own iPhone. “But what Tinder didn’t realize was that his matches didn’t always work out, and when Tinder would encourage them, they would start to, well, ignore Tinder to avoid the pressure. At first he brushed aside the neglect, thinking maybe his users were in class, sleeping, or playing in lacrosse games. Then he realized the problem was larger and he began to feel the pain of them swiping him left.”
 Tinder’s feelings of loneliness persisted, and he realized what he needed was a good friend. “I remember he told me about the day he sat down in front of a mirror and tried to use himself to find a match, or at least a friend,” the doctor continued. “He discovered, though, that none of the potential matches he chatted with wanted to meet up in person, and none of the few that he met really worked out for longer than a few days.”
 Tinder’s decline was a quick one. Upon realizing how futile his life’s work was, and with his number of users dwindling, Tinder started to wake up later and later in the morning, putting less enthusiasm into his matching work. He started eating up a lot less battery life.
 Feeling like he didn’t belong amongst the ranks of eHarmony and Match.com, Tinder looked for companionship amongst other apps that were getting lonely. He developed relationships with Draw Something, Words with Friends and Angry Birds. They visited occasionally, bonding over their feelings of obsolescence.
 Kindhearted Tinder will live on in the hearts of the three or four couples that met because of his matching skills, and the many people who connected with each other with the flick of their thumbs to the left or to the right.
Sections
Part of a series of ongoing coverage on Venezuela following the death of President Hugo Chávez. Part I was published on March 7.
The first person I met upon entering the line at the Paseo Los Próceres in Caracas, Venezuela, to see the body of the country’s late president, Hugo Chávez, was a dark-skinned man named Feliz. He wore a green mesh shirt and jeans, and his wife stood next to him holding their daughter, who wore a red beret. I introduced myself, and said that I was a college student studying abroad from the United States. He smiled: “You’re a revolutionary, then?”
It was 5:18 p.m. on March 8, and in front of us stretched miles of red: t-shirts, hats, headbands, facepaint. They reference Chávez’s famous political moments (such as 4-F, or February 4, 1992, the date of his failed military coup and his subsequent early-morning proclamation that his Bolivarian movement had failed “por ahora,” “for now,”) and his campaign slogans (including “Yo soy Chávez;” “I am Chávez;” “Chávez, corazón de mi patria;” “Chávez, the heart of my homeland”).
A businessman from the neighborhood of La Hoyada in Caracas, Feliz had come on this day in particular because there were supposed to be fewer people—with luck, he told me, we would arrive by one or two in the morning. He emphasized that the wait did not matter, that the important thing was to see “el comandante” one last time. “Nothing like this would happen anywhere else,” he added.
In front of him stood Rosalie, a short, older woman in a blue Chávez t-shirt from the October elections. She offered me one of her water bottles and some snacks—eight or nine hours would be a long wait—and began spontaneously to explain what her president had meant to her.
“The first thing you should understand about Hugo Chávez is that he’s profoundly human. He cares. For the first time ever, a politician interacted with his citizens as a human being. He talked to us, he listened to us, he played with us,” she said, motioning toward her two-year-old niece, dressed in pink and sleeping in her stroller.
Venezuela, she claimed, is now one of the only countries in the world that doesn’t depend on anyone else, a development brought about by Chávez’s focus on nationalizing the country’s own industries.
She was a resident of Catia, a slum so notorious for poverty and violence that she didn’t deem it necessary to remind even a foreigner like me. But she remained proud, and thankful for what the president had done for her.
“We have our own house, now,” she said, “our own car, our own groceries, our own electricity, just like you do in the United States. When we want to travel, we travel. When we want to have fun, we have fun. When we want to have parties, we have parties. We live in Catia, but we live well.”
Aware of condemnations of Chávez by much of the international press, as well as of many Venezuelans—likening Chávez to a dictator, an autocrat, a communist—she declared that these were simply “lies.”
“How can they say that?” Her face tensed in anger. “How can they say that he’s a dictator? He’s a dictator for insisting that everyone follow the law? He’s a dictator for making sure our money stays in Venezuela? He’s a dictator for going to the U.S. and telling them the truth—that they have been making unjust wars on other nations?”
She motioned to a woman standing by her, who was speaking to an interviewer in front of a television camera.
“They can say what they want, and I respect them,” she was saying. “But we elected him out of our own free will, and we came here out of our own free will. They must understand”—she motioned to those in all directions around her—“that we are millions.” The hundreds in her vicinity erupted into cheer.
An hour and a half had passed, and the sun was setting behind Caracas, its sloping valley turning to gray with the dusk.
***
By 9 p.m., the citizens in line were weary. Vendors passed by hawking arepas, sodas, apparel, coffee, and cigarettes. Children, some wearing the green beret popularized by Che Guevara, played with each other on old military tanks on the grass. On a bench nearby, two red-clad teenagers snuggled together.
A new member had joined our small group, a public accountant named Ramar. A former lawyer trained at the prestigious Universidad Central, he had worked for four years at the presidential palace of Miraflores under President Rafael Caldera, leaving after Chávez’s election in 1998. It was a “tough hit,” he said, but one that was necessary.
“Before then, before I left my job [at Miraflores], I thought that everything was perfect, that there were no problems,” he told me. “Then I left, and I realized that yes, there were many.”
His view of Chávez was nuanced. He praised the heavy investment in education and social programs, but expressed concern over concentration of power in the executive branch.
Several years before, Ramar continued, while leading a workshop in one of the neighborhoods of Caracas, he had the opportunity to meet the president. Judging from the media, “I had always seen him as this massive, aggressive, almost angry personality. But I found out that he was a human being. He listened, he had ideas. I was impressed.”
Among Feliz, Ramar, Rosalie, their respective families, we had formed our own group among the thousands, and they agreed to save my spot in line while I stepped aside to take pictures at a nearby plaza. The vice-president, Nicolás Maduro, had been sworn in as Venezuela’s president, and the people around me cheered as they watched him speak on a large projector screen, calling for the preservation of Chávez’s legacy and for unity during these troubled times. He defended his decision to expel a member of the US embassy for attempting to conspire with the military, declaring that he wanted the country free of American infestation.
I recalled the anti-American rhetoric I had heard in recent days, which had initially unsettled me. But now, at the center of Caracas, amidst the loud applause at the condemnation of the misdeeds of the American empire, I did not feel afraid. After all, as a woman near me pointed out, the real yanquis wouldn’t be there, with “the people.”
I went back in line, and watched from afar images on the projector screen of the funeral proceedings earlier that day. It was now 10:30 p.m., and a series of trucks rode in, about 10 red-clad workers on each. They weaved through the lines as they handed out blue bags to each person. A woman in a white tank top and purple pants—the same one who had sanctioned me as a unique American—made sure that I got one.
I opened the bag to find a carefully-wrapped ham-and-cheese sandwich with juice. I was astonished. Where had this come from, I asked? “The National Guard,” she responded, pointing to a truck near us, where workers were handing out water bottles.
“What is it?,” she asked, noticing my puzzled face. I explained that I had never seen anything like this before, and she laughed.
“This,” she said, motioning around her, smiling, “is the revolution.”
She took her place back in line, but turned back toward me. “I’m Julianna,” she said. “It’s nice to meet you.”
***
At 12 a.m., after nearly seven hours of waiting, we entered the military zone surrounding the academy where the body of Hugo Chávez lay. The change in mood was palpable: the numerous vendors dwindled, and the line merged into single-file. In the distance, groups were waving the Bolivian and Colombian flags. People slept, or simply sat with droopy eyes in the bleachers around us, but the majority remained in line.
Assured that my spot was secure, I too went to the bleachers and spent a couple hours sleeping, or trying to. When I returned, I met Arturo, a 22-year-old from Valencia, a city three hours away. He had arrived earlier that day with his mother, Maggie, who stood next to him; his father and brother lay asleep on the bleachers toward the front of the line.
As we talked through various formalities—my abroad program, impressions of Venezuela, the food here—a woman in front of us detected my accent, and chimed in.
Her name was Doris, and she came from Barcelona—“The one in Venezuela, not Spain.” She wanted to see her president, who was “beautiful” and whom she loved, the man who had changed her life by advocating for her, and her family. She laughed as she asked me questions in her accented English: “Where are you from?” “How old are you?”
During my time learning Spanish, the tendency of Latin Americans to break into English upon detecting my foreignness had always bothered me. But this struck me as genuine: She was not trying to show off her English; she wanted simply to make me feel comfortable. All around us, people broke into laughter at her accent, myself included.
In the background, the audio system played songs of Alí Primera, a Venezuelan musician and political activist—among them songs against the American occupation of Vietnam—and audio of Chávez’s speeches. Television screens above played clips from “Aló Presidente,” Chávez’s weekly television program.
Doris continued asking me what I was doing in Venezuela, what college I went to, what I studied. When I said history, her eyes widened.
“Look around you. This is your story: a president who loved his people, and a people who loved their president.” She glanced down and looked up at me smiling. “That’s a great story.”
***
By 3 a.m., the prospects of seeing the late president seemed bleak. The line had stalled, and the people around us had grown restless and begun screaming, “¡Queremos ver a Chávez! We want to see Chávez!”
Someone returned after investigating the end of the line, and informed us that there was not just one line remaining, as we had thought, but four. One person, we were told, had been waiting 34 hours—since 5 p.m. two days before. I decided to remain until at least 7 a.m., when, I figured, the bus terminal would be open and I could buy a return ticket to Mérida.
I went back into the bleachers and looked around: No one from our initial group, it appeared—not Feliz, not Rosalie, not Ramar—remained. The air had grown cold, and I shivered, eyeing jealously the people with the foresight to bring blankets, towels, and extra Chávez shirts.
I had been sitting alone for an hour, sometimes drifting to sleep, occasionally munching from the bag of granola, when Ramar, the lawyer who had worked at the presidential palace, appeared. He’d been visiting with one of his friends toward the front. “Where is everyone?” he asked. “Gone home, tired,” I replied. The line didn’t seem to be moving, I myself would probably leave around seven. He encouraged me, at the very least, to walk with him toward the front so that I could see the military academy.
We passed a few thousand people before arriving at a grassy area near the entrance to the academy, where several separate lines—for the military, for officials, for the elderly—converged into one. Pointing to one of the lines, Ramar told me that, had he wanted, his qualifications would have permitted him a much shorter trip to see Chávez. But considering the grandness of the moment, he had refrained. “I wanted to see the people,” he said. “That people like you were also in line. This is an experience, this is history for all of us, you know.”
We walked over to the front of the line, and I asked a man how long he had been waiting. 19 hours, he replied, with some excitement; it wouldn’t be much longer to see “el comandante.”
Suddenly, the line began to move; Ramar and I quietly moved along next to it. We were just observing, I told myself. But when the line stretched into single file, Ramar edged himself in and I followed.
Earlier in the night I had noted the collective vigilance of those in line: no one, it seemed, could cut in without being called out by shouts of protest. But at that moment—perhaps because the line had just started to move; perhaps because of sheer weariness; perhaps because, as Ramar later explained, my innocent question had settled whatever tension existed—we passed by undetected.
Within 10 minutes, we had entered the snaking network of bars that formed the line—the final line—to see Hugo Chávez. We were at the walkway leading to the entrance of the Military Academy, whose broad white walls stood out against the darkness.
It was a little after 5 a.m., and by the early morning light we could see specks of color in the shanties that covered the surrounding hills. Down below, on a wide, blocked-off grassy area, a group of soldiers played “reveille.”
***
At 6:06 a.m. on March 9, after 12 hours and 48 minutes in line, I passed the body of Hugo Chávez. The inside of the military academy was expansive and white, and officials sat in rows of chairs on either side of the casket. There were two lines, one on each side, and two suited guards stood at the head of the coffin. The bottom half was enclosed in dark wood; the top half covered in what appeared to be clear glass. The pace of the line, ensured by the guards, was swift: Each person had a little over a second, to glance at the president, cross himself, and move on.
When my turn came, I peered inside the transparent covering and continued walking. In my one second to take in the late president, I did not manage to detect the color of his skin or his lips.  His eyes were closed, and he wore a dark suit with a red tie, the presidential sash over his right shoulder. He looked a bit surreal, like a wax replica.
In that second, however, one feature stood out: this man, who was a savior to the millions in line and a tyrant to millions watching contemptuously on TV – this man who proclaimed the grand changes of 21st century socialism and stood as a mighty antagonist to the United States – was smaller than I had expected. His face, magnified thousands of times, sometimes in caricature, on posters, billboards and graffiti, seemed delicate, the cheek bones shallow. I remembered what Rosalie had told me thirteen hours before: that above all Chávez was human.
As I walked down a long hallway with Ramar, citizens exchanged loud greetings of “buenos días” with the soldiers on duty. Ramar smiled at me, and I thought what a thrill this had all been. Maybe we could go again?
Then I noticed that the woman in black in front of me was shaking with tears. I looked at the family behind me, their eyes reddened to the color of their clothing. And I looked out across the lawn of the military academy, where the sun now shone on hundreds of thousands of similarly red-clad Venezuelans who patiently waited their one-second turn.
Whether or not Hugo Chávez truly was a cult leader, a communist, a populist dictator, or a savior, he meant more to these people—many of them young, but of all ages—than I could yet comprehend. They had seemed warm: They offered me food; they talked intelligently about politics and culture and the world; they did not care that I was American. Perhaps this was a sleep-deprived early-morning delirium, but I felt at that moment that they were not deluded.
On our way out of the Military Academy, Ramar told me that he had always wanted to go to New York, and asked about the dangers of the South Bronx.
Then he paused. “Wait a second. You just went to Caracas, the most dangerous city in the world, during one of the most volatile political events in its history. You were out all night with Venezuelans you didn’t know—and you were fine.”
He laughed. “If I go to the United States,” he said, “I’m going to the Bronx.”
Sections
Dr. Cheng-San Chen is a short man. His face, though abundantly wrinkled, breaks into a grin as he tells me his age. “Probably I’m the oldest store owner around here,” he laughs. “I will be 70 years old this year.”
Chen—better known to Harvard students as Louie, the eponymous owner of Louie’s Superette, located at 26 Surrey Street (mere feet from Mather House)—seems eager to talk to me. “I like Harvard students,” he tells me. “They are all smart; they will be future leaders.”
Coolers hum audibly behind us as we talk, the countertop that separates us barely visible beneath an odd impasto of flashy energy bars, individually wrapped candies, and various official documents that Chen presents to me over the course of our interview. When I ask him how to spell his name, he thrusts his hand into a pile of papers on the counter and presents me with a business card.
Any Louie’s regular will tell you that the owner can’t stop talking about politics. Within minutes I’ve heard about Ronald Reagan, IR accounts, and Chen’s views about social security. Talking to students about politics and their own passions, he tells me, is one of his greatest joys.
Though the jobs he’s held in his lifetime are many and varied, that of a convenience store owner stands out. It’s the personal interactions that get to him, he tells me. “Some students, after 10 years, they come back, they ask me if I still remember them,” he recalls fondly. “I tell them yes.”
Chen grew up in Taiwan, the eldest son of poor rice farmers. He did undergraduate work in mathematics, spent a mandatory year in the army—eventually rising to the rank of Second Lieutenant—and then moved to America to pursue an advanced degree in Buffalo, N.Y.
Chen initially intended to return to Taiwan after receiving his Ph.D. in biophysics, a nascent field at the time, but he remembers being told, in so many words, that he knew too much. “They told me, ‘Your career is too advanced,’” he recalls. “They said they cannot use me.” Faced with this predicament, Chen decided to make the United States his home.
What followed was a whirlwind of employment: an assistant professorship at the University of Pittsburgh for four years; a brief stint as a data analyst for Xerox; and a move to Boston in 1982 to work for the Digital Equipment Corporation, a now defunct computer manufacturing company that at the time was second only to IBM in the field.
It was during his 10 years with DEC that Chen stumbled upon Louie’s Superette, a small convenience store run by the original owner, Louie G. Palucci. He applied for a job at Louie’s in addition to his DEC employment. In 1987, the ownership of the store was up for grabs: Chen decided to embrace the opportunity.
When I ask him about the early years, Chen rattles off a short list of grievances, among them a fire that left the store inoperable for eight months. Before long he’s discussing being robbed at gunpoint.
“They point a gun at me,” he says, chuckling at the memory. “I asked them, is that a real gun? They said yes. Is that a real bullet? They said yes.”
Was he scared? Not at all. “You know what I told myself? My life is in the hands of God. If God says, ‘Louie, your job is done, go home,’ then I wouldn’t be here. If God says, ‘You still have some work to do,’ then I will stay.
”It’s a stoic response, one in keeping with a line he deals out frequently: “It’s good, it’s bad.” When I ask him about money, his response doesn’t surprise me. “Money, it’s good, it’s bad.” Though he refers often to the childhood poverty he escaped, money is not, for him, the ultimate solution: “To me it’s most important to do something interesting and challenging. Then you don’t feel tired, you don’t feel bored.”
At this point a customer enters, grabs a bag of chips, and comes to the counter. Chen recognizes her, asks her what her plans are for after graduation. When she mentions returning to Germany, he’s off: telling a story that concerns a former student he knew, a German girlfriend, and a submarine. He ends the story with a German phrase, and the student departs, promising to stop by again soon.
I ask him how many languages he knows. “German, Japanese, Taiwanese, Chinese, English.” But why German? It turns out his twin brother (Chen is the elder by several minutes) was the Taiwanese ambassador to Germany years ago.
When I ask him if he regrets staying in America, his smile briefly fades. It’s the first time he truly looks his age. He tells me he might have been a general in the Taiwanese army, or a university president, or even an ambassador like his brother. “So it’s different,” he says. “But life is one path. When time is gone, it’s gone.”
His grin returns. When I broach the subject of retirement, he laughs. Though he admits he won’t be running the store for the next twenty years, he also doesn’t see himself retiring anytime soon. “I’m very busy,” Chen tells me. “Many people say they like to buy the store from me. But after this, what is my plan? I cannot sit there doing nothing.” I probe Chen a little more about selling the place, and his sole criterion emerges: “You’ve got to be interested in Harvard students. If you’re not interested, forget it.”
Chen does all the work here himself, standing behind the counter for 11 hours every day. I ask him if there’s anything he does to pass the time, any sort of hobby. “I used to play flute,” he says. “But when I moved, I cannot find the flute.”
Louie’s is celebrating its 25th anniversary this year under Chen’s ownership. In that time he has raised two children—both graduated from Columbia University—and made the acquaintance of countless students (among them Al Gore’s daughter and Joe Biden’s niece). He recently welcomed a grandson into the world, he says, gesturing to a wall of photographs behind his counter. His grin is broader than I’ve seen it yet.
He asks, “Is that enough?” I tell him I think so, and make a motion to leave, but he launches into another story, and it’s another 10 minutes before I’m able to exit the store. When I do leave, Chen shakes my hand, tells me it’s been a pleasure to talk, and smiles. “Come again soon,” he says. And he means it.
Sections
In the days following the first round of senior thesis deadlines, John experienced another totally normal week of college life. John, a senior Government concentrator in Eliot house, has been granted anonymity by The Crimson because his family doesn’t know he isn’t writing a thesis.
“It was a totally ordinary Tuesday night,” said John. “I was watching seasons two through five of ‘The Office’ on Netflix, and suddenly my roommates came in, all excited. They were way happier than I’ve seen them in months. It was weird.”
This past week, John had his usual lecture classes on Mondays and Wednesdays, with two Tuesday sections and a seminar on Thursday. Thursday was still his “bad day of the week.”
“I have a problem set due every Thursday, and this week I needed to catch up with some reading so I could write my response paper for my seminar due the same day,” he said.
As the week went on, however, John said he noticed an inexplicable change in his peers’ personalities. Friends who he hadn’t seen in months suddenly reappeared, and formerly filthy roommates began showering and feeding themselves again. “I mean, I’m not complaining. It’s just that now I can’t get away with using their fancy conditioners anymore,” he added.
John also noticed that he was not the only one drinking on weekdays recently. “I was having my usual Monday night beer, and my roommate Chris, whom I haven’t shared a Monday beer with in ages, comes in and asks me for one. He drank with me on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday as well. We planned on taking Sunday off, but then Senior bar struck again,” said John.
John’s greatest contribution to his class, he said, will be a plaque on the wall of the Queen’s Head Pub, marking him as Last Senior Standing. “Makes you wonder what my blockmates have been doing all this time, that’s so meaningful to them that they’ve been missing senior bar,” he added.
As his peers celebrated their newfound liberty post-thesis meals at real restaurants and bottles of booze that cost more than $16, John treated himself to a reward as well. “I had just finished folding my laundry, and I was hungry, so I got myself some Noch’s,” he said. “Tomato basil. It was pretty good."
Sections
Oprah is heading to Harvard Yard on May 30 to impart words of wisdom to the class of 2013. In the meantime, FM looks to  Oprah’s Twitter for advice to solve our day-to-day problems.
Dear Oprah,
I went out hard last night. I party hopped down Mount Auburn Street and I don’t remember anything that happened past 10 p.m. My boyfriend claims I was mean and I also forgot to stop by my friend’s birthday party. How do I make it up to them?
 As Oprah Says:
“We can only ever be who we are and at some point that has to be enough.”
Dear Oprah,
My boyfriend cheated on me with my best friend! They both deny it to my face, but a bunch of my friends say they saw them making out at a party. I want to believe my boyfriend, but I feel like the evidence is against him. What should I do?
 As Oprah Says:
“Everybody’s story carries the same weight and same VALUE. That’s the greatest life lesson.”
Dear Oprah,
I am getting so stressed at school. I’m comping three organizations, I have a job at Lamont Cafe, and I’m a physics major. I’m also trying to get into social clubs, and I might walk on the crew team. How can I juggle it all?
 As Oprah Says:
“The attainment of inner peace, what if we all shifted our goal to that....You want to be more focused? Energized? Successful? Powerful? Practice STILLNESS.”
 Dear Oprah,
I’ve been dating the same girl for a couple of years, but I’m starting to wonder if we’re right for each other. We never spend time together, and when we are together, she’s always talking about other guys. All of my friends hate her and say we’re wrong for each other, but I don’t want to give up on what we have. Is there anything I can do? 
As Oprah Says:
“When you focus on Love a lot of the other crap shows up.”
Sections
Last weekend, four friends and I sat on the futon sipping homemade sangria discussing whether my roommate should go on a date with a 40-year-old pilot she had sat next to on a flight back to Boston. I discouraged the idea, as did most of the people present. There was one dissenter, however. “Do it,” he said. “Just meet in a public place. You’ll always have a story to tell.”
I knew the truth in that. I met Jacob over a year ago, on Christmas Eve at The Matzo Ball. Held every year, the Jewish singles event is a rite of passage of sorts for Jews in their 20s, or 30s, or (for a select few) 40s. Jacob wasn’t 40, thankfully, but he was around seven or eight years my senior. The idea of the event is that you meet your soul mate by the bar or on the dance floor, and join them for traditional Christmas Day Chinese food the morning after. My friend and I went on a whim, purchasing our tickets at the door.
I had survived the awkward event for four or five hours, and was just leaving at the end of the night when Jacob introduced himself. He told me he was from Belgium, Antwerp maybe. He was cordial—“I respect women and you look like a woman to be respected”—and he hailed a cab for my friend and me. He asked for my number, and, to my surprise, I gave it to him. Ten minutes later, he left multiple messages, one of which proposed that we make plans to cook dinner together.
It’s not that I’m not spontaneous. The previous summer I had backpacked through South America, and had gone snowshoeing through a national park with two French university students we met at the hostel. But my spontaneity has its limits. Cooking dinner with someone I had met for five minutes rested safely outside my comfort zone.  For one thing, there was no way I would go alone to his house. For another, I tend to avoid talking to strangers without a clear exit route in mind.
I’m still not sure why I said yes. Maybe I was bored watching daytime television (“You are not the father!”). Or maybe I wanted to be able to tell my mother that I’d gone on a date with a nice Jewish guy, a potential mensch. Jacob seemed sweet, genuine, upfront. I suggested that we go to a restaurant instead.
It was a date of the old fashioned variety, until it wasn’t. He walked on the side closest to traffic. We shared an umbrella. He gave me his jacket when I got cold. And then the date took a turn for the worse. Within minutes, he was telling me he could get me a job at the store where he worked and inviting me to a concert that night, and another one the night after that. When I told him I would be returning to school in Cambridge, he decided to plan a visit and invited me to travel to the French countryside with him and his family over the summer. The next morning, I called and said that we wouldn’t be seeing each other again. “But we were just getting to know each other,” he replied. I felt that we had gotten to know each other plenty. He was clearly looking for a wife. As far as I can tell from online searches, he has since found one.
Back to my roommate’s conundrum. She didn’t make her final decision that night. She did, however, rip out a sheet of paper and scrawl the words “Bucket List” on the top. Rather than including clichéd senior traditions (which we’ll probably do too), the five of us listed off-the-wall, why-the-hell-would-you-do-that items. We came up with around 20 on the spot. I may or may not have signed up for a 10k, which may or may not be twice as far as I have ever run before. But we agreed that before the end of the semester we would each have three Matzo-Ball-Jacob/40-Year-Old Pilot stories to tell.
One could say that lists and spontaneity are contradictory. Lists being our specialty, we were planning on making spontaneous decisions in advance. At least we were trying. We hung the list by the mini-fridge and left a pen beside it. Now we can add to it when we are most inclined to do so. Chances are Jacob is not reading this. I really hope he is not. If he is, though, my roommates and I would like to say thank you.
 Beth E. Braiterman ’13, a former Crimson Magazine Editor, is a History and Literature concentrator in Mather House. She plans on getting more spontaneous the further into senior spring she gets. 
Sections
“If you were going to an LGBT drag party, who would you dress up as?”
Mazen Elfakhani froze. He wasn’t sure what to say. He knew the type of answer the tutor selection committee was looking for—probably “something to show I’m not too stiff,” he says, recalling the incident. Elfakhani knew that his lifestyle for the next few years would depend on it, but all he could come up with was “Lady Gaga.”
When a different selection committee discovered that Cian J. Power was a tenor in the Dudley Choir, they asked him to prove his credentials. “I’ll sing if you’ll sing with me!” he challenged.
Elfakhani and Power, fourth-year graduate students, second-year resident advisors in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and longtime friends, were in their first round of interviews at Adams and Cabot Houses, respectively, for positions as undergraduate resident tutors.
In the graduate school dining hall after their interviews, the two laughed off the pressure of the bizarre questions with three other close friends. All five had applied to be undergraduate tutors this year.
“The dream was to all be tutors in the same House,” Elfakhani says.
The friends convened informally after each interview to compare notes, share interview questions, and ask for advice. The tutor application process was a puzzle, and they were trying to crack it.
But it wasn’t such an easy task.
With subtle differences among House personalities and expectations for tutors, and no centralized system that bridges the process, House tutor selection is far from straightforward. Each player knows the rules he or she is supposed to follow, but nobody quite understands how the game works—or what makes a winner.
Round One
Elfakhani and Power submitted applications and cover letters—one template, varied slightly for each house—to all 12 undergraduate Houses. Elfakhani was invited to interview at Adams, Winthrop, and Dunster; Power interviewed at Winthrop and Cabot.
The process starts out straightforward, but once these applications are submitted, it becomes more complicated. Each House designs its own selection system.
After Houses have narrowed down their applicant pools, they each interview a select group of candidates. According to the House representatives FM spoke to, their Houses delegate their first round of interviews to selection committees. Each selection committee focuses on an academic advising specialty, ranging from pre-med to the humanities, and is composed of a mix of students and tutors who interview candidates applying to be tutors in those fields.
According to selection committee members, the makeup of these committees differs widely from House to House. In Kirkland, for instance, sophomores, juniors, and seniors participate in selection committees. The Adams and Cabot House Masters offer committee membership to any interested students; participation in Kirkland and Winthrop committees are by invitation only.
Some Houses cap selection committees at three to four students and two to three tutors, but interviews for Quincy tutor positions are open to any tutor who wants to attend, according to Quincy House tutor Thomas S. Wooten ’08. “There’s a real culture of going to as many interviews as you can,” he says.
Jillian M. Smith ’13, co-chair of the Cabot House committee, says that Cabot values student involvement in the process; students report their opinions directly to the House Masters. “It’s all about what the students want here,” she says.
Adams House Master Sean Palfrey ’67 also places an emphasis on student input. “If a student had an applicant as a TF, and they were rude or bad, that almost totally nixes the applicant,” he says.
Jennifer A. Sheehy-Skeffington, a Winthrop tutor on the selection committee, explains that students and tutors provide feedback to their House Masters through a number system with different categories and point values representing “definitely,” “maybe,” “depends,” and “no.”
Sheehy-Skeffington says that in her experience, the biggest determinants of success in Winthrop interviews have been the applicants’ charisma. “What surprises you is everybody who applies is brilliant, so everybody has a great CV,” she says. This places more emphasis on the applicants’ personalities, which they convey through their cover letters and interviews.
Sometimes, she says, “they’re being too formal and treating it like a job, but it’s not just a job—it takes over your life.”
One of the major challenges of the interview process, she says, is getting a sense of which applicants are only in it for the free housing. “Some people see it as a cost-benefit thing, but you can pretty much always tell,” Sheehy-Skeffington says. Attendance at non-mandatory House events before offers are extended offers is the best indicator of which candidates care about being part of the Winthrop community, she adds.
Sheehy-Skeffington says that when she was applying for the position herself, she was surprised by how different the selection committees were across the different Houses.
At Adams, she says, “It was a bit like speed dating with a group of five.”
The Dunster process was “very grueling, because you interview with the students, resident dean, and Masters in immediate succession.”
And whereas Eliot students sit down to an informal dinner with candidates before the interviews begin, at Lowell and Winthrop all of the “getting-to-know-you” activities take place after both rounds of interviews, Sheehy-Skeffington says.
Sharon P. Carlson ’14, co-chair of the Eliot House committee, who has interviewed tutor applicants for the past two years, says she thinks the applicants are not the only ones under pressure. Just as the committees scrutinize tutor hopefuls, the applicants too evaluate the committees for hints of House character. “You’re also being interviewed, because they’re trying to choose their Houses,” Carlson says. “You have your favorite tutor candidates, so it’s fun to see if they choose your House.”
Couples like Karen J. Kieser and Daniel Green, now tutors in Eliot, interviewed together. They recall that last year when they interviewed at Winthrop, Cabot, Lowell, and Eliot, some questions caught them off guard.
“I remember being asked, ‘How will this influence your relationship?’” Green says. “But we had never even talked about that.”
Some candidates with special affiliations skip the first round of interviews altogether. Wooten says he had missed the application deadline by the time he called up his friends at Quincy, the House that he had called home as an undergraduate, to ask for a job. He was bumped ahead to round two: the interview with the House Masters.
Round Two
This year, when Elfakhani’s friends told him they had received emails asking them back for a second round of interviews at Adams and Winthrop, he realized that he had been eliminated from the applicant pool.
Since Dunster, unlike the other two Houses, completes three rounds of interviews in one sitting—a marathon of sessions with students, the resident dean, and then the House Masters—Elfakhani had no way to gauge whether he was still in the running for a position there.
Meanwhile, Power returned to Cabot for an interview with the House Masters and the resident dean—the way the process continues in most Houses.
In this next phase, House Masters’ professionalism replaces the informality of student- and tutor-led interviews.
“We say it not as a joke that we have the best tutor staff,” says Stephanie Robinson, Winthrop House Master along with Harvard Law School Professor Ronald S. Sullivan Jr., her husband. They sit under a portrait of John Winthrop in Winthrop’s Senior Common Room, where they interview applicants. They are interviewing for today alone, and the refreshment table at the wall behind them is unnerving despite the hospitality: chocolate chip cookies arranged on a platter, silver carafes of sparkling water, coffee, and tea.
“The folks we have been fortunate enough to have here care about each other and think about this not as a job,” she says, “but as a community, if not a family.”
Sullivan says the two consider tutor selection one of their most important duties as House Masters. Tutor selection isn’t just a popularity contest; it’s a way for House Masters to determine the direction of their Houses’ development.
Palfrey, House Master of Adams, agrees. He says the 35 applicants Adams House asks back are an overqualified group. “It’s a very complicated puzzle because once we’re at 35, we want them all,” he says. “Our decisions come down to where they fit in the complex puzzle of academic expertise, interest in community diversity and house activity, and other interests—music, LGBT, etc.”
He says that Adams hires tutors to kickstart House programs, and that over time this has shifted the focus to tutors of different interests and skill sets.
“When we first came here, we wanted to start a public service group, so we hired tutors specifically for that purpose,” Palfrey says. Later, Adams was interested in hiring tutors from the Graduate School of Education to encourage students to consider going into teaching, and now the House is on the lookout for tutors who can promote global citizenship.
“We can’t choose the students, so the way we set the tone and feel of the house is by choosing tutors,” he says. “We’re making sure this group is stimulating, fun, responsible, supportive—and this month-and-a-half is when it all comes down the line.”
Kieser and Green, the couple tutoring in Eliot, also say they think that the process allows House Masters to identify tutors who share their values.
“It’s surprising, given that the students are randomly selected,” Kieser says. Green finishes her sentence: “But the Houses have very different cultures.”
And Houses woo their favorite candidates by showing off their distinct personalities.
Sheehy-Skeffington, who chose to tutor at Winthrop over Lowell and Eliot last year, says her choice came down to atmosphere. “I really like the vibe here,” she says of Winthrop. “It’s down to earth, horizontal—not hierarchical. Students and tutors are on a par.”
Green and Kieser chose Eliot over Cabot, Winthrop, and Lowell because of what Green describes as a “warm, mature community attitude.”
Moment of Truth
This year on March 8, the Houses extended job offers to tutor applicants, who then had three days to decide which House to select.
Of Elfakhani’s and Power’s original group of friends, Power was the lucky winner. He plans to accept his offer from Cabot and will tutor there next year.
Elfakhani, on the other hand, was informally waitlisted at Dunster House. “We all felt like we had something to offer, thought we’d get more offers than we did,” he says. “I thought I would get more than I did—I really feel that everyone in the group would have been really good tutor.”
Elfakhani is not sure about whether he’ll apply again next year; maybe he’ll throw his hat in the ring.
Sections
“I grew up on a farm; my father was a farmer. I could walk out into the field and pick peas and eat them off the vine.” Crista Martin, director of communications for Harvard University Dining Services, sits on a swivel office chair surrounded by piles of papers.
Jiggling her rainbow-socked, clog-clad foot, she continues, “That is my very unique entry-point perspective on food. My mother was a great cook, my sister is a chef—all these things play a role in how I approach food. Every individual has a different approach to food.”
Martin’s office is situated in the basement of the HUDS Human Resources building, across from Pinocchio’s Pizzeria on Winthrop Street. From there, she handles all incoming complaints, requests, and compliments from the nearly 6,600 undergraduate students that HUDS serves on a daily basis.
On any given day, she receives 25 online comments pertaining to HUDS, along with feedback from texts, Facebook, Twitter, and handwritten forms.
Listed last year as the 12th best college dining service in a nationwide ranking by The Daily Meal, HUDS operates 13 dining halls every day during the academic year. According to its website, HUDS serves 25,000 meals a day and five million annually, spending nearly $55 million on its food service.
“There have been different sorts of models, but since the House system was initiated in the early 1900s, this has been it,” Martin says of the current HUDS approach. Having evolved in the University’s 377-year history, HUDS now links houses with food education efforts, and sustainability initiatives.
Dining at Harvard, however, is about much more than its administrative infrastructure. Adams House chef Edward B. Childs affirms, “Our aim is to make it more student-friendly, ‘cause we feel that we work for our customers, which is the students and the University. We don’t necessarily work for management, because management has gone and come.”
THE PERFECT RECIPE 
Nestled under 80 JFK St. lies the Culinary Support Group, a bustling central kitchen where HUDS assembles ingredients and ships them off to be served in individual Houses. A network of underground tunnels running from Kirkland to Leverett Houses makes up the Culinary Support Group, where Chef Martin T. Breslin, Chief of Culinary Operations for HUDS, prepares the undergraduate menu.
The Culinary Support Group follows the same procedures one would see in a typical kitchen. Feeding almost 7,000 undergraduates, however, requires a considerably larger amount of manpower and production capabilities. “In an average year, we’re talking about 36,000 gallons of soup in this room, so what we do is, we’ll make the soups today, deliver it to the Houses tomorrow, and serve it in the Houses the following day,” Breslin says.
Before favorites like tomato basil ravioli soup can be served, the Culinary Support Group must prepare it in stages to complete the “cook-chill” process. In one room, chefs slice and dice fresh vegetables, herbs, and spices, to flavor soups and sauces. These are then placed in sizable white vats that are transported and emptied into industrial-sized kettles in another room. These kettles, which have the capacity to store 150 gallons of liquid, are equipped with an agitator that stirs ingredients just as one would stir a normal pot of soup.
Portions of soups and sauces are later distributed in plastic bags that are sent to a tumble chiller, which cools them down to one degree above freezing temperature. A refrigerator that could encompass half of Lamont Café stores all of these bags right until they need to be shipped off to feed hordes of hungry college students.
“Something that should be done in a larger kitchen is what we do here, and it makes for a better product—a consistent product—and we can work with our purchasing department and procure as much local as we can, depending on the season,”  Breslin adds in his Irish brogue.
Further along the tunnels, plastic hoses slithering down from Kirkland dhall suck up soda syrup from an organized pile of boxes. Meanwhile, workers rush into Eliot’s underground pantry, next to where trays and plates are sent to a dishwashing station via a conveyor belt known as the “dish super highway,” according to Martin. The tunnels have grown over the years as the University expanded and acquired new buildings.
“We’ve begged, borrowed, and stolen space over the years,” says Martin. “We had to live within the existing footprint of these historic buildings, but meet sort of current demands for how food needs to be made. We take whatever space we can get. Every kitchen is a little bit different.”
FOOD FIGHTS
Despite adaptations and renovations to its internal structure, HUDS has been met with criticism, most commonly in the form of student grumblings. Though multiple students declined to comment, their dissatisfaction with HUDS food can be heard between mouthfuls of Red Spice Chicken and the clinking of cutlery.
One of the most frequent complaints about HUDS revolves around the lack of hot breakfast in upperclassman dining halls. In the midst of the 2008 economic crisis, Harvard’s endowment decreased significantly. Since HUDS’s undergraduate meal plan is covered by room and board costs, not the endowment, some budget cuts were in order.
“The endowment helps to offset the cost of your academic experience,” Martin articulates. “In order to try and keep the overall cost of the university level, they had to decrease funding in other places. One of those was dining. Breakfast was the least attended meal and was the opportunity for the least impact.”
Additionally, Harvard’s dining services differ from other universities in that every single undergraduate is on an unlimited meal plan. Restricting dining hall access by installing customized, and more costly, meal plans would limit many aspects of student life, says Martin. “It means that people can no longer come and go freely, some people will have access and some people won’t,” emphasizes Martin.
“Sitting at a table and mingling over food and dining, and equal access to all parts of your house are what drive dining.”
In the spirit of community dining, HUDS operates a 14th dining hall, Harvard Hillel, to serve the Jewish community by offering kosher food.
“HUDS is incredible in comparison to a lot of campuses who make students pay for kosher food,” says Sara Kantor ’14, former Harvard Hillel president and Crimson Arts editor. “The cafeteria is a very important part of Hillel, and provides a nice community outside Houses.”
However, the budget deficit has also affected Hillel’s accessibility. Last year, HUDS put dining restrictions at Hillel into effect, whereby only “members or invited guests of Harvard’s diverse Jewish community” were allowed to enter.
The resulting controversy incited waves of student indignation, culminating in the university’s decision to lift the ban within a week after imposing it.  “We were definitely pretty outraged,” says Brett M. Biebelberg ’16, an Undergraduate Council representative. He stresses that students should acknowledge that “it was a decision that Hillel did not make” and that HUDS, which runs Hillel, has a limited budget.
“It’s unfortunate that a decision was made to attempt to restrict the students who should be able to eat there based on religion,” he says. “At the same time, it is important to note that the University recognized very quickly to maintain a community that was inclusive and not restrictive.”
Students also suspect that HUDS repurposes leftovers into future meals. Martin dismisses this claim as an “urban legend.”
“If they serve chicken parmesan at lunch, they might add it to dinner,” Martin reports. “They’re not going to replace it for something, but they might add it.” Unused dishes and food items are regularly donated to the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter or other food banks in Boston. There is no “creative use of leftovers,” says Martin.
According to Biebelberg, student objections tend to stay within the confines of undergraduate dining halls and are not relayed directly to HUDS.
“I think we often hear people complain about the food that is served, but it’s important to have some perspective on the issue,” he says. “Let’s not forget that this is a college dining service, not the White House catering service. Credit should be given where the credit is due.”
ADDING TO THE TRIMMINGS
Enterprising students have taken personal nutrition and food at Harvard into their own hands. Nina L. Hooper ’16 started her own company, Harvard Holistic, after her first trip back home this past January. Her mother, who is a nutritionist, and her sister, who hasn’t eaten sugar for two years, inspired Hooper to commit to healthy eating.
While looking at the HUDS menu to determine what options were available for her new nutrition plan, Hooper was not satisfied. “I realized how difficult it is to get by with any kind of dietary restrictions, although the dining hall provides quite a few vegetarian options.” Influenced by her mother’s recipes, Hooper now sells nutritional brownies made in her dorm’s kitchen.
Other initiatives, such as the Food Literacy Project, address students’ sense of curiosity surrounding food. Louisa C. Denison ’11, coordinator for the Food Literacy Project says that the project “was born out of Harvard Dining Service’s realization that students were increasingly interested in food, about where their food came from, but that they lacked critical information about it.”
Initiatives like the Food Literacy Project, managed by HUDS but led by students, emerged from this disconnect.
The Food Literacy Project’s mission is to engage debates and interest about food in the context of Harvard, its community, and beyond.“I see it as active education of students around food rather than reacting when students have questions. We do that too, but we want to actively promote engagement around food,” Denison says.
While HUDS has been lauded for sustainability initiatives like its cage-free eggs campaign, some have criticized its fish purchasing practices. The Sustainable Food Project, an entirely student-run organization, works with HUDS to make purchasing decisions that are environmentally friendly, sustainable, and good for both students and the community.
“Our main areas that we’re looking at is food that is environmentally friendly, local, humane to animals, and fair trade. We’re also looking at health to improve the quality, social, and environmental impact of the food overall,” says Sustainable Food Project member Max E. Zacher ’15.
“HUDS is willing to make a lot of decisions, they just need pressure and interest from students,” Sustainable Food Project member and Crimson Editorial editor Hannah M. Borowsky ’15 says. “I think that our job here is to go to school and HUDS’s job is to feed us. If we can align our academic interests with improving HUDS and improving Harvard’s food purchasing choices, then that can result in better food for us and also Harvard having a more positive impact on the food system as a whole.”
THE ESSENTIAL INGREDIENTS
Crucial to the core of HUDS are the dining hall staff members, who make a point to accommodate each student’s particular needs from the moment they swipe into each dining hall.
At times, that might include giving invaluable life advice. “One of the dhall workers had just come back from a wedding, and we talked about weddings for a while,” Katherine C. V. Damm ’13 remembers, “and he was just talking about how true love is the best thing ever.”
Michael L. Charles, who swipes Quincy House residents into their dining hall, describes his job as being HUDS’s “first line of defense, the meet-and-greet customer service.” He adds that one of the staff’s aims is to meet student requests as much as possible with culinary alternatives easily found in a House’s kitchen.
“It doesn’t solve the problem, but at least the thought of it even being out there and people even trying, I think that people take that in,” he says. Charles is currently a chief shop steward in Local 26, the union that represents more than 600 HUDS workers.
“The main goal is to meet customer service to our best capacity and serve the students as much and as professionally as we can. We’re all in agreement on that. The main goal is to make sure that the students are happy,” he says.
That goal is rooted in a long history of conscientiousness and care, one that HUDS staff has developed with students throughout the years.
Childs, another one of the union’s chief shop stewards, expresses that protecting this sense of community has been not only his, but also the staff’s first and foremost preoccupation.
Childs recounts how HUDS staff has gone above and beyond for students over his 38 years on the job. They have started campaigns that include initiatives like maintaining breakfast as a meal option, curtailing bullying, prohibiting the use of inflammatory language, promoting sustainability, and encouraging the presence of more safe spaces on campus.
“We feel that we are a community no matter who among us tries to divide us, so we’re the only ones that have to defend it,” Childs states. “We’re not going to let the university go backwards.”
When students were allowed to choose their house affiliation, Adams used to be known as popular among students who identified as gay or lesbian, Childs says. He recalls that BGLTQ students would face the threat of physical violence. “We nurtured them,” says Childs, his voice growing stronger.
Sitting on break in Winthrop dining hall, Childs points to the floor. “Football players from here and Eliot went over there and pissed into the dining halls through the windows. It was our workers that chased them away. We supported the students. They marched every day and sat in these dining halls.”At one point, dining hall workers wore shirts that read “We’re All Gay” in the front and “We’re Coming to Get You” in the back, he says.
Nearing 11:30 a.m., the lunch rush is almost upon Quincy House dining hall. Charles mindfully looks at his watch and notes, “We’re their home away from home. We communicate with them on a level where we’re their brothers; we’re their sisters; we’re their mothers. We can connect in that way as far as just getting them through the tough times. It’s not always about coming in, and getting food, and you go in and you sit down and eat it. It’s more about, ‘I’m going in, and I’m having conversations.’”
6,600 DIFFERENT PALATES
With so many components to orchestrate, imperfections are bound to pop up. Martin compares the process to having a piano tuned.
Over the course of a year, HUDS abides by a concept she dubs the “acceptability factor,” which elucidates how much people like a certain dish. “If people really didn’t like it, we pull it off the menu, put something else in its place,” Martin clarifies.
“So when you put something else in its place, you can’t always re-jigger its slot, so over the course of the year, the piano gets a little untuned.”
“It’s tough because you’ve got 6,600 different palates, and you can’t make everybody happy every day,” she says. “But hopefully you make most people happy most of the time. And if they’re not happy and they can tell us why, we’re always glad to hear it.”
Sections
In July 2000, Romance flooded Dunster Street. Three of the four new House Masters taught French or Italian literature at Harvard: Among them were Kirkland House’s new additions, Tom C. and Verena A. Conley. Tom teaches in the Romance Language and Literatures Department, while Verena is a professor of comparative literature. Both were chosen according to a rubric of professional distinction, personal character, and the ability to lead a community of students and scholars.
“We were babes in the woods,” recalls Tom, leaning back into one of two green linen chairs (Verena occupies the other) opposite a matching sofa in their 85 Dunster St. residence. He looks over at his wife, who shakes her head with a laugh. Before a former dean asked them to apply, they hadn’t thought much about it, they say.
“We had no idea what House life is like,” Tom recalls.
Thirteen years later (“the lucky 13,” Verena says ruefully), the Conleys are more well-versed in the art of maneuvering the intricacies of the Harvard House system. The two are natural hosts in their Dunster Street home. Books and DVDs cram the shelves of their dark-oak-paneled sitting room; the granite countertop of their (Harvard-renovated) kitchen has hosted cooking classes for students sponsored by the Food Literacy Project. A few minutes after I arrive the doorbell rings: It’s two Kirkland students returning from walking the Conleys’ Bernese mountain dogs, Max and Bella. The dogs settle between the green linen chairs where they will remain for our conversation, nudging their owners’ legs, tugging at Verena’s shoe. “They love the attention,” Tom says. Max and Bella never have to look too far for such attention, with a constant stream of dog-walking volunteers and willing dining hall company.
A Student Connection
Both the Conleys understand these interactions with students to be central to their role as House Masters—a role they take care to distinguish from that of professors uninvolved in House life. “You get to know the students as people,” Verena says, “and not as Harvard students, capital H.”
“Not as papers,” Tom adds.
Tom and Verena say they tend to see the students in their departments always in the same setting, in their classes in Boylston or the Dana Palmer House. In class Tom is known to act out scenes from medieval French poetry, writhing on the ground in mock-pain. Verena is slightly quieter, a faint Germanic accent modulating her words and gestures. When either of them grows animated they tend to talk over each other, two parallel conversational threads until one yields inevitably to the other.
The couple is recognized within and beyond Kirkland for presiding proudly over a community that supporters might call quirky, or detractors incestuous, but one that most Harvard students would agree constitutes a quintessential example of an immersive House environment. The Conleys revel in their role at the center of it all: As House Masters they claim a privileged understanding not only of Kirkland students, but also of the possibilities and challenges inherent to the Harvard House system—and of the steps necessary to forging a successful House community.
Their interactions with students within Kirkland, the Conleys say, permit a more nuanced understanding of their personalities, their particularities. The students whose faces they might recognize from class take on a greater depth when encountered in a different context than the classroom.
“Those who are not House Masters,” says Tom, “who are not intimately related with House activities, have very little idea of what Harvard undergraduates put onto themselves. How much they overbook—in a very positive sense.”
Tom claims that this nuanced understanding of student life has directly influenced his teaching style, that it has allowed him to be more easy going, for example. Modifying his expectations, according to Tom, has done much to improve the students’ classroom experience in general. “When there’s less pressure,” he explains, “students will be inventive—will take greater, more daring, and more productive risks.”
Professors might get to know a student one semester, then never see him or her again; they might have a conversation with someone in office hours that is never followed up. The Conleys have learned from their perspective in Kirkland that the role of House Master allows them to prevent students from slipping through the cracks. Verena grows animated as she mentions seeing students evolve from the time they arrive at the House as 19-year-olds until they leave as full-fledged adults.
“You see the problems they have,” she says, “the pains of growing up. They’re really changing in these three years.”
Although students will inevitably depart the Kirkland cocoon, Tom and Verena claim that the world begins to seem smaller when home is anchored in a House. For them the world beyond Kirkland seems crammed with House alumni, who “crop up,” says Verena, “when you least expect it.” Walking out of a Paris airport she’s run into a former student; shopping in Whole Foods last week, they came across another; checking online updates keeps the couple abreast of marriages, jobs, and news. “Who was it who emailed last night?” Verena asks Tom, who knits his brow but can’t remember. He shrugs. “It’s an infinite conversation,” Tom says.
On the Agenda
For students past and present, the role of the Harvard House Master is perhaps by design broadly defined. Asked if they consider themselves professors, advisers, or surrogate parents, Verena interrupts and responds, “All three.”
It’s important, they say, that Kirkland become a place to which students look forward to returning after class at the end of each day, that the community somehow “works.” The Conleys have learned to balance this goal with their own obligations and need to be leaders in their professional worlds.
“Il y va de la gloire,” says Tom, who tends to insert French expressions or philosophical terms into conversation: “Our own esteem is at stake.”
This emphasis on pursuing their own professional goals, while encouraging those of students, is “something that I think the students appreciate,” he says.
The Conleys have found ways to intertwine these professional and personal threads. The two have worked with resident scholars and have used their own professional connections to pull strings in bringing big names to Kirkland—Alec Baldwin, Richard Dreyfus, every Democratic hopeful for the 2004 election—in a forum called “Conversations with Kirkland.” The House hosts a screenwriting seminar with Law & Order writer David Black. Kirkland’s yearly talent show has been taking place since 2002.
“We had a moribund drama society that now produces two plays a year,” says Verena—generally a Shakespeare play in the fall, and a student-written musical in the spring.
Many of these programs are student-driven, but part of the Conleys’ multiform role at Harvard is to cheerlead and promote programs that busy students might otherwise abandon. “Someone has to be behind them,” says Tom, leaning back and resting his head on his fist. “And it’s generally us.”
No such nudging is necessary for one House program, though: Tom Conley’s renowned Kirkland House wine seminar. When I ask about this, Tom’s Cheshire cat grin grows wider, and Verena lets out a knowing chuckle: They knew this question was coming.
In 2006, Tom, an oenophile who prefers the more “natural” essence of Old World wines, teamed up with a former resident dean to offer a one-time wine tasting event in the Senior Common Room.
“It had great success,” Tom says with a smile—enough that the following year, several members of the women’s water polo team approached him to ask if they could produce a seminar around these topics. The result? “Oenography: For a Topology of Wine.”
“The sensations of what we taste become the elements of the space we fashion from the places we study,” read the syllabus. Fifteen students were all able to get credit—the class was offered weekly, and required presentations and papers.
“Then the news got out,” Tom says. Over 100 students applied the next year, and despite an arduous vetting process the class still grew.
“And then a third year the department wondered how I could be doing 36 independent studies,” Tom says. “And,” he adds, shrugging nonchalantly, feigning confused candor, “they called it into question.”
These days the not-for-credit seminar attracts about 90 students each spring (as the term goes on, according to Tom, many drop off for the final weeks of thesis-writing, before recommitting after spring break). Kirkland’s wine cellar, built in 2005, has allowed for reasonably-priced wines to age and mature before they’re offered to student palates. (Tom began with a price limit of $10; now he goes up to $12 or $14.)
Challenges At Home
Of course, while programs, activities, and seminars form the more light-hearted aspects of House life—promoting community, encouraging conversations, expanding upon academics—the Conleys admit that more difficult periods and knottier challenges are another, inevitable part of leading a House.
A year after the Conleys moved into the Masters’ residence, for example, the events of September 11 sent shock waves reverberating through the country; neither Kirkland nor Harvard was spared. Some students were affected personally, and many were distressed. Dealing with a national catastrophe became part of the House Master’s role.
The Conleys have witnessed other difficult moments, they say. The unforeseen shock that accompanies the death of a student’s family member, for example, is something that necessitates the support of a House community, according to Tom.
The couple grows somber, their pace slows, as they agree that the death of a student is the most directly devastating tragedy among the members of a House. “There is nothing that disrupts a House more than a suicide,” Tom says.
Both the Conleys stress that, in these situations, the House and its masters play a crucial part in providing a support system. “When there is a death, it is a death in the [House] family,” Tom says. “There is immediate extension of aid to be given on the part of one and all.” In this, he says, the setup of the Harvard House system is uniquely valuable.
Verena nods, agreeing that such events should and, at least in Kirkland’s case, do result in a unifying atmosphere within the House, that the community, as a result, coheres.
13 Years
The Conleys say that they accepted the position of House Master in the hopes of maintaining and strengthening such a community. “We found that there was an incredible effervescence,” Tom says, on arriving to Kirkland in 2000. “As we got going we found that we could put events together that would enhance the sense of community and keep the bubbles bubbling.”
With a 13-year retrospective since their own first weeks in a House, the Conleys say that Kirkland is still a strong community—even if, for a variety of reasons, the terms and perhaps even the definition of community have shifted.
“The students are still as effervescent as they were when we came,” Verena says, “but their interests are slightly different since 2003, 2004, when Mark Zuckerberg was here in Kirkland running around in and out of H-entryway in his flip-flops.”
Much of what has prompted these changes, according to Tom, stems from the kind of technological shifts that Zuckerberg himself has promoted. The early 2000s were host to the first signals of what Tom calls the “revolution.”
“And by revolution,” he says, “I mean the advent first of email, then of the cell phone, then of improved tweeting and twittering and Facebook.”
“It’s changed the mode of community,” he says. “It’s not that it has gone off elsewhere—it’s just gone in different directions.”
Specifically, Tom says, there is a much wider spread of exchange among students, in exchanges that he considers more “surface-level” than before—though not, he clarifies, in any sort of inferior way.
Verena adds that increased travel has done much to alter the House atmosphere since the turn of this century. Students are more connected to the world, but also travel more adeptly throughout it, she says. They bring these experiences back into the folds of the House community.
The Conleys joined Kirkland four years after Harvard had implemented complete randomization of the housing system; 2000 was the second year in which the entire Kirkland student body had been randomly assigned to the house. (Until the mid-’90s, recalled Dr. Benjamin I. Broder ’85 in a 2010 Crimson article, “Adams House was artsy, Eliot House was preppy, Kirkland House was jocky.”)
The Conleys both agree that Kirkland has, in general, benefited from the increase in racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic diversity Harvard has promoted on University-wide levels. “That’s been an incredible improvement,” Verena says. “It’s been wonderful to see that over the years.”
But randomization, according to Tom, places much of the onus back onto the students who enter Kirkland and the other Houses. As freshmen prepare to enter their assigned House, they are met with possibilities—to get involved, to meet upperclassmen, to join House activities—that they can embrace or reject.  The Conleys express regret that some do choose the latter path: They are quick to extol the benefits of their own immersion when they themselves were new, tentative initiates into the Kirkland community 13 years ago.
As House Masters, the Conleys see their jobs as advisers, parents, intellectual models, and cheerleaders as necessary, but not sufficient, for a House to function as a well-oiled machine. “It’s ultimately up to [the students] to produce the community amongst themselves,” Tom says, cocking his head to one side, the hint of a mischievous smile dancing on his lips. “And so,” he continues, “they rise to a challenge.”
Sections
UPDATED: June 28, 2014, at 10:33 p.m.
Laurence N. Girard was not planning to go to college right away. “I was going to play professional soccer,” he said. However, his body had other ideas. Girard was injured before being able to start his professional athletic career and he quickly began searching for other options. “My mom saw an advertisement in The New York Times [for the Harvard Extension School],” he said. “I did a lot of research before I decided to do this.”
Jordan Ross approached the Extension School for the extracurricular activities it offered. He was interested in the Harvard Ballroom Dance Team. “I figured that if I was on campus, that I might as well take some classes,” he said. Through these classes he soon developed a larger interest in academia, and he now plans to pursue a Ph.D. in anthropology.
Max E. Keisler wanted an undergraduate degree, but didn’t want to give up his passion for music. Keisler, who lives an hour away from Harvard near West Roxbury, started taking Extension School classes right after high school when he was 17. He is launching his music career outside of class, and says that attending the Extension School has allowed him to balance both at once.
Living in California and attending a two-year college, Tiff Yin said that the soaring tuition costs and plummeting class selection at her school led her to look for educational opportunities elsewhere. “I was getting tired of following the procedures but not getting the results I wanted,” she said. She heard about the Extension School on the radio and remembered a past visit to Harvard, when a friend had “showed [her] how the life could be here.” She began Extension School classes in September.
The Extension School Classroom
Founded in 1910, the Harvard Extension School offers classes to nearly 13,000 students living in and around Boston. The school attracts a diverse class, bringing together recent high school graduates and 40-year-olds all in the same classrooms.
Girard said his classes also include students who have already obtained their bachelor’s and sometimes even their graduate degrees. “In a biotechnology class I was taking there were adults in the classroom that were Ph.D. scientists working at Genzyme,” he chuckled. “They were probably more knowledgeable than the professors.”
The perspective that adults bring to the classroom, having gone through more of life than most traditionally-aged college students, is invaluable, Extension School students said. “In the biotech classes some of the topics were in vitro and abortion and there were adults who had first-hand experience with that stuff,” Girard said.
“They’re more wise,” Yin added. “Being 21, I don’t have a lot of experience and they really put it there for you and make you think about what life actually is like instead of theorizing about it and trying to predict the future. The future is already there in the class, people have gone through things that I couldn’t even imagine.”
The Extension School has its own faculty, but all four students interviewed for this article said that they had been taught by at least one Harvard College professor during their time at the Extension School. “It’s a very strong program academically,” Keisler said, explaining that an Extension School class he took with Near Eastern Languages professor Shaye J. D. Cohen used the same handouts and exams as Cohen’s course for Harvard College undergraduates.
Ross, who attended Cornell as an undergrad, said that Harvard Extension School professors are on par with the professors he had in Ithaca, N.Y. “They are even more open and engaging with students,” Ross said. “It’s been a very positive experience and the professors have been a big part of that.”
Their Lives Beyond
Apart from the liberal arts education that the Extension School provides in the classroom, Ross said that he sees “an entrepreneurial slant” to the school. The Extension School places a large emphasis on business networking, offering opportunities for additional seminars and events where students can connect with College undergrads and graduate students. “There are a lot of different resources that one can take advantage of if one is open to it.”
Girard found great success partnering with students and professors at various Harvard graduate schools to launch a startup called Nutritas Health. A health company that specializes in physician-reviewed content and telehealth consultations, Nutritas Health began when an investor that Girard had met through an Extension School course online discovered Girard’s blog. Although the partnership did not lad to an investment, Girard then took the idea to cardiologists and surgeons at Harvard Medical School and, together with a cohort of graduates of Harvard Business School, launched his start-up.
Harvard was invaluable in getting Girard’s start-up off the ground. “They opened up the iLab to me and as a result I’m in touch with HBS grad students that are advising me and working on the company,” Girard said. “I got to do research at HMS. Those were the kinds of opportunities I wouldn’t get at a state school.”
Keisler also has significant responsibilities outside of the Extension School classroom. He has an internship in Boston for 30 hours each week and spends another 20 hours working on his music—rapping under the stage name ‘Young Illytch.’ He released his EP in early spring.
“The flexibility of the school is really nice for me,” Keisler said. “I’m an artist and I like to be able to devote time to my projects and [the Harvard Extension School] lets me have enough time for that.”
The Social Network
Although the student population of the Extension School is more than twice as large as that of Harvard College, Keisler said that there is a very small social aspect to the school and pointed to the more diverse student body and businesslike culture of the Extension School as an explanation for this. “There is more of a professional community. Socially, I think that is just the nature of a commuter school,” Keisler said.
Girard disagreed, saying that a social experience exists at the Extension School for any student who wants it. The former soccer player signed up online for a Harvard roommate matching service and spent his first year at the Extension School living with five international students across the street from Pennypacker. “We had a lot of fun and a lot of parties,” he said. He adds that even students at Harvard College invite him to social events. “My ID doesn’t work so someone has to let me in,” Girard said. “It’s a little trickier to have [that social experience] but there are enough social things to do.”
Extension School students are invited to participate in extracurricular life at Harvard, too, though they are typically unable to hold leadership positions in student clubs. Girard said that students are mostly welcoming towards Extension School students seeking to participate in student organizations, but there can be some pushback. “Some people I have met have a bit of a stigma against Extension School students because you have an easier time getting in and only pay about a fourth of the cost,” he said. “Nobody hates them but some people have a chip on their shoulders.”
Yin was excited to learn that Harvard had many extracurricular activities and clubs that she could join as an Extension School student. “There are activities I am not qualified to attend but there are more than I expected when I came,” Yin said. “I thought I would just go to class and come home.”
Overall, Yin is very satisfied with her Extension School experience. “I think that the classes are as challenging as I expected them to be and they’ve really met my expectations,” she says. “I really loved Harvard when I came to visit. Since I’ve been here it’s been different but I have been pleasantly surprised. It’s an experience I don’t think I could get at a four-year institution.”
CORRECTION: June 28, 2014
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated Laurence N. Girard's educational plans before attending Harvard Extension School. In fact, he intended to defer higher education until after playing professional soccer.
Sections
On Quincy Street, nestled within the lower level of the grand concrete edifice of the Carpenter Center for the Arts, lies one of the University’s artistic treasures. To those who don’t understand its purpose and mission, the Harvard Film Archive may seem to be simply one of many academic resources in Harvard’s rich scholarly community. Yet, as described by Tom C. Conley, Kirkland House Master who works a great deal with the archive in his capacity as a professor of Romance Languages and Literatures and of Visual and Environmental Studies, “[The archive] has the power to utterly change the lives of those who attend.”
Comprising close to 25,000 film prints, negatives, and other paracinematic materiall, the HFA’s collection is one of the largest university-based film collections in the world. HFA Director Haden Guest, described the collection as “Ali Baba’s cave of material.”
Not only has the HFA sought to preserve film material throughout its 34 years of existence, but also the experience of cinema itself. Through the organization’s Cinemateque programming, the HFA screens about seven films in its auditorium each week. These are not the kind of screenings one would find at a Loews theater. The HFA’s curators take great care to screen films in their original format: If  if a piece was made and exhibited on film, it will be shown on film. Many silent films are presented with live musical accompaniment.
Conley says he believes in the importance of this preservation of form. “Though we think we know these films having seen them on computer screens, having seen them on television screens through DVDs, [it] is not the same at all…through having them in their original forms we are opened onto new cinematic perspectives,” he says.
Guest explains that screening movies on film has become increasingly difficult. “We are in the twilight of the photochemical age and prints are getting harder and harder to find and acquire, and that is becoming more and more of a challenge, we still are resolute in our commitment though and seek them out.” Making this task easier for the archive, however, is its access to other prints throughout the worldwide archival community.
Yet, the HFA’s commitment to authenticity is only one facet of the institution’s mission to preserve the experience of cinema. Guest comments on the importance of the preservation of the cinema experience as an uninterrupted immersive event. “We are in an age now when people think that information can be gathered instantly and everything is kind of broken and fragmented. With film especially, people are watching these fragmented versions on Youtube or on their phones and the point that we make emphatically is that cinema is this time-based medium,” Guest says. “The duration of a work is really important—any kind of interruption or distraction just takes you away from it.”
Additionally says Guest, the way films are distributed across the country makes it harder for art house films to be screened. “The scope of films that are being shown around the country is getting narrower and narrower so it's getting harder and harder to see films by the important filmmakers of today and of the past. That is something that we are trying our hardest to correct,” he says.
Though preservation is certainly a crucial aspect of the HFA’s mission, the HFA looks just as much at the present and future as it does at the past. In fact, the HFA shows an incredible wide variety of material. The HFA’s Programmer David W. Pendleton explains that the Archive does not want to be known for only showing one genre of film. “We very consciously strive to make the programming as broad as possible, as eclectic as possible. Which is to say that we try and show everything from silent films that were made at the turn of the 20th century to digital films that were made even last month, as well as being geographically inclusive—films from places people don't often see here in the U.S. And we try to show all types of work, short films to feature films, nonfiction as well as fiction work, experimental work to genre films.” The variety of films shown at the archive, continues Pendleton, “remind people how many different things cinema can do, how many things filmmaking can do.”
Guest echoes Pendleton in stressing the importance of film in understanding the 20th and 21st centuries. He says, “[Cinema] is such a touchstone for our culture. I think to have undergraduate students leaving Harvard without some understanding of cinema would be a great mistake.”
Sections
In honor of Housing Day, FM takes a look at what makes Harvard Houses tick. The House Masters, tutors, and dining hall staff all contribute to each House's unique atmosphere and personality. If you're curious about who some of the house Masters are, how your tutors get picked, or how your food gets made, read on!
Master Perspective: Tom and Verena Conley on House Life
So You Think You Can Tutor?
A Taste of HUDS
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the hours after telltale white smoke billowing from a smokestack atop the Sistine Chapel heralded the selection of a new pope, Harvard professors and a clergyman voiced hope Wednesday that the election of the Roman Catholic Church’s first ever pontiff from the Americas would spell an era of renewal for the Church.
Argentine Cardinal Jorge Mario Bergoglio, who will be called Pope Francis I, is the first Jesuit pope as well as the first non-European to lead the Church in more than a millennium. And at 76 years old, he surprised many commentators with his election. Though he was rumored to have been a popular candidate in the 2005 conclave that elected his predecessor, Pope Benedict XVI, he was thought by many to be too old to win this year.
“I think [Francis’s election] brings an important recognition to the growing church in Latin America, even though he’s a little older,” said Harvard Catholic Student Center Senior Chaplain Father Michael Drea. “It’s a recognition that the work of new evangelization cuts across the entire Church,” he added, referencing the Catholic evangelization agenda introduced by Pope John Paul II.
Harvard Divinity School professor Stephanie Paulsell also expressed hope for the Francis papacy, particularly concerning gender issues.
“I hope Pope Francis will surprise us and open the way for [women] to become the priests and leaders the Church needs,” Paulsell wrote in an email.
The first pope to assume the name Francis, Bergoglio apparently chose the name to honor St. Francis of Assisi, according to Cardinal Timothy Dolan, who spoke with the new pope after his election. Many observers have pointed to parallels between the two men. While Francis of Assisi attempted to rectify a great Church conflict, the Crusades, in the early 13th century, Pope Francis I will attempt to guide the Church through an ongoing sexual abuse scandal and internal rifts.
Fifty-three minutes after the white smoke rose, Francis emerged onto a balcony above Saint Peter’s Square to symbolically launch his papacy. Speaking in Italian, Francis deviated slightly from the traditional script for papal introductions. Most notably, before reciting the traditional papal blessing of “urbi et orbi,” or “the city and the world,” the new pope led the millions of Catholics following his words in a prayer for the pope emeritus, who resigned last month.
Francis further delayed the ritual blessing with an unusual request.
“Before the bishop blesses the people, I ask that you would pray for the Lord to bless me,” he said.
As the crowd below grew silent in prayer, Francis bowed. The thousands in the square remained silent while Francis finally returned to the script, delivering a blessing to “you and the whole world, to all men and women of good will.”
Drea said he thinks Francis sent a message with his unique presentation.
“Humility and thankfulness really defined his words. He actually bowed when he asked people to pray for him,” Drea said. “It was a humble recognition that he needs the prayers of faithful people to lift him up, so he can carry out this incredibly challenging task.”
But despite Francis’s humility, some saw the selection of another old pope—Benedict was 78 when he was elected in 2005—as a missed opportunity.
“Given the enormous agenda for the church in the coming generation and the multiple crises it now encounters, [Francis’s age] struck me as somewhat unfortunate, as we could—God forbid—be electing another pope very soon,” Harvard Divinity School professor Kevin J. Madigan wrote in an email.
Bergoglio’s election came a month after Benedict’s historic announcement that he was stepping down from the papacy, a move that provoked surprise and speculation from Harvard professors.
—Staff writer Matthew Q. Clarida can be reached at clarida@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @MattClarida.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A drug capable of elongating life spans to over 100 years might not be as unrealistic as it sounds, according to a new study by researchers at Harvard Medical School.
Led by Medical School professor David Sinclair and published last week in the journal Science, the study identifies compounds that may help prevent and treat debilitating diseases associated with aging like cancer, heart disease, and Alzheimer’s.
One of those preventative compounds—resveratrol—is found naturally in the skin of red grapes. Sinclair’s lab first linked resveratrol to anti-aging effects in 2006. Since then scientists have pushed back on the idea that consuming the component through things like red wine can lengthen one’s life span.
But Sinclair’s most recent study pushes back against those criticisms, directly linking resveratrol intake with the prevention of age-related diseases.
Ana da Silva Gomes, a Medical School research fellow who co-authored the study, called the revelation “extremely important for drug development and the treatment of age-related diseases.”
“By fighting one disease we are actually preventing many other age-related diseases,” Gomes said.
In addition to the discovery regarding resveratrol, the study also identified specific synthetic compounds that accelerate the production of SIRT1, an enzyme that has proven beneficial for the treatment and prevention of age-related diseases.
Synthetic compounds in particular, researchers said, might be used to create an “anti-aging” drug. Although resveratrol supplements are currently available in the consumer market, their health benefits have not yet been proven.
“The idea is to extend the healthy and productive years of people’s lives,” said Basil P. Hubbard, a co-author of the study and who worked in Sinclair’s lab as a graduate student.
By delaying the onset of age-related diseases, such a drug could potentially elongate a person’s life span.
Scientists have already begun to develop synthetic compounds mimicking resveratrol’s function that are “a hundred or a thousand times more potent” than naturally occurring compounds like resveratrol, Hubbard said.
Drugs containing such compounds, if successfully invented, will be a “real breakthrough” for in the process of preventing diseases related to aging, said Hubbard. Currently, such drugs are the subject of numerous clinical trials, although researchers are unsure how long it will be until they become readily available on the market.
Researchers found that obese mice fed resveratrol supplements had dramatically longer lives, because the resveratrol essentially counteracted the effects of the mice’s high-calorie diet—their arteries were cleaner, their hearts were stronger, and they demonstrated improved brain function.
The study identified specific compounds that accelerate the production of the enzyme SIRT1, which has been proven beneficial for the treatment and prevention of age-related diseases. These compounds can be used to create an “anti-aging” drug.
“The idea is to extend the healthy and productive years of people’s lives,” said Basil P. Hubbard, co-author of the study and a former graduate student in Sinclair’s lab.
By delaying the onset of age-related diseases, such a drug could potentially elongate a person’s life span.
One of the compounds shown to slow aging, resveratrol, is found in red wine. However, despite media claims to the contrary, simply drinking wine will not prevent disease.
“The amount that you would need to drink for any therapeutic benefit would be offset by the effects of drinking too much alcohol,” said Hubbard.
Although no health benefit has been proven, there are currently resveratrol supplements available in the consumer market.
In 2006, resveratrol was first linked to anti-aging effects by Sinclair’s lab.
This study found that obese mice fed resveratrol supplements had dramatically longer lives. The resveratrol essentially counteracted the effects of the mice’s high-calorie diet—their arteries were cleaner, their hearts were stronger, and they demonstrated improved brain function.
Scientists have since developed synthetic compounds mimicking resveratrol’s function that are “a hundred or a thousand times more potent” than naturally occurring compounds like resveratrol; effective drugs containing these compounds will be the “real breakthrough” to prevent aging diseases, said Hubbard. Currently, such drugs are the subject of many clinical trials.
Two Massachusetts General Hospital doctors published a study this past Friday that directly supports the findings of Sinclair’s study.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Four days after news broke that Harvard administrators secretly searched the email accounts of 16 resident deans last September, professors called on administrators to address what one called a corroding of a “culture of trust” between the faculty and its leaders.
“There’s a lot of discussion now about trust. At some level that is really the underlying issue,” former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis '68 said. “Do we trust the University administration to follow the rules and do we trust the University administration to exercise good judgment in interpreting the rules?”
In the immediate aftermath of a Boston Globe report that broke the story on Saturday, professors’ questions primarily centered on how and why the searches occurred.
On Monday, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith and Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds issued a joint statement explaining some of the details of the search, which was part of a larger investigation into the source of a media leak regarding the Government 1310 cheating case.
As the dust began to settle following Monday’s statement, professors began to pose broader questions about why the University dared to secretly search its own faculty.
“I think that people have a few questions about why the resident deans were still not informed about the searches,” said history professor Maya R. Jasanoff '96. “I think that there is still more room for a fuller apology. Many faculty members would like to be reassured that this kind of thing has not happened in the past and won’t happen again.”
Several faculty members interviewed Wednesday referenced a letter sent by Senior Resident Dean Sharon L. Howell to University President Drew G. Faust, which asked for a broader consideration of University policy and ethics.
“I think that I think Dean Howell’s letter ends on a note that I would share, which is the sense that there really is a bigger question here about what is it that makes a university different than a corporation?” Jasanoff said.
Following Howell’s letter, professors have begun to express concern directly to deans.
According to History professor Charles S. Maier '60, many members of the History Department have signed a letter “expressing concern” over the searches and the handling of the investigation.
“The faculty I think has to be willing to take responsibility if it doesn’t want these events to happen,” Maier said in an interview earlier this week.
On Wednesday, the Faculty Council became the first faculty body to address Smith directly on the subject at its regularly scheduled meeting, Jasanoff said. Professors would not disclose the nature of the exchange because the meetings are confidential.
Jasanoff and others said they expect faculty will formally question administrators about the searches at April’s faculty meeting.
Even as faculty begin to take up larger issues of institutional integrity, mathematics professor Wilfried Schmid said he is worried that faculty are too quickly setting aside the cheating scandal itself. Though the email searches must be addressed by faculty, he said, he believes the cheating case should be of greater concern.
“The faculty seems to be spending a lot of time on this email, but the underlying cause, what might have caused the cheating, nobody seems to care about,” Schmid said. “I find it very strange that nobody seems to make the connection.”
—Staff writer Nicholas P. Fandos can be reached at nicholasfandos@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @npfandos.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Gregory Nagy, a classical Greek literature professor who created CB22x: The Ancient Greek Hero for HarvardX, approximated that he spends about 25 hours a week working on his course above and beyond his other responsibilities—making his total professional workload more than 1.5 times as big as it would be otherwise.
Under the extant compensation model of HarvardX—Harvard’s subset of edX, a nonprofit virtual learning initiative launched by Harvard and MIT last May—Nagy is paid nothing for those hours.
“I get zero compensation, having asked for zero,” said Nagy.
As universities are increasingly looking to incorporate MOOCs—massive open online courses—and platforms like edX into their pedagogical infrastructure, educational leaders have begun to discuss how to compensate faculty who transfer their traditionally taught courses to the online platform. Although edX does not have a universal compensation policy, each of its partner institutions can decide how it will give back to instructors.
According to edX President Anant Agarwal, proposed compensation models include sharing earned income between participating professors, using research grants to support faculty, and maintaining a voluntary structure. For most of the schools in the “X University” Consortium, including Wellesley, McGill, and the University of Texas system, payment for professors is still under discussion.
And even those professors who are paid by their respective institutions will probably receive just a token payment considering the time commitment.
“The compensation is based on an internal hourly rate, which is not very high,” said Willem van Valkenburg, DelftX project director, in an emailed statement. Both DelftX and GeorgetownX plan to compensate their faculty members for their efforts.
Nagy, a self-proclaimed “workaholic,” said the absence of significant monetary dividends is not necessarily a hindrance. He calls teaching a “labor of love” that is compensation in itself. All professors interviewed for this article voiced a moral, rather than pecuniary, motivation for participating in edX.
“It is definitely a lot of work to not get paid for, but we wouldn’t be doing it if we didn’t think it was worth it,” said Dan Klein, who teaches BerkeleyX’s CS188.1x: Artificial Intelligence.
“The compensation is the feeling that you’re reaching a lot of students and that you’re improving your local class as you do it,” he added. “Like so many things in academia, there are many things that are important that are not directly reflected in the official duties of the professor or the compensation structure.”
Klein’s co-instructor Pieter Abbeel echoed this sentiment.
“The biggest thing to me is providing access to high-quality classes from some of the best schools in the world to students who wouldn’t have access,” he said.
—Staff writer Amna H. Hashmi can be reached at amnahashmi@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @amna_hashmi.
—Staff writer Cynthia W. Shih can be reached at cshih@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter at @CShih7.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A Mediterranean diet rich in foods like olive oil, nuts, and fish may reduce the relative risk of coronary heart disease in people at high risk by 30 percent, according to a new study.
The study, conducted by University of Barcelona medical professor Ramon Estruch and his colleagues, is the first major clinical trial to successfully examine the impact of such a diet on a person’s susceptibility to heart attacks and strokes.
Harvard School of Public Health professor Frank M. Sacks, who was consulted by the researchers before the trial began about how to best design and conduct the study, pointed out positive effects revealed by the research.
“The Mediterranean diet pattern emphasizing nuts and extra-virgin olive oil protects the heart against blockages in the arteries and prevents the brain from strokes,” said Sacks.
Cardiologist Sekar Kathiresan of the Cardiovascular Disease Prevention Center at Massachusetts General Hospital called the study “quite an amazing feat.”
“It is a game-changer in coronary heart disease prevention,” he said.
According to Kathiresan, the study proves that the a dietary shift could be as effective as medicinal pills reducing the risk of heart attack.
Thus far there are two types pills that have been proven to reduce the risk of heart attacks—aspirin, which lowers blood clotting, and statins, which lower “bad” cholesterol. Aspirin reduces the risk of heart attacks by 20 percent, and statins by 25 percent.
Both Kathiresan and Sacks said that the one hole they saw in the study’s findings is that the researchers did not determine exactly which food or foods are create the benefits of such a diet.
But Sacks said he believes this lack of specificity is not a serious limitation since it is the change to an “overall Mediterranean diet pattern” that is key to gaining the health benefits.
“[The study] shows a healthy dietary pattern can prevent heart attacks and strokes by quite a lot. People should take a close look at their diet and try to change it in the direction of a Mediterranean diet,” said Sacks.
Sacks said that to follow this Mediterranean diet, people should begin by consuming less red meat, soda, and sweets, and consume more fish, nuts, vegetables, and fruit.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As conversations on mental health at Harvard continue across campus, alumni have added their voices—and their dollars—to the call for reform. In a letter to top University officials sent Monday night, more than 100 members of the Class of 2010 demanded that the administration address students’ mental health concerns and start a new alumni-supported mental health fund.
“We would like to express our support for the reform of mental health services on campus, including an initiative to address the financial burden of mental health and ensure that every student can experience Harvard as a place of learning and growth, as we did,” the letter read.
So far, signatories from the Class of 2010 have pledged $5,775 towards a mental health fund that they hope the University will create to support medical services for students with financial need.
Alumni urged administrators to guarantee that students seeking treatment can see a therapist within one week of first reaching out and continue to meet on a weekly basis if necessary. They also emphasized the importance of requiring quicker turnaround times for appeals made to the Financial Aid Office in an emergency and eliminating the work requirements for students taking mental health leaves of absence.
“A student’s medical treatment should not be held hostage by the Administrative Board and its opaque decision making process,” the letter read. “Even with the best intentions, this system intimidates students and may keep people from getting the care they require.”
In a response sent by Director of Harvard University Health Services Paul J. Barreira to the letter’s organizers Wednesday night, Barreira said the University seeks to constantly improve access to treatment for students.
“The issue of the amount of treatment deserves a thoughtful conversation, which involves an appreciation of the current literature regarding standards of practice for particular psychiatric conditions as well as the standards for providing care in a college setting,” Barreira wrote. “This may not always match what students demand.”
Two of the letter’s organizers said they were moved to voice their concerns to top officials—including University President Drew G. Faust, Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds, Barreira, and the Harvard Alumni Office—after reading an anonymous Crimson op-ed written three weeks ago by a student suffering from schizophrenia.
The op-ed, which sparked a student-led rally for mental health reforms, raised many of the same concerns expressed by the alumni in their letter. Although the University did not respond to the op-ed’s specific proposals, the University did host a panel on mental health resources last week at the Undergraduate Council’s urging.
Intiya Isaza-Figueroa ’10, one of the letter’s organizers, wrote in an email to The Crimson that seeing friends urged off campus by the Ad Board—regardless of their financial, emotional, or academic circumstances—has convinced her that the University should reconsider the way mental health decisions are made.
Sangu J. Delle ’10, the other organizer, said that the Harvard community should work to decrease student stress and improve the mental health system.
“Harvard should set the bar and be the gold standard for provision of mental health care,” he said.
—Staff writer Quinn D. Hatoff can be reached quinnhatoff@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @QuinnHatoff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Education and child policy experts said finding a solution to increasing gun violence will require more than just legislative changes during a panel at the Harvard Graduate School of Education Wednesday.
Marian Wright Edelman, founder of the child advocacy group Children’s Defense Fund, called shootings a “broader cultural issue” that deserves a “thoughtful debate,” pointing out that more schoolchildren than police officers are killed by guns every year.
The panel, moderated by Education School Dean Kathleen McCartney, addressed cultural causes behind tragedies like the recent shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, as well as possible preventative measures for the future.
John Merrow, one of three panelists and an education correspondent for PBS, pointed out that at many schools, children are bombarded with so much information that they do not know how to take a critical eye when exposed to unrealistic images of violence.
Throughout the event, the speakers emphasized that the shooting at Sandy Hook was far from an isolated incident.
“This is an all-American crisis,” said Edelman, adding that gun violence is a problem for people from all races, locations, and classes.
Elaine Zimmerman, executive director of the policy group Connecticut Commission on Children, said that in order to limit gun violence, lawmakers should focus on limiting access to guns, increasing school safety, and improving mental health resources.
Zimmerman spoke of her experiences working with Sandy Hook Elementary School students, recounting her interaction with one first-grader, who told her there was “nothing you can say and nothing you can do to convince me it will not happen again.”
“It’s our job to prove him wrong,” she said.
She criticized the “shame attached to mental health problems” and said teachers should be trained to recognize mental health issues in their classrooms.
Edelman, who was recognized at the panel with an award for her work in education activism, said she thinks the United States should invest in the future of its children by enacting the necessary legislation and changing culturally to prevent gun violence.
Education School alumnus Elisabeth A. Dorsey, who attended the panel, said she thought conversations like Wednesday’s are important as Sandy Hook becomes more of a distant memory.
Even if the media begins to devote less of its coverage to gun violence, she said, “It doesn’t mean that it has ceased to be an issue.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: March 14, 2013, at 5:13 p.m.
After members of at least two student organizations canceled their River Run festivities Wednesday night, undergraduates swapped rumors over email lists, voicing concern that administrators in the Office of Student Life had learned of the groups’ evening plans by monitoring student listservs—a claim contested by the University.
According to an emailed statement from Interim Associate Dean of Student Life David R. Friedrich on Thursday afternoon, the OSL did not monitor listservs and was only alerted to a student email through an anonymous student tip.
“The OSL has not and does not monitor student emails or list-serves,” Friedrich wrote. “From time to time, individual students bring issues that are of concern to them to the attention of the OSL. That happened last night, when an anonymous student shared an e-mail with an administrator that had come from a list-serve.”
Friedrich added that in these instances, the OSL “will follow up with students directly, particularly if there are concerns about the safety and well-being of students, or if there are clear violations of policy to be addressed.”
The student rumors came four days after news broke that Harvard administrators had searched the email accounts of 16 resident deans to trace the source of a media leak regarding the Government 1310 cheating scandal. That report prompted concern among students, who questioned whether administrators may be able to secretly search student accounts as well.
On Wednesday, members of the Undergraduate Council and the Harvard Model Congress both canceled plans to host freshmen in their rooms for River Run, a prohibited tradition in which freshmen consume alcohol at each of the nine River Houses the night before they are assigned to their upperclassman Houses.
When reached by phone late Wednesday night, Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman '67 said that administrators had knowledge of at least one email that was “encouraging” students to ignore efforts to keep freshmen out of the Houses Wednesday night.
An email invitation sent by a member of the UC reminded invitees that they “have to be 21+ to consume alcoholic beverages,” while an email sent to HMC members made no mention of providing alcohol and said that non-alcoholic beverages would be available.
One student told The Crimson that he had received an email from his resident dean at about 9 p.m. on Wednesday indicating that the dean was aware of his plans to host freshmen in his room for River Run. The email recommended that he cancel his plans, said the student, who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because he did not want it known that he had been associated with the incident.
Sarah E. Coughlon ’15, who is not involved in either HMC or the UC, said she heard a rumor that administrators were monitoring a listserv for emails that contained the phrase “River Run.” Coughlon said that while she realizes that the rumor is not easily verifiable, the fact that such a rumor—even if untrue—spread among students reveals a “general distrust among the student body” of administrators in light of the recent email search controversy.
“If students are concerned, it’s because there was a feeling that our email privacy is not actually that private,” Coughlon said. “If people are concerned, then they’re concerned because of a larger problem.”
—Staff writers Matthew Q. Clarida, Nicholas P. Fandos, David W. Kaufman, Steven S. Lee, Jared T. Lucky, Hana N. Rouse, and Samuel Y. Weinstock contributed to the reporting of this article.
—Staff writer Laya Anasu can be reached at layaanasu@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @layaanasu.
—Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When he arrived on campus in September, rookie point guard Siyani Chambers, the reigning Minnesota Mr. Basketball, likely was not expecting to end his first collegiate season with another significant award.
Chambers was projected to receive sparse minutes off the bench behind then-senior co-captain Brandyn Curry as the former slowly came to adapt to the collegiate game.
But within weeks, Curry had left school, and Chambers was handed the keys to the car far sooner than anyone had expected coming into the year.
“We said at the beginning of the season that there’s no one more important on our team than that kid, given the circumstances [and] the position,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said this week.
Chambers not only held down the fort in Curry’s absence, but excelled. Six months later, after a rookie campaign that exceeded all expectations, the point guard has led his team to its third-consecutive Ivy League championship and—as was announced on Wednesday—was unanimously named the league’s Rookie of the Year.
“I think he’s very deserving,” Amaker said. “That’s how our team has been able to have some success this year. He’s been the leader of that. He’s been in the middle of it. He’s made timely plays, big shots, winning baskets.”
The point guard was also named to the All-Ivy League first team—the first freshman in Ivy League history to earn that distinction—after finishing second on the Crimson with 12.9 points per game. He lead all rookies nationally with 37.8 minutes per game and was second in the country among freshman with 5.61 assists per contest.
“He has great vision, he’s a terrific passer, [and] he has an incredible command of that spot on the floor,” Amaker said. “He’s very unselfish–he’s one of those players that you love playing with because you know you’re going to get the ball when you’re open.”
Sophomore wing Wesley Saunders, the league’s leading scorer, was also a first team All-Ivy selection—he made the squad unanimously—while sophomore forward Steve Moundou-Missi and junior co-captain Laurent Rivard earned honorable mention distinctions.
Chambers, who collected six league Player of the Week awards during the 2012-13 campaign, became the seventh Harvard player to win Ivy Rookie of the Year and the first since Kyle Casey took home the award three seasons ago.
“He’s a tough kid, he’s a very competitive kid, and he’s been a winner his whole life,” Amaker said. “It doesn’t surprise me at all that he’s been doing what he’s been doing for us.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the second straight season, the Harvard men’s basketball team is going dancing.
Last Saturday, the Crimson won its third straight Ivy League championship and clinched the conference’s automatic bid to the NCAA tournament, topping Cornell in its regular season finale.
This Sunday, Harvard will learn its next opponent when the NCAA tournament field is announced on CBS at 6 pm.
In an event open to all members of the Harvard community, the Crimson will watch the selection show in the Hall of History, located on the first floor of the Murr Center.
In addition to its opening-round opponent, the Crimson will also learn its seed and playing location. Harvard is currently projected to receive a 14 seed by ESPN analyst Joe Lundardi. Last season, the Crimson was projected to receive an 11 seed but ended up receiving a 12 seed.
Harvard will take the court on either March 21 or March 22 in Auburn Hills, Mich., Lexington, Ky., Salt Lake City, Utah, San Jose, Calif., Dayton, Ohio, Austin, Tex., Kansas Mo., or Philadelphia, Penn.
—Staff writer Martin Kessler can be reached at Martin.Kessler@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @MartinKessler91.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This weekend sees the Harvard Baseball team traveling to Houston, Texas to take on the No. 27 Rice Owls in a trio of fixtures spread over three days.
It marks another stop on the Crimson’s customary annual tour of the South before Ivy League play begins on March 30 against Columbia. On its travels so far, the team has played in both Virginia and South Carolina.
“Since the first start of the season, we’ve been obviously traveling a lot and playing great teams,” freshman catcher DJ Link said.
The Harvard squad says that it hopes this strong opening will harden the team against its tough opposition.
“It’s a great experience to play teams of that caliber to start the season to get us ready for the Ivy League season,” Link said.
The price of playing a quality non-conference schedule is the team’s winning record. The Crimson is currently 1-6 and riding a six game losing streak into the weekend. This is nothing out of the ordinary for Harvard, who had starts of 0-9 and 0-17 in the 2011 and 2012 seasons, respectively.
“We’re looking to come out this weekend,” freshman second baseman Mitch Klug said. “Right from the start [to] focus on one inning at a time and then build off that and put a full nine innings together, which would be pretty big for us.”
Despite the grueling schedule thus far, the Crimson cannot expect any let up against the Owls. Although a little shaky so far this season, beginning 11-7, Rice has a proud baseball program which has been a national force in the Wayne Graham era.
Graham took over as coach in 1992 and led the Owls to 12 straight conference championships from 1997-2008. A minor blip in 2009 has been followed by a return to the norm with conference titles in the past three years.
Any Rice fan will remember the national championship team of 2003, which overcame Stanford to become the smallest school to win a national championship at the highest collegiate level in fifty years. That team produced three top-eight MLB draft picks in 2004, a record for any collegiate baseball team.
Suffice it to say that Harvard will be running into something of a powerhouse when it squares off in Reckling Park this weekend. Nevertheless, there is a positive attitude in the locker room.
“I feel like we’re a great team,” Link said. “I feel like if we play fundamentally sound baseball…anything can happen.”
In spite of its record, the Crimson has had bright moments in its opening contests.
A thrilling 10-inning victory over Bucknell on the back of strong pitching from senior Matt Doyle and junior Baron Davis was a surprisingly successful start to the season. The team’s subsequent outings against now-No. 17 Virginia were respectable defeats against such a highly ranked opposition.
“Winning against Bucknell and hanging with Virginia,” Link said. “I wasn’t shocked that we were able to do that.”
The team is still upbeat and believes in its own abilities. The feeling in the locker room is that the difference between them and the top teams is not in quality but in execution.
“It’s a lot about minimizing mistakes because at this level the talent isn’t really all that different,” freshman pitcher Sean Poppen said. “It’s just who can have that talent for the longest period of time.”
This Harvard squad has thrust a number of freshmen into the fire and a number of rookies have answered the call.
Sophomore Brandon Kregel has three RBI in addition to four extra-base hits and four runs scored, while freshman DJ Link leads the team in batting average, posting a .385 average with 10 hits.
New coach Bill Decker has come from Division III Trinity. He led the Bantams to an impressive 2008 season with a national title, 45-1 record, and a Division III-record 44 straight wins.
In the face of strong opposition from Rice, this weekend represents a chance for the Crimson to prove itself on the biggest stage it will play on for the rest of the season.
“We’ve had so many games to come together and gel as a team,” Poppen said. “This weekend we should probably try putting it all together.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The focus around campus might be on the men’s basketball team’s return to the Big Dance, but there’s a more obscure Crimson team that also finds itself on the eve of a national tournament—one that most students probably didn’t even know existed.
The Harvard men’s cricket club will be competing for the Chanderpaul Trophy in the American College Cricket National Championships this coming weekend. The championships bring together 28 of the best teams from around the country to Fort Lauderdale at the site of the only sanctioned international cricket grounds in the United States.
Although the team only recently started competing last fall, the cricket club has now been around for several years after junior captain Ibrahin Khan along with his fellow teammates were able to get it approved as a club sport.
This first official year of play, however, finds the cricket club at the youngest it’s ever been, comprised of eight College students and only three graduate students. Several members have only ever played cricket recreationally or picked it up in their spare time.
“The competition there is really varied,” Khan said, “ranging from people like me who mainly played recreationally to people who have even played for the U.S. internationally. But most of the people there definitely have a background in cricket. People like [teammate Anton Martinho], who only started playing seriously a few months ago, are an anomaly.”
The Crimson will play the University at Buffalo and Wayne State on Friday before wrapping up group stage play against Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University on Saturday afternoon.
Harvard will most likely have to win all three of its matches in order to advance out of the group stages and cement a spot in the quarterfinals.
The cricket club had been riding a high streak after winning almost every one of its matches in the fall, unprecedented for a team that is only in its first year of conception.
But the Crimson met the defending national champions York College of the City Cuniversity of New York system in the regional finals and was resoundingly whooped.
“When we went to New York we got creamed,” Khan said. “We went to go play…and we found that the skill level was much higher than ours. That was interesting because we had been on a high all semester and then [going up against York] was a bit of a reality check.”
Despite the humbling that the team took in the fall, no one can deny the dedication of its members. Amidst a hectic midterms week, the team is flying down to Fort Lauderdale on Thursday, and those that can’t afford the flight are making the grueling 1,500-mile drive down south.
“I finished up my thesis and turned it in early so that I’d be able to go down to Florida and give whatever I can at my level of play to the team,” senior Antone Martinho said.
Despite whatever the outcome of this weekend will be, the cricket club can take comfort in the fact that they made it to the national tournament in its first year while still having room for improvement. According to the team, much of the success can be attributed to the hard work of Khan.
“I think he’s done a fantastic job,” Martinho said. “He has so much passion for bringing this club up from essentially nowhere, from playing with tennis balls on the top floor of the MAC to getting field time."
Matinho added that the level of devotion on the squad extends under the umbrella of Khan's leadership.
"We used to struggle to get 11 guys together to play a game, but now we have no trouble getting a team together that can commit," Matinho said. "I’ve been very impressed with what he’s been able to do in such a short time.”
Despite being in its infancy, the cricket club is confident that it can make a strong effort to bring the national championship back to Harvard. One can consider the loss to York in regionals growing pains—now the Crimson can move past that and get geared up for the real challenge of its first year.
“We basically said that, look, as a team we want to give a better representation of ourselves and nationals was the place to do it,” Khan said. “It’s a bit of an ‘avenging the defeat’ mentality but I think it’s giving the boys that much more of an incentive to do well.”
—Staff writer Alex L. Saich can be reached at asaich@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @Sensaichonal.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Housing day is upon us! In just seven short hours, freshmen will recieve their housing day assignments, marking the exciting next step in their Harvard experiences.
Want to join in the fun? Send us your river run and Housing Day snapshots via Instagram or Twitter, using the hashtag #flybyhousingday. We'll pick the best ones and put them up on Flyby for all to see.

Captions are encouraged!
Here's what we want to see:
-river run festivities/ the lack thereof
-housing day madness
-people covered in body paint
-great costumes
-running around the yard
-Annenberg tomorrow morning
-housing t-shirts
-anything to do with river run or housing day!
Sections
The stakes were raised this Housing season, when most Houses put out multiple full-length videos (even if they weren't all official). And since there are still some two-odd hours before the first freshmen will receive their housing assignments - what better way than than to celebrate by rewatching all of the videos of the past weeks?
 
Adams
 Gold Digger: "Does it suck to live elsewhere? They don't need to answer / Talkin' bout how much they love it while they're tryin' to transfer"
Do You Hear the Freshmen Sing? "It is the music of the freshmen / Who will not eat lunch again!"
Cabot
  Cod Shop: "We got that semper cor / from that quad house down the road."
We Are Never Ever Living on the River: "You go back to doubles leave the singles all to me / But we are never ever ever living on the river"
Currier
Currier Love Story: "I live in a single and that's how I feel / at least in a triple my friends would be real"
Don't Get Rivered: "When your roommate is hospitalized, you're still stuck in a triple."
 Dunster
The Moose is Loose - "Sail."
 Eliot
Eliot Shop: "Eliot's got mad swag / There's only one best house at Harvard"
How Awesome is Eliot House ...?: If you had no time for memes in the past year, this will get you up to speed.
 Kirkland
Dumb Ways to House: "The Quad is mad far / Dunster's rooms are like a European cars"
(Based on Brad Pitt's Chanel No. 5 commercial) : "It's not a house. Houses have four sides. But Kirkland has eight sides."
(Based on Calvin Klein Concept commercial ) : Words?
 Leverett
 Baby Got Lev: "I like Lev House and I can not lie / You other froshes can't deny"
 Lowell
 Get Lowell - "To the courtyards, to the bells (to the bells)."
 Mather
 MatherFall: "Think on your sin(gle)s."
Why I Love Mather House: "Baby you light up my world like no other house / Guaranteed singles for life get me overwhelmed"
 Pfoho
Harlem Shake vpf: top comment: "Now we know why there's special schools for smart people.﻿"
Pfo Ho - "(Pfo!) So show me pfamily / (Ho!) All the pfriends that I will meet / (Pfo!) House spirit keeps me strong /(Ho!) Pfoho, you can't go wrong"
Polar Bears Yelling Like Goats Yelling Like People: Transcription was tough.
 Quincy
Epiq Meal Time: "We just built Quincy House inside Quincy House."
"That's f****** Quinception!"
 Winthrop
Game of Throp: "You may live in Dewolfe, but you'll always be a son of Winthrop."
