Sections
 
It’s finally reached that wonderful time in the fall where everything you can possibly think of is pumpkin flavored (pumpkin soy dairy-free ice cream at J.P. Licks, anyone?) and it’s cold enough to start wearing ugly Christmas sweaters as an obnoxious hipster fashion statement. In addition to realizing that I can’t spend all of my money online shopping for cable knit winter socks, here are some lessons I’ve learned over the past few weeks: 
 
1) Wandering eyes at the library lead to socially awkward events.
It happens to the best of us—you look up from your computer screen to give your eyes a break and you happen to lock eyes with someone sitting at a library cubicle across the room. Both of you quickly look away as if it didn’t happen and you make a mental note that it’s now socially unacceptable to look in that direction again for the remainder of your stay in the library.
 
This common occurrence reached a whole new level of social awkwardness for me recently. I was sitting at a table in an alcove of bookshelves in the basement of Lamont when I looked up from my book to take a break. Through the little sliver of space between the books, I caught eyes with the guy sitting in the alcove next to mine, except he was in the middle of quickly trying to change his shirt. I had a little moment of panic and had no idea what to do except to prolong our eye contact (disclaimer: I swear I’m not a creep, I’m just socially inept and therefore unable to think rationally in uncomfortable situations). So if you ever find yourself in an especially awkward eye-lock with someone in the library, just remember it could be worse!
 
2) Your iPhone comes with a flashlight feature for a reason.
I’ve recently learned that I am the most productive early in the morning at Starbucks before classes, when there is no one to harass on Facebook chat and the only person awake that I can flood with texts is my mom. The first few mornings I tried this out, I somehow convinced myself that I could get dressed and find all of my things in the dark (an effort towards being considerate to my sleeping roommate). It was only after I lost my bi-weekly contact lenses three days in a row and received a series of lectures about irresponsibility from my mom that I realized I don’t in fact have night vision. In the search for any semblance of light, I noticed that my iPhone has a flashlight feature and felt extremely dumb for this late discovery. But at least now I know if I’m wearing my shirt backwards.
 
3) Dorm Decorating Disasters
You and your suitemates have probably been talking about decorating your rooms since moving in, but if you’re like me, you’ve most likely never gotten around to doing it.
 Well, the other day I finally decided to bite the bullet. While perusing in the Square, I found a sign that said “Haters gonna hate” and thought it would be funny to hang in my common room. After climbing desks and using copious amounts of poster gum in order to hang the sign as symmetrically as possible, my suitemates and I looked at our finished product only to realize that joke weas on us—the sign was either made incorrectly or by someone who doesn't understand spelling and did not have any “e’s” in it (“Hatrs gonna hat”). After an intellectual discussion among my suitemates, we’ve decided that if anyone ever asks about our sign, we’re saying that it’s modern art and no one should question it. 
Sections
 
 
This week, Harvard announced that Winthrop will be in line after Dunster for House renewal, but it’s going to take a break from construction on any House in the 2015-2016 academic year first. Since we know students will miss being awoken in the early morning by the sounds of jack hammers, Flyby came up with a few ideas for projects that Harvard could pursue in the meantime.
 
First, Harvard could expand its valiant effort to become the most chair-friendly university in the country. Chairs already populate the Yard, the Science Center plaza, and a lot of classrooms, but certainly there is more work to be done. How about chairs in the hallways? Chairs on Widener steps? You never know when you might suddenly want to sit down.
 
Or perhaps Harvard could erect a statue in honor of construction itself, consisting of a permanent scaffolding around a heap of construction materials. The statue could be placed in an area of maximum foot-traffic, such as the space in front of the John Harvard statue, to honor the inconvenience of campus construction.
 
In an effort to address the ongoing conversation about managing student stress levels, Harvard could build some unexpected recreational facilities. Maybe a jungle gym, microbrewery, skate park, or bouncy house. These projects would certainly be welcomed with open arms (by students, at least, though maybe not administrators).
 
Here’s one last possibility: the Science Center’s exterior looks a bit like a Polaroid camera, but that’s outdated, as Polaroid cameras have been arguably obsolete for a few years now. Perhaps the new structure could be built to look like an iPhone camera. That seems more culturally relevant.
 
Sections
Harvard students became masters in the art of the humble brag from the day they received their acceptance letters. We want everyone to know we’re from Harvard; don’t even try to deny it. Unfortunately, because it’s not written across our foreheads we’ve learned to cleverly get the point across without people realizing we’re huge tools (at first impression at least).
Once we’re on campus, we can’t really brag about being from Harvard anymore, but that does not mean our need to brag disappears. Here are some common humble brags you may have heard around campus before instinctively rolling your eyes:
Yale Bulldog Days and Princeton Preview had nothing on Visitas! We get it, you were endowed with the mighty big three acceptance letters—so was half of the class. Move on with your life—if you’re constantly reliving prefrosh days, you’re doing college wrong.  
 
I have no idea which internship I should choose!This isn’t even a problem, and if it were, it’d the best problem to have.  
 
Do people even refill the condom boxes?Honey, you don’t need a condom when it’s just you.  
 
I hate it when guys/girls just stare at me. It’s so rude.No you don’t, you secretly love it. Come on; admit it, that hair flip and batting of the eyelashes were directed toward the guys standing by the counter. If I squint my eyes, I can see your ego inflating.   
 
I had to pull an all-nighter for CS50, Math 55, Physics 16, and Ec 1126.We hesitated in putting this one on the list, because really, is this something you want to be bragging about?  
 
Sorry, I was busy, I had a dinner at [insert final club].Your perfectly coiffed hair and your dad’s Wikipedia page were enough to let us know that you are part of the elite minority. We would be surprised not to find you at a final club. 
 
I didn’t even want to go to Harvard; I just sent the application in for fun.Then why are you here? 
 
I only managed to get through the first season of "Breaking Bad" yesterday. You forgot to mention the all-nighter you pulled afterward. 
 
I hope I didn’t ruin the curve for everybody! You can stop with the pseudo-altruism, because now you should be worrying about taking shelter from the fury of your peers. Just return to the nest you’ve made in your room, where you’ve been cooped up for the last three weeks living off of apple sauce and Red Bull.
