News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
We’ve all experienced it—the satisfaction, the glee, the triumph. Whether it’s a beautifully filtered Instagram or a very clever Facebook status, social media can make us feel immensely proud of ourselves. Five retweets of my sarcastic tweet about Amanda Bynes and I’m as funny as Tina Fey. Eight Instagram likes on my picture of a sunset and I feel like photographer Annie Leibovitz. But these feelings of complacency, even joy, are also corrupting. Social media’s air of substance is too often just an illusion. So many of us are not, let’s face it, in Tahrir Square fomenting a revolution. We are indulging ourselves.
Social media is of course supposed to be fun. Its ability to distract from painfully boring situations (waiting rooms, lines, Friday nights at Harvard) is a huge part of its appeal. But lately, I have begun to realize that I am conning myself when I try to believe that time spent plugged in is always time well spent. I fool myself when I think it is a necessity, rather than a luxury. Most of the time when I’m staring and scrolling, I’m not engaged in any kind of socially productive exercise. I am not “connecting” with close friends as I pretend to be. Usually, I am just massaging my ego and squandering my time. Too often when I’m active on social media, I find myself caring more about the “likes” than the people giving them.
I am not trying to underestimate the importance of social media and its ability to change the world around us. In the revolution in Egypt to overthrow Hosni Mubarak, Facebook connected and united protestors so well that one Egyptian couple named their new baby “Facebook” as a show of gratitude to the site’s positive impact. So often sites like Twitter and Reddit offer news quicker and more concisely when stories are just breaking. When the lockdown hit our campus after the Boston bombing, I was constantly checking my different feeds rather than relying on the slower CNN.
But the speed on these sites can be dangerous, especially when accuracy is a casualty (as when Reddit identified the wrong man as a suspect). We constantly crave more, refreshing pages over and over again, hoping for something new. Sometimes we are rewarded and our efforts seem validated. But more often, the obsessive clicking is a time vacuum and more important things get pushed aside. I find myself forgetting that not every post is going to change the world (or even my five-foot radius).
During finals at Harvard, studying and then complaining about studying online probably take about the same amount of time. People are always sharing (and secretly competing with each other) over how many hours they have spent in the library that day—“going crazy in Lamont!” people will post on Facebook, hoping for sympathy or just appreciation of their struggles. Bemoaning or bragging (depending on how you look at it) that we have spent “all day in the library” gives us a feeling of accomplishment and serves as an indicator that yes, we are working hard. When we do take that online break, it is “deserved” after all the effort. In reality, we are probably giving ourselves way too much credit about how intensely we have been slaving away.
We give ourselves too much credit in general—one last irritating trend of this social media immersion is the egotism. I am not talking about the overanalyzed “me, me. me” generation aspect and the proliferation of selfies and status updates congratulating ourselves. Instead, I refer to how it is now completely common for people to bring up their tweet, instagram, or whatever else in normal conversation. “Did you see my vine?” Many friends have asked (and I am sure I have been guilty of similar behavior), or, “Why didn’t you like my new prof pic?” It seems that we now expect critical reviews of each of our cyber, two-second masterpieces. In a recent Wall Street Journal op-ed, Rob Lazebnik, a writer for The Simpsons, sardonically shed light on this annoying trend when he encouraged 2013 grads who can’t find a job to “constantly monitor news sites for breaking stories and then try to be the first to tweet an edgy joke about what’s happening…This won’t land you a job or get you paid, but you can’t underestimate bragging rights at friends’ engagement parties.”
Now, obviously times have changed and there is nothing more irritating than a spiel about how “kids these days” don’t care about anything but their smartphones and the internet. But even though this complaint can feel stale, it does have merit. Admittedly, it is difficult for me to swallow, as I’m guilty of everything I have mentioned. But I’m steadily realizing the value of trying to keep myself in check when I look at the clock and realize I’ve been submerged for 40 minutes doing technically nothing. I think it’s important to remember that we should have accomplishments we can really see and touch, not just ones on a touchscreen.
Isabel H. Evans ’14, a Crimson editorial writer, is an English concentrator in Adams House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
Before I went to college, my mother took me shopping. She bought me extra-long sheets, shower flip-flops, a bathroom caddy, the usual. What my mother did not try to buy for me: a “sugar baby.” 
Unlike my mother, a Philadelphia-area mom (or at least someone claiming to be one) posted on Craigslist on Tuesday, looking for a “cute young girl” to deflower her Harvard-bound son. In exchange, she will “make your financial issues disappear. ;)”
But, ladies of Philadelphia, not all of you are eligible. She’s looking for someone 19 or younger “as 20+ would probably freak him out. lol.” Her son is 18, “very handsome and extremely fit,” and a runner. 
She also doesn’t want her son to know, so she’s crafted an elaborate plan for the sugar baby to pick up her son at a concert, “seduce him and take his virginity,” and then “keep dating him (and showing him different sex positions)” until he ships off to Cambridge. 
Before the posting was flagged for removal, I responded trying to get an interview with the mother, but haven’t heard back. Maybe I would have had better luck if I hadn’t identified myself as a Crimson reporter. ;) lol
Sections
 
In a series of reviews, members of The Crimson's summer staff are making a case for the best froyo in the Square. We reviewed Pinkberry yesterday. Now up: Ben and Jerry's.
The American patriot Patrick Henry once said, “Give me Ben and Jerry's, or give me death.” Or at least he probably would have, had he ever been given the opportunity to taste the frozen deliciousness that Ben and Jerry’s has to offer.
 
While another Crimson editor may make borderline blasphemous claims about the patriotism of another frozen yogurt vendor, it is undoubtedly true that Ben and Jerry’s is the most American creamery in Harvard Square. It was begun by two true visionaries (Ben and Jerry, in case it wasn't clear) right here in New England, just like the revolution that led to the creation of this great country.
 
But Ben and Jerry's—conveniently located in the The Garage, mere steps outside the Yard, and a very short walk from most of the Houses—is so much more than a shining beacon of liberty and independence. It is a one-of-a-kind institution that has successfully mastered the fine and precise art of ice cream making—and more recently, of frozen yogurt making.
 
A relatively recent addition to the Ben and Jerry’s menu is four flavors of Greek frozen yogurt, all of which are more delicious than any other froyo you can buy in the Square. I personally recommend the store’s raspberry fudge chunk flavor, a thick, creamy, and slow-melting concoction that perfectly mixes the tangy, fruity flavor of raspberries with the rich, sweet flavor of chocolate.
 
But how can a vendor that sells only Greek frozen yogurt truly be American, you ask? To which I say: we are a nation of immigrants and their descendents, a melting pot that places diversity among its most cherished values.
 
Another thing we value in this great nation is opportunity. Not in the mood for frozen yogurt, you say? What makes Ben and Jerry's the great American institution we know it to be is the vast number of choices it offers its patrons. Try one of the store’s 25 ice cream flavors and 3 non-fat sorbets, each with a quirky name and many with the chunks of this or swirls of that by which Ben and Jerry’s has earned its deserved reputation. Are you someone who believes that eating ice cream with a spoon is an activity that requires too much time and effort? Never fear: Ben and Jerry’s offers blended shakes as well, for your convenience.
 
At first glance, Ben and Jerry’s menu items might seem a bit pricy. However, like a true American business, the fair quantity and incredible quality of its offerings ensure that you will definitely get the bang for your buck.
Another famous American, Stephen Colbert (who has a Ben and Jerry’s flavor named after him), once facetiously asked that we not think about the truth with our heads, but rather feel it with our hearts. I implore you to go one step further and taste the truth with your taste buds.
