News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
William W. Chin, who has served as executive dean for research at Harvard Medical School for the past three years, will depart Harvard at the end of this month for a new position with a Washington, D.C.-based pharmaceutical trade group.
Chin will begin his new role as executive vice president for science and regulatory affairs at Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America on July 1.
Chin said in a phone interview Thursday that he had come to Harvard in 2010 with three primary goals in mind: to encourage “interdisciplinary and cross-institutional research,” to contribute to an initiative that seeks to rethink therapeutics, and to better understand the intersection of academia and industry.
Looking back on his tenure at the Medical School, Chin noted his contributions to Harvard Catalyst, an interdisciplinary health research organization that focuses on translating ideas from scientists into procedures and products useful to patients.
"I've had a lot of fun, and I have a great affection for this school," Chin said of his time at Harvard.
Chin said he had not expected to leave so soon, but changed his mind when he received an unsolicited offer from PhRMA. He said he decided to take the position because he hopes to foster new models of collaboration in the pharmaceutical business.
“I realized that there’s an opportunity to possibly gather some of the interested individuals in the pharmaceutical business to really begin to work together in a way perhaps they’ve not done before,” Chin said. “I am in favor of building knowledge together… knowledge that we lack of the causes of many diseases, for example.”
Chin’s resignation comes after a tumultuous year for the Medical School. In April, the School announced that due to financial constraints it would close its New England Primate Research Center, which has come under fire for what some have called negligent treatment of animals. In addition, the Medical School ran a $28.8 million operating deficit in the 2012 fiscal year, according to the Boston Globe.
In an email to the Medical School community Monday announcing Chin’s departure, Medical School Dean Jeffrey S. Flier highlighted Chin’s contributions to the School.
“Ever since Bill arrived at HMS in May 2010, he has been a trusted advisor to me, a valued collaborator to many and a good friend to all of us. I have relied on his counsel on many issues, especially those that relate to the nature of translational medicine and the interface between industry and academia,” Flier wrote.
Flier did not name a replacement for Chin, but wrote that he will soon develop a plan to “provide ongoing support” in Chin’s absence.
—Staff writer Laya Anasu can be reached at layaanasu@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @layaanasu.
—Staff writer Fatima Mirza can be reached at fmirza@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @fatimanmirza.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
