News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: Dec. 10, 2014, at 3:00 p.m.
A female graduate student was reportedly robbed on Banks Street by an unknown male early Wednesday morning, according to a community advisory issued by the Harvard University Police Department.
The 26-year-old white woman told police that she was struck from behind by an unknown male while walking on Banks Street at 1:30 a.m. The assailant stole the woman’s tote bag containing her laptop, wallet and other personal items, the victim reported.
The victim suffered from cuts on her face and may have dislocated her right elbow, according to Cambridge Police Department spokesman Jeremy Warnick. She was treated at the scene and transported to a local hospital afterwards.
“In terms of the robbery itself, it was physically violent in the process of trying to take [the victim’s] assets,” Warnick said.
CPD does not have a description of the suspect at this time, though the department is joining forces with HUPD to gather information from the student body and faculty and to directly assist the victim, Warnick added. CPD officers also plan to work with neighboring businesses to try to attain any surveillance footage that could aid the investigation.
Banks St. runs from Mt. Auburn St. to the Peabody Terrace apartments, including along the east side of Mather House.
The assailant will likely receive a minimum charge of Assault and Battery and Unarmed Robbery if caught, Warnick said.
HUPD also used the community advisory to remind students and affiliates to be vigilant while walking around campus. The advisory encouraged students and affiliates to “avoid talking on cell phones, listening to music, or walking too close to persons unnecessarily” and to reach out to HUPD immediately if they observe any suspicious activity.
HUPD spokesman Steven G. Catalano could not be reached for comment at time of publication.
—Staff writer Mariel A. Klein can be reached at mariel.klein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mariel_klein.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: December 10, 2014
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated which party involved in the robbery has not yet been identified by police. In fact, Cambrige Police have not yet identified the suspect.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
HUPD has had their hands full with us Harvard students over the past few weeks. Between stolen Disney tickets, breaking into Northwest Labs, and unrecognized roommates, it seems that a lot's been going on around campus. As part of our Securitas Series, we've combed through recent HUPD logs and published some of the more colorful entries below.
November 7Officer dispatched to a report of two mattresses in the tree outside of the building. Officer arrived and report operations notified and are taking care of the issue.
“We’re building a treehouse!”
Officers dispatched to a report of a large group of individuals in the area. Officers arrived and report group were Northeastern University students doing a scavenger hunt. The officers moved the group along.
The hunters become the hunted.
November 11Officers dispatched to a report of an unwanted guest trying to gain access into an area within [Northwest Laboratory]. Officer arrived, located the individual and informed the individual that they could not access the area due to the holiday.
Genuinely sad for the person trying to break into Northwest Labs on a day off. Do less.
November 12Officers dispatched to a report of individuals throwing water balloons out of their window. Officers arrived and report could not locate individuals.
Funny in the summer, evil in November. 
November 13Officer took a report of past incidents of indecent exposure.
Even HUPD is against white jeans after Labor Day.
November 14Officers dispatched to a report of a group of individuals causing a disturbance and looking like they’re about to fight. Officers arrived and report individuals were friends just fooling around.
It’s all fun and games until HUPD gets involved.
November 17Officer dispatched to take a report of vandalism to an individual's shoes.
Unauthorized bedazzling.
November 22Officers dispatched to a report of an individual whose hat was taken. Officers arrived and located individuals and the reporting party was given their hat back.
Middle school dance déjà vu.
Officers dispatched to a report of loud noise coming from the area. Officers arrived and report no noise, area quiet.
If someone makes a noise but HUPD doesn’t hear it, was any noise made at all? 
November 27Officers dispatched to a report of an unknown individual in an individual's room. Officers arrived and report individual was reporting party's roommate.
Seriously?
December 2Officers dispatched to a report of an individual wandering around the area and knocking on doors. Officers arrived and report individual gone on arrival.
A rejected Christmas caroler.
December 3Officer dispatched to take a report of two stolen packages containing Forever 21 clothes valued at $20.00 and admission tickets to Disney.
The saddest theft report I’ve ever read.
December 4Officers dispatched to a report of individuals trying to climb out of the stadium. Officers arrived and report individuals gone on arrival.
Fact: athletes are faster than HUPD.
 
