Sections
Hello there, Harvard! You can always count the new year by two things: Drew Faust coming out of Mass Hall to give her convocation speech and the Emmys. This year the Emmys fall on a Monday so we're on campus early to give you full coverage live and on location. The live coverage is true. The location is Cambridge, Mass. in front of our television screen. We're going non-HD on this one so we can make sure there are no delays in transmission.
Stay tuned throughout the night to get our instant reactions.
10:59: "Only four days to the weekend." Thanks for tuning in!
10:50: Veep is funnier than Modern Family. There are no words. Also, still sorry to Josh Charles.
10:47: And this is the last time you'll ever see movie star Matthew McConaughey at the Emmys. It's okay, the television world is tough to break into. It'll be your time one day. Time is a flat circle.
10:46: Can you tell who Julia Roberts wants to win?
10:44: Still thinking about Julianna Margulies. "Whoa!"--Drew Faust.
10:27: Congrats to Anna Gunn, but why did the Best Supporting Actor in a Drama Series nominees all get clips when the Best Supporting Actresses didn't?
10:10: Cast is getting a lot of nods tonight. Josh Charles, we're so sorry.
9:55: We've always been big fans of Glenn Weiss. Emmys just got meta in the control booth...
9:44: Ricky Gervais, thanks for reminding us how lucky we are to have Amy Poehler and Tina Fey hosting the Golden Globes nowadays.
9:20: Benedict Cumberbatch is not here tonight, which means we can all go home.
9:00: Kathy Bates is as shocked as we all are to hear that she beat Julia Roberts and Allison Tolman for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Miniseries or Movie.
8:58: Now that Sherlock has been recognized by the Emmys, can they pick up the pace and release new episodes sometime before 2016?
8:47: "I would love to thank HBO right now." —Julia Louis-Dreyfus. We would love to be Bryan Cranston's moustache right now.
8:38: Luckily we're too high off Billy Eichner's sketch to be too bummed about The Big Bang Theory still winning awards. Still, nice speech from the always lovely Jim Parsons.
8:31: PSA from the Emmys: In case you don't care about this non-actor onstage, Jimmy Fallon will be up in 7 minutes.
8:28: Crazy Eyes is not so crazy eyes in real life—lookin' good, Uzo Aduba.
8:10: Can't tell if Andre Braugher of Brooklyn Nine-Nine is actually excited to be nominated for Best Supporting Actor in a Comedy. Love you, Captain Holt.
8:09: Amy Poehler couldn't host the Emmys this year, but at least she called in Beyonce.
8:05: Someone please make a gif of Jim Parsons.
7:55: Seth "Time Influential Person" Meyers is currently wasting time talking to someone on the Red Carpet. RUN, SETH. You're hosting!
7:54 p.m.: So far the wardrobe malfunction counter is at zero.
