News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The University curtailed its operations early Thursday afternoon, shuttering offices and asking non-essential employees to stay home from work Friday, as the first major snowstorm of the year struck New England and blanketed Harvard Yard.
Forecasts indicate that the storm, which is expected to dump more than 14 inches of snow in the area, could demonstrate blizzard-like conditions through Friday morning, significantly slowing activity in and around Boston. The storm is the largest to impact the region since last February, when more than two feet of snow fell on Harvard Yard over the course of 36 hours.
Harvard administrators sent a community alert at 1:15 p.m. through the MessageMe system announcing that the University would be tapering down operations beginning at 2 p.m. According to the alert, individual schools and departments were to decide on their own modified schedules and staffing plans.
The blizzard coincided with the first day of Winter Break II, when 1,322 pre-approved students were allowed to return to campus. Airlines operating out of Boston Logan International Airport, however, suspended all operations between 8 p.m. on Thursday evening and noon Friday.
Following the University’s announcement, schools across Harvard—all of which remain on winter recess—began to shut down facilities and release staff.
Harvard Medical School announced an early release beginning at 1 p.m Thursday, instructing supervisors to dismiss staff based on individual roles and responsibilities. The Medical School announced it would be closed down Friday for all non-essential personnel as well later in the afternoon.
The Graduate School of Education, which is expected to reopen on Saturday after closing at 2 p.m., extended its application deadline for the Masters of Education program to 5 p.m. on Monday evening. The original deadline was set for Friday at 11:59 p.m.
All facilities at the Graduate School of Design were closed for business on Friday, though some will reopen for students and faculty beginning at 5 p.m.
The Extension School and Harvard Summer School closed their offices at 3 p.m. Thursday and will remain closed on Friday. Both will resume normal operations on Monday.
Even Harvard athletics were affected by the storm. The women’s ice hockey team, which was scheduled to play Northeastern at 3:30 p.m. on Thursday as part of Frozen Fenway, will instead host the Huskies this Saturday at home.
All Harvard affiliates have been advised to check for both University and departmental updates and to direct specific questions to individual school and departmental leaders.
Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino declared a snow emergency Thursday and instituted a parking ban on city streets, as did the city of Cambridge. Schools in both public systems have been closed for Friday.
Cambridge city offices will be closed on Friday, and all city-sponsored events canceled. Massachusetts Governor Deval L. Patrick ’78 also activated the Massachusetts National Guard to assist with response efforts and closed state offices on Friday.
As a result of the city-wide parking ban in Cambridge, Harvard employees who drive to work will be able to park their cars for free in the lots at 52 Oxford Street and 111 Western Avenue.
In Harvard Square, businesses like Starbucks, the Harvard Cooperative Society, and the Harvard Bookstore closed early Thursday—some several hours ahead of schedule. While Harvard Bookstore will reopen Friday based on the state of public transportation, Starbucks and the Coop already announced Thursday they will open late Friday at 7: 00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. respectively.
The MBTA announced on its website Thursday that although the subway system will be running on Friday, the Red, Blue, Orange, and Green lines may operate with delays and more infrequent service due to the storm.
—Staff writer Bryan L. Bu contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Dev A. Patel can be reached at dev.patel@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @dev_a_patel.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
