News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard football team endured injuries, trailed for a few moments, and battled all game long. But on a brisk Friday night, the contest eventually turned into a laugher.
Riding an assertive ground game and receiving big defensive plays when it mattered most, the Crimson topped visiting Holy Cross by a score of 41-18 at Harvard Stadium.
CAST PARTY
Senior running back Andrew Casten was supposed to be a backup. But on Friday night, the spotlight belonged all to him.
In his first three years on the team, Casten totaled 151 yards and a single touchdown. But on Friday night, the senior racked up 153 yards and found the end zone three times.
“To be honest, I really didn’t know what to expect,” Casten said. “I knew it was going to be a grind and knew we were going to come out and push. We’re going to get a win whatever we can do.”
Filling in for junior running back Paul Stanton, who was inactive due to an injury, Casten ensured that the starter’s presence was not missed. From busting it up the middle to skirting down the sideline, Casten took the pressure off the Harvard signal-callers by giving them a consistent option on the ground.
The senior found success starting with his first run. Taking the handoff on first and goal, Casten blew through the middle of the line and absorbed a hit to earn three yards for Harvard’s first touchdown of the year.
Casten’s final two scores came in the second half and demonstrated his versatility. The back extended Harvard’s lead with an 18-yard dash, nearly making it untouched into the end zone.
Four minutes later, Casten capped a 52-yard drive by bullying his way through a clump of bodies for a three-yard score.
The senior’s biggest run of the day came in the opening minutes of the fourth quarter. After shooting through a hole in the middle of the line, Casten made his way to the left sideline and dashed 52 yards before being dragged down.
Casten finished with 17 touches and a very efficient nine yards per carry.
“I was just really happy for Andrew today, because he took advantage of a situation,” Crimson coach Tim Murphy said. “We saddled him up, put the load on him, and he and the offensive line really responded.”
THE REAL DEFENSE STANDS UP
The Harvard sideline may have been sweating a little bit.
With less than five minutes remaining in the third quarter, the Crimson clung to a two-point lead. The Crusaders had scored on three consecutive drives, and its offense took the field poised to regain the upper hand.
But the Harvard defense clamped down in a major way. On the first play of the drive, junior end James Duberg swarmed Holy Cross quarterback Peter Pujals in the backfield and jarred the ball loose. The Crimson recovered the fumble inside the Crusaders’ red zone.
It only took one play for Harvard to make it a two-possession game, as Casten took a handoff to the right side of the line and dashed 18 yards for a score.
The Crimson defenders weren’t finished, though, as junior linebacker Eric Medes singlehandedly delivered another big turnover. On the fourth play of the ensuing Holy Cross drive, Medes swooped into a clump of bodies, stripped the ball from the hands of Crusaders running back Gabe Guild, and fell on it.
Like clockwork, Harvard needed just one play to make the turnover sting for Holy Cross. Senior quarterback Conner Hempel found a wide-open sophomore running back Anthony Firkser for 30 yards. A few plays later, the Crimson capped the drive with yet another touchdown.
Just when it seemed that the Crusaders had the momentum—just when it seemed like the Crimson defense was wearing down—Harvard responded with a knockout blow.
“We knew what we had to do and just step up,” said senior defensive end Zack Hodges. “I’m really proud of my defense, this defense because a lot of young guys have stepped up this year…. I think offenses try to stretch us out, but I love to put some stress on them.”
NEW FACES, OLD PLACES
The 27-point Harvard run to end the game appeared even more impressive considering the absence of big names at the top of the depth chart. Both Stanton and senior wide receiver Ricky Zorn were held out of the contest with injuries.
“Those guys are still a ways off, most likely,” Murphy said. “I think Paul Stanton has the best percentage to have an opportunity to play next week, but still uncertain.”
Matters were made worse when Hempel was carted down the sideline into the locker room after the Crimson’s first drive. After keeping the ball on an option, Hempel took a knee to the lower back that resulted in spasms. The starter missed the rest of the first half.
In stepped backup quarterback Scott Hosch for the most meaningful action of his career—under the lights on opening night. Despite being rushed into action, Hosch successfully completed 8-of-12 passes for 90 yards with one interception, as well as a rushing touchdown.
The game also produced sizable contributions from some relatively inexperienced faces on the receiving corps. Firkser led all receivers with 60 yards, including a touchdown to give Harvard the lead early in the third quarter.
After Firkser found the end zone for the first time in his career, another pass-catcher notched his second score ever in a Crimson jersey. Harvard’s final touchdown of the day—and Hempel’s second strike for six points—came when sophomore tight end Ryan Halvorson reeled in a pass in the left corner of the end zone.
“I wasn’t always perfectly accurate, and I think Ryan Halvorson’s touchdown was an unbelievable catch, an unbelievable play from him,” Hempel said. “Everybody around me did their job, and it made my job really easy.”
—Staff writer David Steinbach can be reached at david.steinbach@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Continuing trends in previous years that saw Harvard sporting events aired on national television, ESPN3 and Harvard will continue to broadcast select Crimson games and matches for the 2014-15 school year. So if you have a subscription for ESPN with your cable company and can type “WatchESPN.com” into your browser, have at it on one, two, or all of the dates listed below.
In case you’re one of those people with a dire allegiance to the year-old Ivy League Digital Network, not to fear—ESPN3 will be picking up the broadcasts from the Ancient Eight sports provider, guaranteeing that when you watch Harvard basketball, football, ice hockey, and/or lacrosse, you can have the peace of mind that the broadcast is being produced in-house at Harvard.
With seven home tilts involving seven Harvard programs, there’s sure to be at least one if not more out there that will catch your Crimson-loving eye. Here’s the complete list, with a breakdown of some of the notable occasions:
Oct. 17, 2014 – Men’s Basketball “Crimson Madness” – 6 p.m.  Nov. 29, 2014- Men’s Basketball vs. Massachusetts – 2 p.m.
“Crimson Madness” and its dunk contest and three-point contest should draw some curious fans looking to see junior Agunwa Okolie throw down another 360 jam. This is also the first chance many will get to see how newcomers Andre Chatfield, Chris Egi, and Zach Yoshor match up with and against the upperclassmen. Further down the schedule, Harvard takes on UMass for the first time in Crimson basketball history. The Minutemen were a six seed at the 2014 NCAA tournament, falling to 11th-seeded Tennessee in the first round.
Jan. 31, 2015 – Women’s Basketball vs. Penn – 6 p.m.
The Crimson hopes to avenge last season’s two defeats at the hands of the Quakers and would especially like to forget its 67-38 loss this past February, which saw Harvard shoot an abysmal 13-of-71 from the field. However, the Crimson rattled off four straight Ivy League wins to close out 2013-14 conference play and will be looking to continue the upward trend.
Feb. 3, 2015 – Women’s Ice Hockey vs. Boston University (Beanpot Semifinal) – 8 p.m.
Kind of hard to call it a “semifinal” when it’s still technically the first game of the four-team Beanpot. Kind of like saying a team came in the top-ten when there were only 11 teams. Either way, this should be some quality hockey from the two New England squads, although teams coached by Katey Stone have won 13 Beanpot titles while BU coach Brian Durocher is stuck at one. Harvard won last season’s consolation title against the Terriers in OT, 3-2.
 Feb. 14, 2015 – Men’s Ice Hockey vs. Cornell – 7 p.m.
Men’s ice hockey has some upward climbing to do after a 10-17-4 overall 2013-14 record. That could be helped by the Crimson bringing back 20 players and only losing four to graduation.
April 4, 2015 – Men’s Lacrosse vs. Cornell – TBA April 11, 2015 – Women’s Lacrosse vs. Penn - TBA
Not sure why ESPN3 would reduce its coverage from seven to just two this year, especially with the men’s team recording a 7-1 home record last season and the women’s squad checking in with a solid 5-3 showing as well. Regardless, Harvard will hope for another drubbing of the Big Red like the 14-9 score of last year’s matchup.
And as a bonus for all you statistics concentrators out there: way back in the 2010-11 season when the Ivy League had three men’s basketball games picked up by on ESPN3 in one of the earliest examples of a possible partnership, “a combined 85,017 unique viewers—13,494 for the March 5 Princeton at Harvard game; 17,074 for the March 8 Princeton at Penn game; and 54,449 for the March 12 Harvard-Princeton playoff game in New Haven, Conn.” tuned into ESPN3 for the broadcasts. Not too shabby a showing for the Ancient Eight.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As undergraduates excavate Harvard Yard to dig up the roots of the College’s past, there is no time like the present to examine the Harvard’s history. In four centuries, much has changed. And yet, though tomato basil ravioli soup has waxed and male-only Puritan minister training has waned, one thing has remained the constant since Harvard’s inception: the University’s penchant for news-making scandal. Here are a few gems from the past fifty years of Harvard’s long and illustrious history:
2013 - The Great Quiz Bowl Defeat
Just last year, the National Academic Quiz Tournaments (NAQT) revealed that four quiz bowl competitors had improperly, and in strict violation of tournament rules, accessed a website that contained tournament questions. Andy Watkins, the Harvard student who was caught with his hand in the cookie jar, caused Harvard to rescind its three previous and consecutive championship titles. Titles that no one knew that the school possessed. Dang it, Andy.
2007 - So it’s Not True that You’re a Published Author, Got a Perfect SAT score, and Attended MIT?
In 2007, Harvard College admitted Adam Wheeler, an ostensible graduate of Phillips Andover and former MIT student. His application must have glowed. Perfect SAT. Can speak multiple languages. Published author. Or not. Adam Wheeler, if that is even his real name, had falsified his entire identity and long list of credentials to get into Harvard. He might have gotten away with it, too, until his con scheme was discovered when he tried to apply for the Rhodes and Fulbright scholarships under false information. Last we heard, he was indicted on twenty charges ranging from identity fraud to forgery.
1990s - Harvard and Mother Russia.
In the midst of the grunge of the 90s, Harvard sent some of its best and brightest minds overseas to bring capitalism to the Soviet Union. However, instead of bringing Russia’s economy up to speed, the team ended up having a decidedly different effect. In 2006, Harvard and Harvard economics professor Andrei Schleifer agreed to pay $31 million to settle a lawsuit brought about by the US government. Charges: breach of contract and, for Schleifer and an associate, conspiracy to defraud the government of the United States. Impressive.
1971 - “Love Story” wins an Oscar and Five Golden Globes.
A trust-fund boy with daddy issues finds himself in love with a plebian. It’s only amusing when The Crimson Key Society moderates the screening. The scandal lies in the fact that, between the delayed shots of fake blood pouring from hokey wounds, and aggressively mediocre acting, this solidly B-rated movie won awards, including an Oscar for Best Original Score and Golden Globes for Best Picture, Best Actress, and Best Screenplay. 
1964 - Sex and Sexy Scandal.
Now that Harvard has moved far from its Puritan past, it’s hard to imagine the world of an “open door and one foot on the floor” policy. The leaders of the all-male Harvard College implemented this policy to curb undergraduate hanky panky during parietals, the time in which Harvard men could entertain Radcliffe women in their rooms. Parietals were intended to be a time for men and women to talk together in a quiet, sensible way.  It shocked officials that, in fact, parietals were being used for such illicit actions. Guess having one foot on the floor wasn’t stopping anyone.
