News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A big play each from junior receiver Andrew Fischer and junior running back Paul Stanton moved the Harvard football team to 5-0 for the third straight year with a 24-14 win over Lafayette Saturday at Harvard Stadium.
The Leopards (3-4, 1-1 Patriot) outgained the Crimson (440 yards to 367) and tallied more first downs (23 to 16), but were held scoreless on two red zone trips while Harvard (5-0, 2-0 Ivy) took advantage of its scoring opportunities and scored from farther out.
On a second-quarter third-and-20 back in Crimson territory, junior quarterback Scott Hosch swung a screen pass out to Fischer, who did the rest with the help of his blockers, taking a step inside before bouncing to the sideline and outsprinting the entire Leopards defense.
The 78-yard catch-and-run, the eighth longest touchdown pass in Harvard history, put the Crimson up 10-0.
“My main goal was to work to get the first down and once I saw it open up, it was just me and the end zone,” Fischer said, remembering the play. “The tight ends are always working. They block incredibly out there, [so] a lot of that is on them doing an incredible job blocking.”
A possession later, Stanton took a handoff at Lafayette’s 43, cut back, broke one tackle and then ran untouched into the endzone to put Harvard up by 17.
The Crimson’s final score came midway through the third when Hosch hit junior Ben Braunecker on a 31-yard score. It was the tight end’s first touchdown of the year. He finished with 78 yards on three catches.
Those three scores are three of the four longest Harvard has registered this season.
“You see three big long touchdown plays and you take a couple of those away and it’s 3-0 at the half,” Leopards co-captain James Coscia said. “For the most part we handled them pretty well except for those big plays.”
Thanks to his 78-yard sprint, Fischer led the Crimson with 107 yards receiving. Stanton finished with 102 yards on the ground, while Hosch had 203 yards passing in place of injured senior Conner Hempel.
Fellow seniors Seitu Smith, Ricky Zorn, and Tyler Hamblin were also out with injuries, leaving the juniors to run the offense. Harvard coach Tim Murphy said he hopes Smith and Hempel will be able to play next week at Princeton, but was not willing to commit further.
Hosch’s biggest mistake came in the third quarter, as a third-down screen pass was intercepted and taken 35 yards to the end zone by Lafayette’s Phillip Parham to give the Leopards their first score of the game.
In the fourth quarter, Lafayette inched closer on a 20-yard touchdown pass to Ross Scheuerman.
Scheuerman presented issues for Harvard all game, ending up as the leading Leopard runner with 105 yards and the team’s top pass-catcher with 125 yards on eight receptions.
But as the visitors attempted to mount a late comeback, the senior was on the sideline with an ankle injury.
Lafayette put together a 53-yard drive in the waning moments but turned the ball over on downs after a false start and sack set up a fourth-and-21.
Scheuerman’s injury was the last in a string of impactful ones for Lafayette Saturday. Quarterback Drew Reed started the game after missing multiple weeks, but was knocked out of the game during his second drive. In his stead, sophomore Blake Searfoss threw for 274 yards on 23-of-42 passing with no interceptions.
Senior left tackle Luke Chiarolanzio was also forced out of the game with a torn bicep.
Searfoss and Scheuerman had success but they moved the chains on just five of their 17 third-down plays and kicker Ryan Gralish missed both of his field goal attempts after a couple drives stalled in Harvard territory.
“The most frustrating stuff we did to ourselves: seven dropped passes [and] two missed field goals certainly changed the complexion of the game,” Lafayette coach Frank Tavani said. “Obviously you can’t win like that and particularly against an undefeated team and as talented of a team as Harvard is.”
Harvard was no better on its third downs, getting a first down less than 20 percent of the time. It failed to convert on all seven of its third-downs in the second half.
“We need to be a more consistent offense, there's no question about it,” Murphy said. “That's a combination of a lot of factors, and we've got to do it with whatever personnel's available. We had two wide receivers out today, a tight end out today, our left guard out today, our quarterback out today, and despite that, at times played very well but we need to—regardless who's in there—be in sync, eliminate mental mistakes, we have to eliminate penalties, and we have to play better.”
Still, Murphy credited the mental toughness in his team to remain unbeaten.
“Our goal was to be undefeated tonight…so mission accomplished,” he said.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H Feldman can be reched at jacob.feldman@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
You’ve probably seen it before: a small, black and yellow net set up on one of Harvard’s lawns, and a group of four people hitting a ball back and forth, dodging each other and slamming the ball down into the net. We’ve heard the term “Spikeball” before, but how many of us really know the intricacies of the game? Fortunately, we’ve got your back, and caught up with one of the founders of the Spikeball team at Harvard, Canyon S. Woodward ’16, to find out.
Flyby: What are the rules of the game?Canyon: Spikeball is played two against two, similar to beach volleyball, except instead of hitting the ball over a net, you and your partner spike into a trampoline that sends the ball ricocheting back up. The goal is to hit the ball so that your opponents can't successfully return it onto the net within their allotted 3 hits. The game is played 360 degrees around the net, with no sides after the initial serve.
Flyby: Why do you think it's so popular at Harvard?CW: Spikeball is popular because it's so visible and accessible. If the weather is good, you're likely to see someone playing if you take a stroll through the Yard. The Spikeball club has created a very open community for folks to come and try the sport out, and the learning curve is surprisingly quick. People have fun with it and stick around. Even Dean Khurana plays! Also, it certainly doesn't hurt that you can play it with drink in hand.
Flyby: Where do you play? How often are the practices?CW : We play in Tercentenary Theater every Friday 3 p.m. - 5 p.m., and practices are open to everyone.
Flyby: What is the team like?CW: It’s a high concentration of attractive individuals, who are weird to their core. Don't come unless you're ready to experience freedom, liberation, respect, and become a smarter, better looking person.
Flyby: What are the most challenging aspects of the game?CW: Learning to use both hands effectively, hitting from every angle, and building chemistry with your partner.
Flyby: How did you learn to play? When did you start?CW: I started playing five years ago when my brothers brought it back from UNC, and I’ve been playing ever since. I brought it to Harvard my freshman year and feel like I've propagated it pretty successfully throughout campus and the Boston area. Last month we had a tournament that drew a full 64 team bracket (more than any of the 3 officially sanctioned Spikeball Regional Championships in September), in the spring we hosted the first USA Spikeball sanctioned Grand Slam tournament, and last December we had teams fly in from all over to play in the Frozen Chozen - from California to Georgia to Maine and Canada.
Sections
The Barker Center Cafe, a favorite for English Department TFs holding office hours, was just recently renovated. We went to check it out so you’ll know whether or not it’s worth going for a snack between classes. Lamont, debatably our favorite place to shove food in our faces while we “work,” might have some competition! Here’s our verdict.
The FoodThe Rundown: The cafe’s food, from Hi-Rise Bread Company and managed by Harvard University Dining Services, is surprisingly elaborate. The menu features items like a kale salad served with buttermilk dressing, Bircher muesli (read: parfait and oatmeal mixed together), and baguette sandwiches with goat cheese, sweet potato, and pesto. We sampled their quiche and gave it a passing grade.
Our Verdict: If you want actual food instead of telling yourself for the 47th time that Lamont sushi isn’t a bad idea, go here. But beware that prices are, well, pricey—$3.15 for a chocolate chip cookie and $10.75 for a farro and feta chopped salad? (OK, maybe the last one’s justified.) The café accepts both Board Plus and Crimson Cash, though, so we hope you’re better at financial planning than us and have more than $1.19 left in your account.
The AtmosphereThe Rundown: The cafe is located in the rotunda of the Barker Center, so natural light floods in and you overlook a great garden view while sipping your coffee. The seating area is on the small side, with wooden tables interspersed between large, leather couches. Power outlets are few and far between, but it does have a much quieter and relaxed ambience than Lamont.
Our Verdict: Go to Lamont if you need to do heavy work on your computer. Go to Barker if you need to do reading or light computer work, or if you want to pretend to do reading and simply look like an intellectual, with your café au lait in hand.
Sections
Columbus Day Weekend may be over, but that doesn’t mean mini trips away from campus have to stop.  For those who need a break from psets and papers, we’ve come up with a list of destinations for you to try in the coming weeks, all outside Harvard Square.
1. Revere Beach, M.A.The world’s first public beach is less than an hour away.  Thanks to the blue line, a trip to Revere offers a great, affordable way to enjoy the sand.  It may just be a city beach, but it’s a nice break for those who haven’t come to terms with pumpkin spice latte season yet.
2. Waterfire in Providence, R.I.Providence is an obvious destination with its riverwalk and plethora of historic sites.  A must-see on this trip is Waterfire—a sculpture comprised of over eighty bonfires that double as both public art and an urban festival.  On one of Waterfire’s scheduled evenings, walk through the torch-lit canals, grab a bite from the street vendors, and enjoy the local music performances.
3. Fall for the Arts Festival in Cape Cod, M.A.It may be getting a little too cold to enjoy the seaside, but it’s definitely worth checking out the month-long art celebration hosted by Cape Cod’s Arts Foundation.  Featuring art technique workshops, exhibits on local artists, and weekly concerts promoting local music, this festival offers a change of pace that’s only a few hours away by train.
4. Salem Haunted HappeningsThe city of Salem is embracing October with a Halloween festival that showcases a variety of haunted houses, art exhibits, and historical tours.  Whether you want a cultural excursion to learn more about Salem’s infamous history or just a nighttime scare, the hour long bus ride seems totally worth the chance to jump into the fall season with Halloween just around the corner.
5. Boston’s museumsWith a Harvard ID, the city’s incredible museum district is easily accessible.  Before Harvard’s newly renovated museums open in November, take a day and spend some time at one.  Not sure which collection is worth a visit? We've got you covered.
