Sections
Theses
All over Facebook
Hoopes
Write on paper
Procrastinate
Normal people talk about it
Adderall
Takes a year to complete
Feces
Not on Facebook
Poops
Wipe on paper
Constipate
When it’s normal, people don’t talk about it
Laxatives
Should take a few minutes to complete (otherwise, please consult a doctor)
Both
Poor party conversation
Painful, but sometimes you have to do it anyways
Excuse to not go out
Feels great to finally finish
Use special paper
Would be better if you didn’t go    to Felipe’s
Seniors need help doing it
Everyone in hist and     lit does it
Sections
Throughout the month of March, seniors across campus will breathe sighs of relief as they press “save” for the last time on their theses. As these students finish up the final touches on their papers, FM takes a moment to look back at the theses of some notable alumni and their choice of research topics. Not surprisingly, many of these now-famous former seniors wrote about topics that give us a glimpse of who they became. So, read on to learn more about the stars.
John F. Kennedy ’40
Fittingly, JFK was a government concentrator and titled his thesis “Appeasement at Munich (The Inevitable Result of the Slowness of Conversion of the British Democracy from a Disarmament to a Rearmament Policy).” At 148 pages, JFK’s thesis discusses democratic ideals, foreshadowing his future presidency. He may have had some extra help from his father, who was the U.S. Ambassador to Britain at the time. If only we all had such useful sources at hand.
Al Gore ’69
Gore wrote a senior thesis titled “The Impact of Television on the Conduct of the Presidency.” Although his thesis was irrelevant to his current work in environmental affairs, he certainly foreshadowed his time in Washington by researching the presidency. At 84 pages, the future vice president and then-government concentrator showcased his knowledge of ties between domestic affairs and the media. Gore never actually put his thesis argument to the test with a term as president.
Nicholas D. Kristof ’81
Nicholas. D. Kristof  ’81, or as he now prefers to be called, simply Nicholas Kristof—wrote his senior thesis in government and titled it “Freedom of the Press in High School Newspapers.” The future journalist and Pulitzer Prize winner wrote 141 pages on a topic about which he was, and continues to be, passionate.
Conan C. O’Brien ’85
The former president of the Harvard Lampoon also wrote his senior thesis on literature. O’Brien wrote 72 pages about the “old child” symbol in the works of William Faulkner and Flannery O’Connor, taking on a more serious topic than he does in most of his tweets.
B.J. Novak ’01
The former “Office” star managed to tie in his passion for television with his senior thesis, which was entitled “‘To Be or Not to Be’: Hollywood’s Answers to Hamlet’s Question.” Novak’s work was 48 pages long and played up both his knowledge of literature as well as his budding awareness of popular culture. Even back then, young Novak was dreaming of a land far, far away from that typical 9-to-5 office job. Well, sort of.
For even more theses written by famous alumni, read the 1987 Crimson article, “Theses of the Rich and the Famous,” and the 2010 Crimson article, “Famous People and Their Theses.”
Sections
They don’t have postcards in Bangladesh, or at least in Chittagong where Devon lives. So Devon made her own postcard to send to me. She smoothed newspapers written in Bengali script into the folds of a patterned pink paper, backed it on cardstock, and penned a message on the inside that bled through the pulp. She slid it in a yellow envelope and mailed it to Harvard Square on the same day that I mailed her a postcard of the John Harvard statue. It was a race to see whose postcard would get to its destination the fastest. Hers won, confirming the Chittagong → Cambridge mail route as faster than its opposite. I taped her hand-made note on my wall—the 70th postcard of my collection. I hope she will receive the John Harvard postcard that I purchased at Out of Town News in Harvard Square sometime soon.
It’s magical to me that a page of a newspaper delivered by a paperboy in Chittagong can get passed through hands and sorting centers and mailbags and, one month later, be received in Cambridge, MA. My interest in snail mail began two years ago when I found a bundle of letters that my parents had sent early in their relationship. My mom was a senior in college at the time, my dad a recent grad starting his first job in New York City, and they exchanged letters to sustain their relationship when neither could afford long-distance phone calls. Sometimes they wrote by hand, sometimes on a typewriter. My mother revealed the silly drama between her roommates while my dad talked about his new boss and workplace.
I opened each flattened paper  folded into thirds and read my parents’ reports to each other, nearly 30 years after their inception. These letters were the kind of thing that could be found in an archive. After all, every celebrated history and literature thesis investigates someone’s letters or analyzes an individual’s lost-but-recently-found diary. While my own daily correspondences are mostly digital and transient, my parents’ interchange was tangible—the kind of thing anybody could pick up and remember later. They had made their thoughts into objects and passed them to each other through the mail.
I decided to try my hand at snail mail and recruited my dad to be my first penpal. A road-warrior businessman, he started sending me postcards whenever he traveled. He sent glossy cards from San Diego and Portland, New York City and Chicago. He sent me a card of an ivy-clad building at the University of Michigan when he went there on a college visit with my younger brother. He sent two of the exact same postcard from Fayetteville, Arkansas and did the same from the Mariemont Inn hotel right outside of Cincinnati, Ohio—it’s still unclear as to why these repeats happened. I reciprocated with postcards from Harvard Square and bought postcards on trips to Boston Common, the MFA, and Paul Revere’s house. Before long, I was sending postcards to friends who had graduated, fellow interns I had met over the summer, extended family. Now I have more penpals than I can count.
Collecting postcards unveils some inane facts. I now know about the cost of postage to various places worldwide, and I have evidence that no matter how hard I try I will always smudge when I write. I have learned that a lot of the world is blue. Almost all postcards feature either bodies of water, the sky, or both, and when the postcards are placed side-by-side, the blue dominates. Intellectually, I should have known this to be true from looking at globes and pictures of earth from outer space: There’s a whole lot of water and sky in the world. Almost every postcard I have is blue. The only ones that are not were sent from the U.K., and those ones are gray. Go figure.
The postcards I receive tell me about the super sweet places my friends and family have explored, and each contains a glimpse of their consciousness—a memory made by someone else that I can keep. The postcard itself is a token of love. It takes a lot to send a postcard. It needs to be purchased from a city landmark or cultural attraction, and thus necessitates embracing a place. Then it requires spending a dollar or two, grabbing a pen, thinking and writing something, looking up an address, finding a stamp, going to a mailbox. Postcards involve a whole lot of hassle for a message that could easily be texted or emailed. For me, that counts.
Postcards are unique in form. They are open-faced and bear their messages to the world as they travel. I like the lack of privacy, that anyone who encounters one can read it. I like that they cannot be separated from the places from where they come. A place puts a writer in a particular frame of mind and inspires certain experiences and thoughts. I like how postcards make their place of origin evident and integral to the exchange. I like that they are short—somehow it makes writing one less intimidating than beginning a big blank page or a word document. I like that they are hand-written, in spite of the smudges.
I send out twice as many postcards as I receive. I use each postcard to share a memory, and I try to write the card in one fluid dump of verbal consciousness. I want my writing to be durational, like a play on stage, and I perform the act until my head is out of thoughts or (more often) my black ballpoint pen fills the card’s backside so that it’s out of space. Then I slap on a stamp and drop it in a mailbox, sending my memory out into the world, giving it to someone: a gift.
I don’t know what happens to each of the postcards I send. Maybe the recipient will put it next to a mirror and read it as she combs her hair, or perhaps he will put it in a box to be found by his children cleaning out the attic decades in the future. Unlike a journal that preserves messages from an evolving self in one place, postcard memories scatter through the world and need to stand on their own. They are snapshots, not narratives. They may remain intact in a stack on someone’s bookshelf or in a box of old letters, or they could decay in curly shreds in a recycling bin or garbage dump. Maybe the postcard will be read once and thrown away, maybe it will get lost in the mail. As for that John Harvard postcard that I sent to Devon in Chittagong, we’ll see if it ever surfaces.
Ginny C. Fahs ’14 is a history and literature concentrator in Quincy House. She invites you to send a postcard to 335 Quincy Mail Center; Cambridge, MA 02138. She will write back.
Sections
This is not Tasty Burger. Or, at least, this is not the Saturday night, 3 a.m., loud and bustling, ketchup-spills-on-the-floor haven for drunk 19-year-olds that I know well. This is Tasty Burger on a Thursday at ten p.m.
People are eating rushed, late dinners; some are chatting, and the staff is decidedly at ease. At most, there are one or two inebriated students in the whole place. There is live music scheduled downstairs.
I recognize that it’s egregiously early to be treating myself to drunk food, but I’m here primarily to see the concert. Several weeks ago, Tasty Burger announced that it would start featuring live music in its underground space.
I’ve never before ventured to the basement level of Tasty, but I soon find the aesthetic evokes man-cave meets hip San Francisco restaurant, complete with pool table, bar, and seating. In just one flight of stairs, the lighting turns from bright to dim, and neon bar signs begin to dot the walls. There are leather-cased menus, instead of paper, and orderly condiments arranged on silver tables. Some patrons are relaxing on low couches.
I’ve dragged two of my roommates along with me, and they’re enjoying their chocolate shakes and fries. With a white paper bag clutched in my hand, I steer us towards a table next to the sliver of a stage in the back of the room. The show is supposed to be starting now, but so far there is no sign of a band.
The underground space was once a music venue, which is one reason that Dave Dubois, CEO of the Franklin Restaurant Group (parent company of Tasty Burger), wanted to re-establish performances in the Harvard Square location. “There used to be live music down there, a real long time ago,” Dubois says. “It’s a pretty cool place, and we thought underground Tasty would be a nice activity.”
And it is a pretty cool place, what with the tattooed 20-somethings playing pool to my right and graffiti-like wall murals to my left. It’s just the place you might find a band casually rocking out on a Thursday night. But five minutes later, the stage is still empty.
Brian Reyelt, director of marketing, events and PR at the Franklin Restaurant Group, tells me that they’ve worked with a couple different independent booking agents to find the right bands. They’re planning on featuring live, mostly acoustic music on a few weekday nights. “We want music that people can enjoy and still eat dinner and shoot pool,” he explains. He makes a distinction: “We have live music, we don’t have live shows.” It’s probably best they leave Saturdays unbooked.
The concept of live music in a fast food restaurant is novel, but it fits with the evolution of the rest of the Square. “Truth is, there’s a real renaissance of music going on in Harvard Square, and it’s trying to tap into what it used to be years ago when it had a lot of nightlife and good restaurants,” Dubois says. “Just funky things you didn’t see in other parts of the city necessarily.”
It does seem like plenty of the restaurants in the Square are now featuring live music, but Dubois and Reyelt are adamant about keeping Tasty Burger quintessentially Tasty, citing venues like The Middle East and the Sinclair as distinct from what they’re trying to achieve.
Apparently, the shows thus far have been impressive. “A lot of the Boston and Cambridge music scene has been down there and I’ve been getting calls and they’re like, ‘Wow, that was a really good show, I liked that band,’” Dubois says. He adds that they’re going to put an upright piano in the space.
It’s been 15 minutes now, and my little container of fries is almost empty. After consulting my roommates, I get up to ask a waitress the all-important question: Is there going to be music tonight? She looks a little flustered and responds with, “Oh, I don’t think there is. I don’t think the band showed up.”
Dejected, I head back to my seat. What? There’s no music? I just downed greasy food on a Thursday night for nothing? I had held out hope that maybe, just maybe, those tattooed hipsters playing pool had been warming up for a show.
My roommates and I stay downstairs for another ten minutes, just talking. I put my notepad away when I finally accept that there won’t be a performance to write about. It’s no big deal, though. Those fries were really tasty—even sober.
Sections
“My roommates are going to make so much fun of me,” Camille Z. Coppola ’14 says as she sits down.
It’s a chilly Thursday afternoon, and I’m sitting in Boylston’s Ticknor Lounge with Kirkland House senior Coppola, or, as her friends call her, “Uber Frau.” We’re here to discuss the car-sharing app Uber. After hearing so much from Harvard students about this popular taxi alternative, I’ve managed to find its number one fan.
“I started using Uber when my friend told me about it, in March of last year,” Coppola tells me. “So we’re in our one-year anniversary.”
Coppola is a self-described Uber fanatic. For Coppola, it’s never an inappropriate moment to use Uber. Coming home from Boston at night? Absolutely. Running late to catch a train? Without a doubt. Going to a meeting in the Quad? Why not?
But I want to know the number. “How many times have you used Uber?” I ask.
She takes a breath and pauses. “I don’t want to disclose that information,” she eventually says. “I don’t have the actual number, and even if I did, I don’t know if I’d want to share it.”
“More or less than 100?” I ask.
“Less.”
“50?”
A pause, and then a grin.
“About 50,” she says.
There’s a hint of pride in her voice. That’s about once a week for as long as she has had the app. In comparison, I’ve probably used Uber about five times, none more embarrassing than the time I got lost before the CS50 Hackathon and ended up taking it one block down from the Kendall Square T stop to the Microsoft Building.
Coppola says she hasn’t always been such an avid Uber user, previously relying more on taxis. On one such taxi ride last year, Coppola was travelling from the Lower East Side in Manhattan to Astoria in Queens, a six-mile journey. Upon arriving, Coppola discovered that her credit card was malfunctioning and that her wallet was empty. 45 minutes later, the situation was finally settled, thanks to two nearby police officers who suggested she take down the taxi driver’s information and mail the cash afterwards.
“I was almost arrested,” Coppola tells me. “I was using Uber before, but it became more frequent after that. It’s super convenient since you can pay through the app.”
For Coppola, an Uber ride is incomplete without interactions with her drivers, whose names and photos appear in the app. Her conversations with the drivers range from small talk about Uber to a story one driver told her about falling asleep in museums. Coppola has even had the same driver multiple times.
“It’s wonderful,” she says, grinning. “I always struggled to find a taxi, and then I discovered Uber. It just comes to you.”
She breaks out in laughter. “This is a ridiculous conversation,” she finally says.
At this point, we’ve really exhausted the topic. How much more is there to say about Uber? I thank her for her time, and we begin to pack up our stuff and walk outside. As we leave Boylston and enter the Square, an Uber black car I called over during the interview is waiting for us.
“South Street and JFK,” I tell the driver as we climb in. The address, right next to Kirkland House, is only a few blocks down. Coppola, undoubtedly, is thrilled.
“That’s actually really convenient,” Coppola tells me. “I was planning to go back to Kirkland anyways.”
Once in the car, I let her talk to the driver. It’s time to learn from the master. “How long have you been working at Uber?” she asks.
“Three months,” the driver replies. “It’s awesome. It’s good.”
“Is this the shortest ride you’ve been on?”
“No,” he says, chuckling. “I drove someone down the block once.”
And then, before we can get another question in, we arrive at Kirkland.
Sections
In his freshman year, Canyon S. Woodward brought a new trend onto Harvard’s campus: club spikeball. FM caught up with him.
House: Adams
Concentration: Social Studies
Hometown: Franklin, N.C.
Ideal date: Anything outdoors, as long as she leaves her kids at home.
What you look for in a guy/girl: Authenticity.
Where to find you on a Saturday night: Partying hard at the Faculty Club.
Your best pick-up line: What winks and makes love like a tiger? You’re not gonna get it if you don’t look at me.
Best or worst lie you’ve ever told: I love you, grandma.
Favorite childhood activity: Capitalizing on the cougarish tendencies of older women.
Sexiest physical trait: This isn’t show and tell.
Best part about Harvard: The varying degrees and flavors of craziness, and awesome friends.
Worst part about Harvard: The varying degrees of craziness. And people taking their shit way too seriously.
Describe yourself in three words: No.
In 15 minutes you are: On a date with you…that was a question. Just kidding.
In 15 years you are: Married? Otherwise probably disappeared into some obscure corner of the globe.
Describe spikeball in your own words: Volleyball and four square went to a party together, drank way too much tequila, and spikeball was the surprise nine months later.
And you get paid to rep it here at Harvard?: I get paid more for the nude photoshoots I do for them, actually.
How has club spikeball changed over the past three years?: There used to be no girls in the club. Now we have two. Out of about 20.
Sections
Spring break plans fell through? Forgot to make plans at all? Don’t worry. If you’re stuck in Cambridge for this break, FM has you covered. We’ve planned out your first free day to distract you from the misery of a cold, empty campus.
Friday March 14, 2014
9 A.M.
Wake up energized and ready to start your spring break!
Just kidding. It’s the day after housing day, and FM knows you’re probably hungover, tired, and grumpy. Unless you’re one of the unlucky few who still has class today, why would you ever wake up before brunch (read: lunch)?  So what does FM recommend you do if you’re up at this ungodly hour? Groan, roll over, and fall back asleep.
12 P.M.
Now this sounds more like a wake up time.  It’s time to stretch, yawn, and leisurely begin your spring break at a reasonable hour.
12:30 P.M.
PI DAY AT PETSI PIES
It’s March 14, which means that the date is 3/14, and, if you go to Harvard, you should know that means it’s Pi Day. What better way to celebrate this mathematical constant than with a savory (and possibly free) pie for lunch? Take a ten minute walk to Petsi Pies, a bakery and coffee shop right near the yard. Since it’s Pi Day, Petsi’s is holding an all out pi competition. For reciting just ten digits of pi from memory, you get a free Cutie Pie. For reciting 314 digits, you get a free large Pie. 628 digits (applied math concentrators rejoice!) earns you a free pie per season gift card. That’s one free pie per finals period—not something that FM thinks you want to pass up.
WHEN 7 A.M. – 7 P.M.
WHERE 285 Beacon St. Somerville MA 02143
PRICE $3.75 a slice (or free if you’re smart)
WEBSITE http://petsipies.com
2 P.M.
ICE SKATING AT THE FROG POND
Hunger satisfied and pie devoured, it’s time for another activity. Take the T into Boston and head over to the rink at the Frog Pond. There, you can walk around the Common and work off all that extra pie with a couple of laps skating around the ice. We know, we know, ice skating sounds lame, but admit it: you’ve wanted to take your skates out and find a human-sized rink ever since Harvard opened up that frozen puddle near the Science Center.
WHEN 10 A.M. - 10 P.M.
WHERE 84 Beacon Street, Boston, MA 02108-3421
PRICE $5 for admission, $9 for skates
WEBSITE http://www.bostonfrogpond.com/
5 P.M.
CHECK OUT SOWA
You’ve already taken the initiative to leave the Harvard bubble and go into Boston, something FM knows you probably haven’t done all semester. Now it’s time to take advantage of some of the cool things the city has to offer. Take the T downtown to check out SoWa, an area in the South End famous for its cool art galleries, good food, and cute stores. Window shop (look, but don’t touch—this area is pricey) and find a cute restaurant to grab a bite to eat. Then, maybe hang around for a couple of drinks. Boston is famous for its breweries.
WHEN Anytime you want
WHERE South End, Boston
PRICE Splurge-worthy
WEBSITE http://sowaboston.com/
9 P.M.
ASTRONOMY AFTER HOURS
AT THE MUSEUM OF SCIENCE
Ok, maybe museums aren’t your thing, especially on the first day of break, but who can say no to free stargazing on the roof with fancy astronomical equipment? We know you can’t. Besides, if you’ve taken our advice, you’ll probably be a little tipsy by now, and the stars will just seem that much more interesting.
WHEN 8:30 P.M. - 10 p.M.
WHERE Boston Museum of Science
PRICE Free
WEBSITE http://www.mos.org
11 P.M.
ST. PATRICK’S DAY PUB CRAWL
For those of you lucky few who are 21 and older, this event speaks for itself. St. Patty’s day is coming up on Saturday, and there are tons of bars and clubs in downtown Boston waiting to help you celebrate. To register for the “official” pub crawl, go online and send in your information; then, enjoy a night of drinking at a discounted price. If you’d rather go your own route, just head downtown and follow the night.
WHEN Anytime after 9 P.M. (or earlier, if you’re into that)
WHERE Downtown Boston
PRICE: Varies
WEBSITE http://bostonviplist.barcrawls.com/barcrawls
While we’ve walked you through one day of break, you’ve still got a week left. So we’ve picked out a few fun week-long events for you to check out.
Chinatown
You aren’t traveling over break, so you might as well get in all the culture you can without leaving Boston. Check out the cool stores, good food, and fun vibe in Boston’s Chinatown.
Boston Loves Impressionism at the MFA
The MFA asked Massachusetts residents to vote for their favorite impressionist pieces. The top 30 picks (including works by Monet, Degas, and Van Gogh) made the cut to be displayed. Even better, it’s free with a Harvard ID.
Dine Out Boston
For two weeks in March, more than 180 restaurants in Boston offer meals at discounted prices. We know a 25 dollar lunch isn’t exactly cheap, but who can resist a bargain and an excuse to skip the dining hall?
And if these don’t keep you occupied for the next week, there’s always Netflix. We know “House of Cards” is just calling your name.

        Building a Basketball Juggernaut in the Ivy League
      
On a warm Monday afternoon, Tommy Amaker settles onto a comfortable couch in the plush lounge area of Ray Lavietes Pavilion. Just a few feet below, a few of his players mingle with reporters and do interviews with local television stations. Amaker himself is about to head down to the court, where he will draw a crowd of reporters, nearly all of them asking where his team is headed and how many more games it might be able to win.
Amaker has never loved media engagements. When he was the coach at the University of Michigan, the local newspaper ran a story labeling him as media-shy, even evasive. But today, Amaker is energetic. He's excited. He wants to speak about his team, his school, and about how everything fits together.

       As the interview starts to wind down, Associate Athletic Director in charge of of communications Timothy J. Williamson, sitting near Amaker with his eye on the clock, raises his finger. Five minutes left. Time for one more question.
     

       But Amaker is enjoying himself. A jaunty smile crosses his lips as he wags his hand.
     

       “That's okay, I've got time,” Amaker tells Williamson.
     

       Amaker has good reason to be buoyant. Unlike every other men's basketball program in the Ivy League, his team is headed to the brightest pasture in college basketball, the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament, for the third year in a row. For Amaker's group, success has been consistent and has become expected; nobody on campus appears too surprised that the team is headed back to college basketball's most celebrated event.
      

         Times have changed. When Amaker arrived in Cambridge in 2007, less than a month after being fired as Michigan's head coach, Harvard had never won a conference championship and had not even contended for the title in years. The nation's top high school players consistently went unpursued by Harvard. Those who were recruited were driven away by an empty gym, a weak conference, and a university with other priorities.
       

         Amaker's predecessors dealt with a number of impediments to recruiting that did not fade with the new coach's arrival. On the contrary, the Ivy League's strict admissions standards for athletes remained, and the conference's lack of prestige—the league has never sent more than a single, automatically-qualified team to the NCAA tournament—remained a reality.
       

       The first step was recruiting. To create a league power, Amaker had to navigate league rules to pry kids from the major programs who could offer them scholarships and automatic admissions. This process began in living rooms rather than locker rooms, with pitches to top high school players who could help redefine what it meant to be a Harvard basketball player. In order to create “a program worthy of the Harvard brand,” Amaker has maneuvered the complicated Ivy League system with creative tactics, some of which have incited criticisms.
       




         Long before Harvard's recruiters have the chance to deliver their final sell to a prospective recruit—a pitch that often includes a line about Harvard being a “40-year decision rather than a four-year decision”—they must first, sometimes even before watching a game in person, familiarize themselves with the prospective athlete's academic performance.
       

         “[Asking about grades] is the first question,” says Kenny Blakeney, who served as an assistant coach at Harvard from 2007-2011 and was one of the program's lead recruiters. “If [a player] can't get admitted to the school, we are wasting our time.”  
       


         Ivy League coaches are more than curious about how potential recruits are doing in the classroom because they have to be. By conference rules, every student and potential recruit is evaluated on the 240-point Academic Index, a metric composed of two categories—standardized test scores and GPA. The index operates on a sliding scale, meaning there are multiple numerical ways to achieve the minimum index, 176, required for Ivy League admission.
       

         While the index of every applicant and admitted student is calculated, the tool was created to regulate athletic recruiting. At every Ivy League school, the average Academic Index of every student who receives athletic support in the admissions process must be no more than one standard deviation below the index of the previous four freshman classes. Students who walk-on to teams or are not given athletic support during the admissions process do not count for the athletic department index that the league monitors.
       
At Harvard, the student body index generally hovers around 220, according to a member of the athletic department with direct knowledge of the college admissions process who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because officials are not authorized to discuss admissions. Various estimates have equated an SAT of around 2200 and a GPA at or near 4.0 with 220 on the index. The Ivy League has repeatedly denied requests that it release the official calculations, citing concerns that doing so might mislead applicants about their admissibility.

         League rules state that Harvard's athletic department must post an average no lower than one standard deviation below 220. According to a 2008 report  in the New York Times, Amaker's predecessor, Frank Sullivan, had to post a team index of 202, though Sullivan's assistants told the Times they posted a figure of 206 in their final season.
       

         Under Amaker, the team is allowed to operate in the 200-210 average index range, according to the athletic department source. This means that the team can comfortably recruit players with indexes well below 200, especially if it targets other players with high indexes.
       

         But the Academic Index puts Ivy League schools at a clear disadvantage when it comes to recruiting. Speaking with the New York Times in 2011, Brown Athletic Director Michael Goldberger estimated that “the average kid going to college in this country would have an [index] of about 150.”
       

         The index also places schools within the Ivy League on different tiers because of its reliance on the student body's index as a starting benchmark. While all Ivy League schools boast impressive academic profiles, the students at Harvard, Yale, and Princeton have the highest indices, according to the athletic department source. This means that these three athletic departments must have a higher department-wide index than their competitors.
       

         But across the Ivy League, academic standards have risen steadily in recent years as applications have skyrocketed. To remain in compliance with conference academic regulations, athletic departments have raised their standards accordingly.
       


         Because of the index, assembling a recruiting class requires input not only from individual coaches but also from the entire athletic department. Each recruiting cycle begins with the athletic department assigning a target Academic Index to each team, and throughout the year coaches and their superiors within the department are in constant communication about the academic status of their recruits. As this process unfolds, the departments occasionally shift index priorities, giving some teams more room to target lower-rated recruits, while asking others to deliver higher academic profiles, according to the athletic department source.
       


         Even when Harvard basketball identifies strong recruits that will fit its target index benchmarks, it is still at a recruiting disadvantage. Because the Ivy League cannot offer athletic scholarships, Harvard can be boxed out of the recruitment of top players, many of whom sign early in their junior years with non-Ivy programs where they do not have to pay tuition and at times may not need to complete a full application.
       

         Aid at Harvard, though generous, is need-based, putting some players in difficult financial positions. For current UCLA freshman Noah Allen, who committed to Harvard in 2013 before he received his tuition estimate, this proved an insurmountable hurdle.
       

         “My family can't afford 60 grand a year, and that's what the financial aid people told us it would cost,” Allen told The Crimson last October. “It broke my heart. I really wanted to go to Harvard, but the numbers didn't add up.”
       


         And unlike their competitors outside of the Ivy League, Harvard's coaches cannot ever guarantee recruits a spot. Even for athletes who 'commit' to Harvard, nothing is set in stone until the applicant, and his or her full application, is scrutinized by the full 40-member admissions committee. Recruited athletes who pass this review are usually sent a 'likely letter,' saying that the applicant is extremely likely to be admitted. But even those who earn likely letters do not receive them until, at the earliest, October 1 of their senior year, months after other athletes have lo
         cked up spots at non-Ivy league schools.
       

         But before likely letters are sent, and even before the admissions committee begins to consider a class of potential athletes, Harvard basketball's lead recruiters must constantly balance academic pr
         iorities with athletic necessities as they attempt to build the most talented team compliance standards will allow.
       

       “It's like a giant puzzle, and you have to fit certain pieces of the puzzle in certain places,” Blakeney says.
       

         He concedes that because of the index requirements, Ivy League teams have to be creative when targeting their recruits. This might, he says, include giving extra consideration to players whose ex
         ceptionally strong academic backgrounds would improve the team's academic profile.
       

       Such players—often referred to as 'academic boosters' because their high indices help teams remain in compliance—occupy an ethically gray but well traveled area of Ivy League competition.
       

       “I
        think all Ivy League teams do that,” Blakeney says. “It's just very natural.”
       

       However, Blakeney adds that he never targeted recruits that he did not think would be successful at Harvard, both in the classroom and on the basketball team.
       

         “You're not targeting a kid that's at 171 [the former Ivy League minimum standard] and then looking at [a player] with a 212,” Blakeney says. “You're targeting kids that are going to have the best chance to be successful, academically, athletically, and socially.... You're not targeting a number.”
       

         Moreover, while coaches around the Ivy League agree that the index fundamentally changes the recruiting game, they say that, although a high index can be an asset, they do not bring in players solely for their scores.
       

         “None of us are bringing in kids who have high [indices] but who aren't good basketball players or won't be good practice players,” says one Ivy League basketball coach who was granted anonymity by The Crimson due to the sensitivity of recruiting discussions. “But you can't recruit 15 kids on your team to come in and start, so you use those high [Academic Index] guys for important roles, but no
         t necessarily playing time.”
       

             “[Amaker] wanted us to go out and identify the best possible students out there who could play basketball at the highest level” -Will Wade
           


         Given the clear obstacles involved with Ivy League recruiting, Harvard's selection of Amaker—a coach with a strong track record both as a player and as a recruiter—gave needed credibility to the fledgling program. From his days as an assistant coach at Duke, where he had also starred as a point guard, Amaker had experience pitching both athletic excellence and the value of a respected education. At Seton Hall, after leaving Duke, Amaker proved that he could turn a program around quickly by bringing the school, a perennial basement dweller in the Big East, that nation's top recruiting class in 1999 and a trip to the Sweet 16 in 2000.
       

         But when Amaker arrived in 2007, Harvard's program bore little resemblance to those at Michigan or Seton Hall, two schools which have traditionally put significant institutional support behind their basketball teams. From the start, the new coach had to change the culture of the program.
       

         “I thought developing a mindset, an identity [was critical]. We talked a lot about that internally,” Amaker says. “And then...the recruiting cycles become very important, and that first one for us was always critical.”
       

         As often happens in basketball, it all started with the point guard. In 2007, Amaker inherited a floor general, Jeremy Lin '10, who had played sparingly as a freshman. But during his three years under Amaker, Lin blossomed into one of the top players in the Ivy League. As a senior, Lin scored 30 points in a nationally televised Harvard loss against the University of Connecticut, and that ye
         ar was named first-team All-Ivy for the second consecutive season.
       

       As Lin developed on the court, Amaker and his staff hit the road with earnest, looking for the next crop of players who could emerge as the next faces of Harvard basketball.
       

         “[Amaker] wanted us to go out and identify the best possible students out there who could play basketball at the highest level,” remembers Will Wade, a former Amaker assistant and lead recruiter. “He was always pushing us to find even better—identify more kids.”
       

         In an effort to raise the cache of Harvard's program in the recruiting game, Amaker and Wade targeted high-profile recruits—even those they had little chance of landing—and tried to get them to li
         st Harvard as a finalist in their recruitment, a largely ceremonial but nonetheless public statement of interest observed intently by recruiting analysts and young players.
       

       Brandon Knight, a top recruit who eventually played at Kentucky for a season before jumping to the NBA, was among those who complied, raising the national profile of the Harvard program.
       

         Yet from the start, the wide net that Amaker and his staff cast yielded real results, not just ceremonial victories. Four members of Amaker's six-man 2008 recruiting class ranked 70 or better on ESPN's 100-point recruiting scale. Two years later, all five players rated 83 or better.
       

         With Lin's eligibility running out, Wade and Amaker found their new point guard in 6'3” Oliver McNally '12. McNally, who had played against Lin while competing on the Amateur Athletic Union ci
         rcuit, had the academic profile to be admitted and the talent to be a game-changer. A junior when Wade and Amaker found him, McNally received offers from 20 schools, Princeton among them.
       

       “They took the challenge on,” says Jonas Honick '77, McNally's coach at Brandon High School in California. “Will Wade was on the phone every day.”
       

         If Amaker wanted a point guard to be the face of a winning program, there were few better candidates than McNally, who had gone 129-12 in four years at Branson High. He responded to a loss in the state championship game his freshman year by winning the next three. Wade and Amaker sold McNally on the chance to build a program. McNally would be part of the school's 371st graduating class, but would have the chance to do something none of its students had done before: win an Ivy League championship. McNally visited campus and bought in.
       

         “Oliver's biggest concern was, were we going to win?” Amaker remembers. “He wanted me to articulate a vision for [winning], and we talked about the vision that we had coming here and how important it
          would be to have a few kids that understood that right away and wouldn't be afraid of wanting to challenge at making history.”
       

       McNally was the first domino to fall. The rest soon followed.
       

       “[McNally] did a great job recruiting and communicating the message,” Wade says. “[Once] we had that first one in the bag, we got some other guys.”
       

         Keith Wright '12, a future first-team All-Ivy forward, signed soon after McNally as part of a seven-man recruiting class, admitting later McNally's signing influenced his decision. A year later, Amaker signed Brandyn T. Curry '13-'14 and Kyle D. Casey '13-'14. The four—Curry, Casey, Wright, and McNally—were the pillars of Harvard's first-ever Ivy championship team in 2011. The next year, th
         ey led Harvard to its first NCAA tournament team in more than 50 years.
       

       Si
       nce McNally's recruitment, Harvard's success—both on the recruiting trail and on the court—has made the pitch more and more convincing.
       

       “It's like any program or institution that has success,” says Blakeney. “You can use that success and parlay it into more success if you're strategic and you're organized and you're efficient.”
       

         And though Blakeney, Wade, and storied recruiter Yanni Hufnagel have left Cambridge, Amaker has remained, and the success has continued. In March of 2012, while Hufnagel was still the team's lead recruiter, the Crimson landed Zena K. Edosomwan '17, a vaunted power forward from California's Harvard-Westlake School. Edosomwan was the first Scouts Inc. top-100 player to choose Harvard in the program's history; the service ranked him number 73 in his high school class.
       

         “I had several players who were national recruits and [Zena] was the first one [where] this kid was actually seriously putting Harvard in a group of five with the likes of Texas and UCLA,” Greg Hi
         lliard, Edosomwan's high school coach, says.
       

       Edosomwan relished the opportunity to make a statement.
       

         "Four years from now, when no one cares who Zena Edosomwan is, I know a lot of opportunities will be there for me to be successful on and off the court,” Edosomwan told Sports Illustrated when he committed to Harvard, echoing Amaker's “forty-year decision” pitch. “If I become successful, people will remember that I took that chance, that I had a higher purpose than basketball. Maybe I'll be
          a trendsetter."
       

         But Amaker's unprecedented recruiting success has not come without bumps in the road. Edosomwan's recruitment attracted particular scrutiny, partly because the star forward spent a year at Northfield Mt. Hermon, the Massachusetts prep school known as a feeder for Ivy League teams, to become academically eligible.
       

         But in the Ivy League, Edosomwan's route through prep school is not uncommon. NMH has 11 alumni currently playing the league, and the conference is peppered with students who are the products of other prep schools. In addition to Edosomwan, Laurent Rivard '14, Matt Brown '13-'14, and Evan R. Cummins '16 all played multiple seasons at NMH.
       

         “It's something that we all do,” says Yale head coach James Jones, who adds that prep schools give players stronger footing both athletically and academically before they head to the Ivy League. “It's fairly common. It's like having a redshirt year, which we can't do in the Ivy League,” he adds, referring to the NCAA policy, outlawed in the Ivy League, that allows students to take a year off from competition but remain practicing with the team.
       

         More serious questions have been raised, too. In fact, ever since Amaker arrived in Cambridge, his program has been subject to allegations that recruiters, and even Amaker himself, broke with NCAA protocol in pursuit of players. Some have contended that the University allows Amaker to recruit with significantly reduced admissions standards in order to attract a new, more talented, brand of player.
       


         The most prominent criticisms came in 2008, when New York Times reporter Pete Thamel wrote that “Harvard is willing to consider players with a lower academic standing than previous staff members said they were allowed to.” Thamel also alleged that Blakeney had played pickup games with Wright, in a violation of NCAA regulations, before Blakeney became Amaker's top assistant and Wright became Amaker's top recruit.
       

         In response to Thamel's allegations, the Ivy League conducted its own investigation and declared Harvard innocent of all wrongdoing. Two years later, Harvard said it had committed only one of the se
         condary recruiting violations the article alleged, and the school self-imposed recruiting limits for the 2010-2011 school year.
       

       Six years later, Amaker says he's still troubled by the claims.
       

         “Nobody has ever told me or come to me and intimated in any way that we're going to [lower admissions standards],” he says in Lavietes, his voice growing more focused and emphatic. “The phrase 'dropping standards'—it's insulting to the kids that are here. It's insulting to [the coaches] that somehow we weren't competent enough to do our job or to do it in a way that's befitting of this gr
         eat institution.”
       

       University President Drew G. Faust says that standards have not been lowered.
       

       “No. I think one of the things that's important to understand is that the Ivy League has ways of measuring the academic expectations of students who come in,” she says firmly. “We police each other.”
       

         Nonetheless, some of the charges have persisted. In the 2008 New York Times report, Yale head coach James Jones said that his school “could not get involved with many of the kids they are bringing in
         .”
       

       Bu
       t another Ivy League coach, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that he was often unable to target the quality of recruits that Amaker has.
       

       “We don't get involved with as many athletes in a comparative situation...they are recruiting a little different player now, a little different level, and we hope to get there,” the coach said.
       

         The coach, who said his team has to hit a target index of 195, added, “If I could recruit more top-100 players athletically I would, and if I could do it academically I would.... Academically, th
         ere haven't been a lot of [top-100] kids who have fit us.”
       

         Despite these charges, Amaker has attracted significant support from leaders across the University. Faust attended several games this year, and many prominent faculty members have gotten involved with the team.
       

         “I've really enjoyed the team, and I think Tommy has set a great tone,” Faust says. “I think he's a teacher, its fun to watch the players grow as they move from their first year on the team to their second year on the team. I think he always behaves in an impeccable manner and is generous in his praise for his opponents and frank in his expectations of his team, and I feel really proud of
          him.”
       

       For all of the attention, the humble and spotlight-shy Amaker is careful to ground his team, and its success, in the context of the University's larger mission.
       


         “One thing I've learned along the way, and I certainly have learned this being at Harvard...is [that the basketball team] might be visible, but we're really not that important,” he said at a postgame press conference this month in New Haven, just minutes after winning the Ivy League title outright. “And I think to say that at our school, that's really true. I felt like I've always kn
         own that about the way athletics fit in higher education and on a campus.”
       

       But it cannot be denied that the vibrant atmosphere surrounding Amaker's team is a far cry from the empty gyms that Frank Sullivan's boys played in. And the coach wouldn't have it any other way.
       

       “There's been a renewed sense of energy and excitement and also connection and that touches my heart more than many people realize,” he says in Lavietes. “Seeing our campus and our community rally around and get energized by a silly game of basketball...how cool is that at Harvard?”

          —Staff writer Matthew Q. Clarida can be reached at matthew.clarida@thecrimson.com.
          Follow him on Twitter
          @mattclarida.


          —Staff writer David P. Freed can be reached at david.freed@thecrimson.com.
          Follow him on Twitter
          @CrimsonDPFreed..
        
Sections
When Rachel D. Field ’12 and her small team encounter a problem, she can’t simply pass off the responsibility to someone else. “I have my degree now,” she says. “In theory, Harvard University says that I’m qualified to do this, so I’m just going to figure it out.” A project that started in a classroom is now unfolding internationally and in the public eye.
Over the past two years, bioengineering professor David A. Edwards, Field, and a team of designers and engineers have created the oPhone, a phone for odors. In a world in which we constantly use technology to communicate our audio and visual experiences with those who aren’t physically with us, virtually sharing another sense seems like the natural next step for these researchers. “If you go back obviously virtual communication was first text, and then we integrated photos, and then there were films, and now there will be scents,” says Edwards.
The oPhone contains chips that are “kind of like ink cartridges for odors,” explains Edwards. Through a scent-based messaging app called oNotes, oPhone users can send and receive smells. Though Edwards has been working with olfactory technology for some time, the oPhone, which will launch in July, is part of a new series of products that he says is “aimed at introducing scent communication into global communications networks.”
The idea of the oPhone originated in Edwards’s Engineering Sciences 20 class: “How to Create Things and Have Them Matter.”
“We see the class with arts and design dreams at some frontier of science,” says Edwards. Each year, the class approaches this concept using a different theme, and throughout the semester, students work in teams on an extensive engineering thought experiment based on this theme. Field took the class in her senior year at Harvard. She recalls that many of the students in the class were not engineers; she was the only engineer in her team of five women. She asserts that students coming from different academic backgrounds are crucial for coming up with “outside-of-the-box ideas,” which is the goal of the class. When Field took the class, the theme was “virtual worlds,” and her team came of with the idea of creating a virtual world of aroma.
Edwards helped to organize a fellowship for the team members who were particularly enthusiastic about the project. In the summer of 2012, Field and her classmate Amy M. Yin ’14 worked to develop the idea into a tangible prototype in Paris at Le Laboratoire, a “contemporary art and design center,” founded by Edwards in 2007.
Yin and Field’s work at Le Laboratoire in 2012 led to an exhibition titled “The Olfactive Project” in the spring and summer of 2013. The exhibit invited the public to listen to, smell, taste, eat, and drink coffee. At the end of the exhibit, visitors could experience the coffee virtually through the oPhone, and then send a virtual olfactive message of the coffee odor around the world.
The press release for The Olfactive Project asked, “If we manage to communicate by way of olfactory sentences, paragraphs, and essays, might we better communicate certain emotions and experiences, and share these across conventional barriers of language, culture, and even species?”
Working towards the exhibition was a challenging experience for Field, who had just graduated from Harvard. She explains that unlike presenting ideas to an audience of peers and professors in college, this exhibit exposed the product to total strangers who had no context for their work. But the team was up for the challenge, and the exhibit was a big success, says Edwards.
While Field still works at the lab in Paris, the company will open a new Le Laboratoire in Kendall Square on July 10, a “hotspot” where oPhone users will be able to download their oNotes and an exhibition space for their products.
In recent years, olfactory technology has been a popular area of research and development, but the products created have not been very effective, says Edwards. Unlike sounds or visuals, aromas linger and cannot simply be turned off like hanging up on a phone call. According to Edwards, the current devices can make very few aromas, usually a maximum of ten.
Edwards explains that at first, his team did not want to look at what had already been developed by other researchers, noting that they “wanted to be as innocent as possible as long as possible.” But as their ideas became more developed, they did have to take a step back and look at what was already out there to ensure that their product was unique in its offerings.
What makes the oPhone different, Edwards says, “is this notion of having a very compact, inexpensive, reloadable way of delivering a lot of aroma information.” The oPhone uses small capsules of code chips filled with aromatic material. Though there are only eight chips, mixing these aromas allows the oPhone to create 72,000 distinct aromas. “From a little bit of complexity, you can create a lot of complexity, and how you do that is sort of where the invention is mostly,” Edwards says. “It’s not just an odor, but it’s a complex sort of symphony.”
Field explains that the oPhone enables users to communicate with individual, personal aromas rather than generic, “scattered” smells. “We created the oPhone as not just a way of sending aromas but as a way to send and receive smart, complex aromas,” she says. Her team has been approached by a variety of groups that have expressed an interest in partnership; the product, she says, could potentially have many different applications. Of all the senses, scent has the strongest correlation with memory.
This project is exciting to Field, as she feels scent technology has not yet been explored to its full potential. “Scent is an underutilized sense, especially relative to visual or audio,” she says. Edwards, Field, and the rest of the oPhone team hope to use technology to further capitalize on its power.
Sections
For some, spring break is just around the corner. For others, it’s already here (nothing happens in class on Thursdays anyway). Whether you’re avoiding sunburn or your mother’s questions about summer jobs, FM has the songs that will define your spring break.
Tired of Waking Up Tired The Diodes
Spring break comes after weeks of midterms and papers, and that makes it the perfect time to catch up on sleep. Why everyone spends it partying is beyond us.
Let Me Take Your Foto — Speedies
Whether it’s the first time you’re travelling with your blockmates or the last hurrah with the homies, someone on your spring break trip will want to immortalize every waking moment. They’ll also take pictures of you when you’re passed out. This power pop anthem might as well be their mantra, though FM can’t guarantee their demands for you to pose will be nearly so melodic.
Slightly Drunk — Squeeze
Perhaps more than slightly, but it’s fine as long as you alternate.
Suburban Home — Descendants
For those not looking to reenact “Spring Breakers,” a vacation at home is the perfect alternative. And while you’re visiting your parents and high school buds, you can revisit your teen angst with snotty anthems like this.
Let’s Live for Today — The Grass Roots
The perfect response to anyone who tries to remind you about the junior paper draft due when classes resume.
Two Weeks — Grizzly Bear
Yale has it—why can’t we?
Sections
As blocking mayhem winds down, Housing Day jitters take its place as the members of the freshman class begin the perennial prayers for the perfect Housing assignment. Students in all corners of the Yard can be seen with their fingers crossed and heads bowed to the Housing Day Gods, hoping they will be granted luck on the day that will determine their future abodes.
Though rumors of “River Run” are in full swirl, they are often accompanied by some confusion as to the origins and methods by which the festivities ensue. River Run began as a way to ensure luck in the Housing lottery, presumably by appealing to the “River Gods” for good fortune on Housing Day. To the dismay of the administration, these rituals often involved sending burning boats down the Charles River, bearing the name of the sender’s first-choice House and enflaming the tempers of local authorities. Hosted by upperclassmen residents, freshmen are also encouraged to imbibe at their House of choice on the night of Housing Day Eve, ultimately providing UHS with a busy evening as well.
Administrators who remember Housing Days of yore, however, don’t qualify River Run as a tradition. River Run  “doesn’t go back that long in time…I don’t know that it goes back more than a decade,” says Freshman Dean Thomas A. Dingman ’67. In a similar vein, Adams House Master Sean Palfrey ’67 notes, “It doesn’t take more than four years for everyone here to think something is a long-standing tradition.”
Yet from many students’ perspectives, River Run’s rebellious undertones only add to the steadily building Housing Day excitement. “It’s a big moment, or at least it’s perceived as such. You’re about to decide where you are for the next three years, so it’s a bummer that you don’t have anything to do, but I can’t say that I fault the administration [for that],” remarks Winthrop senior Ari D. Brenner ’14.
Brenner recalls his River Run experience differently than younger students might. “Back in those crazy days, we went to a handful of upperclassmen Houses where we had friends,” he says. “We went to Eliot, and my buddy in there taught us the Eliot chant and showed us cool stuff in the courtyard. Kirkland is always yelling about how great they are.”
The night left a positive impression on Brenner, as he and his friends went on to write the new Winthrop chant. “We thought it was pretty lame that Winthrop didn’t have its own chant, so we wrote one and distributed it for a while. Now I’m pretty sure there are sophomores in the House who think it’s a real thing.”
Challenges from Harvard faculty about the value of the celebration are manifold, as their primary fear is safety.  “[The concerns] climaxed three or four years ago, when students found themselves in really compromised states, darting across Memorial Drive, in and out of traffic, and we almost had a couple of accidents,” Dingman recalls. “And attached to the taking of the shots in the House courtyards was this practice of building boats and putting them in the river. Then [the students] had the idea that if they lit them on fire, it would be even more compelling to the gods, and that created obvious concerns.”
Yet Dingman says that there’s still room for tradition. “I think our job should be to keep looking for meaningful traditions. This one got edgier and edgier, and we had real concerns about safety,” Dingman notes. “It sounds like we’re spoilers of fun, but were just trying to not set up a situation where students can get into trouble.” As a result, guards will be stationed at Yard gates on Housing Day Eve to ask students where they are headed, and to remind them to leave their boats behind.
Ultimately, the goal of River Run is to appease the River Gods, thus squelching the power of the Quadrangle Deities. “We know that the Quad houses are hugely successful,” Dingman reminds shuttle-wary freshmen. “If you look at the satisfaction rates reported by the seniors, you’ll see that they are disproportionately at the top of the pile, at the three Quad Houses. So it seems sort of odd to back a tradition that has its roots in ‘how do we get a River House assignment?’”
Still, the seeds of tradition have been sown. Whether you’re a daredevil or a homebody, frantically panicking about housing or playing it cool, Emerson so fittingly reminds us that “the ornament of a house is the friends who frequent it.”  Now that's timeless.
Sections
 
Do you remember back in 2003 when Harvard’s Housing Day revelries ended in a massive multi-collegiate protest against the Bush administration and the War in Iraq?
 Probably not, because it never happened, but the local Channel 7 news certainly thought so. The news station broadcasted freshmen lined up outside Annenberg on the morning of Housing Day and mistook the festivities for a staged student walkout opposing the attack on Iraq.
 Apparently, Harvard students would later join forces with students from MIT, Tufts, Boston University, and several other colleges, because of course, posters declaring “Pfuck the River” and a guy with a fish head was obviously pertinent to the Iraq war. Maybe they thought that Harvard students were attempting an alternate method of protest in which we joyously celebrate our cause with irrelevant festivities?
 Mocking aside, Harvard can be very outspoken in its protests, so claiming Housing Day was another wouldn’t have been a bad guess. We’re sure there were a few newly ordained Quaddlings who were already protesting, anyway.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While you were busy power-watching housing day videos and writing strongly worded letters to your various friends in Kirkland house, here is what happened in Harvard sports this weekend.
 
With its 70-58 win over Yale on Friday night, the men’s basketball team secured the Ivy League championship outright and earned its third straight bid to the Dance.  Sports writers nationwide rejoiced with the win, immediately pitching Tommy Amaker features to everyone around them. “It is such a great story for a long-form feature,” they exclaim. TRUST US, WE KNOW. JUST STOP ALREADY. Besides, the original is still the best.
Speaking of top-notch basketball coaches, women’s basketball coach Kathy Delaney-Smith now owns the most wins in Ivy League basketball history, passing Princeton legendary men’s basketball coach Pete Carril with her 515th against Yale on Friday night. It remains unclear whether Delaney-Smith will be getting the Amaker treatment or not (she is certainly more than deserving), but Bartley’s Burger Cottage, known for its special burgers named after pop culture references, did have a Delaney-Smith special on Friday afternoon. While rumors abound on the Cambridge community’s desire for a “Fire Donato!” special, Bartley’s has neither confirmed nor denied that such a burger is in the works.
Harvard baseball earned its first win of the year on Friday against Lamar in Beaumont, TX before dropping its next two games against the Cardinals.  In a strange turn of events at Sunday’s postgame press conference, the Lamar coach, presumably having just power-watched the first seven episodes of True Detective in anticipation of the season finale that night, gave a monologue that can only be described as a terrifying mixture of Rust Cohle philosophical thought with incredibly clichéd coach-speak: “Today, out there on that diamond, we learned that time truly is a flat circle. No beginning, no end, just inning after inning traveling towards our inevitable meeting with the dark warmth deep inside ourselves.  But my team took it one inning at a time, played within itself, and fought against that overwhelming evil in this world.  Though the wind in the stars remains, my team showed character, and at the end of the day, it is what it is.”
Sophomore wrestler Todd Preston earned an 8-6 victory to win the EIWA Championship at 141 pounds on Saturday. The win earned Preston “Most Outstanding Wrestler” honors and secured his first trip to the NCAA Championships.  Students in attendance, many of them just now discovering the world of college athletics thanks to the success of the men’s basketball team, were heard shouting phrases such as: “We’re going dancing,” “I can’t wait to cut down these nets.” and, for those especially well-researched among them, “I really hope Preston doesn’t have to face one of Dickie V’s Diaper Dandies in the first round.”
 
The Harvard women’s hockey team will begin its run at a national championship in earnest on March 15th in its opening round game against Wisconsin. While many Americans may normally not have a rooting interest in who makes the Frozen Four, this year could be an exception as the tournament occurs so soon after America’s stunning collapse in the Olympic gold medal match. Boston University seems to have been singled out by American hockey fans as a team to root against. This misguided anti-Terrier patriotism stems from BU senior forward Marie-Philip Poulin’s late game heroics for team Canada in the gold medal match. When asked for a comment on the situation, a Canadian fan shook his head at such vitriol and said he simply wanted to watch some good hockey.
All scores, stats, and honors are entirely factual.  All quotes, comments, and background stories are entirely fictional and written in jest.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Students with midterms on Housing Day expressed disappointment at not being able to fully participate in festivities, which many consider a highlight of the spring, and called for College administrators to notify professors of the event’s date earlier in the school year.
Because Harvard’s academic calendar does not list Housing Day as a University holiday, many professors are unaware of its date and do not take the event into consideration when creating their syllabi.
“I was not aware of the conflict until last week,” History of Art and Architecture professor Jennifer L. Roberts, who scheduled a midterm in her course United States and the World 12: “American Encounters: Art, Contact, and Conflict, 1560-1860” for Thursday, wrote in an email. “My syllabus was designed months ago—like all faculty, I checked the academic calendar for conflicts as I set up the sequence of instruction.” 
Domenica A. Merino ’17 said that a midterm in the course Sociology 24: “Introduction to Social Equality”  was moved from Thursday to Tuesday after students approached the class’s professor, Jason Beckfield, and teaching fellows, who were unaware of a conflict. 
“I do think it would be nice if the administration warned the professors about [Housing Day],” Merino said. “It’s one of those highlight Harvard traditions.”
  
Sean M. Frazzette ’16, whose Russian B: “Intermediate Russian” oral examination is scheduled for Thursday at 9 a.m., agreed and said he was “disappointed” that his was unable to partake in all Housing Day festivities in order to study for his exam.
 
“I wanted to celebrate with the new freshmen,” Frazzette, who also had a midterm on Housing Day last year, said. “I think the University should try to embrace Housing Day as a tradition. It’s a great part of community bonding and stress relief.”
However, faculty and administrators do not universally share this view.
“We are a school after all, and of course academics come first,” Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 said. “The schedule that the faculty has to deal with is rather tight, so some may find it just hard to avoid assigning exams or papers [on Housing Day].”
General Education Committee Faculty Chair and Philosophy professor Edward J. Hall said that while he thinks Housing Day is a “cool institution,” it does not merit pressuring professors to change their course’s midterm schedule.
“Years ago Housing Day was not such a big deal, and now it’s become a big thing,” Hall said. “I think there is a problem with the undergraduate culture right now where there is an imbalance in priorities between academics and extracurriculars.”
He added that in recent years, it has gradually become apparent to those working in the Program in General Education that students have been pressuring professors to schedule their exams to avoid falling on Housing Day.
Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris said the Office of Undergraduate Education would not consider advising professors to re-evaluate their course schedules in light of Housing Day.
“Academics trump everything, and asking faculty not to schedule exams on any instructional day would be orthogonal to our purpose,” Harris wrote in an email.
 
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at meg.bernhard@thecrimson.com Follow her on Twitter @Meg_Bernhard
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Every year, thousands of manuscripts stream into Gannett House, the oldest building on Harvard Law School’s campus and the home of one of the most reputable legal journals in the country, the Harvard Law Review.
After a long process of selection and editing, only a few dozen of these manuscripts leave the building, squeezed tightly into the 2,000-page annual volume of the Harvard Law Review.
The selection of articles for publication in the Harvard Law Review and other legal journals often shapes the fates of academics trying to obtain tenure or prestigious government appointments.
Yet the Harvard Law Review and its peer publications differ from academic journals in other disciplines in one respect: they are edited and published by law students.
“As a second year law student I was deciding...the academic futures of many,” said Harvard Law professor Alan M. Dershowitz, who graduated first in his class at Yale Law School and edited the Yale Law Journal. “We had enormous power.”
Indeed, most other scholarly journals are peer-edited—reviewed by professional academics—but legal scholarship lies primarily in the hands of students. Eight out of the top ten most cited law journals are student-edited and affiliated with a law school, according to a 2012 Reuters report.
Some have contended that law students, who have typically only spent one or two years studying the law, are not equipped to select pieces. Others assert that the selection process is inherently biased—law students are more likely to select the works of their professors.
However, the laborious task of editing law reviews and historic precedent of student-reviewed journals may prevent peer-reviewed journals from ever entering the picture. With so many barriers to entry and a functioning, but imperfect system, legal experts say that the student-driven law review model is here to stay.
MEET THE [STUDENT] EDITORS
Not all Harvard Law School students are lucky enough to spend their time in Gannett House. More than 200 first year students compete in the writing competition that determines admission into the Review, and only 46 are accepted each year based on their writing and editing skills.
“Everyone knows that a law review student is a top student,” said Gerald Lebovits, a Columbia Law School adjunct professor and a New York City judge, who was named one of the ten most published law professors by Business Insider.
Though students who run some of the most prestigious law reviews have advanced through multiple selection processes that value academic achievement and critical thinking capabilities, many scholars express doubt as to whether the students’ judgment and understanding of the law is sufficient for such an important role.
 
“We were young, brash, arrogant kids,” Dershowitz said, reflecting on his time at the Yale Law Review. “In retrospect, it was an enormous amount of authority for someone so young.”
Aside from the relative inexperience of student editors, others have questioned whether a second or third-year law student is equipped with the proper understanding in law to critique, select, and edit legal scholarship that is often penned by academics with decades of experience in the field.
“They are overall really, really smart people who don’t have deep expertise in the subject areas for which they are selecting articles,” said Harvard Law School professor Richard H. Fallon Jr.
However, many are quick to reject this assertion.
Harvard Law School professor Jonathan L. Zittrain said that the presence of student editors poses benefits that other types of editors would lack.
 
“We benefit greatly by having students as our intermediaries rather than for-profit publishers who often are much more bound to enforce scarcity in what they publish as a way of charging rents to access it,” he wrote.
Dennis Fan, the editor-in-chief of the Columbia Law Review, argued that the responsibilities of editing a law review are not markedly different from the duties these students will take on merely months later.
“Upon graduation, and with little or no work experience, many law school graduates clerk for the nation’s highest courts, often drafting opinions or providing legal advice to those courts’ judges,” Fan wrote in an email.
Moreover, student editors have taken steps to combat this perceived experience gap. The Harvard Law Review and most of its peer institutions solicit the help of faculty from their respective law schools, according to Fallon.
“While Columbia Law Review is not a peer-review journal, it is also not devoid of mechanisms of peer-review,” Fan wrote. “The peer-review/student-run dichotomy is in some ways a false one.”
Others assert that what students may lack in experience they make up for in effort. Student editors spend notorious amounts of time editing submissions—Joel Mallord, the editor-in-chief of the University of Pennsylvania Law Review, estimated that his staff spent “tens of thousands of hours per year” to publish an issue.
“Not only is this work tedious and unpaid, it is also better performed by students,” wrote Mallord in an email. “Students are generally more in tune with citation requirements than practitioners and academics, who tend to lose interest in those requirements shortly after leaving law school.”
Indeed, law professors are unlikely to do such work and little encourages them to do so, some said.
Other than students, “who else has time to check that sources say what the authors claim they say?” Mallord wrote.
 
FIGHTING BIASES
In addition, despite the use of anonymous selection processes, biases in the review process persist, and many argue that student editors are prone to select professors from their respective law schools and influence the length and specificity of submitted articles.
Pieces published by law reviews from “insider faculty”—those that are from the law school that is affiliated with the law journal—are less cited on average, according to a study done by University of Toronto law professor Albert H. Yoon. Because citations are often a metric for the quality and relevance of a piece, the publication of these less cited articles indicates a bias toward insider faculty, Yoon concludes.
His study also found that the disparity in citation levels of insider faculty and outside faculty is stronger in higher-ranked law reviews like the Harvard Law Review.
“Do we favor insiders? Absolutely,” said Joel Peters-Fransen, who served as a supervising editor at the Harvard Law Review before graduating in 2010. “We tried to do an anonymous selection process, but with varying success.”
Because authors often cite their own works and are sometimes easily identifiable by their topics alone, anonymity remains elusive.
 
For most articles under consideration, at least a few editors know the identity of the author, according to Peters-Fransen.
 
“People generally acted with good intentions,” said Peters-Fransen, who noted that he did not know of an “official, written policy” on handling conflicts of interest. The Harvard Law Review also allows all editors to vote on the selection of articles, which helped “reduce or mitigate conflict of interest” as the vote of a biased editor was one among many, he said.
As more quantitative evidence suggests such biases exist, some law reviews have begun to reconsider their selection process. The University of Pennsylvania Law Review, for example, is currently reassessing its selection process to eliminate as much bias as possible, according to Mallord.
Yet some have found this bias to be of minimal concern.
As more and more articles are posted in “online pre-print databases” before being published in print, such a bias has relatively little effect on the academic conversation and the physical publication of the article “may not matter very much,” Zittrain wrote.
And while a selection bias has concerned many, Fallon pointed toward another type of bias: the way in which an audience of student editors influences the types of pieces submitted for selection. Academics who hope to be published in a law review often cater to the students who make publication decisions.
“Articles in law reviews tend to be very, very long…because they’re written in such a way that is to describe the landscape, both legal and scholarly, into which whatever new contribution the author of the article has to make fits,” Fallon said. “You get lots of exposition of what people who are on top of the fields would know already.”
 
Such concerns have been acknowledged by law reviews. The Harvard Law Review, for example, limited the length of submissions after a 2004 study it conducted showed that nearly 90 percent of readers found law review articles to be too long.
SOLUTIONS NEEDED?
In the face of the obstacles associated with student-reviewed law journals, professors said that they would like to see an increased presence of academics in the editing and publication of legal scholarship.
Some contend that peer-reviewed journals deserve a chance and may outperform student-reviewed law reviews, if given a chance to establish a readership.
 
“[Student-reviewed and peer-reviewed journals] ought to compete against each other,” Dershowitz said. “Let’s see what’s better in the marketplace of ideas.”
 
Despite the claims that professors are as equipped or willing to edit legal scholarship, Dershowitz said that if the faculty wanted to launch a peer-review journal, they could do so “without much difficulty.”
 
Others have proposed that law reviews can continue to be student-reviewed, but should gain further input from scholars.
“Perhaps professors could make themselves available en masse once or twice a year to help review submissions,” Zittrain wrote. “Imagine faculty at various stations in a library during a law review-a-thon, able to consult with editors who have questions on the work they're reviewing.”
FOR BETTER OR WORSE
Despite the cacophony of opinions from legal scholars and law review editors past and present, very few believe that the student-reviewed law model is a perfect one.
Yet the barriers for change are immense—student-run law reviews are reinforced by more than a century of prestige and the process of editing legal scholarship is not the most appetizing activity for law professors.
Moreover, though law reviews continue to influence legal scholarship and the reputations of those who are published, their power—in terms of who reads what and who receives tenure—is on the decline, according to Fallon and Peters-Fransen.
“I think everyone recognizes that their importance is less so than it once was,” Peters-Fransen said, calling the continued predominance of law reviews a “historical hangover.”
 
Although numerous problems persist with student-reviewed law journals, these problems do not seem significant enough to alter the status quo significantly or generate competition from peer-reviewed journals. For better or worse, the student-reviewed law model is here to stay.
—Staff writer Tyler S. Olkowski can be reached at tyler.olkowski@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @OlkowskiTyler.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Graduate School of Education launched its first course through the online education platform HarvardX on Tuesday.
The new course—GSE1x: “Unlocking the Immunity to Change: A New Approach to Personal Improvement”—will focus on helping people achieve their personal goals through online videos, interactive elements, and forums.
 
It is taught by two members of the Graduate School of Education faculty—professor of adult learning and professional development Robert Kegan and lecturer Lisa L. Lahey.
In 2009, Kegan and Lahey co-authored a book that presented the “Immunity to Change” theory, which uses the immune system as a metaphor to explain how humans resist change. The book also offers a set of psychological tools that, according to Kegan and Lahey, facilitate change.
According to the edX website, the new HarvardX course will use “a world-wide experiment to see if Kegan and Lahey’s ground-breaking, award-winning approach can be deployed online.”
The website describes the course as a tool for people to realize personal goals that they have struggled with.
“[Kegan is] really the theorist who has helped people see how development truly happens from infancy to adulthood, and my interest was in how you take something that is a theory and help people to apply it to themselves,” Lahey said. “The ‘Immunity to Change’ process was born out of an effort to make the abstract more concrete.”
The course differs from other more technical or content-based HarvardX courses in its focus on personal growth.
 
This shift also presents new challenges that stem from the course’s online format, which is atypical for other self-help classes.
Kegan said that while he formerly harbored doubts about whether online platforms could ever accommodate the openness and intimacy of interpersonal relationships essential to the process of personal growth, he has since changed his perspective.
“With the intersection of the new generation and the new technologies, people are increasingly comfortable with sharing personal material online with people they never meet face-to-face,” Kegan said. “In some cases I wondered whether the levels of engagement and the sharing in the online format was even stronger than they might be in an Ed School section.”
 Lahey said she has had trouble finding a way to connect with an online audience, though.
“The biggest challenge I personally face is the large amount of videotaping,” she said. “You are talking to a camera lens.”
The Graduate School of Education’s foray into online education coincides with the announcement of recent partnerships between edX and three other institutions.
The Linux Foundation—a technology consortium founded to propagate the operating system Linux—has partnered with edX to become the third non-university institution to do so. The Linux Foundation will offer its first course, LFS101x: “Introduction to Linux,” later in 2014.
“One area where we believe MOOCs can have a huge impact on knowledge sharing and the jobs economy is as a delivery mechanism for specific, tangible, technical skills,” said Jim Zemlin, the executive director of The Linux Foundation, in a press release.
Colgate University and Hamilton College will also be partnering with edX and are planning to launch four online courses within their first year of partnership.
—Staff writer Michael V. Rothberg can be reached at mrothberg@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @mvrothberg
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Several employees who have served the Harvard community for 25 years expressed disappointment that the University will no longer hold an annual event honoring long-serving workers.
Since the 1950s, the University has celebrated employees—ranging from custodians to professors—who reach 25 years of service. The event, usually held in the fall at the Harvard Faculty Club, included a speech by University President Drew G. Faust.
But without notice human resources did not hold the event last fall as they had in previous years.
 
“The reception had faded in popularity in recent years, with only about half of the honorees attending,” Mary Ann O’Brien, the director of planning and program management in human resources, wrote in a statement. “Additionally, some local units recognize service milestones locally so we are trying to reduce duplication.”
 
Some employees, however, said they thought the reception had previously been well-attended.
 
Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers Director Bill Jaeger said that employees who attended the event in previous years have described it as “full” and “lively.”
 
“I think the friends of mine and other members who have been involved in the past years thought it was a joyful, energetic event,” Jaeger said.
Several employees who recently reached the 25-year milestone only realized last December that an annual University-wide recognition event had not been planned. The University never notified employees of the discontinuation.
“They’ve generated so much ill will by people who are baffled or frustrated,” Jaeger said.
Catherine M. Lehar, an assistant at the Bureau of Study Counsel, was more ambivalent about the cancellation event.
“I never realized that there was a party for the whole of the University; I thought just different departments had one.” Lehar said. “To be perfectly honest, I don’t know what I would have been missing.”
Several employees said they were skeptical that the University canceled the event solely due to lack of attendance.
“I think they were trying to cut back,” Lehar said.
 
Jaeger said that he was not sure whether the University canceled the event in order to save money or to “save an hour of the President’s time.”
 
“In either of those cases, it’s so not worth it,” Jaeger said of the cancellation.
According to O’Brien, the University plans to reconsider how to best recognize employee service milestones and move towards a “more contemporary, meaningful and effective for employees at all stages of their career at Harvard.”
—Staff writer Mariel A. Klein can be reached at mariel.klein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mariel_klein.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
Happy Thursday and Housing Day! Whether you’re a freshman frantically texting all your friends about which House you got, or if you’re an upperclassman showing off some house pride (green bikinis and Speedos, we see you, Currier), we all know it’s going to be a long and crazy day! Most importantly, remember to stay safe and have fun!
 It's also Throwback Thursday, so take a look back at last year’s Housing Day, or even 2012’s Housing Day, when freshmen in Matthews mistook a fire alarm from burning turkey bacon in the basement kitchen for a dorm wake-up call!
IN THE ATMOSPHERELooks like you’re going to have to reacquaint yourself with those snowboots! It’ll be snowy today and a high of 26 degrees. You might ask why the temperature dropped about 20 degrees over the course of a day, but the real question is whether or not anyone’s surprised at this point.
IN THE D-HALLSLunch:Cuban Pork SandwichPopcorn ChickenSpicy Jalapeno Jack Cheese and MacaroniDinner:Baked Salmon with DillChicken PotstickersSweet & Sour TofuChicken & Waffles
ON FLYBY1) “Ivy” Recap: Tangled and Tumultuous- Too busy with Housing day festivities to watch “Ivy,” but curious about it nonetheless? Check out this recap of its first episode!2) Listen Up! Housing Day Special Edition- Steven S. Lee and Dev A. Patel give you the lowdown on all advice Housing Day-related!
IN THE NEWS3) Making the Grade: Student Athletes Face Conflicts with Practices and Classes- “While packed schedules are nothing new for most Harvard students, athletes face a particularly difficult predicament….In order to fulfill their concentration requirements, many students must miss either an entire practice per week or portions of practice throughout the week.”4) Businesses in Smith Center Unclear about Future- “Four months after Harvard announced planned renovations to The Richard A. & Susan F. Smith Campus Center, and almost a week after faculty and student working groups released their recommendations, the future of retailers and restaurants inside the Smith Center is still unclear.”5) Harvard Policies on Medical Marijuana To Remain Unchanged- “Despite the legalization of medical marijuana in Massachusetts at the beginning of 2014, Harvard will not be altering its drug prohibition policies on campus to make an exception for medical marijuana."
EVENTSThe OCS is having a PreK-12 Expo from 3 to 6 p.m. today at the Gutman Conference Center on 6 Appian Way. Meet with schools from across the country who are here to recruit for different positions! Come with your resume and dress business professional.The University of Michigan Medical School is holding an information session at 54 Dunster from 4 to 5 p.m. Meet with the Director of Admissions, Robert Ruiz, about the application process and studying at the University of Michigan Medical School. Register for this event at Crimson Careers.PHOTO OF THE DAYHappy Housing Day! Here's to a day of upperclassmen storming the yard, freshmen celebrating (or crying, but please don't!) over their house assignments, and lots of (possibly drunk) fun!
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A crowd of more than 40 graduate students gathered in the Barker Center Wednesday night, meeting for the second time in three weeks to discuss a host of issues they say are affecting the work of teaching fellows and other teaching staff, including bloated section sizes and teaching assignments.
The meeting was closed to the press, with shades pulled down to cover the windows to the Barker Center’s Thompson Room, where it occurred. It lasted for about 90 minutes and ended with a loud round of applause.
After the discussion, graduate students who attended reiterated their basic concerns, which they said were aired at length during the meeting. Attendees said that, once again, a discussion over burgeoning section sizes dominated much of the conversation.
 
Kristen C. Roupenian, a teaching fellow for the Committee on Degrees in  History and Literature, said that most of her fellow attendees indicated their support for a movement to decrease section sizes during the meeting.
 
“[Large section sizes] makes it so much more difficult,” Roupenian said after the meeting, explaining that even marginal increases can greatly affect a teaching fellow’s workload. “[Smaller sections] would be so much better for undergraduates and so much better for graduate students.”
 
In late February, complaints over section sizes also dominated a large portion of a graduate student forum dedicated to issues related to teaching. Shortly after, several graduate students launched the Harvard Teaching Campaign, which aims to cap section sizes at 12 students. The movement has gained support from faculty members, the Department of Philosophy, and students within the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.
Attendees said after Wednesday’s meeting that they believed they were making significant progress in spreading the word about large section sizes. But earlier this week Robert A. Lue, faculty director of the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning, said that there are large financial hurdles to lowering section sizes.
“From my experience, you want a section size that is large enough so that you have a diversity of experiences in the classroom, but also small enough so that everyone has enough airtime to participate” Lue said. “I think it’s a good thing to strive for, but it is of course the fiscal reality that we are in.”
Also discussed at Wednesday’s meeting were alleged inadequacies in the assignment of teaching fellows.
Speaking after the meeting, Anna Aizman, who teaches in the Department of Comparative Literature, said that she often has to pick up teaching assignments that reside outside her primary interest,  Russian literature. Doing so, she said, usually means hours of extra weekly work.
“I do it because I have to,” Aizman said. “I do it because I worry about not having enough money not only to live, but also to travel and do my research.”
 
—Staff writer Dev A. Patel contributed to the reporting of this story
—Staff writer Matthew Q. Clarida can be reached at matthew.clarida@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @mattclarida.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former gubernatorial candidate Charles D. Baker ’79 has emerged early as the likely Republican nominee for governor, trailing the Democratic frontrunner, Massachusetts Attorney General Martha M. Coakley, by 13 points, according to a recent poll.
Baker ran for governor once before, in 2010, losing to incumbent Governor Deval L. Patrick ’78 by a 6-point margin.
The poll, released by Suffolk University inlate February, showed Baker as the second most supported candidate from any party. 
Although he was 13 points behind Coakley, Baker fared well against other Democratic candidates. He beat out Treasurer Steve Grossman by five percent and the rest of the Democratic field by even wider margins. Baker was 18 points ahead of Juliet N. Kayyem ’95 and 19 points ahead of both Joe Avellone and Donald M. Berwick ’68.
Baker emerged as the clear conservative favorite in the Suffolk poll, which found that 73 percent of all registered Republican voters preferred Baker to other Republican candidates. 
“Charlie says all the time he’s not running against one person or another,” said Tim Buckley, a spokesperson for Baker. “He’s running for the job of leading Massachusetts.” 
Buckley said he felt confident as the campaign heats up and noted that the unsuccessful 2010 gubernatorial campaign was an important learning experience for 2014. 
Baker also has the advantage of precedent on his side. An Independent governor has never been elected in Massachusetts—a fact that may lower the chances of independent candidates Jeff S. McCormick and Evan Falchuk. 
“There are a large number of people who are not declared in the Commonwealth,” said David J. Harris, managing director of the Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and Justice at Harvard Law School. “In theory an Independent candidate could pick off some of them, from either party, and try and get some support going."
However, Harris said he doubts whether an independent could gain enough support to defeat a candidate from one of the major parties in Massachusetts. 
“If the right candidate came along perhaps, but there would need to be a very special set of circumstances,” he said. 
A panel event on criminal justice Thursday at the Law School, planned by Harris, will feature Kayyem, Grossman, Falchuk, and Republican challenger Mark Fisher. The event will mark the first time candidates from across parties have gathered together on campus this election cycle.
—Staff writer Conor J. Reilley can be reached at conor.reilley@thecrimson.com
—Staff writer Zohra D. Yaqhubi can be reached at zohra.yaqhubi@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @zohradyaqhubi.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
In spirit, presidential elections are the same now as they were in 1820. Two candidates, after bashing the other’s personal and ideological record on the podium and in the media, are voted on by a group of unelected Electoral College members in November. However, today’s elections are focused on polls and numbers, not ideas and proposals. Today’s elections are about winning. At both summer party conventions 18 months ago, for Republicans in Tampa and Democrats in Charlotte, the election was about the opposing candidate, not the country’s path. Speakers from both sides presented vague promises of budget and welfare reform, both candidates eschewing specifics for fear of alienating voters. It was not about “what I can do for you” but “what he will do to you.”
 
Herein lies the problem with the American political system, one centered far too much on electioneering and the desires of special interests. The growth of populism and political brinksmanship in Washington have prompted the need for a president free of the burden of re-election. Our nation, now more than ever, needs a president with the ability to make tough decisions and be the voice of reason among D.C. political squabble. The means to accomplish this: a single six-year term.
 
I am hardly the first to harbor this opinion. The idea was proposed at the Constitutional Convention in 1787, where our Founders weighed it alongside other stipulations aimed at insulating the presidency from direct democracy. Afraid of mob rule and populist control of the government, our Founding Fathers insulated both senators and the Oval Office from a direct popular vote. In doing so, they attempted to preserve the country’s democratic spirit and the freedoms of its citizens while bestowing their leaders with a unique balance of autonomy and accountability—allowing them to listen with their hearts but also lead with their heads.
 
Since then, 184 amendments to this effect have been introduced in Congress, and nine former presidents—from Andrew Jackson in the 1820s to Jimmy Carter and Richard Nixon in the 1970s—have pushed for this reform. As it stands, presidents seeking re-election have barely any time before they must concern themselves with election politics. Estimates for the gap between a president’s inauguration and his return to campaigning range from two years to much sooner, like Thomas Friedman’s 100-day theory. Some argue campaigns never stop courting wealthy donors in a post-Citizens United political landscape where it could take a billion dollars to win an election.
 
The benefits of this proposal go beyond giving the president a longer political leash. Without having to worry about reelection and voting along party lines, presidents could advocate centrist compromises between the current extremist parties. They wouldn’t be seen as partisan, and as such would accrue both political capital and moral authority on issues. Presidents would not have to pander to the public and endorse populist proposals of questionable merit, such as limitless welfare reform and tax breaks. For example, Obama would not have needed to offer the extension of the Bush-era tax cuts to achieve the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. Presidents would truly be able to make hard choices and pursue the substantial reforms that they are typically only able to accomplish in their first two years, such as Bush tax reform or Obamacare, based on post-election political capital.
 
Arguments against this proposal hold that it is anti-democratic and antithetical to American ideals. Historian Arthur Schlesinger argues that the idea is “profoundly anti-democratic” to assume “people are so wrongheaded and ignorant that presidents should be encouraged to ignore their wishes.” But the notion that a president with a six-year term would have dictatorial power ignores the checks and balances present in our system. Not only does the Supreme Court prevent acting presidents from unconstitutional expansion of executive power, but Congress provides a large legislative check on the Oval Office. Midterm elections already provide a referendum on the quality of the job the president is doing; in a six-year term, that wouldn’t change. A president would still be held accountable to public opinion, but wouldn’t have to make every choice with re-election in mind. George Bush Sr. could have afforded to take a stronger stance on taxes; Clinton could have kept the Glass-Steagall Act, possibly postponing the causes of our current recession. Similar arguments that the president would be a six-year “lame duck” fail to pass the same midterm election litmus test. Oppositional parties must either compromise with the president or run the risk of losing spots during midterm elections.
 
In a political climate where pork barrel projects sour legislation and waste valuable federal dollars, there is a need for elected officials free of the demands of reelection campaigns. Compromise is not a dirty word; a country solves no problems if divided. Hyperpluralism has forced presidents to account for the every individual’s opinion except the one that matters most—a president’s own. Leaders are elected to lead, not to follow. The path is not without its risks, but the potential reward—a president who can take this country off the path of uncertainty and put it back on the path to prosperity—would be invaluable. 
 David P. Freed ’16, a Crimson editorial writer, is an applied math concentrator in Mather House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Polka music drifts across linoleum tiles, soft murmurs lingering in the air with the scent of incense from the church above. Fluorescent bulbs cast pools of white light onto paper-clothed tables, mylar balloons standing guard over platters of lilac-frosted cupcakes. Seated in the middle of the room—surrounded by doting cousins, nieces, nephews, children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren—Rose, my grandmother, glows in the attention from her family. Today is our much-beloved matriarch’s ninetieth birthday, a celebration of her biographic debut in 1924: the year that saw the death of Vladimir Lenin, the deposition of the last caliph of the Ottoman Empire, and the imprisonment of Adolf Hitler for the Beer Hall Putsch.
Driving through the valley of Johnstown, Pennsylvania that morning, my parents, sister, and I pass by the remnants of a once prosperous city, dotted now with run-down steel mills and shuttered store fronts. Upon arriving at my grandmother’s Ukrainian church, its three gilt onion domes sitting on the edge of a charcoal sky, we descend to the basement banquet hall, where our extended family has already begun their revelry. Making our way through the crowd, my mother introduces me to countless third and fourth cousins, men and women whom I have never met before, yet whose eyes, noses, and brows bear a marked resemblance to my own.
Rose is my only grandparent still alive. My two grandfathers died long before my birth, and my paternal grandmother passed away when I was only nine months old. As a consequence, I know almost nothing of my father’s ancestry except what I have been able to glean from census records. His relatives had arrived in the early-nineteenth century, migrants from Ireland, Scotland, and Germany ostensibly seeking new economic opportunities. Who they were and what they felt as newly-minted Americans, though, the census taker did not note.
Ethnically, I thus identify most with my Eastern European heritage, due in no small part to conversations with my grandmother about her own upbringing in an old-world household. Despite her ninety years, my baba still radiates vivacity, inherited from her strong-willed immigrant parents.
After the party, I ask her to share with me once again the story of their arrival to America. She eagerly accedes.
Born to peasants in Galicia, the northernmost province of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, my great-grandmother Magdalen left her family’s farm at the age of 23 to join her brother in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In 1909, she landed at Ellis Island, the often unwelcoming gate to a new life in America. Upon her arrival, though, an immigration officer noticed an infection (“the size of a fifty-cent piece”) growing on her upper arm at the site of a recent vaccination. She tried to explain this to the officer, but he interpreted her garbled mix of English, Polish, and Ukrainian as a sign of “mental deficiency.” On her chest, he then drew a white cross in chalk, marking her as unfit to enter the country.
Magdalen was tenacious, though. As the officer’s attention was drawn elsewhere, she spat into her hand, scoured the cross clean from her clothes, and moved to the side of the boat where the non-infected sat. Through her quick-thinking, she made it into New York, soon setting off for Pittsburgh. There, she was introduced to my great-grandfather Nicholas, a coal miner and fellow Galician immigrant. Married only two weeks into their relationship, they moved across Western Pennsylvania over the next decade in search of work, building their family along the way.
After settling in Johnstown, they found a home in a diverse neighborhood, populated by Poles, Italians, Serbs, Croats, and Slovaks. Yet, the family continued to operate within a mostly Galician social sphere, attending Ukrainian churches, making Ukrainian friends, and conversing in their Polish-inflected Ukrainian dialect.
My grandmother, the youngest of her siblings, notes that her childhood was a happy one, though money in their household was as scarce as English. She and her siblings would hunt for scrap iron along the banks of the Conemaugh River to sell for pennies, finding amusement in jacks and jump ropes. Their home, lit by a pot-belly stove, had only three beds: one for her two older brothers, one for her three older sisters, and the last for her to sleep in nestled between her parents (“which is why they didn't have any more kids”).
Magdalen and Nicholas never became citizens. My grandmother remembers having to accompany her parents every time they visited the local immigration office to translate their green card paperwork for them. And yet, America was all they were to know until they died. They had relegated their European upbringings, rarely mentioned to their children, to a forgotten, unacknowledged past.
Nearing the end of the story, I notice that an hour has already passed. It pains me to close the conversation, to delay her memories for another day, but an engineering midterm on Monday beckons me back to campus. The rest of the tale will have to wait.
Matthew M. Beck ’14 is a history and literature concentrator in Quincy House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
It is a memory that burns deeply in my mind. I had been a student at Harvard for less than two months when affirmative action became an inescapable topic of discussion. The Crimson had published a column piece titled “Affirmative Dissatisfaction,” which called into question the admission of every racial minority on Harvard’s campus in its attack on affirmative action.
I, like many of my friends, could not believe that our presence on this campus had been likened to “helping the visually impaired become pilots.”
The fundamental problem with the attitude expressed in “Affirmative Dissatisfaction” is that it is tragically misinformed about how affirmative action works. It assumes that unqualified people of color are being admitted to this university in droves to meet some kind of quota.
The implication is that there are not enough brilliant, young black and Latino minds in this country—that Harvard is forced to admit the first application it receives that has the correct ethnicity box checked. This is simply untrue. Harvard’s affirmative action policy is holistic. Race is one of many factors, such as legacy status, athletic recruitment, or rural residence that the university considers when admitting students. 
The Supreme Court’s current position on affirmative action is crafted using Harvard’s admissions policies as a model. 
“In Harvard College admissions the Committee has not set target-quotas for the number of blacks, or of musicians, football players, physicists or Californians to be admitted in a given year,” Justice Lewis F. Powell wrote in the majority opinion of a 1978 challenge to the University of California’s admissions policies. “This kind of program treats each applicant as an individual in the admissions process.”
Affirmative action at Harvard today is affirmative action as it was conceived—equal opportunity for historically excluded groups to compete and succeed at the nation’s top universities. 
In the 1950s and early 1960s, Harvard was still a predominantly white, male, Christian institution. A quota on the total number of Jewish students that could be admitted was in place well into the 1950s. During this time, Harvard set a quota of admitted black students at fewer than 12 each year; these black students were usually assigned to room with the other few blacks in their class. Women did not enjoy full social inclusion until well into the 1970s.
If you are not white, not male, or not a Protestant member of Harvard’s campus today, you are a direct or indirect beneficiary of affirmative action, and you should be proud. Our presence on Harvard’s campus is progress personified, a symbol that our university is working towards ending exclusion. We have been given an opportunity where opportunity has not always existed. We are here, we are leaders, and we are achievers.
Without affirmative action, Professor Henry Louis Gates Jr. would not be the man he is today. “No one has benefitted more from affirmative action than I have. The class of ’66 at Yale had six black graduates. My class, the class of ’73, had 96. And the difference was because of affirmative action,” Gates said to me. “Without affirmative action I would not have gone to an Ivy League school like Yale. And that changed my life.”
Professor S. Allen Counter also credits affirmative action with changing his life. “I am a strong advocate for affirmative action because I am a beneficiary of the affirmative action initiative and I am very proud of that,” Dr. Counter said. “The meaning of affirmative action can be described simply as affirmative inclusion and affirmative opportunity. Once we as African-Americans were admitted to previously all-white schools, it was our responsibility to perform academically just as white students, many of whom also entered college on some form of affirmative action.” 
The author of “Affirmative Dissatisfaction” suggested that she would be uncomfortable if a physician who benefitted from affirmative action operated on her—because somehow affirmative action removes all credibility of someone who graduated from college, performed well on the MCAT, graduated from medical school, and gained license from their state to practice as a physician. Under that view, it is somehow possible to know whether someone has benefitted from affirmative action—and if so that person should be deemed inferior based simply on looks. This is racial prejudice in its purest form, and it is something that we can no longer accept at this university.
Over the last few weeks, students have been making their voices heard. Indeed, the “I, Too, Am Harvard” campaign, which has gained incredible publicity across the nation, was spearheaded by several members of the black community who were inspired to let the world know that this is the black community’s university too.
I write this piece filled with hope, for my fellow students are not backing down. This is only the beginning. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said it best: “The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice.”
 
Dennis O. Ojogho ’16, a Crimson editorial writer, is a government concentrator in Winthrop House.
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
On Monday, March 17, scores of Massachusetts residents will celebrate St. Patrick’s Day with shamrocks, soda bread, and perhaps a Guinness or two. In the traditionally Irish neighborhood of South Boston, the South Boston Allied War Veterans Council will put on its annual St. Patrick’s Day parade, which has become a community tradition. Boston’s new mayor, Marty Walsh, will be staying away, protesting the fact that gay rights groups such as MassEquality are banned from marching. We commend Mayor Walsh for his principled stand on the issue, and we urge the parade’s organizers to change their policy and embrace all members of Boston’s community. 
 At the center of the controversy is the SBAWVC’s history of banning openly gay groups from marching. The veterans’ organization cancelled the parade in 1994 rather than allowing lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer community members to March. In 1995, the organizers appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled in favor of the group’s right to decide who can march. Since then, the parade has discriminated against gay Americans. This year, it seemed as if the city would see at least some progress—Walsh brokered a deal by which gay groups would have been able to march so long as they did not identify themselves as gay during the parade. Even this lackluster deal fell through, and the SBAWVC has officially rescinded its invitation for gay groups to march.
  We do not question the parade organizers’ legal right to preclude gay groups from marching—but in this case, their choice to exercise that right is misguided. The parade has become a symbol of South Boston and the city as a whole, and every member of the community should be included in that tradition. Even the erstwhile deal allowing gay groups to march without identifying themselves would not have been ideal—no individual should be barred from self-expression while participating in community events. We look toward the day when members of the LGBTQ community can live without stigma, and the organizers’ implication that gay identity is incompatible with pride in Irish heritage is insidious. 
 Until Boston’s St. Patrick’s Day Parade rids itself of discriminatory policies, we hope that lovers of equality will celebrate in other ways. Mayor Walsh, admirable as his deal-brokering efforts may have been, is right to skip the parade, as was Mayor Menino throughout his tenure. South Boston congressman Stephen Lynch, who has marched in the parade since he was four years old, is contemplating skipping this year, and we hope he follows through. The country is inching—perhaps even leaping—toward greater acceptance of LGBTQ Americans, and Boston would be well-served by a parade reflecting this progress.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When more than 100 freshmen learn early Thursday morning that Cabot House will be their home for the next three years, they will join a community with lively House spirit, a cod for a mascot, and the next dean of Harvard College at its helm.
In recent memory, no dean of the College has also served as a master of one of Harvard’s upperclassman Houses. When Cabot House Co-Master Rakesh Khurana becomes the College’s top administrator on July 1, however, he will be at the helm of both the Quad House he calls home and Harvard’s flagship school.
While College administrators both inside and outside the House system say that Khurana’s dual role will present him with challenges, these colleagues say that they are confident in the leadership expert’s ability to balance the duties that come with both jobs.
PRESSED FOR TIME
Though the commute may only be a few blocks from the Quad to the Yard, administrators interviewed about Khurana’s appointment largely agree that one of the largest challenges he will face in his new role is time management.
 
“I’d say that he’s probably going to have to take his energy pills,” Interim Dean of the College Donald H. Pfister said in an interview in February. “I think there’s a lot to balance.”
 
Prior to coming to his current role in the Dean’s Office, Pfister had served as master of Kirkland House for 18 years, from 1982 to 2000.
 
As dean of the College, Khurana’s daytime responsibilities will revolve around work in University Hall, the administrative heart of both the College and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. There, he will likely chair the Administrative Board, the College’s primary disciplinary body, convene committees on College issues, and meet regularly with University and student leaders—just a few of what will be his many administrative responsibilities.
 
Khurana, who is currently a professor at the Business School and holds an FAS appointment in the Sociology Department, will spend much of his remaining time up Garden Street in the Radcliffe Quadrangle, participating in House activities and fostering House spirit with his co-master and wife Stephanie R. Khurana.
 
“I think the main challenge is the number of hours in a day,” Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde said of Khurana’s upcoming roles. “Being a House master is very demanding, especially at night, and while he continues to do that...he’s going to be in great demand all the time.”
 
Still, despite what might appear to be increased time constraints on his job as a House master, some administrators suggested that it is primarily Khurana’s work at the Business School that will shift when he becomes dean. Khurana has said that he will give up his teaching responsibilities at the Business School when he takes on the new role.
 
“It’s my day job that changes more than my master’s job,” Khurana said in sit-down interview in February, several weeks after he was named to the deanship.
“Basically, instead of being across the river, teaching and doing a lot of research, he will be on this side of the river during his day, doing those things,” added Stephanie Khurana in the same sit-down interview.
Eliot House Co-Master Gail A. O’Keefe noted that her husband, Co-Master Douglas A. Melton, is also busy outside of his master’s job but still fulfills his role in the House. Melton serves as co-director of the Harvard Stem Cell Institute and is also a University professor. Both Eliot masters expressed enthusiasm at Khurana’s appointment.
CONFLICTING ROLES
But beyond time constraints, Adams House Co-Master Sean Palfrey ’67 suggested that Khurana will also face the challenge of handling administrative decisions that could involve potential conflicts of interest created by his dual role. He cited financial issues and questions of “what degree of independence House masters should have” as examples.
“There could be times when being the dean of the College would be very difficult at the same time as being a House master,” Palfrey said in an interview in late January, shortly after Khurana’s appointment. “As an administrator, you’re going to be asked to make decisions which may well be unpopular with any of the people that you’re working with.”
Pfister, for his part, noted that chairing the Ad Board could present a conflict of interest for Khurana if any of his students from Cabot were to go before the body. Similarly, Pfister said, Khurana might write a fellowships letter in his capacity as a House master and find himself in the position to review that letter as the College dean. There may also be the appearance of conflict where it does not actually exist, Pfister added.
Still, Pfister and other administrators said they were confident in Khurana’s ability to appropriately address any conflicts that might come up. “It can get murky,” Pfister said. “But he’s very much aware of it, and I know that he will be ethical in every part of this.”
“In terms of conflicts, I think he’s very perceptive and sensitive, and I think he’ll be able to understand when his roles are in conflict and step away,” Lassonde said. “He certainly will have a lot of advice and training from [the Dean’s office] to help him as he approaches decisions where there may be some possible conflicts.”
When Khurana assumes the deanship this summer, he will succeed Pfister, who has been serving as the interim dean since last summer. Evelynn M. Hammonds stepped down from the post last July.
—Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
—Staff writer Steven S. Lee can be reached at steven.lee@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @StevenSJLee.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Have you heard? The SAT is changing! Everyone panic!
There has been a lot of publicity surrounding the recently announced changes to the College Board’s perennial pain-in-the-butt. College students and alumni around the nation are indignant that younger generations will not have to suffer through painful analogies, senseless vocabulary words like “grandiloquent,” and an essay graded more on the use of semicolons and complex adjectives than its content or structure. We suffered—why shouldn’t they?
Meanwhile, high school students and parents are in a frenzy. “Does this mean I can’t prepare for the test!?” “What will become of my years of test prep!?” “Does Kaplan’s Higher Score guarantee still apply!?” Most likely, all of these reactions are unnecessary. While the announced changes certainly sound like the beginnings of a paradigm-shift, the reality is that the “new” SAT promises to be more of the same.
In case you haven’t followed, the College Board recently announced several changes to the new SAT, which will start in the spring of 2016. Among these changes are:
1. The use of less arcane vocabulary words—to be replaced by words “commonly used in college courses,” such as “empirical” or “synthesis.”
2. The essay will be optional, and will give students the opportunity to deconstruct a passage’s reasoning, argument, and evidence.
3. The guessing penalty will be eliminated.
4. Scoring will be out of 1,600, instead of 2,400.
5. Math will focus on a more limited range of questions—specifically linear equations, complex equations and functions, percentages and proportional reasoning.
6. The reading and writing will include real passages drawn from several disciplines.
7. Every exam will include a reading passage from one of the nation’s “founding documents”—such as the Declaration of Independence or the Constitution—or passages discussing such documents.
So why did the College Board decide to make these changes? One reason, in the words of College Board president David Coleman, was that the SAT had “become disconnected from the work of our high schools.” Indeed, it has long been pointed out that high school grades are a much better predictor of college success than test scores.
Another justification for these changes concerns the test preparation industry. According to Coleman, these changes are intended to combat the “culture and practice of costly test preparation that has arisen around admissions exams [and which] drives the perception of inequality and injustice in our country.” In essence, by making the test “more accessible,” the College Board aims to prevent wealthier students from “buying” good scores by paying for expensive test prep services.
These certainly sound like worthy endeavors, but the announced changes are unlikely to serve them in any significant way.
First, using more “commonplace” college vocabulary is unlikely to narrow the divide between students who can afford test prep and those who can’t. Students from low-income households or neighborhoods are just as unlikely to be exposed to words like “empirical” as they are to words like “flotilla.” Hence, there is little reason to believe that this change would equalize the “vocab playing field” in any meaningful way.
Second, revised reading and writing sections sound remarkably similar to the reading comprehension sections currently offered on the ACT or the LSAT—both tests in which Kaplan et al. have held a substantial market share for decades. There is little reason to believe that if these companies can teach students how to raise their scores for such similar tests, that they will not be able to continue advantaging wealthier students. The same can be said of the revised mathematics section.
More likely, these changes are the College Board’s attempt to reclaim lost market share from the ACT, which recently became the test-of-choice for college-bound students. Indeed, for a company that boasted over $720 million in revenue during 2011, bigger market share means big money.
The conspicuous homage to the nation’s founding treatises suggests the College Board is attempting to rebrand itself as the “all-American test.” Why should students continue taking the SAT? Well, they should take it because it is American—that’s what we do.
So what is the takeaway? Nobody should be getting up-in-arms about these changes. The College Board has made a well-calculated (and hopefully, effective) set of changes to their flagship test, but these are unlikely to change much—if anything—about how students study for the SAT or which students have an advantage preparing for it.
David Mainiero is an admissions expert at inGenius prep, an admissions counseling company that helps students build their candidacy and perfect their applications for college and professional schools.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard men’s and women’s swimming and diving programs proved their dominance within the Ivy League with their individual league championships but in the upcoming weeks, a few Crimson athletes will have the chance to represent Harvard on a national scale. The women will compete in the NCAA Division I Championships March 20-22 in Minneapolis, Minn. and the men will compete March 27-29 in Austin, Texas.
To say the challenge of reaching the NCAAs is fierce would understate the fact. For the swimmers, each event took the 35 women and the 30 men with the top times in the country. On the diving side, 35 men and women will each get the chance to compete.
One of the divers competing is junior Mike Mosca, who swept the Ivy League Championships in both the one-meter and three-meter events. He punched his ticket for the NCAAs earlier this week in the Zone A Qualifying Meet, taking third on the three-meter board and topping the podium in the following one-meter event.
“I think the NCAA diving qualifier is very difficult because from Harvard’s standpoint there was only one man and one woman who went,” said men’s swimming and diving coach Kevin Tyrrell. “You don’t have that team dynamic of 40 people cheering for you at once but Mike can handle the pressure. He’s a proven winner and he can handle situations like that where some other people probably can’t.”
It will be Mosca’s second consecutive trip to the championships. He added several new dives to his repertoire this year, increasing the degree of difficulty of his diving portfolio.
“It’s a big competition, it can be intimidating,” Mosca said. “But I think I’ve been to enough of those at this point in my life that I know just to have fun.”
Though the men’s team has yet to find out which swimmers have qualified, it is expecting to send the 200-yard freestyle relay team and freshman Eric Ronda in the 200 breaststroke. Other possible qualifiers include senior Chris Satterthwaite and freshman Jack Manchester, but both could miss out by four or five spots according to Tyrrell.
Alongside Mosca at the Zone A Qualifiers on the women’s side was freshman Elina Leiviska. The rookie took 14th in the one-meter dive and 12th in the three-meter after placing in both events at the Ivy League Championships.
“I’m proud of her,” said women’s swimming and diving coach Stephanie Wriede Morawski ’92. “As a freshman, it is tough to be up against competition who know how things work. She learned a lot and will definitely be a competitor next year.”
At Ivies, sophomore Danielle Lee not only set a program record by winning the 100 backstroke, but later won the 200 backstroke, setting another pool record, and placed third in the 400 and 200 medley relay.
The sophomore clocked in at 52.77 in her 100 backstroke during the 400 medley relay, registering an NCAA B cut time and setting an Ivy League record. Lee found out this week she was invited to race in the 100 backstroke, the 100 butterfly and the 200 backstroke events.
“I didn’t think I would make it this year,” Lee said. “I went into the year swimming and practicing and just hoping for the best. I would have been happy dropping a little bit of time, but it’s nice to know that all of the work I did this year paid off.”
While the rest of her team wrapped up for the season a few weeks back, Lee remained hard at work. Some of her teammates have joined in as well, supporting the sophomore in her preparation for NCAAs.
“There have been a couple of swimmers that came and swam with me during the week, which is really nice because it’s hard to motivate yourself for difficult sets when it’s just you,” Lee said. “There’s been so much support throughout the season—from my captains, my fellow sophomores, and the whole team really.”
Lee hasn’t set specific goals for her performance at NCAAs, but looks forward to representing the Crimson.
“It’s really special that there aren’t very many swimmers that make it to the NCAAs from the Ivy League,” Lee said. “I hope that I’m able to compete and be at the level of all those other swimmers that are from big universities that focus on athletics, and that I am able to be up there with them, and race alongside them.”
—Staff writer Orlea L. Miller can be reached at omiller@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Theresa C. Hebert can be reached atthebert@college.harvard.edu
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Less than a week ago, after watching Harvard clinch the Ivy League on his home floor, Yale men’s basketball coach James Jones took the podium. Clearly frustrated by his team’s inability to hit big shots down the stretch, Jones was understandably terse with the media. Late in the press conference, however, when asked about the “Harvard dynasty,” he had this to say:
“I thought last year’s team was better than this year’s team.”
Jones’ sentiment is certainly unusual. Last year’s team expectations were dimmed with the departures of seniors Kyle Casey and Brandyn Curry. It came together late, winning nine of its first 10 Ivy League contests, and memorably winning its first tournament game.
This year’s team came in with many more accolades. Curry and Casey, both All-Ivy honorable mentions in 2014, came back. Freshman Zena Edosomwan, the first top-100 recruit to choose Harvard, stepped on campus after a one-year sojourn at prep school Northfield Mount Hermon. After the Crimson beat Yale, Sports Illustrated wrote of the league title, “we already know that isn’t enough.”
While part of this unit’s legacy has yet to be settled, I set out to tackle Jones’ contention within the scope of a larger question: Where does this squad rank among the historical Ivy greats? The most successful conference team in recent memory is easily the 1979 Penn Quakers, the last league team to make the Final Four.
With that in mind, I looked at each of the last 34 Ivy champions. The numbers not only indicate that this year’s Harvard squad was significantly better, but that last year’s Crimson team might have been one of the league’s worst champions in the last three decades.
The 2013 unit was middle of the pack by the Rating Percentage Index (RPI), an important metric used by the Tournament Selection Committee to evaluate a team based on its winning percentage and quality of opponents. But RPI doesn’t take into account margin of victory, on which the team scores significantly worse The 2012-2013 Crimson had an average conference margin of victory of just 4.2 points, eighth worst in the sample. It won seven  league games by single digits and only two by 15 points or more. This year? The team’s 13.3-point average margin of victory ranked third and it recorded seven 15-point wins during league play.
Overall point differential treats last year’s team even worse. While the 2013-2014 squad ranks ninth in the sample at an average margin of victory of 15.4 points a game, last season’s squad is the worst of the 34, checking in at 5.2.
Neither can last year’s team claim the conference was better a season ago. As a proxy for league difficulty, I looked at the league-average RPI for the last 10 years. Last year, the average was a tick above 217—with 351 teams in Division I, that’s a pretty strong indictment of the league’s quality of play. This year? 194.
Neither team boasts a significant nonconference victory, but the 2014 squad was far more consistent, losing just four games and tying a school record with 26 wins. Last year’s team holds, as of now, a significant advantage over this year’s squad—an NCAA Tournament victory. Since the Ivy is just 7-33 in the tournament since 1980, with Harvard’s victory last year the league’s best in the span, the win is quite a feather in its cap.
Neither the best nor the worst team came from Cambridge. The 1997-1998 Princeton squad, which went 27-2 and earned a five seed in the NCAA Tournament, blew out opponents by 15 points per game and earned an RPI of 21.
If that was the Ivy League best, the 1985-1986 champions from Brown—the school’s last winner—might be the worst. Those Bears tied for the fewest wins ever by a champion with 10, and on the season were outscored by an average of 2.2 points every time they took the court.
But if there’s any moral of this story, it’s that this team’s legacy will have to wait to be settled. Of the 10 top champions, just three won a game in the Tournament.
And thus, on to Selection Sunday we go.
—Staff writer David Freed can be reached at david.freed@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twtter at @CrimsonDPFreed.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Congratulations, 2017! You now know your home for the next three years, and have hopefully read up on everything you could wish to know about it! But it can be hard to remember all the things you have to boast about if your friends start hating on your House and you need to defend its superiority. We’ve come up with a concise cheat sheet so you’re prepared at any moment!River EastDunster - "We're the epitome of the "old Harvard" housing, minus the sucky walkthroughs!" (Once 2015 rolls around and you finally get to move in, that is).Mather - "SINGLES. Look at all the singles. Just don’t look at the exterior."Leverett - "Monkey Bread is delicious. Towers offer great views. I promise we have house spirit. Sometimes."SquareAdams - "01:38"Lowell -  "We can “Get Lowell” and get “Drunk in Lowell”. We're redefining the Housing video game."Quincy - "We're "the people's House". No, I don't know what that means either, but it sounds good!"QuadCabot - "We share our name with a cheese brand."Currier - "Scary trees."Pforzheimer (sp?) - "Now I can misspell any word that begins with an ‘F’ and it will be pfunny every pfreaking time."River WestEliot - "You didn’t get into Eliot? Don’t talk to me."Kirkland - "It’s a really tight-knit community. Like, really tight-knit."Winthrop - "Kennedys on Kennedys."
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
America is suffering from an increasingly severe cultural split between upper and lower class white citizens, author Charles A. Murray ’65 declared in a talk at the Institute of Politics Thursday.
Murray, who gained national attention for his controversial 1994 bestseller, “The Bell Curve,” said that although class differences have always existed, the schism now is more rooted in cultural differences than financial inequality.
“Over the course of the last 50 years we have seen the developments of classes in the United States that are different in kind from the classes we’ve had before,” Murray said Thursday evening. “We’ve always had rich people and poor 	people—that is not different. This is divergence in the culture of the classes.”
Murray discussed the findings of his recently published book, “Coming Apart: The State of White America,” and fielded questions from the audience alongside event moderator William Kristol ’73, the founder and editor of the Weekly Standard and former chief of staff to Vice President Dan Quayle.
“The book takes a long look at the new upper class, and its culture, and its segregation from the rest of the society,” Murray said. He added, “the conclusion at the end of it all is that we are in grave danger of the American project unraveling.”
Expanding upon one of the fundamental case studies of his book, Murray explained that marriage statistics reveal one of the most visible cultural differences between classes. According to Murray, in 1960 approximately 94 percent of upper-middle class white people ages 30-49 were married; in 2010, this number hovered around 84 percent.
“Marriage is alive and well in the upper-middle class,” he said.
However, Murray said that among the white working class, 84 percent of people in the same age group were married in 1960, compared to just 48 percent in recent years.
Looking down the road, Murray said he is not optimistic about the future of class divisions in America. He explained that he has very few realistic solutions for solving the current trend. However, in an interview before the event, Murray noted that Harvard could potentially play an instrumental role in reintegrating lower and upper classes by initiating affirmative action based on socioeconomic status in addition to race.
“There are lots of really, really bright working-class white kids out there who can easily deal with Harvard’s curriculum,” Murray said. “They get dominated by the super, super bright kids who come out of the terrific prep schools. This sorta squeezes out the population of white working-class kids. I would like to see just as many students admitted on a basis of affirmative action as are now…[but also] a lot more working-class kids.”
Murray concluded his more than 30-minute speech by arguing that the increase in cultural differences is a positive feedback loop, and if action is not taken, the differences will continue to grow exponentially.
—Staff writer Forrest K. Lewis can be reached at forrest.lewis@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After winning its first Ivy League title in six years, the Harvard varsity men’s swimming and diving team has officially begun the search for a head coach.
The announcement comes six months after previous head coach Tim D. Murphy left Harvard for the same position at Pennsylvania State University. Murphy coached men’s swimming and diving at Harvard for 15 years, and he tallied a 122-11 dual meet record and seven undefeated dual meet seasons during that time.
Since Murphy’s exit, Kevin M. Tyrell has served as interim head coach. His short tenure has been one of the most successful in recent memory. This past season, the team captured its 23rd Ivy League championship and spoiled Princeton’s five-year conference title streak.
Tyrell’s success this season led some swimmers on the team to believe that he would make an excellent candidate for the official full-time position.
“When it comes down to it, it’ll be [Tyrrell] against a couple of other very qualified candidates, and I think we’re all pretty confident that he’ll be given the head coaching job,” swimmer Griffin T. Schumacher ’15 said.
“Everyone [on the team] wants [Tyrrell] to come back,” he continued. “He’s done an incredible job in his one year, [and] we won the Ivy League title and that’s definitely a bonus. I don’t think you could find a single person [on the team] that wouldn’t want him to return.”
According to a letter written by Director of Athletics Robert L. Scalise to the Friends of Harvard Swimming and Diving, the athletic department is “charged with running a search process” in accordance with Harvard’s policies.
The current search committee is chaired by Patricia Henry, senior associate director of athletics, and is exploring the possibility of promoting Tyrrell and investigating other potential outside candidates, Scalise wrote in the letter.
“While we have an outstanding internal candidate, in order to be good stewards of the program, we believe it is in the best long-term interest of swimming and diving at Harvard to look outside as well and to do a full, thorough search for the next head coach,” Scalise wrote.
Joining Scalise and Henry on the committee are Fred Schernecker '89, director of Harvard men's and women's golf; Paul A. Gompers '86, an HBS professor; and Gary Brown, associate director of Harvard Athletics. Current team leaders on the men’s swimming and diving squad also met with the committee and will have the opportunity to speak with finalists for the position.
Senior captain Chris L. Satterthwaite ’14 said that he believes the committee will make the right choice and is confident the team will flourish under the new head coach next season.
“I have no doubt the athletic administration...will make a decision that’s right for the future,” Satterthwaite said. “I’m sure that whoever’s the coach next year, I’m sure I would have been happy to swim under them.”
—Staff writer Forrest K. Lewis can be reached at forrest.lewis@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Caleb Y. Lee can be reached at caleblee@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Persistent snowfall and gusts of wind did not prevent upperclassmen from flocking to the Yard in full force to participate in Harvard’s annual Housing Day festivities Thursday morning.
Donning creative gear—including boxer shorts, bathing suits, and mascot costumes—students from River and Quad Houses alike battled the cold to storm the freshman dorms, deliver House assignments, and incite House spirit.
Cabot House Committee Co-Chair Caroline R. Breinin ’15 said that, despite the Quad’s distance from the Yard, students from Cabot were not deterred by inclement weather.
“We were actually one of the first Houses there at 7:15 in the morning,” she said.
Alice F. Berenson ’16, who helped deliver letters for Mather, agreed that the weather did not stop people from celebrating Housing Day.
“I think that midterms did that more than the snow,” she said.
Although the snowstorm proved little obstacle for the morning’s letter deliveries, it did impact some of the afternoon’s festivities. While in past years House members have set up tables and banners on the lawn outside Memorial Hall, which sometimes included carnival games and petting zoos, students moved this year’s excitement indoors.
Over breakfast, freshmen expressed enthusiasm as the anxiety of the morning’s uncertainty transformed into burgeoning House pride.
Jacques van Ryhn ’17 and his seven blockmates were among the first freshmen to arrive in Annenberg after receiving their letter, which assigned them to Eliot House.
Van Ryhn described the morning as “nerve-wracking” and said that he and his blocking group had no idea what to expect, although they are pleased with their housing assignment.
“My roommate is also getting Eliot, and one of my really good friends also got in, so I’m super excited,” he said.
Sarah Tsou ’17 also said she was anxious while waiting for her housing letter.
“We were all in the room by 7:15 just waiting and watching the people start to stream into the Yard,” she said. “We were all so antsy. I couldn’t sit still—I was pacing across the room.”
Tsou and her six blockmates were assigned to Quincy House, and she said that they are thrilled.
“I think, among our group, it was our first choice, but we were afraid to say it was our first choice,” she said.
Alexandra C. Tartaglia ’17 said that she and her five blockmates already feel like “energizer bunnies” after being assigned to Leverett House.
“We’re going to bring the spirit,” she said, adding that she and her blockmates felt welcome already.
Upperclassmen lined the entrance in Annenberg dining hall to welcome freshmen with music, cheers, and paraphernalia to represent their new Houses. Students said that Housing Day is a time for the entire House to come together and bond.
“It was the first time I have ever seen all of Mather united for one common cause, and it was classic Mather—we started with a party,” Berenson said. “We’ve been pumped since 6:15 in the morning.”
Breinin said that Housing Day is “one of the best days at Harvard” because of the House spirit and general excitement.
“I think one of the really great things is that everybody’s super happy for each other. It’s not really a competition among the Houses,” she said. “All the [HoCo] co-chairs are really supportive of each other, they just want to have the best experience possible for all the students who get in.”
—Staff writer Nikki D. Erlick can be reached at nikki.erlick@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @nikkierlick.
—Staff writer Brianna D. MacGregor can be reached at brianna.macgregor@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @bdmacgregor.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The MBTA will run trains on the Red, Orange, Blue, and Green lines until about 2:30 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday mornings beginning on March 28, state and local officials announced on Thursday.
“Late night T service is the result of listening to our citizens and trying to respond to their needs,” Governor Deval L. Patrick ’78 said, according to a press release from his office.  “World class cities offer late night public transit, to support the workforce and a vibrant nightlife, and Boston is a world class city.”
David Luberoff, a senior project advisor to the Radcliffe Institute’s Boston Area Research Initiative and a sociology lecturer, echoed Patrick’s sentiment, acknowledging that many believe that Boston’s lack of nightlife might hinder the city’s ability to compete economically and culturally.
But Luberoff said that it remains to be seen if that belief is accurate.
“We don’t really know if that’s true, so this is an experiment,” he said. “We’ll see what happens.”
The announcement comes after officials announced last December that the T and some bus routes will run for about 90 minutes more on weekend nights as part of a one-year pilot program. Residents of the Boston metropolitan area have said for years that the city’s public transportation services, which currently end at around 1 a.m. each morning, put significant restrictions on Boston’s late-night social scene.
The program is estimated to cost the state around $16 million over the next year, according to the Governor’s office. A small slice of that sum—around $1.5 million—has already been pledged by various corporate sponsors. The state is also seeking $20,000 in crowd-sourced funding for the program but will have to absorb a significant remainder of the costs.
A late-night extension of MBTA services was a popular plank of multiple campaigns during last year’s Boston mayoral election. Since his victory, first-term Boston Mayor Martin J. Walsh has voiced his support of the extension.
"My administration is committed to creating the kind of safe and vibrant late-night culture that's expected of a world-class city," Walsh said, according to a press release from the governor’s office. "Transportation is a critical element to making that vision a reality. I applaud Governor Patrick, Secretary Davey and Dr. Scott for their work to bring back late night service for the visitors and residents of Boston."
The program is expected to be particularly popular among college students, many of whom have joined Boston residents in complaints about the MBTA’s weekend hours.
—Staff writer Matthew Q. Clarida can be reached at matthew.clarida@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MattClarida.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: March 14, 2014
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the days on which select MBTA lines will stay open late. In fact, the Red, Orange, Blue, and Green lines will remain open until about 2:30 a.m. on Saturdays and Sundays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
