News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: October 6, 2014, at 12:00 a.m.
Harvard University police are continuing to investigate a death threat that was emailed to several hundred Harvard affiliates, among others, on Friday afternoon, as new pieces of evidence came forward throughout the weekend claiming that the original threat was a mistake.
Early in the day Saturday, Harvard Police issued a community advisory message that said the email likely originated from outside the country, and late that afternoon, another piece of evidence arrived in some Harvard students’ email inboxes that appeared to corroborate that. Slightly more than 100 Harvard affiliates, most of them College students, received an email at 4:50 p.m. Saturday from the same “hotmail.de” address that had sent a death threat to several hundred people the day before.
Saturday’s email, addressed to “Harvard students and employees,” issued an apology for the day’s previous threat. The author of the email, who claimed to be 15 years old and live in France, wrote that his or her younger brother had sent Friday afternoon’s threatening message. Saturday’s email, like Friday afternoon’s, was agrammatical and written in broken English.
The Harvard University Police Department has seen the message, according to spokesperson Steven G. Catalano, and he said its investigation remained “open and ongoing” on Sunday evening.
Saturday’s email came several hours after Catalano told Harvard affiliates in a 9:50 a.m. community advisory message that “it appears at this time that the threat may not be credible.”
HUPD increased both its uniformed and plain-clothed presence this weekend in response to Friday’s threat, but campus remained open and operations were not curtailed. Catalano declined to comment on whether HUPD planned to maintain its increased campus presence on Monday.
The email message at the center of the ongoing investigation, sent to students Friday, threatened violence and was racially charged. In a copy of the email shared with The Crimson, its author claimed that he or she would come to Harvard on Saturday at “11 clock” and “shoot all of you” and “kill you individually.” The email’s time stamp indicates that it was sent at 4:44 p.m. Friday from the same “hotmail.de” email address as Saturday’s apparent apology.
At least some Harvard students received a second email with the same text at 4:50 p.m. Friday from a different Google Mail address.
Addressed to “All students at Harvard,” the text of both threatening emails included what appeared to be racist language. The emails referred to their intended recipients as “slit-eyes.” Many, but not all, of the emails’ intended recipients were women of Asian descent.
The threatening emails were not anonymous. In the emails, the author or authors self-identified as Stephanie Nguyen and claimed to live in Boston. The address from which the first email was received, however, identified the sender as Eduardo Nguyen. The Google Mail address identified the sender as Huy Dinh.
Dozens of Harvard students, some of whom received the death threat on Friday, had previously been contacted, through the same Google Mail address, by a person who self-identified as Huy Dinh. Those messages date back months.
The Crimson received a response to a request for comment from the Google Mail address early Sunday afternoon. The sender appeared to ask The Crimson to delete its online story on the death threat and claimed not to have written the original threat.
Saturday’s message from the “hotmail.de” address also expressed regret for the original threat. The sender asked that recipients “please feel sorry for the terrible news that my brother has written to my email address please forgive me for the unpleasant message.”
The sender claimed to be “not a killer, not a killer” and wrote that “There is no running amok in Harvard University I promise you.” The body of Saturday’s message, unlike Friday’s, was not signed with a name.
“I will bear the responsibility please call back all media,” the message read.
Several hundred Harvard affiliates received another, similarly apologetic message at 8:47 a.m. Sunday morning from the same “hotmail.de” address. The message also apparently requested The Crimson to delete its online story on the death threat.
CAMPUS DISRUPTED
Friday’s threat prompted the involvement of outside law enforcement and disrupted student life on campus. Cambridge Police Department and the FBI are supporting HUPD in its investigation.
Christina H. Gao ’16-’17, who was a recipient of the threat, said Friday evening that she was comforted by HUPD’s quick response. “I was planning on being in my room during the time that was [outlined] in the email,” she said. “Of course it’s scary, but I’m glad HUPD is on it.”
Still, Friday’s death threat had led to at least two scheduling changes on campus.
On Friday night, Harvard Women in Computer Science decided to reschedule a party, planned for Saturday night, to later in the month.
“In an effort to stay as safe as possible, we've decided to move this event,” event organizers wrote in a Facebook post.
The Harvard-Radcliffe Asian American Association and several other Asian cultural groups, for their parts, had planned to co-host an event on the Asian American experience at Harvard on Saturday afternoon. By late Friday night, after talking with police, organizers decided to postpone the discussion, entitled “Perspectives: Being Asian American at Harvard,” until next Saturday, Oct. 11, out of concern for the event’s attendees.
“To all of our dear friends who received this afternoon’s email, we express our sincerest sympathy and support,” organizers wrote in a message announcing the postponement shared with The Crimson. “No one should have to open their inbox and see such a threatening and racially charged message.”
The message also included a list of campus counseling resources for distressed students.
Instead, several students from the aforementioned student groups held an informal gathering  in the Adams House Lower Common Room on Saturday at 2 p.m. According to a post on the “Perspectives” Facebook event page, the discussion was meant “to create a safe space for members of our community to come together.”
At least one HUPD officer was present, guarding the door to the Lower Common Room. Around a dozen people were in attendance.
—Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
—Staff writer Theodore R. Delwiche can be reached at theodore.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @trdelwic.
—Staff writer Alexander H. Patel can be reached at alex.patel@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter @alexhpatel.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
WASHINGTON, D.C.—No Hempel, no Stanton, no problem in the nation’s capital.
Four touchdowns from senior running back Andrew Casten pushed the Harvard football team past Georgetown, 34-3, without injured starting quarterback Conner Hempel and starting running back Paul Stanton.
In the Crimson’s (3-0, 1-0 Ivy) first-ever matchup against Georgetown (2-4, 0-1 Patriot), Harvard got on the scoreboard early and never let up. The visiting team led, 13-3, after one and added touchdowns in the second, third, and fourth quarters at the Hoyas’ Multi-Sport Field.
Casten finished the game with 139 yards on 19 carries.
“The thing about Andrew is you try to pigeonhole him as the big back or he’s this or that—he’s just a good back,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “He’s a complete back, and he’s improved about as much as anybody at any position. He’s legit. He’s really legit.”
The senior’s strong day came after he ran for 153 yards and three scores in the Crimson’s season-opening 41-18 win over Holy Cross. Stanton was in the lineup last week but did not make the trip to D.C.
Hempel was held out for a second week after suffering a back injury against Holy Cross. In his stead, junior quarterback Scott Hosch was 20-for-25 through the air in the win.
“The kid has done about as well as you can possibly expect considering that 14 days ago he was our third quarterback and was taking almost no reps,” Murphy said. “He’s a very cerebral kid, he’s got a high football IQ, and he’s very poised.”
Murphy added that he expects to see Stanton back in the lineup next week against Cornell but was not sure if Hempel would be ready to play.
Hosch’s 27-yard touchdown toss to sophomore wideout Joseph Foster put Harvard up, 34-3, in the fourth quarter and ended any hopes of a Hoya comeback.
Hosch’s 20 completions were spread to a variety of targets, especially after Murphy emptied his bench in the fourth quarter.
Senior Seitu Smith II and junior Andrew Fischer each brought down a team-high four catches while junior tight end Ben Braunecker had three catches for 53 yards.
Sophomore tight end Anthony Firkser had two long receptions, but fumbled the ball on the second one after gaining 39 yards.
The Hoyas scooped up the ball and ran it back to their 40. Yet they could not convert the field position into points as Harvard’s defense held, which it did often on Saturday.
Georgetown managed to accrue only 227 yards and was stopped on multiple fourth-down attempts throughout the game. Its lone field goal came on its first drive when two big passes set up a 36-yard attempt.
“In a perfect world, we’d like to get more three-and-outs, and we’d like to dominate field position a little more with our defense,” Murphy said, “But the bottom line is we gave up no touchdowns, so that’s a great day.”
That field goal was sandwiched by Casten’s first two touchdowns. His first came less than three minutes into the game on a two-yard push. A 22-yard scamper gave him his second eight minutes later.
Casten completed the hat trick with 55 seconds left in the first half on a six-yard run up the middle as the Crimson’s offensive line opened up another big hole for him.
“Those guys make my job easy,” said Casten of the offensive line. “They were mashing people all day.”
The senior’s fourth score came late in the third quarter from three yards out. Each of Harvard’s scoring drives took less than four minutes as the Crimson used pace to overpower a Georgetown defense that had not given up more than 23 points in a game this season before Saturday.
Harvard continued moving the ball in the fourth quarter after junior quarterback Jimmy Meyer and sophomore running back Blade Brady came in, possessing the ball for most of the fourth period.
With the victory, the Crimson increased its non-conference winning streak to 10 games dating back to 2011.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacob.feldman@thecrimson.com.Follow him on Twitter @jacobfeldman4.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
When he gave a speech at Thursday’s Institute of Politics Forum, United States Vice President Joseph R. Biden could relate to Undergraduate Council Vice President Sietse K. Goffard ’15. When Goffard mentioned his position on the UC during a Q & A session, Biden quipped, “Isn’t it a bitch?”
But how much can Biden really relate to our student government’s vice president? Well, they do have a few things that are sort of in common. Here are just a few comparisons:
1. Biden used to travel an hour and a half by Amtrak to get to work. As a Currier resident, Goffard must go to comparable lengths to reach the Yard from the Quad on the shuttle. (We wonder if Biden is allowed to eat at the White House on Thursdays.)
2. The White House must frequently deal with international crises. The UC has to deal with House Committee funding crises. At least Eliot’s budget debate didn’t cause a student government shutdown.
3. Biden’s selfie game is too strong; his first Instagram selfie was with the U.S. President himself. Goffard can hold his own, though; he snapped an Oscar-worthy photo with University President Drew G. Faust. Talk about #presidentialselfie.
4. As U.S. Vice President, Biden must be strategic in discussions with diplomats and military personnel.  Goffard saves his war strategies for glorious Chess battles in the Science Center plaza.
5. The U.S. government responds to national security threats. Meanwhile, the UC responds to administrators hiding difficulty scores on the Q Guide. (Seriously though, Math 55: A difficulty rating of 4.6? Talk about DEFCON 1.)
Sections
Midterms are well on their way, and over the next few weeks we'll all inevitably hermit ourselves in our dining halls to study. Since you probably don’t want to gain 15 pounds while getting your A-, we've written up up a brief list of the most and least healthy HUDS offerings to try in your dhall this week.
Healthy: Swai with Honey Ginger GlazeOh, Swai! How we love you so! This incarnation of the infamous only packs 126 calories per serving. You could eat it all day if you wanted to (but you won’t).
Somehow Not As Healthy: Caesar Salad BowlAt 192 calories, this pre-made salad gets beaten by swai. SWAI. You will still eat this instead, though, to create the illusion of being healthy, even as you add grilled chicken and extra dressing on top.
Delicious, but Not So Healthy: Blue Cheese Burger with BaconAdmit it, you've consumed at least eight of these bad boys since they appeared on the menu as this past week’s special, maybe twice under someone else’s name at the grill. At 288 calories—131 from fat alone—14.5 g. of fat, and 880.4 mg. of sodium per serving, you should probably lay off this special.
Unhealthy, but Who Cares: French FriesThanks to new grill changes, you can have them whenever you want, which is probably all the time. Coming in at 359 calories per serving, you may not want to eat them every day if you’re not planning to run a marathon afterwards to offset it.
So Unhealthy We Don’t Believe It: Blondie BrowniesIt's not that shocking that a dessert will come as the most unhealthy, but it’s more than just that. HUDS’s website claims that one piece of this dessert contains a whopping 940 calories and 640 mg. of sodium. Here’s to hoping one piece equals the whole tray. Otherwise, stock up on these if you finally plan on hibernating this winter.
