News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
When 12 men put on heels and skirts and get on stage to belt puns and sexual innuendoes, it’s bound to be a good night. Hasty Pudding Theatricals has known this for 219 years, and the company did not disappoint in its 166th production, "Victorian Secrets," which will run until March 9 at Farkas Hall. The show includes a chock full of religious sexual puns—"I don’t have a cross, but I’m still getting nailed"—a love song rife with chemistry pick-up lines, a human-sized sea urchin, five minutes of banter based solely off of mythical creature puns, and a finale with high-kicking men in sparkly heels. All of the elements are in place, and with an incredible cast and unfailingly witty lyrics by Ian D. Nightingale ’15, the production is an indisputable hit.
 
The play begins with the murder of Mona Lott (Tony T. Oblen ’14) in a brothel owned by Harriet Upinthere (Jonathan K. Stevens ’14). As the pseudo-detective Billy Club (Sam B. Clark ’15) bumbles through crime-solving, a Jewish mother (David A. Sheynberg ’16) is resurrected from death and a street urchin (Robert A. Flitsch ’15) dreams of getting rich. There is no end to the ridiculous plotlines, but the script—written by Brian J. Mendel ’15 and Petey E. Menz ’15, an active Crimson editor—contains some banter that falls flat. The fault in these lines is not so much the actors’ delivery as the writing—a few of the jokes were trite and not funny. However, the complex construction of the plotline, in which the murder mystery seems to be solved by intermission, is a welcome variation on the traditional comedic mystery structure.
 
The music, composed by Dylan MarcAurele ’16, is quite sophisticated and accommodates an impressive number of musical styles from tango music to rap breaks. MarcAurele’s score works very well as a comedy since many of the numbers draw themes from different musical genres as well as other notable musicals. While "That Would Be Rich," a charming duet sung by Filtsch and Reed S. Silverman ’15, has thematic echoes of "Wouldn’t It Be Lovely" from "My Fair Lady," the big "Bustin’ Out" number takes musical snippets from "Les Misérables" to heighten the over-the-top comedic effect. As the show progresses, the deep male voices coming from feminine figures becomes normal, and each ballad goes off without a hitch thanks to the solid score and the talent of the performers.
 
Indeed, the actors were so invested in their heavily costumed characters that it is easy to become engrossed in the plotline. Each strut and facial expression is perfectly calculated for optimal laughs. Some of the best expressions onstage have to be Clark’s wayward eyebrows and his character’s odd tic of opening and closing his jaw. Max R. McGillivray ’16 as Baron Wasteland thrusts his pelvis so far forward that his pillowed stomach threatened to break loose. Ella Mental (Karl C. Kopczynski ’15) moves across the stage with her rubber-gloved arms straight in front like a robotic, female version of Dr. Horrible.
 
One of the star performances of the night, though, is Sheynberg’s powerful performance as Rose Fromthedead. Rose’s daughter, budding mad scientist Ella Mental, hooks Mona Lott’s dead body up to a Frankenstein-like contraption and transfers her mother’s mind to Mona’s body (don’t think about it too hard; it’s a musical farce, after all). Sheynberg emerges from a stupor in a surprising rap break that is part Matisyahu, part Yiddish Yenta, complete with a Jersey accent and a dose of Jewish guilt for her daughter Ella.
Individually, each actor is of professional quality, and when combined with the glamorous set and costumes that are part of every Pudding production, the show—produced, written, and performed by students—has no equal on campus. It’s simply an incredibly good time and when actors, pit members, and the creative team are all having fun, the enthusiasm seeps into the audience. This year’s Pudding production is a screaming success; there’s no secret about it.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Feb. 26, 2014
An earlier version of this article misspelled the first name of the greedy nobleman played by Max R. McGillivray ’16. In fact, the character's name is Baron Wasteland.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Hobbling through the Yard on a twisted ankle, I had just left the Saturday afternoon performance of Cultural Rhythms with my first interviewee, Lotus Cannon ’14. As we strode through the Science Center Plaza on our way to Pforzheimer for dinner, chatting about LL Cool J and how neither of us could remember any of his songs, Lotus’s phone rang. The caller: her mother. The conversation: unintelligible—at least to me. Russian, interspersed with the occasional English idiom, flowed from her lips, like a bilingual mad-lib.
The American-born daughter of an immigrant mother and an American father, Lotus considers herself a cultural hybrid of sorts. Her mother, Marina, arrived from St. Petersburg (then known as Leningrad) with the rest of Lotus’s extended family in the late 1980s. Fleeing from religious persecution in the Soviet Union because of her Jewish heritage, Marina arrived in Chicago at the age of 17, struggling to navigate a society in which she neither spoke the language nor understood the culture. She studied hard, eventually earning a master’s degree, and started a family of her own, having Lotus at the age of 21. When Lotus’s biological father left when she was six years old, Lotus grew to see her mother’s second husband, Dmitri—also a Russian immigrant—as her true father. She and her family now live in Edison, New Jersey, her house an island of Russian culture nestled in a predominantly Indian-American neighborhood.
Culturally and linguistically, Lotus had a blended childhood. At home, she communicated with her parents in a mix of Russian and English (“a 60-40 split”), ate predominantly Russian foods (her favorite: her step-father’s “pan-fried pelmeni”), and watched mostly American movies and television (“The Disney Channel and MTV”).
Despite her exposure to both worlds, Lotus says she feels at times like an outsider in each of them. During freshman year, she remembers sitting in Annenberg one day when she overheard two women down from her conversing in Russian. Typically eager to meet new people, Lotus turned to the two, introducing herself with a friendly “'Privet.” The two girls, however, told Lotus that she did not “look Russian,” and abruptly turned away from her after learning that she was both American-born and had Jewish roots. The experience, she notes, made her feel as if her exposure to Russian culture was somehow fraudulent, that she was a cultural impostor.
“Sometimes,” she says, “you feel as if you can’t fully identify with either your American or your foreign side. Russians, when they find out you were born in America, immediately dismiss you for it. And yet, despite having been born and raised in America, there’s always that part of you that shares another perspective, due to the influence of your parents and family.”
Even her name, redolent of “hippies and Pokémon attacks,” often engenders confusion. A common reaction: “Wait, but your last name isn’t Russian, is it? But I thought both your parents were Russian…” Her family has likewise taken to “Russifying” her name. “Lotus” has now become “Lotusya,” “Lota,” “Lotka,” and “Lotachka”—the latter two meaning “boat” in Russian.
Growing up, she was attracted to friends who had similar experiences to hers. Though geographically diverse in their origins, she and her childhood friends bonded through their shared experiences as the children of immigrants. In her aunt, Luba—whom Lotus, because of their small age difference, thinks of more as a sister—Lotus also found a mentor to help bridge the generational gap that she herself sometimes felt with her parents.
“Sometimes I feel as if I have to bridge a sort of cultural divide, justifying American politics and culture to my family just as I have to demystify some parts of Russian culture for my friends,” she notes.
At Harvard, Lotus discovered a community of people with whom she could explore her own hybrid identity after taking Russian for native and heritage speakers during her freshman spring, in which she gained a newfound appreciation for her bilingual background. Among her classmates, she discovered a cohort of peers who had, like her, been raised in a Russian-speaking household or had immigrated to America from Russia at a very young age. While the group differed to some degree in prior exposure to Russian, they bonded together through their joint exploration of the language, exchanging stories of their multicultural upbringings.
"It feels good to meet other people who come from a shared background,” she relates. “As much as I love having a group of diverse friends, it’s comforting knowing people who can identify with the experience of being an American from a Russian immigrant household."
Despite the complications of navigating both identities, Lotus is proud to be Russian and American alike.
“Some parents try to shield their kids from any trace of their immigrant roots in an effort to have them fit in and feel truly ‘American.’ That’s how many of my cousins were raised. It’s only now that I’m realizing how lucky I am to have had those experiences, for which I’m extremely grateful.”
Matthew M. Beck ’14 is a history and literature concentrator in Quincy House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Monday, the Harvard Palestine Solidarity Committee launched a testimony campaign, similar to last year’s mock eviction notices, to kick off international Israeli Apartheid Week.
The notices, posted on Harvard undergraduate student dorm-room doors, ask the questions, “How have you experienced apartheid?” or “What does apartheid mean to you?”
A variety of Harvard community members, from graduate and undergraduate students to service workers, have answered these questions from their own experiences, positionalities/identities and claims on subjective apartheid.
Harvard community members who identify as Black, Latino, LGBTQ, Muslim, Jewish, working class, gender minority, disabled, and Palestinian students have been asked to grapple with a problem that exists not only in the supposed Holy Land or southern Africa, but also right here at home.
Apartheids produce actual lived experiences. Yet, when intellectuals debate, academics analyze and critique, and governmental officials compartmentalize the term “apartheid,” it becomes an object to be studied, and not a force that lives, or rather, imposes itself on lives.
We are interested in flipping the question, or rather, flipping the question inside out to hear how apartheid relates to the lived experiences of Harvard community members.
A simple Google search confirms that situations as diverse as the United States to Rhodesia, the north of Ireland to Brazil, and Latin America to Saudi Arabia all have the word apartheid attached to them in waysold and new.
It was called apartheid in South Africa, segregation in the United States, and has become hafrada in Israel, a Hebrew word defining the official Israeli state policy of “separateness” imposed on Palestinians.
From segregated roads, buses, and territories, to checkpoints, a massive separation barrier, and what Noam Chomsky has called "the largest open-air prison in the world in Gaza," it has become quite difficult not to declare Israel an apartheid state.
In following the example of the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which sought to hear the real lived stories of those who suffered under South African apartheid, PSC has compiled a list of testimonies to a blog where they can be accessed by all to bear witness, jointly heal, and take part in the process of standing against apartheids that perpetuate in our societies.
In light of Black History Month, Audre Lorde famously stated, “There is no thing as a single issue struggle, because we do not live single issue lives.” The focus on building solidarity through recognizing our intersectionalities of experiences of apartheid is important.
As Harvard student Sandra Y.L. Korn ‘14 notes in her testimony, “I grew up hearing often about the horror that the Holocaust inflicted on people like me. Under the Third Reich, Jews were disenfranchised, subjected to discriminatory laws and ultimately forced to leave their homes, often for concentration camps…I hope never to forget the cruelty of state-sanctioned discrimination—and the stories of the brave and resilient people who organize against unjust systems of segregation and apartheid.”
For those who believe we make “complex” issues too “simple” through our campaign, they fail to realize that an injustice anywhere, is an injustice everywhere. The need to create parallels with humans who experience apartheid in various places across the globe is real.
Existence becomes resistance for black and brown bodies pipelined into the prison systems under American apartheid, just as it does when Palestinian prisoners, including children, are perpetually taken hostage, tortured, and imprisoned in apartheid Israel.
As humans dedicated to social justice, we believe these testimonies are crucial to the process of decolonzing our minds. Whether calling for divestment at campuses across the country or building new narratives to reshape the hearts and minds of marginalized communities, this campaign teaches us that activists and organizers can’t just treat Palestine or our allies like objects.
There is an inner-outer exchange to the processes we undertake, a liminal space where we encounter each other in oneness through joint struggle—which has important implications.
Harvard student Noemi Urquiza ‘17, a child of undocumented immigrants, notes, “All I ask is for a chance to live without the need to prove to people that they owe me my humanity.”We must be rigorous in building better relationships with our allies, each other and—equally important—with our own selves, for stories are the basis of our personal and collective journeys in the long-term struggle toward love, justice and peace.
As our stories connect the dots scattered by apartheids, like Palestinians within their lands, our active participation in joint struggle, working with, for, and in solidarity with our allies at Harvard, is a conscious decision to desegregate Harvard, and build community on more equal and just terms.
Alexander Abbasi, Harvard Divinity School ’15, is a Th.M. candidate in theology and a member of the Harvard Palestine Solidarity Committee.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On the trade-floor we knew within seconds that something unusual was happening. The first word came from Kevin York, my friend at Eurobrokers, who shouted over his squawk-box. “Steve Steve Steve! There’s paper flying out of the other tower! We’re getting out. We’re getting out!”
“What? What’s going on?”
But he had already gone.
Traders were standing up, puzzled. “Hey guys, the Cantor screens are down. What’s happening?” We switched the televisions to CNN, but were too quick for them: there was no news there yet. People were jumping up all over the floor, curious, gathering around the TVs. A yell from the Treasury trader: “Something is happening! Buy everything!”
A picture of the North Tower came on screen, smoke steaming out. We could see faces in the windows. Someone pointed to the Cantor floors and said blankly, “Sean Lynch is up there.” On my desk, Sean’s squawk-box had started emitting static. I turned it off.
The second plane went in. “Did you see that? Hold on, did you see that?” We were scared now, no longer curious. Trading stopped, and as the South Tower collapsed, we evacuated our building. I hurried home, flinching as the fighter jets screamed high above, and headed to the Sheep Meadow in Central Park, where I lay on my back in the bright sunshine, holding tight to the grass. There, no buildings could fall on me.
Four years later, I sat on a different trade-floor, in a different city, surrounded by the same landscape of traders, squawk-boxes and TVs. This time we were not ahead of the news. “Breaking story at Aldgate station. There have been several loud explosions reported on the tube network.” Relief: “The explosions were caused by a power surge on the Underground grid.” But then: the picture of the bus, with its roof grotesquely peeled off. “That is not a power surge,” someone said starkly beside me. A familiar visceral sickness swept over me, as the trade-floor emptied and I started a second walk home across a shut-down city, two daughters now waiting for me.
Then, one year ago, on a third trade-floor, in a third city: “Reports are coming in of explosions at the finish line.” Panic once again twisting in my gut: can this be happening again? Where is my wife? Where are my daughters?
Last spring, two weeks before the marathon, I spoke to my Harvard class about 2001. It is a story that is hard to tell. Kevin called me at 8:50 a.m. when the first plane went in, so he had 15 minutes until the second plane hit his tower, and an hour until it collapsed. Eighty-six floors to descend. We received details of his last movements from others. Halfway down, the loudspeaker announced that the building was secure. Kevin went back up to the office; others continued on down and survived. Even then there was a chance. After the second plane hit, Kevin was last seen by his colleague Brian Clark on the 81st floor, helping a struggling woman upstairs away from smoke. Clark went down through the smoke to safety.  In the North Tower, Sean Lynch and his brother died along with 656 colleagues at Cantor Fitzgerald.
I tell my students about the heartbreak of 2001, but I also speak of hope. That September I experienced the remarkable robustness of humanity. On September 12th, much of the city was closed to cars, and New Yorkers flooded into the streets. I wandered with my friends amongst crowds, stunned, but part of a communal statement of being alive. Restaurants were full, streets were packed. We were all New Yorkers and I was safe among them.
The magnificent resilience of the human spirit also manifested itself in London in 2005—“We are not afraid”—and here in Boston last April. Two days after the marathon, I stood in the Garden as the Bruins crowd sang the national anthem, unaccompanied; and I fought back tears as I had fought back tears in the fall of 2001, at funeral services in the churches of Montclair, Morristown, and Princeton. Two days later, after the shelter-in-place order was lifted, Boston erupted into life as New York had done 12 years earlier: students streamed out to bars in Harvard Square; local restaurants overflowed with neighbors and friends.
Twelve years, three atrocities. Three cities, one word. New York, London, Boston, Strong.
Stephen Blyth is Professor of the Practice of Statistics at Harvard University, and managing director at the Harvard Management Company. He previously worked at Morgan Stanley in New York and Deutsche Bank in London.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, Harvard College received the biggest donation in its history: $150 million from hedge-fund manager and philanthropist Kenneth C. Griffin ’89. While other universities have gotten larger gifts, Griffin’s contribution gives the College a lock on one superlative: most committed to a generous financial aid program in the nation. Creating 200 new scholarships and supporting 600 others, the money represents a deep commitment to this institution’s core values, and one that should be emulated.
 Today, ten years a go the College announced the creation of the Harvard Financial Aid Initiative.  Expanded two years later, HFAI lowered expected parent contributions for students across the board and waived fees entirely for those with family incomes of $65,000 or under. At the beginning of this academic year, 59.5 percent of students received some form of assistance, and the college’s average cost of attendance for those on aid stood at $15,486, making Harvard significantly cheaper than peer institutions such as Brown and Columbia. Unlike most American universities, the Harvard does not ask students on assistance to take out loans, reducing pressure on students to enter certain careers purely for financial reasons.
 Making Harvard affordable for people of all socioeconomic backgrounds is a worthy endeavor, but not one without costs: since 2007, the annual financial aid budget has ballooned by almost 90 percent to $182 million. Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 says that he will seek $600 million for financial assistance in the university’s recently-launched capital campaign, a sum that will ensure the continuation of HFAI. 
 We hope that Griffin’s donation portends good things to come. As much as the renovation of the Science Center plaza was welcome and housing renewal will be relief for Winthrop House’s beleaguered residents, people are what make a university great. Access—and its implicit promise of opportunity and upward mobility—must be at least as important as buildings and amenities. Griffin has acted in this spirit by devoting $125 million, the bulk of his gift, to financial aid. 
 We urge other university benefactors to follow his lead. They cannot all write $150 million checks, but they can help make a Harvard education possible for everyone.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Here’s how it happens. We meet in the soft evening light at a national landmark, preferably he Empire State Building or the Eiffel Tower, but I guess the Chrysler Building or something could do in a hurry. Eyes blazing with desire (don’t ask me how eyes can blaze, they just do) you run toward me and confess your love. You have loved me since you first laid eyes on me—no, since before you laid eyes on me! Perhaps I appeared to you in a dream. I sob and embrace you—wait, even better—I slap you and begin to turn away, and then I sob and embrace you. The music swells dramatically and our silhouettes kiss passionately as the credits begin to roll.
If this were a romantic comedy, a climactic declaration of love would have surely been due to me by now. If this were a romantic comedy, I’d only have to endure an hour and a half of witty banter and will-they-won’t-they tension before my soulmate would chase me down at the airport and stop me before I boarded my one-way flight to Paris.
But this is not a romantic comedy, so I sit here writing in the library, miles away from the airport and fully aware the man most consistently present in my life for the past few months has been the protagonist of a Netflix-exclusive TV series. And he’s already taken.
I grew up watching “Sleepless in Seattle,” “Clueless,” “10 Things I Hate About You,” “Sixteen Candles”…I saw every variation of the adorably quirky heroine find, lose, and find love again. Love could happen at first sight in an artsy bookstore (“Notting Hill”), after years of a friendship wrought with sexual tension (“When Harry Met Sally”), even with your worst enemy (“You’ve Got Mail”).
No matter the circumstance, you could be sure of two things: 1) The audience would know you should be together within the first five minutes of the film, if not from the trailer, and 2) Your courtship would drag out until the final credits. Love wasn’t necessarily immediate (“Knocked Up”), it usually wasn’t convenient (“Shakespeare in Love”), but it was nearly always inevitable (every piece of film and literature since “Pride and Prejudice”).
So why hadn’t it happened to me?
The danger of watching too many romantic comedies is that you begin to see any and every member of the opposite sex who crosses your path as your potential soul mate. Even his smallest gestures are coded symbols of romantic ardor. He keeps the pen he borrows from you in class? He’s obviously treasuring the token of your love.
In high school, I was hopelessly in love with a close male friend. I modeled our romantic story on “When Harry Met Sally,” where, after twelve years of platonic and then not-platonic relations, Harry runs to find Sally on New Year’s Eve and, you guessed it, dramatically confesses his love for her right before the clock strikes midnight.
Of course, for five years, the male friend in question had demonstrated about as much romantic interest in me as any healthy red-blooded male normally demonstrates for a sea urchin. Yet I convinced myself that not only was he denying feelings for me, he was hiding his love for some noble purpose, possibly involving the fate of the free world.
What actually happened was not nearly classy enough to fit into a script by Nora Ephron. At a friend’s birthday in my senior year of high school, the first time I went to a “real party,” said male friend made a drunken proposition to me in the bedroom of the poor party host.
Granted, this was not exactly the dramatic confession of love I had so longed for, but it still fit into my theory about the guy’s denial of his own feelings. I convinced myself that the influence of alcohol and the seductive powers of my recent haircut had temporarily impaired his self-restraint, causing him to give into the fierce passions that he had bottled up for so long. Reader, I made out with him.
For months afterward, I still expected him to show up at my doorstep (I had reluctantly given up the hope that we would meet at a national landmark), apologize for his ungentlemanly conduct, and beg that I would love him anyway. Of course, he did no such thing—he just ignored me and went on to hook up with my other best friend. And I didn’t even get to slap him in a public location.
Undaunted, I had high hopes that I would find my romantic-comedy ending at Harvard. After all, this was the site of “Love Story” and “Legally Blonde.” After seeing “Pitch Perfect,” I became determined to fall for a guy in the rival a cappella group. I’m a sucker for forbidden love, but sadly also tone deaf.
Needless to say, I still have yet to be wooed at a national landmark (and come on, we basically go to school in one—it’s so easy!).  I began to despair when by early November, the most romantic gesture I’d received was the waiter at Café Pamplona giving me the after 7 p.m. student discount at 6:50.
And when I did have kind of a romantic comedy-esque experience, I still wondered months later whether it only existed (exists?) in my head. Turns out that without a soundtrack and appropriate zoom-ins to show those blazing eyes, it’s kind of hard to tell.
But maybe what makes life better than a romantic comedy is that the dramatic confession of love hasn’t happened quite yet. After all, what exactly does the couple do after the credits roll? Do they just go on a date and ask each other where they’re from and how many siblings they have? It seems like the rest of the relationship would be a bit of a let down after that.
If this were a romantic comedy, the appropriate man would take this article as a cue to confess his feelings for me on the steps of Widener or the middle of the football field (“Never Been Kissed”). But this isn’t a romantic comedy, so he’ll probably never read this.
Or maybe he will, and just think I’m a little weird.
Sections
Whether they’re in the comfort of your own home or in the immeasurable discomfort of a college d-hall, meals with your parents are inevitable and awkward. After months of collegiate independence, the onslaught of one-on-two time with the pair that raised you can be disorienting. Because fake-texting is taxing, FM’s got you covered with a distracting dinner-time questionnaire to help you figure out: what meal are you at with your parents?
01 When are you eating?
a) So early that your roommates still haven’t returned from last night’s party.
b) You’re missing your adviser’s one office hour for the whole semester because your parents are eager to see “what the kids are eating these days!” at Tasty Burger.
c) Your parents insist on dropping their stuff off in your room during a pregame.
02 Where are you eating?
a) Annenberg: All you can eat for $13.75!
b) Henrietta’s Table: Hope you made those reservations when you matriculated.
c) Grafton Street: Because who doesn’t want their dad to ask them if they want their “first sip of beer,” accompanied with a conspiratorial wink?
03 What are you eating?
a) All of the eggs. And the bacon. More coffee, please.
b) A salad. Mom’s concerned you’re not getting all of your vitamins. She clearly doesn’t know about the life-extending properties of resveratrol (conveniently found in the box of red wine under your bed). 
c) A cheeseburger so you can convince Dad you haven’t become one of those “vegan-types,” as the result of a liberal arts education. But apparently you don’t keep kosher anymore.
04 What’s the conversation?
a) Courses: “Mom, of course having to retake LS1a only means I’ll be better prepared for the MCATs than my peers.” 
b) Social life: “I really only joined The ____ Club for the alumni connections, I swear. Did you bring my dues?” 
c)  Summer plans: “I’ve been offered the chance to build homes for those who have next to nothing for eight weeks in ____. It’ll be great for my resumé, and the program only costs half as much as my tuition.” 
05 What are you wearing?
a) A onesie. No explanation necessary.
b) A crisp crimson sweater emblazoned with Mom and Dad’s favorite consonant. You’re embarrassed it screams fresh-outta-the-Coop; they love it for the same reason. 
c) A maxi dress—passes Mom’s morals and covers your Mather Lather outfit (or lack thereof) underneath. 
06 What do you do after the check is paid?
a) Slink away to actually get some homework done…. In bed.... With just a quick nap, alarm set for 15 minutes, seriously this time….
b) Drop off your parents at an OCS workshop. You’re busy, and those cover letters won’t write themselves!
c) Let your parents crash on the futon. You can take the hotel room.
Mostly A’s: Take a shot of espresso (try to forget about the eight of Rubinoff last night), peel off last night’s clothes, and head out into the bright, bright, oh God when did the sun get so bright, light of the morning: You’re having brunch! Enjoy being grilled about What You’re Doing With Your Life, Young Man while you try to figure out how you chipped a back molar.
Mostly B’s: You’ve had a little time to wake up, take a shower, and straighten up your room: It’s Mom and Dad lunch! After tagging along to your 3-person tutorial, they’ll take you out to a satisfying non-HUDS meal in return for the Third Degree and an enthusiastic tour of the Yard—no Mom DON’T TOUCH THE FOOT! REMEMBER LAST TIME? Be judicious in your complaints; if you moan about never sleeping more than six hours a night, University professor X may have a nice note in his mailbox about lessening the workload by lunchtime the next day.
Mostly C’s: They’ve meekly joked about spending the night in your room, you’re hoping to spend it absolutely anywhere else: It’s dinnertime. Enjoy an hour, or two, or three, at a swanky Cambridge haunt while they sip cocktails and your iPhone counts down the minutes until you’ll be downing Natty Lite amidst sweaty bodies in a sticky basement. Ah, one day you’ll understand why college is like nothing else.
Sections
We all know them. Every blocking group has them. Maybe you are one of these characters, maybe you lie to yourself and pretend not to be, but here they are—the eight types of people you’ll find in a blocking group:
1. The One Who’s Involved in Everything: This kid is both the HoCo Chair and a PAF. They write for three different publications and have a term-time internship. In their spare time (they have spare time?), they volunteer as a tutor for high school students in Boston. Everyone knows them, and everyone likes them. They’re awesome, or so you assume, as you never have time to see them.
2. The One Who Goes Out All the Time: Tuesday night? Thursday afternoon? It doesn’t matter; this blockmate is probably headed out. Animal House is their model for life and college. They’re incredibly fun to be around, but impossible to keep up with.
3. The Athlete: They play a sport. It may only be an IM sport, but they wear the team sweatshirt all the time with sweats or yoga pants. The gym is their second home, and their dining hall plate is always filled with salads and large amounts of protein. It’s inspiring, but you also secretly hate them for it.
4. The Slob: Dishes in the sink? Piles of laundry lying around? Papers everywhere? You know who did it. This kid’s really nice, and probably really smart, too, but there’s one thing he never learned: how to clean up after himself.
5. The BFFs: These two are in it for each other. They go out together. They’re in the same clubs, maybe even the same concentration. They have the same friends. They’re constantly texting each other—even when they’re in the same room. They’re cool people, but let’s face it, they like each other way more than they like you, or anyone else in the blocking group for that matter.
6. The One with the Serious Boyfriend/Girlfriend: This plays out one of two ways: either you have one less roommate, or you have one extra roommate. You probably don’t see this blockmate much (or maybe you see them, and their significant other, way too much). Come graduation, you can expect a wedding invitation, or possibly sideline seats for a horrible breakup.
7. Kid Who Nobody Knew (And Still Doesn’t): You’re not really sure how they ended up in your blocking group. Neither is anyone else. The friend of a friend of a friend who didn’t want to float? That kid from section? You may never know. You don’t talk to them, and they don’t talk to you. You didn’t have that much in common to begin with, and now that you live in the same House, that hasn’t changed much.
8. The Genius: Maybe they live in the library. Maybe you never see them studying. Either way, this kid is mad smart. 3.9 GPA smart. Going to be President smart. One day, years from now, you will be telling your friends and colleagues that you were this kid’s Harvard blockmate.
Sections
"House of Cards"
Conspiracy at the highest levels of government
You don’t want to be on Frank Underwood’s bad side
Requires Netflix subscription
House of Representatives
Determines your next 13 hours
Includes subplot with murder/computer hacking/superpower trade negotiations
The only thing people on the Internet are talking about
Housing Day
It’s not a conspiracy, seriously
You don’t want to be on any side of the Quad
Requires Harvard tuition
Greeted by representatives from Houses
Determines your next three years
Does not include any of those things
Only freshmen talk about it
Both
Stolen from the Brits
Nothing like the real world
You can’t avoid it
You’ll stay up all night for it
Does not care about you
Over too soon

Sections
Over the years, Harvard's housing has drastically changed. With Housing Day coming up, here's a look a back at the biggest events in Harvard housing history:
1760
Apthorp House (now the Adams House Masters’ Residence) is built for the Reverend East Apthorp of Christ Church, the first Anglican congregation in Cambridge.
1901
The Radcliffe Quadrangle begins as housing for female students, with six original dorms being built through 1937. Apthorp House is purchased by Archibald Cary Coolidge and his brothers, and is turned into an undergraduate residence. The house becomes infamous for student antics including indoor rifle practice, student water fights, and having a pet monkey within the residence.
1912
The grandson of Ralph Waldo Emerson, Edward Waldo Forbes, Class of 1895, acquires land between the Yard and the Charles River. Forbes gives this land to the University in a series of several gifts.
1920
Harvard University, under the direction of President Abbot Lawrence Lowell, purchases the “Gold Coast” dormitories in what is seen as a first step to combat housing inequity between rich and poor students.
1928
Rumors begin to spread of a tentative plan for a “House System” consisting of seven upperclassman dorms outside of the Yard. A Yale alumnus, Edward S. Harkness, Class of 1897, donates more than $10 million to Harvard University after his plans for a House system at his alma mater temporarily fall through.
1930
Harvard University takes preliminary steps to establish its House system with funding from Harkness. President Lowell supports the creation of these Houses as a means to combat socioeconomic stratification in the form of off-campus housing. The first two Houses, Dunster and Lowell, are built on the recently acquired lands near the Charles River.
1931
Leverett House is next to open, as an extension from McKinlock Hall, which had been built five years prior as a memorial to a student from the Class of 1916. It is added to Mather Hall (not to be confused with Mather House) and a dining hall, creating the original Leverett House. Eliot House opens. John Winthrop House opens, as a combination of Standish Hall and Gore Hall (not to be confused with the Gore Hall library which Widener replaced upon opening in 1915). Apthorp House is converted into the Adams House Masters’ Residence.
1932
The “Gold Coast” dorms are combined with Russell Hall, creating the new Adams House, inaugurated in 1931 and completed the following year.
1933
Kirkland House opens.
1959
Quincy House opens. It is the first House to be built after the original seven River “Harkness” Houses, coming to be the first of what is called “New Harvard.” The “Old Quincy” building, now Stone Hall, was originally Mather Hall and was part of Leverett, but becomes part of Quincy once Quincy House opens.
1960
Leverett Towers are built.
1961
Mirroring the House system at Harvard, the Radcliffe dorms are re-organized into Houses, known simply as North House, South House, and East House.
1970
Mather House opens in 1970, another of the “New Harvard” dorms.East House merges with South House, taking on the latter dorm’s name.A building previously used to house distinguished Radcliffe alumni becomes Currier House.Prior to this year, Housing selections consisted of an interview process with students by House masters, coming to be known as a “draft” system. This “draft” system is replaced, as the College begins to use a “preference” system where students indicate a preferential ordering of House.
1972
Harvard Yard is opened to female residents.
1984
South House is renamed Cabot House.
1995
As a result of concerns involving “self-segregation” between racial, religious, and social identities for housing assignments, the College implements a random housing lottery system in the spring term.
1996
North House is renamed Pforzheimer House.
1999
A decision is made to change blocking group size from 16 students to 8. This is implemented the following year.
2012
Quincy becomes the first House to undergo renovation and “renewal” in what will ultimately be a College-wide project.
Sections
Harvard is represented in my head by a large Venn diagram. The two overlapping crimson circles are labeled “Before” and “After.” The first circle encompasses my freshman and sophomore years. The second contains my junior and senior years. They are separated by the year I was gone. Not many things fall in the overlap.
I will refrain from recounting the details of, or the reason for, my absence. I tell myself it is not the type of story that can be summed up in a sentence or two, although that is not technically true. I often condense the story when people ask why I am graduating a year late. Sometimes I present it as the punch line to a not very funny joke. Sometimes it is easier to lie. It would be more accurate to say it is not the type of story that should be summed up in a sentence or two. The story of my year away is the type of story that should be told in person. I need to see my audience’s face and gauge their reaction. I want to make sure they understand. Come ask me. I’ll probably tell you the truth.
When I returned to campus, I found myself shunted into an alternate reality. The world was a parody of the one with which I was familiar. I did not return to my Harvard but to a warped version of the one I left. I mentally refer to this version as “After.”
On the surface things were the same. I looked around and saw Neo-Georgian architecture inhabited by roughly the same eclectic mix of sweatpants, glasses, and crested blazers. There were some obvious differences. My blocking group had adopted three strangers in my absence. My formerly inseparable linking group had splintered for reasons that are still unclear to me. Dinner conversations now revolved around job hunts instead of the weekend’s social activities.
These I had prepared for. It took longer for me to notice the more subtle changes. My friends have been replaced by doppelgängers that look and sound the same as my former friends. They have the same names and faces, have the same interests, but these are not the same people I had “Before.” Inside jokes that seem familiar in their content and delivery pass just a few inches above my head. I was not here when they started. Blockmates surprise me with moments of unexpected maturity, and I find myself wondering when the kid who once hung a framed picture of himself above his desk grew up. A friend mentions the girl who broke his heart and whom I have never met. Life at Harvard continued without me, and my friends changed. They are different. Better, but somehow alien.
But the biggest difference is internal. There is a fair amount of nostalgia affecting my memories of “Before,” but I do not remember the presence of the pervasive sadness that now seems to settle on everything like a thin layer of dust. Sometimes a friend will ask why I am sitting quietly in a room full of laughter, and I will try to tell them what it is like away from Harvard. How I am torn between trying to reclaim my old life and trying to start over. How I missed moments like this, when my friends pack into a circle of couches until the only open space to sit on is the arm of a teal pleather chair. How we vowed to burn the chair before even considering bequeathing it to another generation and their memories.
I struggle to separate how things actually were from the way I remember them. I left for a reason. Many reasons. Two versions of “Before” fight in my head. There’s the shiny, pretty version that I prefer, the one where I spent all my time fascinated by schoolwork or going on ridiculous adventures with friends. I was happy and fulfilled. But there’s a deeper part of me that remembers it differently. The varnish is stripped off, and I see the moments when life was stressful, or sad, or even just dull. And I remember how many opportunities I let slip by. This version lets me see how I wasted those first two years going after what I thought was attainable, rather than what I coveted. It took leaving for me to realize that what I really wanted from this place was the chance to be my own person.
Of course, I can never articulate it that well. I stumble over my words and make self-deprecating jokes. Mostly I have given up trying to explain it to people. Maybe even now you still don’t get it. My friends certainly don’t. They just look concerned and shake their heads. Sometimes they ask if I am depressed. That is not it at all. Let me try again.
It is like when you pack a picnic lunch for the beach and you spend the morning running and digging and playing in the water. The sun rises into the sky and you spring across the burning sand to reapply sunscreen and refuel. You cannot completely clean the sand from your hands no matter how hard you try. The grit works its way into your food and mouth. You feel it grind between your teeth as you chew. But it doesn’t matter. It reminds you where you are, how much fun you are having, and why that day is special.  The sand doesn’t ruin your lunch; it enhances it.
In the Venn diagram of my time at Harvard, very few things straddle the space between “Before,” and “After.” Most of these things are relatively insignificant—Eliot House, running along the Charles, a few clubs that survived the transition. That is intentional. When I came back to Harvard, I wanted to be different. I wanted to be better. I am still trying to shrink the space between “Before” and “After” until the two break apart into separate circles. Then I can put away the former. I can stop comparing the two and just enjoy myself. I am not quite there yet.
Zach T. Osborn ’14 is a History and Science concentrator in Eliot House. He asks that you not place him into a box, but rather a set of intersecting circles.
Sections
The Visual and Environmental Studies chair’s office in the Carpenter Center looks as one might expect it to: stylish and modern, with soft light spilling in through expansive windows, minimalist white walls, glass tables, shiny metal details, and pops of color here and there. Robb Moss, the current chair, sits in the corner of one of the square black leather couches, and rests his cheek in his left hand.
“The chair of VES is like the chair of any department,” he begins. He rattles off various elements of the department: its diversely talented concentrators, the Carpenter Center art installments, and the Harvard Film Archive. The chair, simply, “is involved [with] trying to make all that run as smoothly as possible.”
Moss is the chair, sure, but he is also a professor of film and a documentary filmmaker. It’s refreshing that he stands out from his surroundings. In a navy fleece vest, dark pants, and hiking boots, Moss appears more practical than his aesthetic office.
“I think my filmmaking life is comprised of different parts, and some of it’s teaching, some of it’s making, some of it is just my relationship with the field,” he says.
Moss speaks quickly in undulating tones; the open room helps to carry his voice. But what he lacks in volume, he makes up for with conviction. A few minutes into the interview, I learn that he can’t say which movies he’s liked most in the past year; he never thinks in terms of favorites.
He’s also equally proud of all of his films. “That’s like asking someone which child they love more,” he says. “They’re all different, and depending on what mood I’m in, I can be proud or unhappy about anything I’ve ever done.”
I’m meeting him in the context of his Harvard office, but Moss’s filmmaking career has taken him from Fukushima to Ethiopia. His films, including “The Same River Twice” in 2003 and “Secrecy” in 2008, have been shown at the Sundance Film Festival. He collaborated with history of science professor Peter Galison on “Secrecy,” and they’re currently working on a project called “Containment,” which addresses the issue of containing nuclear materials. Three of this year’s Oscar nominees for Best Documentary Feature—Jehane Noujaim ’96, Joshua Oppenheimer ’96-’97, and Richard Rowley ’00—have publicly thanked Moss for helping shape their work.
“I make a film as a way to try to understand something, grapple with a certain kind of problem, a certain kind of issue,” he explains. Those issues aren't simple. “Secrecy,” for example, delves into questions of national security, confidentiality, and democracy.
Other documentaries by Moss are more essayistic and personal. “The Same River Twice” is concerned with “the kind of shiny beautiful-ness of being young.... It’s about what you do with your life and your values and how things stay the same and change,” he explains.
Despite his successes, Moss does not hesitate to express the difficulty in filmmaking. “It’s a lot easier to critique other people’s films than to make your own,” he says. “It’s very good to make your own movie because it humbles you.”
Part of the trouble is bringing ideas to fruition. Nonfiction filmmaking, in particular, presents an unyielding set of ethical challenges. Moss describes an experience he had filming in Ethiopia at a refugee camp in which he had received permission to film from the owners of the camp—“western doctor types”—but his actual subjects were the refugees.
“I’m filming a woman who’s very weak, and I’m just making an image of her,” Moss remembers. “It’s not an interview, I’m just sitting next to her, and I’m filming her. And she uses some of her remaining energy to button her blouse, and I’m thinking, ‘Oh.’” A weighty pause. “‘What am I doing?’” He lets his question sink in.
At the heart of the dilemma is what Moss calls “intercepting people’s actual lives.” He says it’s an issue that comes up in his classroom all the time. “It’s not that [documentary film] is corrupt. It’s not that it’s evil,” he explains. “It’s just complicated. Ethically complicated. Every time you go into the world with a camera, it’s ethically complicated and worth noting.”
So what advice might Moss offer to aspiring documentary filmmakers? “Advice sounds like life-coaching, and that’s not what filmmaking is,” Moss responds. “Advice seems from the outside, and filmmaking is so much from the inside. It’s so complex and personal and thorny and difficult and emotional and intuitive and analytical. All these things that make it really impervious to advice.”
Having struck out with favorites and advice, I turn our conversation towards something Moss really cares about: his teaching. “I can say that I’ve been teaching for a very long time,” he says, “and still, when the door shuts, and it’s just the 10 students and the teaching assistant and myself thinking about film together for three hours, I’m still—I’m very happy.”
Sections
“Camera rolling.”
“Sound rolling.”
“Ollie and a TF. Wide-shot. Take 1. Action.”
A fashionably disheveled student, beanie and all, saunters through the door and slumps down into a chair across from a serious-looking blonde girl. He apologizes for his tardiness as he rummages through his backpack and pulls out his laptop. “Take your time,” she responds, in a voice that’s simultaneously understanding and agitated.
It’s a Wednesday morning, and the room has a soft glow, with the window shades pulled down to cover most of the bright winter light streaming in. The cameraman sits perfectly still, his stabilizer forgotten in a dorm.
Ollie and the TF continue their meeting, but no one seems to be leading the conversation. The silences are painfully long—“awkward” doesn’t do them justice. The student is utterly unprepared and mumbles words that do not constitute responses, while the TF tries her best to be patient.
“Cut.”
Eli Wilson Pelton ’16 stands and performs a short dance of satisfaction. “I feel like that was weird, but good,” he says. Suddenly, the seemingly incompetent Ollie has become a charismatic director. He checks in with the sound man, who’s actually the writer filling in for the absentee sound director. Next he hops over to the camera and watches the clip.  The cast and crew are sleepy, but cheerful, joking with one another before they repeat the shot.
This is the set of “IVY,” an upcoming web series led by Wilson Pelton and based on Harvard undergraduate life.
“I had the idea to do a play…and over the summer I started to watch web series and thought I could maybe do that,” Wilson Pelton explains, sitting amidst his cast members. They seem as much friends as colleagues.
Web series are a staple for this generation. Television is no longer the singular bastion of serialized entertainment—young people across the nation flock to their computer screens for everything from  “Orange is the New Black” and “House of Cards” to smaller-scale productions like “The Misadventures of Awkward Black Girl” and “The Guild.” “IVY” plans to release the premier for its own online show within the month.
“I had an idea all semester in the back of my mind to make a web series. Over Thanksgiving break, I was with Yinka [S. Ogunbiyi ’16] and my friend Alistair [A. Debling ’16]—who’s doing cinematography for the show. [They] were like, ‘just do it, just write it’,” Wilson Pelton adds.
In addition to being the director and lead writer for the show, Wilson Pelton plays Oliver (or “Ollie”).
Since writing the pilot, Wilson Pelton has worked to assemble a cast and crew. The actors came together last semester after meeting through a theater production directed by Debling. “Eli basically saw this play, which was on last semester, called ‘Flies,’ and took pretty much the entire company from it,” says Archie I. H. Stonehill ’17, who plays the character DK in the show.
The cast remarks that promotional materials for the show have been compared to “Skins” and “Degrassi.” However, Wilson Pelton says “IVY” is similar to these shows only in that it aims to document specific parts of modern youth culture. The new HBO show “Looking,” about a group of gay men living in San Francisco, was one Pelton had in mind when developing “IVY.”
For Wilson Pelton, what makes those series so successful is their focus on generational concerns. The pilot episode will seek to mimic this approach by focusing on the issue of identity.
“I don’t want to give away too much, but the pilot centers around [the characters] having to declare, since they’re all sophomores,” Wilson Pelton explains. “That’s sort local college issue, but also the more macro issue of ‘what does this say about me?’—a moment of questioning your identity.”
In addition to covering common points of Harvard experience, such as declaring concentrations, the characters represent a variety of “tropes” of Harvard students.
Ogunbiyi plays Layla, a classic Harvard overachiever, whose priorities lie in working and socializing. Layla’s roommate, Harley, played by Juliana N. Sass ’17, provides a striking contrast to Layla. Harley’s interests and passions lack direction, but Sass says this leaves a lot of room for the character to grow in “IVY”.
“I play DK. It might not be a coincidence that his name sounds like ‘dick’—it’s apt, to put it that way,” Stonehill says of his character. DK is described as a brilliant student, albeit loud, forceful, and assertive.
Wilson Pelton’s character, Oliver, struggles to  reconcile a large ego with concerns about self image.
There is also a fifth character, Luc, portrayed by Matt W. G. Walker ’16. Luc’s an athlete and, according to Wilson Pelton, a bit of an outsider within the Harvard community.
Wilson Pelton finds a unique set of challenges in writing a show so close to his own life. Particularly, he explains a confusing experience of living at Harvard while also writing these experiences into the show. “Often, something will happen and then I’ll write it down,” he explains. “Or I’ll be having these weird moments where I’m doing something and I wonder, ‘Am I doing this because I want to do this? Or because it would be good for the story?’” To Wilson Pelton, it’s a strange sensation.
Lacking a clapperboard, Dorothy C. Donelan ’14, who plays the TF, claps to start the next shot.
Clap!
“Camera rolling.”
“Sound rolling.”
“Ollie and a TF. Wide-shot. Take 2. Action.”
The scene begins again but is interrupted when a man walks in to start setting up for an event that will take place in an hour. He tries to set up quietly, but the noise can’t be ignored. Later, the clock strikes 11, and there is an uproar of sound from outside as students walk to and from their classes.
These students aren’t professionals, and this isn’t their only work. “I’ve been awake for 51 hours,” Donelan says in between takes. “They say once it’s past 32 it’s like you’re drunk.”
Wilson Pelton responds, “Well there’s always one person drunk on set.” He seems serious.
Once satisfied with the footage, Wilson Pelton concludes the shoot: “And that’s a wrap.”
Sections
Our ever-curious and anonymous freshman has Housing Day on his mind. Below, three of FM’s experts answer Josh’s questions about blocking group drama, floating, and avoiding the Quad.
Josh: What do you do if there are more than eight guys in the friend group? How does the group decide who stays in? Do groups often split into two late in the game?
FM1: I think I wrote a “Justice” essay about this. I think you draw straws and then push the large man onto the train tracks to save the starving children in Africa. Unless you are a utilitarian, in which case, you skip lecture.
FM2: This boils down to “What do I do if I’m too popular?” Good for you! That sounded insincere, but it wasn’t. You’re making the most of your college experience by branching out, and I applaud you. If there are more than eight guys in the friend group, split off and do your own thing. They’ll notice you’re missing and call for you to come on back senior year.
FM3: When it comes to blocking, the most important thing is honesty. Get the whole group together one night, grab a few drinks and Cinnabons, and speak openly and candidly to one another. Even if this doesn’t solve all your problems, you’ll probably all reach an agreement over who has the hottest mom.
Josh: Should I pick compatible roommates or good friends I go out with? Is it more important to have people who are easy to live with, or the group you want to be with come Saturday night?
FM1: You should probably choose roommates that are neither good friends nor easy to live with. That way, when you go out Saturday night, you will have plenty of material.
FM2: If you have to choose, I’d go with the ones who are easy to live with. Saturday night only happens once a month, whereas day-to-day living happens every minute.
FM3: The group you want to be with come Saturday night. Clearly this one night—which you won’t even spend in your room—is more important than compatability the other 164 hours of the week.
Josh: What’s the deal with linking? Is linking with chicks a move? The move? If each of your blockmates have different friends outside the blocking group, how do you decide who to link with?
FM1: You should probably link with people that you are willing to hook up with. It’s like an unofficial rule that eventually you are going to drunkenly hook-up with a linkmate—at least this is what my linkmate told me.
FM2: Link. Otherwise you might end up in the quad and they might end up in Dunster. I hear Drew Faust personally makes sure to ruin the lives of people that tempt fate and don’t link.
FM3: From experience, linking with chicks is definitely the move. I have eight female linkmates, and I hooked up with all of them in the week leading up to Housing Day, one girl a night. Do the math.
Josh: What’s the deal with being a floater?
FM1: I think the band Modest Mouse put it the best when they said, “We both got fired on exactly the same day/Well we’ll float on good news is on the way.” Then again, they also said, “It’s been agreed the whole world stinks so no one’s taking showers anymore.”
FM2: No one actually floats. It’s just a myth.
FM3: Most of the floaters I’ve met all really enjoy their housing situations, which is probably because they didn’t feel obligated to conveniently room with their incompatible freshman year roommates. And they prefer the term “one man party.”
Josh: With no disrespect to those out there, how does one avoid the Quad? Is it true blocking groups with certain athletes are more likely to get the Quad? Which teams might this apply for?
FM1: Join the Dunster Culinary Team. They pay you $10/hour to cook.
FM2: This is true. They mainly put track and field kids in the Quad because they’re good at running long distances.
FM3: One of the biggest misconceptions among freshmen is that the Quad is an undesirable place to live. While, yes, a lot of people placed in the Quad are initially upset when they hear the news, they grow to love their spacious rooms and distance from chaos. So on Housing Day, it’s most important to remember that wherever you’re placed, you’ll end up loving your new home. Just kidding! The Quad sucks.
Sections
We’re in the basement of Old Quincy, in the newly created Rothenberg Meeting Room. The walls are made of whiteboard; there’s a large new television in one corner that you can just tell has never been used.
It’s a meeting of the Undergraduate Council’s Student Life Committee, one of those semi-secret gatherings your average citizen isn’t allowed to attend, though the agenda isn’t too scandalous. The items discussed: Housing Day Eve, bike safety, increasing UC representation on student-faculty committees. It’s all pretty par for the course.
But then Gus A. Mayopoulos ’15, who’s been sitting quietly near the back of the room, shooting off emails and contributing the occasional question, whispering now and then to a fellow representative, raises his hand. “What about sandbags?”
I’ll admit: I haven’t been following the details of the meeting too closely. But I can still tell it’s a non sequitur.
There’s a confused look or two in the room, but by and large the other representatives seem receptive to this interruption, as though it’s the kind of thing that happens all the time.
The president of the UC explains: it’s snowing outside, has been for a few days now (big sodden clumps, too), and those puddles on Massachusetts Ave.—aren’t they the worst? “How about if we get some sandbags, write ‘UC’ on them, and put them in the puddles so students can walk across?"
The other members of the committee spend a few minutes hashing out the logistics: where will we get the bags? The sand? Will the city be okay with this? And I’m asking myself: Are they serious?
A few days later I cross Mass. Ave. near Widener Gate and spot two sandbags sitting like islands in one of those glossy, deceptive puddles. They are, indeed, helpful.
This idea’s exactly the kind of thing you’d expect from Mayopoulos, whose UC presidential campaign with roommate Sam B. Clark ’15 last semester revolved around the promise of more tomato basil ravioli soup in dining halls and thicker toilet paper. Freshly sworn in, Mayopoulos is still coming up with the occasional quirky initiative.
But there’s a sharp divide between the Gus who ran for vice president of the UC—the guy who honed his comedic chops as a member of the improvisational troupe On Thin Ice, and the satirical newspaper Satire V—and the Mayopoulos now serving as president of Harvard undergraduates’ only representative body. He’s divested himself, at least partially, from the persona of the campaign. There are still moments of spontaneity and humor, but they take the backseat to a budding professionalism.
At UC general meetings, Mayopoulos runs things smoothly and efficiently. The two times I hear him crack a joke it’s quick and non-disruptive, eliciting a short burst of laughter. And, afterward, it’s back to business.
He’s not a joke anymore, the way he’s dealing with things. He has a mission, and the humor, when it’s employed, is a tool aimed at increasing the UC’s relevancy. And regardless of how efficacious a president he’ll turn out to be, you can’t deny he’s taking things seriously.
AN OLD JOKE 
Mayopoulos, a junior in Kirkland House concentrating in History, began to joke about the campaign with Clark over the summer. “We just thought, that would be really funny to do,” he says.
While the campaign itself—playful, pedantic—might have seemed revolutionary at the time, Clark and Mayopoulos were actually working within a long tradition of joke campaigns at Harvard.
In 2006, Tim R. Hwang ’08 and Alexander S. Wong ’08 ran on a simple platform: “Terminate the UC.” Their pseudo-anarchist ticket derided the UC’s blatant inefficacy and drew into question the necessity of “UC middlemen” in dealing with the College administration.
In 2008, Michael C. Koenigs ’09, who, according to an article in The Crimson, “made a signature issue out of housing small animals, such as ants or baby chickens, in dorm rooms,” ran for the body’s presidency, despite being a senior at the time (and thus unable to serve a full term). The UC’s election rules did not prohibit Koenigs from running.
Clark and Mayopoulos drew particular inspiration from  the ticket of Robert G.B. Long ’11 and David R. Johnson ’11, who ran in 2009. The Long-Johnson ticket—which featured slogans like “Change is hard…so hard,” “Reaching out to touch students,” and “Long-Johnson: It’s in your hands!”—set its sights on many of the same problems that Sam and Gus diagnosed in their own campaign; namely, the UC’s inefficacy and lack of student interest in the UC.
If the respective campaigns sound a little too similar at this point (just trade the phallic double entendres for a shtick about soup and toilet paper), as though the Clark-Mayopoulos campaign were a mere rehashing of Long-Johnson’s, consider that a Long-Johnson victory, as pleasurable as it might have been, was never a serious possibility. The pair was dubbed a “very friendly joke ticket” by then-president Andrea R. Flores ’10, and failed to put forth an original platform—even one as thin as toilet paper. Instead, they made slight alterations to the platform of fellow contenders Johnny F. Bowman, Jr. ’11 and Eric N. Hysen ’11, calling their use of it “fair as parody.”
It seems a comment on students’ perception of UC elections that the Long-Johnson ticket still earned enough votes to derail the election. Neither Bowman and Hysen nor competitors George J.J. Hayward ’11 and Felix M. Zhang ’11 received a majority of first place votes, forcing the redistribution of Long-Johnson votes.
Harvard students were clearly willing to vote for a joke ticket, a phenomenon that Clark and Mayopoulos would later capitalize on.
IT’S NOT FUNNY ANYMORE
From the beginning, there was an unexpected thoroughness to the Clark and Mayopoulos campaign. “Our room has a saying,” Mayopoulos says, “‘commit to the bit,’ which means when you commit to a joke you need to commit all the way or not at all.” As Clark explains, “We decided, if we’re gonna do this joke campaign, we’re gonna commit to the bit of the joke, we’re gonna do a well-executed joke campaign.” They sent vague emails to friends eliciting their help (election rules prohibited formal overtures at this point), created a solid base of supporters, and began to draft their infamous posters.
“I think we may have been the first joke campaign that took their own joke so seriously that we saw it all the way through,” Mayopoulos says, “and perhaps further than it should have been seen through,” he adds with a laugh.
Whereas Long and Johnson refused to attend their debate, protesting the lack of a serious dialogue to be found therein, Clark and Mayopoulos took advantage of the opportunity. Another difference between their campaign and past joke campaigns became apparent, namely their willingness to step out of a purely comedic realm and present legitimate, unadulterated concerns.
“The debate was this pivot point,” Clark explains. “It was half stupid jokes and half sort of taking it very real.”
For Clark and Mayopoulos, it was an opportunity to make a general protest against the UC (the half-joke aspect of the debate) while at the same time portraying themselves as serious and considerate candidates whose concerns, though delivered in a humorous way, still carried heft (the half-real aspect). It was a bully pulpit, of sorts. And, of course, no one could complain—after all, they were a joke ticket.
Observers took note of this more serious bent. Lowell House UC Representative Dhruv P. Goyal ’16 told the Crimson on Nov. 19 that “[Clark and Mayopoulos] did expose some shortcomings in the UC,” adding, “I didn’t know they were taking this seriously until now.”
Yet while external sources mark a clear shift at the debate, the transition came a little earlier for Mayopoulos. “I would say it was probably around the time we passed around 800 Facebook likes,” he claims. “It became apparent that we actually had a significant base of supporters who were going to vote for us whether or not our only platform was soup. I think from that point onward [Sam and I] started having nightly discussions about what we were doing exactly.”
These discussions, however protracted, didn’t prepare them for the results of the election. As seriously as he’d taken the campaign, Clark had never intended on taking the position, a result of involvement in other groups such as the Hasty Pudding Theatricals (“Sam’s a superhuman person, but it would probably kill him,” Mayopoulos says).
This raised further questions for the unlikely victors. “The problem we ran into was, how do you begin a conversation and then leave?” Mayopoulos explains. “Is it really responsible to say, ‘Oh, here’s this question that we’ve now created—goodbye?’” Yet on the night of the election, they promised to resign.
The election and pursuant promise of resignation happened before Thanksgiving break. That Wednesday, in a strange turn of events, Mayopoulos and Sietse K. Goffard ’15, who had unsuccessfully run for UC vice president alongside C.C. Gong ’15, shared a flight back to Dallas. “We were sitting in Logan Airport at  6 a.m., talking about the elections and both of our thoughts,” Goffard says. “At that point he was still very set on resigning. He’d claimed that he wanted no part in this; the campaign started as a joke and would end as a joke.”
“And then I went to Dallas,” Mayopoulos explains, “and mysteriously reappeared afterwards, and I was like, ‘I think I’m going to stay on, and I’m pretty set about that.’”
Mayopoulos’s conversion in Dallas was surprisingly simple. “It was some time away from Harvard, and some time with my family,” Mayopoulos explains. “Breaks are always weird; you don’t have classes and you don’t have other things on your mind, so you’re just thinking about the big picture: what do I want to do with my life, where am I going, who am I. I basically came to the decision that I’d like to have a voice in the conversation Sam and I started, rather than not have a voice."
THE LEARNING CURVE
On Dec. 8, Mayopoulos was inaugurated as president of the UC; at the same meeting, Goffard won an internal election and was inaugurated as vice president. Yet Mayopoulos still faced the question of legitimacy, especially among UC members.“
Naturally, most of the Council were very skeptical,” Goyal says of Mayopoulos’s accepting the presidency. “They were scared; this is a huge organization, it’s the year of a capital campaign—could we really have an outsider come in and lead us effectively?”
Mayopoulos, aware of the steep learning curve, set out to alleviate the concerns of his fellow UC members.
“What’s absolutely, unbelievably remarkable,” Goyal continues, “is that Gus spent his entire winter break studying UC material, from the constitution to various project reports we were writing up, to the work that individual committees were doing.” Goyal, who hails from India, recalls Skyping with Mayopoulos for hours on end. “He spent his entire winter break communicating with the executive board, getting them on to his side, making it very clear he was serious.”
Mayopoulos was also forthright in addressing any enmity left over from the election. “I sent an email out over [the] UC social [email list] and basically said, ‘I don’t know what you people think of me—I imagine most of you think I’m an asshole. My job is to show you that I’m not an asshole.’”
Yet full assimilation remains unlikely. As Goyal explains, “It’s taken me one and a half years just to figure out what’s happening on the Council.”
It’s a shortcoming that Mayopoulos readily admits. “Naturally I’m at a disadvantage in the UC. Whether those disadvantages wind up being to the Council’s advantage—I think it’s a possibility,” he says.
Mayopoulos’s lack of experience has forced him to adapt his style of leadership, relaxing the UC’s hierarchical structure. “I give a ton of leeway to individual committee chairs, because they know their jobs better than I do. I’m essentially telling them, you know better than me in your realm, and I want you to pursue what you think should be pursued,” he says.
Current UC representatives have noted the differences between Mayopoulos and his more experienced predecessor, Tara Raghuveer ’14, who had been on the UC since her sophomore year.“
When Tara was in the room you knew who was in charge,” Meghamsh Kanuparthy ’16 explains. “Even in a lot of meetings with administrators sometimes—you knew who was in charge, and it was definitely Tara in a lot of cases.”
Raghuveer did not reply to repeated requests for comment.
AND THE WORLD LAUGHS WITH YOU
Yet Mayopoulos comes into office with a valuable asset: the focused attention, however fleeting, of the student body. Just about every UC administration tries to tackle the problem of undergraduate relations. Read up on any campaign that’s been run in the past ten years or so and you’ll be assaulted by terms and phrases like “perception,” “popularity,” and “relevance.” They’re buzzwords now; but they’re relevant ones.
Amidst this ongoing discussion, Clark and Mayoupolos's victory arrived as a magnificent sort of meta-solution, drawing, of course, high levels of interest from the student body, while at the same time precipitating a more serious form of the discussion of student interest levels. As Goffard puts it, “That was the moment the whole school realized the UC has some serious problems we need to correct.”
I ask Goffard to consider the steps he and Gong would have taken had they been elected. “We would have definitely wanted to shake things up, a drastic perception change of the UC,” he says. “That was something we understood.” Whatever form that change would have taken, Goffard cedes that Mayopoulos’s election created an atmosphere more amenable to a perceptual shift: “Had we been elected, the sense of urgency wouldn’t have been as powerful.”
The 800 Facebook likes that the Sam and Gus campaign page garnered were only a prelude; Mayopoulos’s frequent and irreverent posts as president regularly receive hundreds of likes from the student body.
And so, there is a bit of pressure riding on Mayopoulos’s shoulders. The heightened interest resulting from last fall’s election isn’t permanent. As Gus puts it, “Part of what I’m trying to do is create a sustainable way for the UC to maintain student interest.” Readers of Mayopoulos’s emails to the student body will note that humor is part of this plan.
“With Gus being there, we have this mandate, almost, to use that type of humor, and those types of strategies, and to be engaging in a way that we’d never dared before,” Goffard says.
Still, some question whether adding the occasional gif to an email is enough.
“I don’t think the answer is, you know, for the next ten years, let’s make jokes,” Brett M. Biebelberg ’16, Quincy House UC representative, says. Rather, he thinks student interest revolves around something a little deeper than jokes. “It’s not necessarily the humor that’s drawing people in, it’s the novelty of somebody taking a different approach, it’s the change from the status quo.”
Biebelberg draws a parallel with another high-profile campus leader, Interim Dean of the College Donald H. Pfister: “I don’t think what we should look for in successful deans from here on out is an interest in botany and mushrooms or fungus, because that’s not what’s engaging students. What’s engaging students, and what students find attractive about him, is his ability to be mundane and to be relatable in a way that people can smile at.”
Yet there’s an acknowledged need to balance these attempts at increased relatability with a sense of respect. As Biebelberg puts it, “It would be hard to maintain a student government that didn’t carry some weight, and some gravitas, because if it was a total joke we would have no bearing with administrators to discuss issues of importance. So the concern was how to balance to those two, and can we find a balance, and I think we have so far, though it’s a bit too soon to say, officially.”
For their part, administrators have responded with various degrees of praise.
“I can honestly say that Gus and Sietse have my utmost respect. I really enjoy working with them. They ask tough questions, but they are thoughtful and respectful. Their approach may be humorous, but they are serious when it comes to their advocacy for students,” Emelyn A. dela Peña, assistant dean of student life for equity, diversity, and inclusion, wrote in an email.
Though Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 appreciates the more humorous approach, he cautions against taking it too far: “I think all of us benefit from not taking things too seriously, but it’s another thing to make a mockery of the good work that’s out there to do. There’s a difference between not taking things too seriously and not taking the opportunity seriously.”
TAKING STUDENTS SERIOUSLY
Questions of relatability and respectability are important to consider in light of the UC’s relationship with the administration, something Mayopoulos has consistently stressed.
Goyal recalls one moment at last fall’s debate: “Gus took out thin toilet paper, poured some water on it, and the water percolated through. He took out thicker toilet paper, poured some water on it, and it stayed on the surface of the toilet paper.” He says that Mayopoulos was trying to convey something that most people missed at the time. “He made the point afterward that UC advocacy is the exact same as this water when it comes to dealing with the administration; we ask for something and it just percolates through the administration and nothing happens.”
This harsh indictment hardly gels with the UC’s past. As Kanuparthy points out, “If you look back through UC history you see that the administrators created the UC, and to them it’s also an expedient, it allows them to say, ‘We’re taking into consideration student input.’” He goes on: “They have as much invested in seeing the UC succeed as the UC does, and I think that gets overlooked. They’d like very much to deal with one UC president rather than hordes of students.”
As dela Peña writes via email, “I think if you spent some time with any of the administrators at the College, you’ll find that we are pretty passionate about our work with students as well, many of us having chosen a career in higher education because of our commitment to student life.”
Kanuparthy draws a distinction between administrators and the administration; he characterizes the former as the responsive, responsible individuals who work eagerly with the UC. The latter are the institutionalized structures that make any modicum of action at Harvard difficult.
“You hear a lot of words tossed around,” Kanuparthy explains. “Most have to do with [Faculty of Arts and Sciences] Dean [Michael D.] Smith, you hear the Harvard Corporation tossed about, you hear all these different vague theoretical steps: the faculty would have to vote on it, the Faculty Council would have to vote on it, which means it would have to be approved by the docket committee, which means that there has to be another committee that recommends that it gets pushed to the docket, which means that there has to be a professor or faculty member to sponsor a fee increase, which means that the FAS administration has to agree to it and the FAS budget office, which means the Corporation could ultimately control or override or decide what this fee would be because it involves changing around the money.”
This is the background that frames the UC’s recent push for increased funding. Last Thursday, Mayopoulos and Goffard sat down with University President Drew G. Faust to discuss their recent and well-publicized request for an additional $250,000 in annual funding. It wasn’t as tense as you might imagine; Mayopoulos received an autographed copy of Faust’s book. Goffard would have received one too, if he hadn’t brought his own copy.
The results were clear: while Faust wasn’t as opposed to an increase in the Student Activities fee (a $70 fee on each student’s term bill that constitutes the UC’s entire operating budget), requests for direct funding from the College were deemed unrealistic. Fortunately though, the UC didn’t exactly need a resounding success.
“In no world am I expecting that Gus and Sietse will walk into that meeting and then walk out with a check,” Kanuparthy said a week before the meeting. “We’re not expecting a check, we’re expecting guidance. ‘This is what you want to do? Here’s how to convince us.’”
Faust’s guidance came in the form of a recommendation to pursue the request with several FAS administrators, Smith and Pfister among them.
Since the UC’s last budget increase in 2006, UC executives have requested a funding increase almost every year. However, the current push benefits from the increased visibility Mayopoulos has brought to it.
Part of the logic in creating a spectacle around the UC’s request lies in the power of a mobilized student body. “What Gus is doing differently is he wants the entire student body to advocate with him,” Goyal explains. “So that now when we go to the administration and make a case that look, we’re asking for this money for these reasons, and these reasons are actually coming from the student body, it’ll be a stronger case.”
He continues: “Even if the administration shoots us down, at least the student body will know that the UC fought for them, as opposed to past [UC] administrations when that hasn’t been the case.”
That’s the brilliance of this public campaign for additional funding: Gus and the UC can’t lose. On the off chance that Faust had supported wholeheartedly any and all of the UC’s proposals, well, that would have been an obvious win. But when Faust rejected most of their proposals—which, recall, members of the UC were expecting—it opened up a golden opportunity for the UC, the chance to shift the onus of efficacy on to the administration.
Consider what Goyal had to say nearly a week before the meeting: “If we don’t get our money, we’re going to be very frank with the entire student body, we’re going to tell them, this was our demand, this is why we made the demand, this is what President Faust said as to why we’re not getting our money, and now the decision is yours as to how you want to view this situation, as to whether the administration is taking undergraduate life seriously.”
“ENOUGH NOISE”
I sat down with Gus once more, the day after his meeting with Faust. At our first meeting he was calm, composed, tossing out facts and figures quickly and assuredly—the UC’s current budget constitutes only 0.014 percent of the College’s annual operating budget; student government funding at Harvard pales in comparison to that of other Ivy League schools; and so on, and so on—but now he seemed exasperated, passionate, and caustic.
At our first meeting he’d asked me, “What does Harvard have going for it that no other institution has?” He paused a moment, then supplied the answer: “It’s Harvard, and that’s all it needs to tell anybody.”
“Harvard doesn’t ever have to capitulate to its students about anything. You can’t change the yield. It’s invincible, to an extent. Horrible things happened to this city and this school; yield is higher than ever. It’s ridiculous, but that means something. It means that it doesn’t matter—and that’s the hardest part of dealing with the Harvard administration—there’s no way you can cause enough noise to overshadow Harvard.
Now, a day after Faust’s refusal, he seems more convinced of this point than ever. He tells me, perfunctorily, that the next step in the UC’s capital campaign will be arranging a meeting with Smith.
“A lot of people are saying Dean Pfister is the next step; he is not. Dean Pfister has told us that he supports our desire to get more funding for the UC. It’s really going to come down to Dean Smith. Dean Smith reports directly to President Faust, and so we’re hoping that we can make him understand how important it is for the College to use its funds to support this.”
When I ask him if he feels he’s being shuffled around from dean to dean and back again, he responds sardonically, with assured comic delivery:
“I would hate to imply that University strategy is to shuffle me back and forth between people until I graduate, and then for there to have been no progress on this on behalf of students. That would be almost dishonest in a way, so I would hate to imply that that’s what’s happening. However, it certainly wouldn’t be a bad strategy on their part, and it’s certainly difficult to arrange meetings with whoever it is who is actually responsible for making this decision. I do think that Dean Smith is our best shot. However, it wouldn’t surprise me if many more meetings were necessary even if we were to gain his support.”
He stops speaking, but I can’t stop laughing. It’s a strange comment, funny in a whole new way, biting where once he was light-hearted. Just a few days later the UC reached out and made contact with Dean Smith’s office, laying the groundwork for a future meeting.
Mayopoulos is adapting. Perhaps Harvard is too.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Massachusetts Governor Deval L. Patrick ’78, Cambridge Mayor David P. Maher, and Harvard University Executive Vice President Katherine N. Lapp gathered together last Wednesday to break ground for Harvard Square’s newest development project at 114 Mt. Auburn St. and the renovation of the historic Conductor’s Building next door.
“It was a joyous occasion, everybody was happy that we had finally reached this point,” said developer Richard L. Friedman, president and CEO of Carpenter and Company, which is leading the $65 million development.
Carpenter and Company will be working together with Tishman Construction and architect firm Elkus Manfredi Architects to complete the redevelopment, which has been in the works for several years, according to Friedman.
“This has been something that’s been a long time coming,” Friedman said. “Under Governor Patrick’s administration we were able to buy it.”
David P. Manfredi, the lead architect, estimatedin an email that construction on the 76,000 square foot building at 114 Mt. Auburn St. would be complete by next spring. The building will be entirely leased by the University.
“They’re going to use it primarily for office [space]; that’s my understanding,” Friedman said.
A University spokesperson said last week that the space would likely house "primarily normal office uses" but that its specific use is still "in the planning process."
Friedman said he expects that the the historic Conductor’s Building next door, which was built in 1912 as an office for streetcar conductors, will be completed by next spring but will be occupied by a different tenant.
“I suspect it’ll be a restaurant and bar; that's who's expressed the most interest in it,” Friedman said.
According to Friedman, the licensing and approval process has been rigorous because the project is a public-private partnership involving the city and the MBTA, which originally owned all of the property. Although Friedman’s company now owns part of the land, the MBTA still retains access to the space that will allow them to operate transporation infrastructure on the site.
“The [MBTA] transformers that run the entire red line are still going to remain on the property. The busway is still going to remain active on the property,” Friedman said.
According to MBTA Deputy Press Secretary Kelly Smith, the MBTA will be working alongside Carpenter and Company during construction.
“The MBTA will provide, at the developer’s expense, construction oversight and inspection to ensure that the electrical transformer and busway operations are not negatively affected. We have also had to review and approve all plans,” Smith wrote in an email.
Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, said that much of the Harvard Square community supports this restoration and looks forward to seeing the final product.
“Many people are excited about the reconstruction of the Conductors Building” Jillson said. “When the new building gets raised, it will be really transformational to that corner [of the Square.]”
According to Smith, the project has a dual purpose. While the MBTA was pushing to generate revenue from its real estate assets, Carpenter and Company also had plans to redesign the neighborhood. Friedman also owns the Charles Hotel, which is located directly across the street from the construction site.
“Rather than their guests looking at an electrical transformer and busway, the hotel owner wanted to develop a new project and more attractive view. So we put the entire property out for development proposals, and selected Carpenter’s very creative proposal,” Smith wrote.
 —Staff writer Ivan B. K. Levingston can be reached at Ivan.Levingston@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @IvanLevingston.
—Staff writer Celeste M. Mendoza can be reached at Celeste.Mendoza@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CelesteMMendoza.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
With thousands of undergraduates taking advantage of the “fifth Monday” deadline to add or drop a course, some professors frustrated with a rush of students joining and leaving their classes say the deadline falls too late in the semester.
Since study card day on Jan. 31, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Registrar’s Office has processed 1,745 undergraduate add forms and 2,091 undergraduate drop forms, statistics that are comparable to last Spring’s numbers, according to FAS Registrar Michael P. Burke.
According to Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations professor Shaye J.D. Cohen, who teaches Culture and Belief 23: “From the Hebrew Bible to Judaism, From the Old Testament to Christianity”, his course has added 22 students since the study card deadline on Jan. 31, bringing the total class enrollment to 419 students.
“People three days ago were asking me if they could add the course,” he said, “And we already have a paper due.”
Cohen said he had to start declining to sign add forms, noting that his pre-term-planning enrollment was 94 students, more than 300 shy of the current enrollment number.
“A certain point comes and the sections are full, and then I have to say no,” Cohen said. “I’m not sure the system is working terribly well.”
According to Burke, the majority of drop forms were turned in on Feb. 10, the deadline to add or drop a course without a fee. The second highest number of add/drop forms were filed on Feb. 24, the deadline to drop a course without such action appearing on a student’s transcript.  
While many students choose to add classes later in the semester, the majority of forms processed are drop forms, Burke said.
 According to Crimson Yard Resident Dean Catherine Shapiro, freshmen in particular may find themselves dropping courses by the fifth Monday of the semester. This spring, the Freshman Dean’s Office processed somewhere between 400 and 500 add/drop forms.
“Many freshmen choose to experiment with taking five classes [in the Spring semester],” Shapiro said. “There was even a very small handful that took six [courses].”
Shapiro noted that the FDO and the Advising Programs Office encourage students to take four classes—what they call a “full load”—especially if a student is feeling overwhelmed by fifth Monday.
Some students, especially freshmen who are used to maxing out their high school’s course load, are wary of dropping courses, Shapiro said.
“It’s uncomfortable to realize you can’t do it all,” she said.
Andrea G. Mirviss ‘16, who has dropped two courses in past semesters,  said she has utilized the period before the add/drop deadline to assess what classes she should take.
“Sometime when I’m deciding between two classes, I’ll put both on my study card knowing that I will drop one,” she said.
She added that although classes progress normally during the first five weeks, she sometimes feels that students do not take this period as seriously as they do for the rest of the semester.
“I’m happy with the five weeks,” Mirviss said. “But it does create a sense that the first five weeks of the semester aren't quite as important as the professors and the teaching staff would like them to be.”
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at mbernhard@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on twitter @Meg_Bernhard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
After meeting with University President Drew G. Faust last week, Undergraduate Council President Gus A. Mayopoulos '15 and Vice President Sietse K. Goffard '15 said Wednesday that they will continue their push for increased funding and hope to secure the funding by the beginning of next term, vowing that they will only propose a term bill increase if administrators provide a “significant” amount of direct funding as well.
On Feb. 20, Mayopoulos and Goffard met with Faust on behalf of the UC to request an additional $250,000 in funding, which would be allocated to student groups and campus activities. At the time, Faust did not show direct support of their idea that the University contribute to the UC’s annual budget, which has been funded through a fee on each College student’s tuition bill.
Faust advised that they speak to Dean of the Faculty Michael D. Smith and interim Dean of the College Donald H. Pfister instead.
“Dean Smith…is very clearly the man to go to,” Goffard said. Although Goffard noted that it “surprises” him that UC leaders have not discussed funding issues with Smith in the past couple years, he said that he and Mayopoulos have been told by Faust and Pfister that Smith has the ultimate authority in FAS budget decisions.
Goffard confirmed that the pair has been in contact with Smith’s office and is scheduling a time within the next week or two to converse.
Although Mayopoulos and Goffard said they will be pursuing similar goals as they did in their meeting with Faust, they both said that they would only propose increasing the UC tuition bill fee of $75, which has remained unchanged since 2006, if the University agrees to directly contribute funds as well.
“If the UC is to receive more money, it will not be in the form of just a term bill [increase],” Mayopoulos said. While a term bill fee increase “might have to happen” eventually, Goffard said, their top priority is still securing money from the University.
At the very least, Mayopoulos said he hopes that Smith will be honest about his opinion on the matter.
“If Harvard University can look us in the eye and say ‘we are unable to provide a quarter of a million dollars in funding to something this important’...then let the ‘veritas’ be known,” he said.
The UC does not want administrators to “keep passing the buck,” Goffard said, and Mayopoulos said he hopes that by the first day of the next semester, the Council will be able to provide more funding to student groups.
If their efforts with administrators prove unsuccessful, Mayopoulos and Goffard said they might seek resources from alumni, whom they say they have not focused on reaching out to as of yet.
Mayopoulos, who toilet paper in hand, led a rally outside Massachusetts Hall last week said that he and Goffard are willing to do “the stupidest things in the world” to catch the attention of students and rally them behind the cause.
“We have a short window of opportunity here,” Mayopoulos said. “The only way to get me and Sietse to stop pushing for more funding for students groups would be to wait until we are out of this office and graduated.”
 
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
Trumpets sounded before University President Drew G. Faust cut the ribbon to officially open the Office for the Arts’ new ceramics studio at 224 Western Ave in Allston Wednesday evening.
The studio was formerly housed across the street at 219 Western Ave. It was moved in September to make space for the buildings slated to be built on Harvard’s Allston campus.
The new, state-of-the-art studio is much more spacious than its older counterpart.
“The move is like moving from a cave to a cathedral,” said Thomas Lee, director of the Learning From Performers Program and communications at the Office for the Arts.
The ceramics program, founded in 1969 by students at the College, was brought under the Faculty of Arts and Science in 1999. It moved from Cambridge to Allston in 1986.
  
The Program hopes to continue academic collaborations in the new space, according to Kathryn M. King, ceramics director of education. Courses offered at schools across the University include a visit to the studio to enhance the classroom experience.


“We try to get courses over that might be talking about the art of making crafts, ceramics, or historical objects that perchance are ceramics,” she said. “We try to get [students] over to the studio to try their hands at working with clay.”
In her opening speech, Faust echoed this sentiment, mentioning the first time that she had brought an anthropology class to the ceramics studio.
“I thought this was such a great way of uniting hands-on experience with cognitive experience, explaining the techniques of the arts in an experiential way and brought to those students a kind of learning they would never forget,” she said.
However, the space is not only being used for academic purposes. The studio also offers classes every semester for all members of the Harvard community as well as members of the Allston and greater Boston communities.
“It is kind of a crossroads,” sadi Jack Megan, director of the Office for Arts.
“In that sense [the studio] has been this sort of rich and very rewarding tapestry not just of art making but also community building that has been a real asset to every individual artist working here,” he added.
Faust stressed the importance of the ceramics studio as a way to bring together different people.
“It brings so many of Harvard’s agendas and aspirations together,” she said. “The aspiration of learning and teaching, that was very much a part of that anthropology class.”
—Staff writer Jill E. Steinman can be reached at jill.steinman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jillsteinman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
In a discussion at the Institute of Politics Wednesday night, professors and students exchanged views on the recent unrest in Venezuela and appealed to the Harvard community to help spread the message of change, especially through social media.
The discussion, titled “#SOS Venezuela: Politics, Protests, and a Plea for Change," was led by Francisco J. Monaldi, visiting professor of public policy, and Roberto Rigobon, professor of applied economics at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The discussion touched on many issues that have triggered the recent protests in Venezuela, including police violence, violation of human rights, high inflation, and lack of free speech.
“What is happening in Venezuela hurts me a lot. My family is still there,” said Rigobon, who was originally from the country. “[Change] will take a long, long time. Patience is the key...we have to make significant personal sacrifices.”
Rigobon urged non-Venezuelan students to express their support for a democratic Venezuela and called for Venezuelan students to help shape the future of their country.
“The best way to predict the future is to build it,” Rigobon said.
The discussion also featured Roberto A. Patino, a student at the Kennedy School of Government who is currently the national coordinator of the youth opposition force in Venezuela.
“The only way to move the government is to increase their political cost of not moving,” Patino said. “For this to happen, we need to change the public opinion in the international community. Social media is an especially powerful tool.”
Blake Parker, board advisor at MIT Amnesty International, said that “what we are witnessing is the Arab Spring of Latin America. The human rights violations must be addressed.”
Many audience members present at the event had personal ties to Venezuela.
“I appreciate that there is a strong turnout of non-Venezuelan students at this event,” said Delany D. Sisiruca ’16, whose family is in the country. “It is frustrating to see that many people at Harvard lack awareness of what is going on in Venezuela.”
Valentina I. Perez ’15, a member of the IOP’s Special Events Committee, helped set up the discussion. Her recent Harvard Political Review article “The Grim Reality of Venezuelan Protests” attracted almost 1,500 “likes” on Facebook.
“I was born in Venezuela hold the country near and dear to my heart,” Perez said. “There is a lack of media coverage on events in Venezuela. The Harvard community should become more informed, hold more discussions and show its solidarity.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
UPDATED: Feb. 28, 2014, at 4:05 a.m.
Rhodes Scholars Phillip Z. Yao ’13 and Julian De Freitas, who graduated from Yale last year, have announced plans to run the Pyongyang Marathon in North Korea on April 13. 
Yao and De Freitas said that they do not have political motivations for running the marathon.
“Our campaign focuses on promoting an active lifestyle,” Yao and De Freitas wrote in an email. “It is around this time of year that many people begin to break their New Year's resolutions, and we hope our getting up to run a marathon in North Korea inspires people to keep to their resolutions and to be more active in their lives. Our message is not political, and our run should not be seen as an endorsement of anything political.”
As of the last update to its website on November 19, 2013, the U.S. Department of State “recommends against all travel by U.S. citizens to North Korea.”
Despite the warning, the duo explained that they decided to run because “the Pyongyang Marathon is open to amateur runners from all countries for the first time in its history.”
The two are running the marathon to raise money for the Anna Foundation, which “promotes education and physical activity among youth in rural areas of South Africa,” they wrote in the email. De Freitas, who is now studying experimental psychology at Oxford, is originally from South Africa.
“We felt that running a more dramatic marathon could help raise more money for the organization we are supporting, the Anna Foundation,” they wrote.
Yao and De Freitas are fundraising for the trip using Indiegogo, a crowdsourcing website. They have set a goal of raising $8,000, some of which will pay for the trip and some of which will contribute to the Anna Foundation. At press time, they had raised $1,079. The campaign ends on March 29.
The pair plans to travel to North Korea with the Beijing-based agency Koryo Tour which, according to its website, specializes in travel to North Korea.
Yao and De Freitas have been given “tentative approval” to film their run using GoPro cameras.
Yao, a physics concentrator and one of Fifteen Minutes Magazine's Fifteen Most Interesting Seniors of the Class of 2013, said his time at Harvard had prepared him to travel to North Korea, a place considered hostile to foreigners.
“Our universities have taught us in part that building bridges in a difficult situation can potentially be more effective than staying on respective sides of a river,” Yao and De Freitas wrote.
—Staff writer Harrison K. Wexner can be reached at harrison.wexner@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
Photographer David Taylor’s exhibit "Working the Line," which documents the U.S.-Mexico border, opened on Wednesday at the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies.
 
The project consists of two parts: photographs of each of the 276 border monuments, obelisks which physically divide the U.S. and Mexico, as well as photographs of life along the border.
 
Michelle Lamunière, the former assistant curator of photography at the Harvard Art Museums, continued working on the project after leaving the Museums. Taylor and Lamunière have been collaborating on the exhibition formuch of the past two years. The two worked together to select about 20 photos that are on display at DRCLAS’s office in CGIS South, though the entire series of border monument photos are rotated on a video monitor in a continuous loop. 
 
With current construction projects reducing exhibition space, members of the Harvard art community have been trying to find places to display work around campus, organizors said. The collaboration between the Harvard Art Museums and DRCLAS provided a space to do so.
 
“It’s overwhelmingly powerful,” said Martha T. Takayma, a former Immigration and Naturalization Services translator and fine arts agent who attended the opening. “[Taylor] has a brilliant ability to gather this information and also respect the culture.”
 
As a photographer and educator, Taylor said he was given unrestricted access to life at the border. He interacted with people crossing the border, U.S. Border Patrol, the Mexican Federal Police, and smugglers.
 
According to Taylor, the timing of his project allowed him unfettered access as coincided with the transition from more laid-back security to what Taylor called the “border security industrial complex.” Recently, Border Patrol numbers and mortality rates have risen as people are increasingly forced to travel through rough terrain to cross the border.
 
Taylor had to travel more than 690 miles by hiking and driving to reach all of the border monuments, which are owned jointly by both the American and Mexican governments. 
 
“The project, on a personal level, has been the largest learning experience of my adult life,” Taylor said.
 
Marcela V. Ramos, the program manager for ARTS@DRCLAS, which works to foster a presence of Latin American art at Harvard, worked with Lamunière on the exhibit.
 
“It’s a combination of content and aesthetic,” Ramos said, making it an ideal work to use to engage with a broad audience, and hopefully more students. 
In addition to an accompanying discussion on Thursday, professors will use the work in their teaching and there will be a dance performance related to the exhibit during Arts First weekend in May.
 
—Staff writer Emma C. Cobb can be reached at emma.cobb@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @emmaccobb.
 
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following a report last week that someone in the Harvard community was misusing high power computing resources for ‘Dogecoin’ mining, John C. Lo ’16 received what he called a “strange” email from an alleged alumnus who goes under the name ‘John Harvard Bitcoin’—an email that led to a meeting with other Bitcoin enthusiasts Wednesday night.
Bitcoin is a decentralized digital currency that can be “mined” with sophisticated computer algorithms, similarl to Dogecoin, the virtual currency at the heart of the controversy last week.
“Are you the secret DOGE miner? I just started the Harvard Bitcoin Club and would like to invite you to join. The goal is to start an ‘open club’ that promotes Bitcoin education,” the supposed alumnus, ‘John Harvard Bitcoin,’ wrote to Lo last week.
Lo said that he was at first skeptical of the sudden contact by someone who would not provide his real name and who he had never contacted before.
“I was curious, if not apprehensive about this guy…. This all seemed very, very sketchy,” Lo said. “It’s really an enigma because I’m not sure who he is or what he does. But he seems to be a prominent figure in the Bitcoin community.”
The Crimson has been unable to confirm the supposed alumnus's identity despite repeated contact.
At the direction of ‘John Harvard Bitcoin,’ Lo, along with a few students from the College and the Harvard Business School, met at Clover Wednesday night to discuss the virtual currency and view the Bitcoin ATM from LibertyTeller, which was recently installed in Boston. It was the group's second meeting.
While ‘John Harvard Bitcoin’ was not in attendance at the club's meeting, Lo said that the alumnus told him he would fund the meeting and reimburse individuals for the cost of food in Bitcoin.
 
Meeting attendees discussed the future of Bitcoin and its potential to become a widely used virtual currency, especially in light of the recent shutdown of Mt. Gox, the largest Bitcoin exchange in the world before its closing earlier this week. Reports estimate that nearly 750,000 bitcoins, worth approximately $350 million, had been stolen from the exchange over a period of three years.
Despite the ongoing talk about the implications of the recent closure, Business School student Sarina Siddhanti, who was at the Clover meeting, said she believes that Bitcoin can become a popular currency.
“I absolutely think…if anything is best poised [to be a currency] it is Bitcoin right now,” she said.
Chris Yim, co-founder of LibertyTeller, a company that produced a Bitcoin ATM, transported the ATM from its South Station location to Cambridge for the meeting. Yim discussed the possibility of bringing an ATM to Harvard.
“We are focused on the first location now...but we have a lot of interest in Kendall and Harvard Square and are excited to put some more machines out there,” he said.
He went on to speak about the perceived value of Bitcoin as a legitimate currency.
“Currency is only as valuable as people are willing to accept it and transact with it,” Yim said.
Bitcoin Club members expressed hope for the future and value of Bitcoin.
“Bitcoin is like a mirror and anyone who looks into it sees some reflection of himself or what he wants from Bitcoin,” Lo said.
—Staff writer Theodore R. Delwiche can be reached at theodore.delwiche@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard employees said they are pleased with the way the University has dealt with the payroll error that overtaxed employees on more than $20 million of income between 2009 and 2013.
“I was delighted Harvard has righted the ship and steered in the direction of veritas,” said Law School professor Alan A. Stone, one of the 11,000 employees affected by the error that was first announced earlier this month.
The payroll error occurred after Harvard altered the structure of its supplemental life insurance plan, a move which made certain benefits untaxable. Despite this change, the University did not modify the way it reported taxable income, meaning that employees were taxed on income they did not receive.
Nearly three weeks later, many employees said they are happy with the University’s response to its mistake. The corrected W-2 documents for fiscal year 2013, which were expected in late March, have already started returning to employees. Several employees said they have already received all three years of corrected documents, some of which were not expected to arrive until July. The early arrival of the forms is helping people refile for their corrected income tax.
“They’re five months ahead of their announced schedule so they’re really taking it seriously,” Harvard Law School professor Daniel Halperin said.
Employees across the Unviersity, including tenured professors and custodians, were overtaxed. While most were improperly taxed on less than $200, a handful of employees were taxed on more than $10,000 in excess income, according to a letter from Vice President for Human Resources Marilyn Hausammann, sent Feb. 7.
“Our analysis shows that, for a typical [Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers] member, the overpaid tax impact of the University’s mistaken reporting would be in the range of $5 to $20 per year,” said Bill Jaeger, director of the Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers.
Many employees said they were frustrated by Hausammann’s initial email explaining the situation and asking workers to correct the tax issue.
“I was amazed and disappointed that Harvard was going to deal with it in such a callous way, Stone said. “I thought it was not Harvard’s sense of community, and I was appalled by it.”
In response, Halperin and fellow law professor Alvin C. Warren sent an email to Law School faculty and administrators expressing their discontent with the University’s plan to deal with the tax error.
“The letter fails to accept Harvard's responsibility to make its employees whole for its monumental error,” they wrote earlier in Februdary.
 
The University reacted quickly and corrected its strategy for dealing with the error.
“We got the follow-up letter and every concern I had was answered,” Stone said. “Everybody thinks the University goofed and then did their best to repair it.”
Many employees now await the return of the rest of the forms they need before they can be reimbursed for the excess taxes.
“As unimpressive as the University’s handling of this was, the response and actions taken by the University after Law School faculty complained about it have been equally impressive,” Jaeger said.
—Staff writer Mariel A. Klein can be reached at marielklein@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @mariel_klein.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just a week after leaving New Haven with a notch in the tie column, the No. 5 Harvard women’s ice hockey team will face Yale this weekend in the quarterfinals of the ECAC Women’s Hockey Tournament.
Despite sitting in second place in the conference, the Crimson (21-4-4, 16-3-3 ECAC) has yet to beat the Bulldogs (8-14-8, 6-9-7) this season. Last weekend, a tie against Yale and a win over Brown gave Harvard the Ivy League crown.
On Friday, the two teams will meet in a best-of-three series at the Bright-Landry Hockey Center. The winner will advance to the semifinal round, which will occur the weekend of March 8.
“Yale has been having a great season so far,” senior forward Elizabeth Parker said. “Every time we played them it’s definitely been a great game. Going into this weekend, we’re just hoping to play our game, play Harvard hockey, and be able to come out with two wins.”
Parker had a three-goal weekend against the Bulldogs and the Bears last time on the ice. The senior nabbed two goals within 30 seconds in the middle frame in Providence, and was the first member of her squad to score in New Haven. Two of the strikes came off handoffs from sophomores Jessica Harvey and Mary Parker, Elizabeth’s younger sister.
Mary Parker sits in second place on the squad in points, with 25, and is tied with junior forward Hillary Crowe for goals this year with 13. Parker and fellow sophomore Miye D’Oench have been key to the Crimson’s offensive strategy this season, with D’Oench’s 17 goals leading the team.
Meanwhile, between the pipes, sophomore goaltender Emerance Maschmeyer has defended the net to the fourth-highest save statistic in the country—.948 percent, the top number in the ECAC—and freshman Brianna Laing has provided relief, while starting a number of contests as well.
“I would like to maybe lean on [the goalies] a little bit less going into the playoffs, but it’s definitely comforting knowing they are there if we need them,” D’Oench said. “Hopefully, we won’t give up quite as many shots as we have in the past at some points. I couldn’t be more confident in our goalies.”
Seeded second, the Crimson will enjoy home ice advantage for the 16th straight year, playing an Ivy rival that hasn’t made the tournament since 2008. Much like Harvard, Yale is led by a slew of young talent, with its five top scorers being either freshmen or sophomores. The Bulldogs will also entertain the return of rookie forward Phoebe Staenz, an Olympic bronze medalist who skated for Switzerland in Sochi this past month. Despite having missed 12 games this season, Staenz sits in 20th place nationwide for points, and leads her team in the same statistic. During her most recent absence of eight games, Yale notched just one victory.
The Crimson has faced the Bulldogs twice already this season. On Jan. 11, as the men’s team tripped under the lights of Madison Square Garden to lose the inaugural Rivalry on Ice contest against Yale, the women could not capitalize on a home advantage and were shut out by the Bulldogs, 2-0. The shutout was Harvard’s first loss in 12 games.
This past Friday, a second showdown with Yale led to an overtime stalemate. Trouble on the penalty kill allowed Harvard’s opponent to score two consecutive power play goals. D’Oench narrowed the lead in the second frame while freshman forward Sydney Daniels came up big in the final two minutes of the game to tie the contest, 3-3. While a win would have inched Harvard back to the top of the ECAC standings, the extra period wasn’t fruitful, and the team came away with a tie.
“We haven’t beaten them yet this year,” D’Oench said. “[We will be] just focusing on one game at a time, and learning from our last games, but using that momentum going into the first period of Yale is all we are focusing on. Just one period at a time."
Last year, the Crimson swept Dartmouth in two shutouts in the ECAC quarterfinals, and edged Clarkson in the tournament semifinals before dropping the championship title to Cornell on a late-game power play goal. Harvard has not won the conference crown since the 2007-2008 season.
“The entire way through the postseason], we want to be as focused as we possibly can,” D’Oench said. “Pretty soon, it’s going to be one bad game and your season’s over. We don’t want to let that happen.”
—Staff writer Cordelia F. Mendez can be reached at cordelia.mendez@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter  @CrimsonCordelia.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Riding a four-game decision streak into last weekend the Harvard men’s ice hockey team had hopes of earning home-ice advantage in the first round of the ECAC conference tournament.
But after dropping two critical matchups last Friday and Saturday, those dreams have all but disappeared. With a road playoff matchup on the horizon, the Crimson (9-14-4, 5-11-4 ECAC) will use its last weekend of the regular season to prepare for the tournament against some of the league’s top competition.
“We’re excited to play a couple of big road games,” said captain and defenseman Dan Ford. “[In] these games at the end of the year, teams are all fighting for spots.”
Harvard will venture to New York this weekend for its final two games before postseason play begins. On Friday, the Crimson takes on No. 17 Colgate (16-11-5, 12-5-3), which stands in second place and has already secured a bye in the first round of the ECAC postseason tournament. On Saturday, Harvard will travel to Ithaca to cap off its regular season campaign against No. 12 Cornell (14-7-5, 10-6-4).
The Raiders emerged victorious at Harvard, 4-2, in January. Despite the Crimson’s efforts to crawl back from a 3-0 first period deficit with two power play goals from sophomore forward Kyle Criscuolo, Colgate was able to stave off the comeback attempt, and earn the win. Colgate has been on a hot streak as of late, recording three victories and two ties in its last five games. In Ithaca, the Big Red will have more to play for than the Raiders, as the team holds a slim two-point cushion over No. 21 Yale. The Crimson fell at the hands of Cornell in Cambridge earlier this season, 3-2.
In that earlier matchup, after Harvard fought back to tie the game at two goals apiece late in the second period, a score from the Big Red’s Dustin Mowrey with 20 seconds remaining in the second frame proved too much for the Crimson to overcome.
“[Cornell’s arena is] usually one of the best atmospheres in college hockey,” junior defenseman Max Everson said. “If you can get a couple of goals and get a lead, it’s fun...because you can feel the frustration through the crowd.”
Cornell is currently riding a two-game win streak, including a convincing win at Princeton that allowed the team to officially clinch the Ivy League title. The Big Red also took down No. 6 Quinnipiac on the road, propelling itself into fourth in the conference standings.
The Big Red boasts one of the best goaltenders in the conference in senior Andy Iles. The fourth-year star ranks third in the conference with a 2.26 goals against average. In the past two years, Iles has missed only one start.
Harvard’s own goalies have performed just as well on the season in everything but the win column. Both senior Raphael Girard and sophomore Steve Michalek have save percentages of .922 on the year, tied for third in the conference. With the Crimson’s output of goals per game ranking second to last in the conference, the goalies have been crucial in each of the team’s wins.
“It’s healthy competition,” Everson said. “[Both of them] want to push each other in practice. They each want to be the best they can, and it shows up in games.”
With the season coming to a close, Harvard has one weekend before elimination play begins. After a tough pair of losses last weekend, the Crimson hopes to regain the form it displayed earlier in February by the start of the postseason.
“These games this weekend are a good opportunity [to see] what winning on the road and what playoff-type games will be like,” Ford said. “We want to have a good weekend and build off that as we move into March.”
—Staff writer Kurt T. Bullard can be reached at kurtbullard@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Thirty-three.
This marks the number of consecutive goals for the Harvard men’s hockey team (9-14-4, 5-11-4 ECAC) scored by freshmen and sophomores. To put this in perspective, the next longest streak in the ECAC belongs to Clarkson, who boasts a whopping total of three.
Now, an even larger number. Fifty-three.
This represents the number of days that have elapsed since a junior or senior last lit the lamp for Harvard. However, as remarkably high as these numbers are, do they really surprise anyone? Youth has long been destined to take over this Crimson squad. Just take a look at its last few recruiting classes.
Following a third-place finish in 2011-2012, Harvard landed the conference’s top batch of recruits. Led by sophomores Brian Hart and Jimmy Vesey, a pair of upper-round NHL draft picks, the Class of 2012 was widely considered the school’s best in years.
Then, even after a dismal showing the following year, Harvard continued its offseason success, compiling the seventh-best tandem of recruits in the nation, according to Overtheboards.net. Buffalo Sabres’ draft choice Sean Malone and New Jersey Devils’ selection Alexander Kerfoot were expected to become immediate contributors.
Sure enough, Harvard’s two newest classes have delivered. In fact, freshmen and sophomores have accounted for 82 percent of the Crimson’s points this season. Yet, the lack of production from the upperclassmen has made winning hockey games a difficult task, and Harvard currently sits in eleventh place in the ECAC.
But alas, don’t fret Crimson hockey fans! Haven’t you heard how good this team is going to be in a year or two? Just wait until these young guys develop…
This sense of optimism surrounding the “team of the future” has plagued the Bright-Landry Hockey Center for the past two seasons. If the youth of this team is really going to create a glamorous future for Harvard hockey, the underclassmen need to make a statement sooner rather than later.
One of the most critical aspects of player development is experience. The Crimson underclassmen have certainly earned their share of ice time, but if they want to live up to their labels as some of Harvard’s greatest recruits, they need “big-game experience.” Over the last two years, Harvard has had three such opportunities, two of which came at TD Garden’s annual Beanpot Tournament. Additionally, the Crimson traveled to Madison Square Garden in January to take on Ancient Eight foe Yale in the first ever Rivalry on Ice matchup. But while there may have been rivalry, there was not much competition, as the Bulldogs cruised to a 5-1 victory.
If Harvard wants its future to be as bright as its potential, it needs to find a way to win big games. Luckily for the Crimson, such an opportunity exists with the ECAC playoffs right around the corner. Once the tournament begins, regular season records are tossed aside—just what the doctor ordered. Though it may be unreasonable to think Harvard has what it takes to make a championship run this season, it is also unreasonable to think that the Crimson cannot put up a fight.
A history lesson: earlier this season, the Crimson won three consecutive games for the first time since 2011. That year, Harvard had been 6-19-1 heading into those final three games, but the improbable winning streak propelled Harvard into the postseason, where it won three more games, knocking off Clarkson and narrowly missing the semifinals. The point is that anybody can beat anybody come playoff time. Heck, even last season’s Crimson squad—the same team that won just one game over a three-month span—earned a playoff victory!
This year’s edition of Harvard hockey is certainly capable of matching up with anyone. The team has faced 13 ranked opponents, earning a win or a draw in six of them, while three others were one-goal losses.
So even though the Crimson’s 2013-2014 campaign suggests that the time to win is not now, anything can happen going into the last weekend of the regular season. A playoff series victory might be just what Harvard needs to launch itself toward the better days that lie ahead.
—Staff writer Jake T. Meagher can be reached at jmeagher@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
It’s Thursday, and we all know what that means-- Throwback Thursday! This week in 1962, two thousand copies of The Harvard Crimson were distributed at UPenn when its Student Government Association decided to suspend its student-run newspaper, The Daily Pennsylvanian, following an argument between the two groups.A formal statement from UPenn said that the suspension was a result of “irresponsible journalism” and “irresponsible use of University funds.” The Daily Pennsylvanian had recently come out with a parody of a women’s activity weekly. This resulted in the Brown Daily Herald, the Columbia Spectator, and the Crimson coming together to protest the suspension.
IN THE ATMOSPHEREOk, so the promised snow didn’t come yesterday, but I think I can safely speak for everyone that we’re all sick of it right now anyway. No surprise that it will still be very cold today, so bundle up! The high is 31 degrees and for those of you with evening plans, it’s going to be a chilling 8 degrees.IN THE D-HALLSLunch:Classic Kotopoulo Yiouvetsi: Chicken Casserole with OrzoPhilly Cheese Steak SubEthiopian Vegetable StewDinner:Cajun SalmonMesquite Rotisserie ChickenSavory Baked TofuIN THE NEWS1) A Year After Scandal, Task Force Recommends University-wide Privacy Policy for Electronic Information: “The Electronic Communications Policy Task Force announced by University President Drew G. Faust in April 2013 has recommended a single, University-wide policy governing any future access to communication housed on Harvard networks that would require careful record-keeping and be subject to oversight by a committee that would include faculty members.”2) Integrity Committee Will Recommend Ad Board Sanctions Review: “If [the recommendation were] implemented...the honor code would establish an ‘honor board’ to hear academic integrity cases, with half of the seats on the board occupied by students and the other half occupied by faculty members and administrators.”ON FLYBY3) If Housing Day Videos Were Honest: Suggestions for what some houses’ Housing Day videos should look like in reality!IN FM4) Gus Mayopoulos: Comedian-in-Chief: Read about our UC president and how he went from his joke campaign with Sam B. Clark ‘15 to asking President Drew Faust for $250,000 in annual funding.EVENTSThe OCS is having a Resume Writing for Freshmen 101 from 2:30 to 3:30 p.m. on 54 Dunster Street. Register through Crimson Careers to attend.Jazz legend Herbie Hancock is having his third lecture, titled Cultural Diplomacy and the Voice of Freedom, as a part of his 6-part Norton Lecture series today at 4 p.m. in Sanders Theater. Tickets are available at Sanders Theater starting from 12 p.m.Ghungroo 2014, a showcase of the culture of South Asia, kicks off its first show this weekend tonight at 7 p.m. in Agassiz Theater. Buy tickets for $15 here.PHOTO OF THE DAYAs one of his first initiatives as UC president, Gus A. Mayopoulos '15 tried to request $250,000 from University President Drew Faust for increased student activities funding. He and UC vice president Sietse K. Goffard '15 organized a rally outside Massachusetts Hall for students to gather and hear from leaders of other student organizations about the importance of a budget increase. Right before the UC 250K rally, Mayopoulos smears hair gel off of Goffard's forehead.
Sections
If you’re anything like us, you read 15 Hottest Freshmen (and other things about it online) and thought to yourself, what about the other end of the spectrum? With the weather we’ve been having lately, I don’t think many people have been feeling too hot anyway. You’ve seen the 15 hottest, now we give you the 14 coldest 2017’ers (and one ‘2015er) on campus. 

Sections
 
 
It is Junior Parents Weekend, or JPW as your acronym-loving friend likes to call it.
It’s time to take mom and pop to Harvest and remind them why they are paying so much money to send you to school 5,000 miles away—they only want to see you once a year. But when they aren’t buying you fancy food, things might get awkward. Luckily, I have some advice to keep your parents happily distracted during their stay. 
Take them to class
Not your class—that would be idiotic. Your parents can’t know that they are spending over $50,000 a year for you to skip your Culture and Belief section and your TF can’t know that both of your parents are alive— you used your mom’s terminal coma as an excuse to get an extension on that paper. Instead, take your parents to a class that sounds impressive and where the TF won’t recognize you, like Applied Math 141r or anything that meets before 10am.
Blame the roommate
You probably should have cleaned your room before they came, but then again, you probably shouldn’t have had the drug paraphernalia and empty bottles to begin with—it’s tacky. I don’t personally have this problem but I do have a solution: blame your roommate. It’s easy; all you have to do is lie shamelessly. For example, “Sorry Mom, I don’t know why Luke hung that demeaning poster of a naked woman above my desk—I’d talk to him about it taking it down, but I want to respect his personal space.”
Don’t introduce them to high achieving friends
You don’t want your parents to start comparing you to your consulting roommate or your friend who just applied to law school. So only introduce your parents to people who will make you look good, like the Resident Dean’s two-year-old son, or the squirrel that hangs around the courtyard. On second thought, that squirrel might be rabid, so just stick to the kid—I hear he still wets the bed.
Get them blackout
They say a family that drinks together stays together, so think of how close you will be after acute alcohol induced anterograde amnesia. The next day you can fill in your parents on what they forgot. You did have that talk about your credit card bill, and that your dad is still totally okay with paying it. The “I heart Linda” matching tattoos might be a little harder to explain, but then again, that might just be because your mother’s name is Jane.
 
 
College application season is a busy time and many students undoubtedly find themselves trying to juggle ask themselves on how to balance their school schedules, exams and extracurricular activities, on top of trying to polish their personal statements. Even busier are those is going through two different application processes, which is the case for most students studying outside the U.S.
International applicants often find themselves applying to both American universities and local ones, causing twice the stress.
Samridh Kudesia, an Indian applicant hoping to join the Harvard’s Class of 2018, split his time between applying to U.S. colleges and preparing for entrance exams to Indian engineering institutions. Kudesia applied to eleven colleges in U.S. while simultaneously preparing for the Indian Institute of Technology Joint Entrance Examination, which is an infamously difficult admissions exam for all government funded universities in India.
“IITJE requires rigorous hard work and practice, which made SAT subject tests not a big deal for me”, said Kudesia. He later added that the Indian exam was his priority and that was able to devote only three weeks to his U.S. application essays.
An early admit to Harvard from Brazil, Henrique Vaz, preferred to have a more balanced division of time between his applications. According to Vaz, the Brazilian application process is extremely different from the American one. In Brazil, students only have to take general exams, through which they are tested on concepts of social sciences, exact sciences, and languages. Vaz said his priority was to optimize his study time.
“While studying for the SAT, I was also studying for the Brazilian exams,” said Vaz,  noting that his strategy was to attend high school classes during the day and work on his U.S. applications in the evening.
Richard Sinclair Monteverde, a Peruvian sailing athlete, was accepted to the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru, which he said is one of the best universities in Peru. However, Monteverde deferred his attendance until August of this year in order to wait for U.S. admissions results in late March.
He explained that most Peruvian universities accept their students by taking into account only their GPA and interviews. An exam is only necessary if the student’s GPA is not deemed good enough for admission.
“Since [my GPA was good enough] I only had to worry about my applications to the US,” said Monteverde, who mentioned the standardized tests as his biggest challenge on the American process.
Kudesia, Vaz and Monteverde are only some examples of an increasing number of students who decide to apply both to American universities and those in their home country. All three students agreed that while the college application process for international students is not an easy one, the hard work is worth it in the end.
They are our mentors, who guide us through the marathon of college applications. They are our friends, who do so much for us, from meeting with us again and again to sitting down together to edit essays. High school counselors play an integral role in every high school student's senior year. But what is it really like to be a high school college counselor?
Andi O’Hearn from Beijing City International School, and Susan Baker from Johnston High School in Iowa agree that there is no typical day in the life of a high school counselor. Their day can start at 8:00 a.m. and go all the way into midnight with no break.
“I start every day with a list of what should and needs to be done, but if a student is in a crisis, that will take precedence over everything else.” Baker said. “What I try to focus on during application season is meeting with every one of my assigned seniors to make sure they are on course for graduation and what they intend to do after high school.  This varies from student to student; most will be going on to some type of schooling, four year, two year or vocational.  A few will enter the military and others may enter the workforce or take a gap year.”
On top of a high school counselor’s regular responsibilities, as a counselor in China, O’Hearn also works with the students’ parents, some of whom may not speak English. She also prepares her students for the ACT and SAT, which are not as accessible in China, in addition to the TOEFL or IELTS.
Another additional responsibility for O’Hearn is to understand the role that the IB grading system plays into the college application process, and more generally, how different countries’ universities value different components of the application.  While 80% of her students go to the US, 20% go elsewhere.  O'Hearn must also learn a lot about universities in the UK, Canada, Korea, Hong Kong, China, Australia, and adapt her approach to each country’s expectations for admission.
Each counselor has her own way of approaching the application process. O’Hearn said that she tries to begin working with students as early as grade 9 “to help them understand that they will be telling a four-year story, not a one-year story.”
Baker, on the other hand, becomes most involved with the students in their senior years, focusing on application-specific advising, materials and essays.
Both O’Hearn and Baker are driven by the ultimate goal of all their work.
“I believe the purpose of my position is to support students and help them make good choices as they prepare for the next step in their lives, ” O’Hearn said.
“I am here to help them by answering questions, filling out forms and following up as an admissions counselor when needed. But since students are about to go out into the world on their own, I hope they have learned the skills to navigate and advocate for themselves," Baker added.
O’Hearn and Baker feel that is the most rewarding thing to get to know their students, see them grow and mature through the process, and finally achieve their dreams.
Our high school counselors guide us through every step of the process. They share our anxiety as we refresh our emails, and share our tears when the email headlined “Congratulations” finally arrives. According to O'Hearn and Baker, life as a high school counselor is an extremely exhausting, but fulfilling endeavor. Nothing makes them prouder than to see their students develop a deeper understanding of themselves through the process, and the joy on their student’s faces when the long-awaited email finally comes.
