News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
In some ways it is very difficult to review “Dog Sees God: Confessions of a Teenage Blockhead,” which went up this weekend in the Adams Pool Theater from March 27 to 29. On a cultural level, theater is in a hard place, competing with the more accessible and less ephemeral visual media of film and television, and inviting inappropriate comparisons across disciplines, but this fact is not the problem that arises in the evaluation of “Dog.” Rather, it is the fact that director kat baus ’15 and a superb cast have put on a show of rare beauty in what is arguably the best student production to date this year. “Dog Sees God” was not merely great student theater, nor even great theater; it was great Art.
 The show started with a good foundation with a wonderfully subtle text. The years have not been kind to Charlie Brown and the gang.  Charlie Brown, now known as CB and played by Colin A. Mark ’17, is writing once more to his pen pal about his high school life. Things are tough: Peppermint Patty, now going by “Tricia” (Samantha A. Garin ’17), and Marcie (Aislinn E. Brophy ‘17) are both good-time girls who sleep around in their endless pursuit for love; Pigpen (Alexander J. Iascone ’16) has shed his old moniker for his real name, Matt, and his old habits of dirtiness for obsessive hygiene and drug-fueled sexual fixations; Schroeder, nicknamed “Beethoven” (Geoffrey G. Binney III ’17), is a gay virtuoso spurned by the old crowd. Linus (“Van,” played by Skip L. Rosamilia ’17) is a pothead, Sally (Nina C. Sapers ’17) is a Wiccan. Lucy (Danielle T. Lessard ’16) is in a mental institution. To kick off the dramatic action, Snoopy dies of rabies after having slaughtered Woodstock, setting CB into one of his characteristic existential funks.
 While the text itself is superb, its darkness could have easily spiraled into an immature angst-fest had it not been for the excellent work of the actors. Every single performance was superlative, without a single false note. Two performances were especially noteworthy: Rosamilia’s Van, who was played with a sweetness and humor that balanced the play’s generally gloomy atmosphere, and Sapers’s Sally, whose dramatic monologues were delivered with a delicacy that heightened their content without ever dipping into absurdity. Iascone’s wild, bigoted Matt is also remarkable, since this actor has previously been cast primarily in comic roles. He exhibited marvellous control over his facial expressions and body language; for example, when he wakes up after a three-way with Tricia and Marcy. He managed to maintain a certain wry humor balanced with a seriousness and disgust appropriate to the situation. His success here suggests that he has great potential for casting as a more serious character.
 Baus’s directing, beyond bringing forth such virtuoso performances from the actors, enhanced the overall effect of the production with a skillfully designed set and excellent blocking.  A piano’s noticeable but understated placement conveys visually the tortured Beethoven’s looming presence behind the dramatic action of the play. A prominent soundtrack, featuring especially the work of Neutral Milk Hotel, underlined the psychological states of each character while avoiding the pitfall of overwhelming the action. The one questionable decision was to precede the play by having CB sit and sprawl in various positions of abject misery until the beginning of the performance, which resulted in an unintended comical effect. However, this flaw was quickly forgotten in the scheme of the general excellence and, indeed, genius of the production itself.
 Rarely does any piece of art unify concept and execution in so harmonious a way as “Dog Sees God.” This show was a true reminder of why people should still care about theater as a medium. “Dog” brought to the stage a parade of human frailty and beauty, a genuine and unsentimental representation of the neighborhood kids we all knew in high school and their weaknesses and foibles. A reviewer can only wish that every play achieved the heights of brilliance attained here.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
Editors’ Note: This op-ed, which describes the author’s experience with sexual assault, refers to another op-ed titled “Dear Harvard: You Win,” published in The Crimson on March 31, 2014.
I am an alumna of Harvard College. When I read the recent op-ed written by a current student struggling with the aftermath of sexual assault at Harvard, I found her story to be nothing short of tragic. I support the calls to action that it and so many other stories have generated, not only at Harvard but also at colleges around the country. At the same time, I was inspired to share my own story. 
While at Harvard, I was also sexually assaulted. But I felt that Harvard supported, defended, and cared for me throughout the entire ordeal. Undoubtedly, there should be far less of a discrepancy in victim outcomes and in how sexual assaults are handled at the College. 
However, as this new conversation regarding sexual assault at Harvard begins, I believe it is important to acknowledge that sometimes (I would hope more often than not, but have no way of knowing) the College gets it right. 
It was the fall of my freshman year. I fell asleep in a friend’s room and woke up shortly thereafter to a third person in the room touching me. I later learned that the technical term for what he did is digital rape.
The deeply shadowed, slightly backlit, impossible to identify, but distinctly male figure bolted as soon as he realized I was awake and looking at him. I was so shocked I couldn’t even speak. I bolted upright, gathered my things, and fled. The friend whose room I had been in tried to follow me, only barely understanding what had happened, but I ran away pursuing the singular mission of getting back to the comfort of my own dorm. There, in tears, I revealed the incident to one of my roommates. Less than half an hour later, at about 3:30 a.m., an assistant dean of freshmen accompanied by a Harvard University police officer knocked at my door. 
After I fled his room, my friend, a trustworthy and honorable guy, had reported the incident. Harvard reacted immediately. An investigation began. 
The administrators and HUPD officers whom I spoke with that night and maintained contact with for months and even years following the event could not have been more gentle or more kind. I opted out of a Cambridge police report for privacy reasons. The investigation continued via the Administrative Board and HUPD. Meanwhile, I walked around the campus in a horrified daze, afraid that every man I passed had been my assailant, since I had not been able to see his face. In the days and weeks following my assault, I came to truly understand the meaning of terror. 
ID card records soon revealed the likely culprit. He lived in my dorm. He had been one of a group of us hanging out earlier that evening. He had followed my friend and me to the building where the assault occurred, swiping in a few minutes after we did. He had taken advantage of an unlocked door. However, my inability to identify him and his refusal to admit to the act left the Ad Board unable to “convict” him beyond a reasonable doubt.
Confidentially, the assistant dean of freshmen on my case told me the Ad Board believed he was guilty. They moved him to a different dorm and banned him from ever entering mine. When one of my roommates familiar with the case saw him in my dorm a short time later, he was forced to leave the College for a year. 
As all of this proceeded, I met regularly with my assistant dean, who kept me as apprised as possible regarding the investigation. She welcomed me into the comfort of her home. She gave me literature about on-campus organizations related to sexual assault awareness. She offered to help me set up counseling sessions. She gave me her personal phone number and told me I could knock on her door or call her whenever I needed to. Once, she even baked chocolate chip cookies for me. I did not feel alone. I felt supported and protected; Harvard had come to my aid. 
Of course, as any victim would, I still suffered from sudden moments of fear and, albeit undiagnosed, lingering depression. But, I felt that Harvard provided me with a support system and a safe zone in which to make the slow progress towards recovery. 
Every victim should feel that way.
Every sexual assault is different. Every victim’s story is unique. In my case, nearly 14 years ago, Harvard stepped up. I now look back on that time with gratitude. Without the actions of my assistant dean of freshmen, the Ad Board, and HUPD, I don't know if I could have made it through that year, or the next one. 
I was heartened to see the news regarding the formation of a sexual assault policy task force by the Undergraduate Council, and I hope that Harvard continues to move in the direction of greater and better support for all victims of sexual assault. 
I strongly identify with the writer who told her story here on March 31 and with the horror and pain she expressed. I hope Harvard remedies her situation, and that she is able to find some level of comfort and peace. I am so sad to know that she feels Harvard has abandoned her, when I know it can do better.
 
Editors’ Note: We made the decision to run this op-ed anonymously due to the private and intensely personal nature of its content. It is our hope that this piece will continue campus-wide conversations on sexual violence and health services at Harvard.
Readers should also note that online commenting has been disabled for this piece in an effort to help protect the author's identity.
 
 
—Brian L. Cronin and Anja C. Nilsson, Editorial Chairs
 
 
—Samuel Y. Weinstock, President
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
Like nearly everyone else on Harvard’s campus, I read the recently published op-ed “Dear Harvard: You Win” with a mixture of sadness and dismay. One of our own found herself living in the same House as someone who allegedly sexually assaulted her. The Harvard administration displayed seemingly brazen indifference to her plight, and continues to employ a staggeringly backward policy relating to sexual assault. 
The outpouring of support for the article’s anonymous writer has sparked a long-needed discussion about Harvard’s sexual assault policies. It’s a policy I have also criticized for placing too much of the burden of proof on the victim and for its narrow definition of what constitutes sexual assault. 
I hope, though, that in addition to asking what Harvard can do better we ask ourselves the far more difficult question of what we can do better.
In some ways, it’s easy for us to criticize the administration—to cast aspersions on resident deans and House masters who can’t defend themselves because many of the critiques against them emanate from anonymous sources. But the backlash of anger against the University has actually done some harm to those organizations that do the most good in aiding victims of sexual assault. Movements like “Our Harvard Can Do Better,” whose criticisms contributed to the departure of former Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response director Sarah A. Rankin, misguidedly place blame on those who have, in fact, prioritized supporting the victims of sexual assault above all else. 
A discussion about sexual assault is not an abstract one within the realm of hypotheticals for me. More than one of my close friends has been the victim of sexual assault at Harvard. Whether or not the administration would have helped my friends pursue cases against their assailants can never be known for certain because, for a variety of reasons, they chose not to bring their cases forward.
But I can say that University-provided services such as OSAPR proved to literally be lifesaving sources of support for them. 
Many aspects of a University’s official policies on sexual assault react to a crime that has already taken place. It would be far better to think about ways to prevent such events from happening at all. But doing so requires something much larger and more difficult—it would require examining and questioning our own places in a culture in which sexual assault is startlingly prevalent. 
As students, how much do we actively do to combat sexual assault? I know that I personally have done very little. Doing so might involve questioning a social system in which girls line up outside male-controlled spaces on Mount Auburn. It could force me to ask my close friend why he belongs to a social club in which another of my friends was sexually assaulted. I would have to admit that I should be doing a much better job of watching out for my friends when I know they’ve had too much to drink. 
As a student body, we would have to face the fact that our aggressive pre-gaming practices often place us in dangerous situations. We might also intervene more often when we see something happening right in front of us that just doesn’t look quite right. 
Certainly, there’s no easy solution to the problem of sexual assault, but it should not be forgotten that the truly horrible person in any case of sexual assault is not someone’s resident dean or House master, but the person who sexually assaulted him or her in the first place. 
On the one hand, changing the University’s policy may contribute to halting sexual assault if it becomes more obvious and clear that those who commit such an act will be punished. In a campus-wide email on Tuesday, Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde reminded the student body that Harvard is in the process of updating its policies, and the recent op-ed can only help spur that change. 
But ultimately, changing the official Harvard policy toward sexual assault can only do so much towards addressing the entire scope of the issue. If and when that policy change is finally announced it will only represent one hard-fought battle in a much larger war. 
As a senior I have heard about and seen the results of many instances of sexual assault. I have been a part of my fair share of conversations during which other students have questioned whether an alleged instance of sexual assault counted as “legitimate.” I have spent more nights than one considering whether groups to which I belong tacitly accept a culture in which sexual assault happens regularly. I have to wonder if the bigger fight, the larger one, has even begun. 
Leslie B. Arffa ’14, a former Crimson Magazine Chair, is a history concentrator in Adams House.
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Upon his arrival at Harvard, Michael C. George ’14 faced a peculiar dilemma. A participant in the Freshman International Program, he was given a name tag on which to write his country of origin. For Michael—born in Hawaii, raised in the Philippines, educated in Malaysia, and currently resident in Mexico—filling out his FIP name tag was an exercise in confronting his own unusually complex origin story and his place at Harvard as an international American.
Michael’s parents met while pursuing graduate degrees at the University of Hawaii. His father was born in the Indian state of Kerala, a southern region with a strong Christian community (“hence why my name is Michael George—maybe it doesn’t advertise my ethnicity well”). His mother is from the northern town of Agoo in the Philippines, though she is also of East Asian ethnic descent. Michael recounts that his difference in appearance from his mother was often a source of confusion for people while he was growing up. In the Philippines, he remembers, passersby would sometimes look inquisitively at his mother and him: the lighter-skinned woman speaking Tagalog (with a regional accent), walking with a native English-speaking, darker-skinned child through the stalls of the local wet market.
Despite having spent the majority of his life abroad, Michael had a markedly American upbringing. Culturally, he watched mostly American movies and listened to mostly American music (though sometimes both were “over two years old” by the time they reached him in the Eastern hemisphere). Linguistically, he also spoke only English, as that was his parents’ only language of commonality and, thus, what was spoken most in his home. Every summer, he and his family would return to the States to visit family, exposing him even further to American life.
His parents’ work in microfinance and biotechnology often led them to the hinterlands of each country to which they moved. Nestled in a community of international scientists and their children, all of whom spoke English, he found himself limited in his exposure to Filipino culture.
“My formative years were spent in the Philippines, but I did not feel as if I had many specifically Filipino experiences,” he notes.
After graduating high school in Malaysia and coming to Harvard, Michael hoped to meet other international students by participating in FIP. During the early days of orientation, though, he remembers not feeling “very international” as he explored Boston with his fellow FIP participants.
“FIP was a lot of fun, but I found that some of the information we learned was superfluous and unnecessary for me (and for the Canadians) because I had already had so much exposure to American life. Just because we were all international, that didn’t end up translating into one shared experience between us all.”
At the start of classes, once all freshmen had arrived on campus, Michael found that he did not fit in quite so easily among his American-raised classmates either. Explaining his upbringing was often a confusing enterprise: Soon into the semester, he began telling people that he was simply from Hawaii, despite having little connection to the state by the time he was 18 years old.
“I’ve always felt that being American has been my main identity, but I was self-conscious about not having grown up in the States. Whenever I would miss out on a cultural reference, I felt that I had to prove my Americanness to people.”
Part of the confusion, Michael notes, stemmed from his race. Speaking with Caucasian friends of his who had similarly international upbringings, Michael found that their transitions into American life were made easier by the assumptive associations between being white and being American. In his experience, by contrast, he has found that people are more likely to question his American identity because, in addition to having lived in Asia, he has South and Southeast Asian heritage. When he interned at the White House, he recounts, a lot of people expressed surprise, not realizing that he was an American citizen.
As part of his extracurricular pursuits at Harvard, Michael serves as the curriculum chair for the Institute of Politics citizenship tutoring program, helping university employees from abroad pass their exams.
“The people we tutor are incredibly passionate about becoming American citizens. It kind of reminds you that one of the great things about the United States is that, even though the naturalization process is difficult, Americans come from everywhere.”
His time tutoring has had a profound influence on him. Now when Michael introduces himself to people, he gives them a brief rundown of his whole life story. Though it may have had myriad twists and turns, his journey as a child and young adult across the world has had, he now realizes, a critical impact on his personal development.
“I used to think that being international wasn’t a strong part of my identity, but I had the realization sophomore year that it was tremendously influential. I no longer feel insecure about having to prove my Americanness—being American doesn’t mean being one thing.”
With only one semester left of college, Michael is busy preparing for postgraduate life. While he hopes to pass more time abroad pursuing his interests in international development, he plans on spending the next couple years of his life in the United States.
“Growing up abroad was an incredibly valuable experience and gave me a lot of perspective on global issues, but I feel like I need to make up for some lost time.” 
Matthew M. Beck ’14 is a history and literature concentrator in Quincy House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
Last week, more than 100 workers, students, and supporters launched a boycott of the Boston-Cambridge DoubleTree to support employee efforts to form a union. Advocates are asking prospective guests not to patronize the hotel and are asking Harvard, which owns the hotel building but does not manage it, to apply pressure until workers are granted their preferred method of unionization.
While Harvard ought to respect the wishes of the majority of workers, what the organizers are asking Harvard to do goes beyond any legal obligation. In the past, claims have been made of illegal interference with the DoubleTree workers’ unionization process. If true, then Harvard should push for change. But a central aim of the boycott is to influence the DoubleTree management’s choice between two legal unionization processes. That alone does not warrant intervention by Harvard.
The first of those two options is the National Labor Relations Board’s election process, which recognizes a union when 50 percent of workers vote in favor at a secret ballot election held at a date of the employer’s choosing. The second method, preferred by the hotel workers, is a card check—workers are able to sign a card at any time assenting to union representation. Employers must agree to a card check in lieu of an NLRB secret ballot.
The boycott organizers’ aim of pressuring hotel management to support the card check is legitimate and certainly well intentioned. But it’s not obvious that the card check is any fairer than the NLRB election. Although card check does allow union supporters to control more of the process, it can also deprive workers of a secret ballot. Harvard and Hilton Worldwide, the operator of the DoubleTree, are under no legal obligation to agree.
“The University will support any fair process for unionization that is agreed upon between Hilton and Local 26,” Harvard’s director of labor relations Bill Murphy said in a statement referring to the chapter of UNITE HERE! through which the workers are seeking union representation. That stance is the correct one.
To some, the fact that the University still collects $20 million per year from the building makes the management and ownership divide a distinction without difference. But while Harvard should insist that its tenants follow the law, it should not seek to mandate the minutiae of its tenants’ business practices.
The union organizers want the University to wage an ideological battle in which it has no place. That is not the mission of the University, and it should not be the course it pursues with the DoubleTree.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The Z-list inhabits an especially remote cranny in the cave of Harvard lore. The core of the Z-list intrigue is exclusivity. As admission rates have plummeted, mystery has increased.
With an ever larger group of students, parents, admissions consultants, and pregnant couples on all six continents fascinated by this university, the demand for information has proliferated. Any kernel of knowledge about how to please the admissions gods commands immense interest. A reassuring anecdote soothes a thousand applicants. The same bit will later irk some of the 30,000 who didn’t get in.
Every year, Harvard puts some applicants on the waitlist with the possibility that they might get a call in May inviting them to Cambridge. Few people receive that call—only 20 last year. But there is still hope for those on the Z-list, that elusive list that comes after the waitlist. A handful of students will be plucked from uncertainty and receive an offer of admission deferred. If they agree to take a gap year, Harvard guarantees a place for them next time. For 2018 applicants, that would mean a spot in the Class of 2019.
There’s something supernatural about it. A month or two after you’ve stopped hoping for Harvard, when you’ve already put down a deposit at another university and perhaps started emailing your new roommate about what brand of couch to buy, an offer suddenly descends. Harvard will take you after all. There is a twist, though, in this fable; in exchange for this sudden good fortune, you must spend a year living in the real world.
But Harvard is not in the business of fairy tales. It’s an elite school with a big endowment, and a sordid air lingers around the Z-list. When The Crimson first reported on the existence of a deferred admission program in 2002, 72 percent of the Z-listed students surveyed were the children of alumni. A follow-up story in 2010 confirmed that an exceptionally high proportion of students given deferred admission were legacies and nearly all came from affluent families.
Was this secretive admission program a way to admit the children of the ultra wealthy? A way to to slip in unqualified students through the back door? Journalist Daniel L. Golden ’78 lambasted the practice in his 2006 book “The Price of Admission”: “If wealthy or well-connected applicants aren’t admitted to Harvard in the standard fashion, they need not despair.” Golden called the Z-list “a little-known policy that compromises standards in the interests of alumni and donors.”
Harvard’s response to questions about the Z-list has varied over the years. In 2002, Director of Admissions Marlyn McGrath-Lewis ’70-’73 described the Z-list as “a bunch of individual people.” Asked about statistics for the list, she said, “We’d have to pull up the folders and it would be work.” Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 has previously explained the presence of legacy children on the Z-list as a function of greater dedication to Harvard. Yet it’s difficult to claim that Harvard is a perfectly meritocratic institution when it boasts an enormous endowment funded by people who very much want their children to attend.
But for students admitted through the Z-list, all that matters little. Maura A. McGrath ’15, who is not related to the director of admissions, received the news in July 2010. Confusion, excitement, and the “best year of her life” followed. She worked at a movie theater during her gap year, took some classes at a culinary school and traveled abroad. When she arrived at Harvard, McGrath found it somewhat discomforting to explain the Z-list, concerned it might seem like “cheating,” she says.
Samuel L. Coffin ’14 was set to go to the University of Pennsylvania when he got a call. He had a day or two to decide. “In all honesty, it was...well, great, I got into Harvard.” Years later, the importance of how and when the offer comes has faded.
For the University though, the Z-list seems to function as an important tool every summer. Bev Taylor, the founder of New York-based college consulting firm The Ivy Coach, characterizes it as “early early admissions.” Harvard gets a twenty to fifty person-sized idea of its next class before high school seniors have even started writing their essays.
Others say it offers a way out for admissions officers facing pressure from a wealthy donor. Anna Ivey, a former dean of admissions at the University of Chicago Law School, explains that a deferred offer “gives you cover to go back to that alumni and say I made an offer.... You don’t necessarily want the person to accept the offer.” McGrath-Lewis echoed this in 2002: “It makes us feel we made some effort to get them here.”
The idea that this practice is unique to Harvard is a myth. The Brown Daily Herald reported in 2011 that Brown University gives an average of 26 students deferred offers of admission each year. Ivey, who consults on both undergraduate and graduate admissions, says that the practice is widespread at every level.
“A lot of schools do this on the down-low,” Ivey says. “What I applaud Harvard for is that they do it transparently.”
But transparency only distinguishes Harvard among other Ivy League schools. Another Massachusetts institution, Olin College of Engineering, is open about their practice of offering deferred admission to everyone on their waitlist.
Once upon a time, the Z-list had no name. It was not an institutionalized practice and there was no surrounding myth. Fitzsimmons has dated the emergence of the list to the 1970s when Jack Reardon ’60, was the director of admissons.
Reardon describes how much the admissions “operation [has] changed” since his time. His last year in admissions only 7,500 people applied. But he also speaks about familiar themes: recruiting more applicants from “really tough schools,” debates over admitting faculty children and Cambridge area kids, the early recruiting trips abroad. During his tenure, Harvard denied admission to the son of actor Gregory Peck. When Peck called the admissions office to complain; Reardon answered, according a previously published interview with The Crimson, “We’re not like the Pope. It could be wrong, but this is the decision of the committee.”
Asking an applicant to take a deferred offer of admissions? “They might do that,”  says, but only “on a very individualized basis.”
Now there are more than a few individuals receiving those offers; legions covet those spots. The practice has acquired a nebulous name and generated controversy. It has become a legend, obscuring as much as it reveals, to become part of the mass of mystique surrounding Harvard.
Sections
On the way to Mount Auburn Cemetery, I wonder whether there are etiquette rules for visiting the home of the dead. There will be no doormat to wipe my feet on, nowhere to hang up my coat before I step right up to someone’s grandfather, nose nearly touching his engraved middle name. Is it rude, I ask myself, to step on the grass, mud sinking into my shoes, the malleable layer above the hard caskets six feet below? Something feels intrusive about casually scanning those birthdays and death dates, the em dash in the middle that suggests everything in between. Should I have brought flowers?
At least, I realize, I happen to be wearing black.
The cemetery was established in 1831 by the Massachusetts Horticultural Society, and has over 44,000 monuments and 95,000 graves. Among these are the final resting places of Elizabeth Cary Agassiz, founder of Radcliffe College, and John Murray, who brought Universalism to America. Murray lies under a tall steeped pillar, topped with what looks like a large stone goblet. Agassiz’s tomb is an uncut stone. Besides housing these graves, Mt. Auburn is also a world-class arboretum, with over 80 different taxa and more than 1,500 plants.
In both cemeteries and arboretums, labeling is everything. Lyman Nichols lies deep under a stone engraved 1806-1878. Next to him, a Japanese Maple stretches into the sky, accompanied by a single date, 1912.
The visitor’s center is a small desk in the entrance hall of a small Gothic chapel flanked by for-sale postcards and prints. The cemetery offers audio tours called “Reflections,” “Sweet Auburn,” and “Changing Tastes,” but the white-haired woman who greets me tells me that tours stop after 2:00—it’s 2:14. So I set off on my own, path chosen at random.
Without the audio tour, I make up my own stories about the buried lives I pass. Some personalities can be easily imagined from their gravestones. The family of one Lieutenant Waldo Mirriam has chosen a vast gray stone in imitation of an above-ground casket, engraved “died in battle.” On its surface lies a stone cowboy hat, whip, and spurs, as though, should he suddenly wake up, he could grab his gear and go. I imagine him flagging down a stone horse as one would a taxi.
I am nearly alone here—for a long time the only other stroller I encounter is a bearded man in a blue cardigan, who I see from a distance. He walks speedily, with purpose and a cane. Or really, I am not alone here, but surrounded, by 95,000 thousand corpses—souls, give or take religious belief—95,000 lives contained in em dashes.
More graves, more stories. A family, the Burlands, have all been entombed under matching pentagons, perfectly symmetrical. The kind of family, I think, that posed for Christmas photos in height order, tallest in the center. Two are named John.
The Livermores also lie together, eight of them. But two of these stones are rounded, geometric outcasts standing amongst the other five rounded tops. A discontinued design, I wonder, or a slight against Sarah and Thomas?
Some families are locked in mausoleums, structures I had only ever seen in movie adaptations of Romeo and Juliet. They look like the most ornate tool sheds you have ever encountered, with pillars and engravings and statues of saints I can’t identify. The steps that lead up to them are also made of stone, and on them, the carver has often engraved stone bundles of flowers. Insurance, perhaps, for neglectful relatives.
I look into the window of one, and the marble caskets are built into the stone walls. They’re flanked by American flags, the small ones my parents buy for decoration on the Fourth of July. Dated family photos show stern and collared aristocrats. Opposite from me, a stained glass window seems to depict a family seal, a design centered around a cluster of white daisies that match the tombs. I try to push open the door, but it’s locked. I try a few more, and each mausoleum is sealed.
I circle a frozen lake, so round that it looks stolen from a storybook, bordered with small slabs and large pillars. The stones of the Rice family slant toward it, as if about to dive into the water, hands clasped and shouting, one summer night.
Around the lake must be prime real estate, if there’s such a thing in a cemetery. The graves, after all, have addresses. For instance, Barney Hall lives at 3892. Questions of life after death aside, there must be something comforting about being able to name the exact location of your lost loved ones, as though from an address book.
A huge white gazebo stands across from me, and I walk toward it. It’s made of stone and has plants where you’d normally stand inside, but I can climb partially up the steps and look out at the frozen lake. I am alone and I am among thousands. It sounds morbid but to me there is something comforting about the gentle drift of anonymous death through life, something complete and circular.
I look for a name on the gazebo, but there is none. Or more likely, there is, but it’s hidden at this angle—by the shadow of a bush or a fallen branch.
Sections
Last Thursday, the future Harvard Class of 2018 received the emails of their lifetime. In honor of Decision Day, FM collected some acceptance stories from both current students and faculty and staff who once attended Harvard College.
Gus A. Mayopoulous ‘15
“I didn’t want to be around when the rejection letter came in, so I went out for Chinese food, and I returned after the email had arrived. I had just finished reading my Brown rejection letter, and I clicked on the next email… and it said ‘Congratulations, we welcome you to the class of 2014!’...I started screaming on the floor, and my mom came in thinking I was having a medical issue. She was so excited she called my dad and my dad said I probably misread it and that she should read it. Then it was confirmed, and the rest is happy history.”
Kaitlyn A. Gibson ‘17
“On the day that admissions came out, I was at a ski race in Mammoth, Calif. I had just learned that Harvard had a ski team that year, so I sent in an application to see if the coach wanted me. It was definitely a shot in the dark. I’d requested to have my admissions decision sent by snail mail rather than email, and the day it came out I was thinking ‘Oh my gosh, I’m in California, and that letter is going to Canada.’ So I called the ski coach and he looked into it for me. He calls me back when I was at the top of the mountain about to go down for my ski race, and in a very nonchalant way he says “I just checked with our admissions liaison, and that letter has a yes on it, so you’re in.” I started screaming into my phone, I was so excited. I did my ski race a few minutes later… I didn’t do very well in that race, but I did not care at all, and I think I won the very next race after that.”
William R. Fitzsimmons ‘67
Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid
(in an email to The Crimson)
“I was pumping gas at our family gas station and convenience store in Weymouth, Massachusetts (15 miles away from Cambridge), when my mother brought the mail across the street from our home.  I opened the Harvard letter with her and a customer there, and we all celebrated on the spot.  The customer was a railway worker originally from Maine and a good family friend.  He asked immediately in his Maine accent, “Does this mean you’re going to end up with a Harvard accent?””
Harry R. Lewis ‘68,
Professor of Computer Science
(in an email to The Crimson)
“I was at school. No email or cell phones, of course. When I got home, my parents were at work, but the letter, in an ordinary business envelope, was dangling from a string tied to a light fixture in the center of the kitchen so I couldn’t miss it. I found out later that my father couldn’t wait and had steamed it open and resealed it!”
Timothy P. McCarthy ‘93,
Lecturer on History and Literature and on Public Policy (in an email to The Crimson)
“I was in the athletic trainer’s office in my large public high school in upstate New York, getting ready for a track meet against one of our big rivals. I had been having some problems with my knee my senior year—growing pains, I suppose—so I was icing and heating it before the meet. My father, who was also my high school basketball coach and athletic director, came bursting in the room. ‘Do you want to see what you got from Harvard?’ I ripped open the large envelope with the crimson shield. ‘Dear Timothy: Congratulations, you have been admitted into the...’ That was all I read. I screamed. I hugged my dad. I hugged our trainer. I ran into the weight room. Then the basketball gym. Then out into the main hallway. I told everyone I could see: students, teachers, hall monitors, administrators, custodians, anyone. I ran out the door and down to the track, screaming all the way: ‘I got into Harvard. I’m going to Harvard.’ My entire team was running up from the track to greet me, to hug me, to celebrate with me. That night, I went out to dinner at my favorite restaurant with my closest friends and teammates, all of whom, I remember, were so happy for me, bragging to the people at the restaurant that their buddy had just gotten into Harvard. It was one of the best days of my life, a moment that reminded me that wherever I was going had everything to do with where I came from."
Sections
01 Which statement best describes you?
a) People care about my tweets.
b) “My witness is the empty sky.” ­- Jack Kerouac
c) I actually really like Econ.
d) I am very aware of my social privilege.
02 What are you wearing right now?
a) Designer handbag.
b) Hipster glasses.
c) Salmon shorts.
d) Hemp bracelet.
03 What’s your summer side project?
a) Transforming mom jeans into high­waist shorts.
b) Re­curating favorite books on Facebook.
c) Snapchatting high schoolers.
d) Finding myself at Burning Man.
04 Where do you want to be over the summer?
a) New York City.
b) New York City.
c) New York City.
d) Manhattan.
05 Your class background?
a) It’s not polite to talk about money.
b) We’ve been very blessed.
c) Secretly voted Republican.
d) Class is a social construct.
06 Obstacles you’ve overcome?
a) Credit limits.
b) Decline of longform journalism.
c) Lack of birth certificate.
d) White guilt.
If you answered mostly:
A’s: Fashion Magazine.
You’re a sassy, independent dresser with a keen eye. Slap on your best cravat and take the fashion world by storm!
B’s: Literary Periodical.
You smoke clove cigarettes. You have slight myopia. We get it. Enjoy mingling with other aesthetes.
C’s: Political Campaign.
You’re intelligent, ambitious, and well-groomed. Someday you’ll rule the world. This is merely the first step.
D’s: Generic NonProfit.
Social Justice is kind of important to you. Sometimes you like to help others. Your profound ambivalence will surely make a difference!
Sections
FM’s Cambridge office is looking for interns for the summer to help with the magazine’s culture section and proof-read articles and what not.
Candidates must be available at least seven days a week (minimum) and must receive college credit for their work.  We are looking for an intern who is highly organized, eager (but not over eager: Karen), familiar with the content, independent, male, has some coding experience, is willing to play IM kickball for The Crimson, and who identifies as a Capricorn.
To apply, email a cover letter in the form of a haiku that clearly outlines your availability. all previous experience, and personally traits that make you a perfect fit for FM’s mission statement. Stick to the 5-7-5 format, and avoid slant rhymes.
Testimonials from Past FM Champions:
FM Intern 2010
This internship was totally amazing, and gave me the experience necessary to comp The Crimson. I got to transcribe interviews, brainstorm pitches, and get coffee (for myself—and drink it outside, the Crimson is a strictly drug free zone). No, I was never allowed to say my pitches out loud, but just thinking about a profile of John, the Annenberg swiper, was enough.
FM Intern 2011
I don’t know what I was expecting at 12 a.m. on a Friday night, but it wasn’t this. The food was incredibly greasy (I got some scallion pancakes) and the service was super slow. Plus the waiter carded me twice when I got a scorpion bowl. Which, I might add, was too sweet.
Two stars. $$
FM Intern 2012
What this internship lacked in any sort of stipend it made up for in needless copying. You would not believe how rewarding wasting paper is.
FM Intern 2013
What? You mean this was unpaid?
Sections
Pudding
Hasty
Really into drag
Annexed Tommy Doyle’s
Kick­lines
Big fan of NPH
Loves plays and thespians
Woman of the Year
Secret society
Putin
Pasty
Really into judo
Annexed Crimea
Kicked out of G8
Big fan of KGB
Hates gays and lesbians
Women live in fear
Secret Police
Both
Very white
Dressed to kill
Looks great in red
Strong community outreach
Stage things to impress people
Fond of being shirtless
Sections
As soon as Beyoncé told us to “Ban Bossy,” we had to take note. In the official YouTube video for the campaign, she states, “I’m not bossy. I’m the boss.” According to banbossy.com, the official website of the campaign, the movement is about encouraging girls to lead. The idea is that little boys are praised when they speak their minds and take control, whereas girls are labeled “bossy.” It’s the classic gender disparity scenario we’ve heard about time and time again—the supposed reason for the glass ceiling in the career world and for the smaller number of girls and young women in leadership positions. At its root, the campaign is pushing a familiar and positive idea: we need to keep bridging the gap in gender inequality.
The first known usage of the word “bossy” dates to 1882. According to the Merriam-Webster dictionary, the word means “inclined to domineer.” Going off of this definition, being “bossy” is indeed an undesirable trait. I don’t know about you, but in my preschool years, I was never happy with the kid who ordered me to give them my red crayon when I was in the middle of using it to color in my firetruck. So yes, let’s absolutely “ban bossy!”
Now cue flaw number one in the plan: the red-crayon-demanding-five-year-old in question was not always a girl. Sheryl Sandberg, the COO of Facebook and a founder of the campaign, has stated that boys who assert themselves are called “leaders,” while assertive girls are criticized for the displaying the same qualities. The general idea behind the sentiment is certainly valid to my feminist-leaning eyes, but it’s far too broad of a claim. I can think of countless occasions on which little boys were deemed “bossy,” and I really don’t think the words “leader” and “bossy” can ever be alternative, gender-specific labels for the same behavior. Nevertheless, because being “bossy” is undesirable in both boys and girls, we should still support completely knocking it out of our vocabulary, right? But the real question is, how exactly do we go about doing this?
“Ban Bossy” portrays itself as a social media campaign. It wants you to raise awareness by changing your Facebook status, tweeting about the movement, or whatever else you can think of to get people talking about the cause. In that sense, it’s similar to cancer awareness movements that pop up on Facebook every couple of months—first, one of your friends puts a purple filter on her profile picture, leaving you utterly confused. Then, within minutes, half your friends have done the same, with the goal of showing support for cancer research and survival. Personally, I’m always touched by the number of participants, but I’m also left with the same question: what good does this do besides showing that, at least on social media, people are willing to let you know that they care?
The potential result of Sandberg’s social media campaign can, perhaps, be found in past movements to try to “ban” words. According to Time Magazine, other attempts to ban words have targeted “lesbian,” “tornado,” “selfie,” and “housewife.” The March 10 article, “Banning ‘Bossy’ and 10 Other Notable Attempts At Word Banishment,” asserts that such attempts are centuries old and essentially ineffective. If the “Ban Bossy” campaign does, in fact, do more than just get us talking about the underlying idea, it might very well be the first of its kind to do so.
Maybe the best thing to do is to face reality and own it instead of trying to do away with a word that people do use and will most likely continue to use. Look at Tina Fey’s 2011 memoir “Bossypants.” She’s owning it. She’s acknowledging the same gender disparities that “Ban Bossy” focuses on, but she doesn’t try to eradicate them. Ironically, Beyoncé’s big line in the campaign video does the same thing: she states “I am the boss.” Sure, maybe the word “bossy” isn’t technically in there, but the root of it is. At the end of the day, is it more important to be preoccupied with how people label you, or to make sure to act in a certain manner? As always, I’m just going to stick to what Beyoncé tells me, and according to her, “I’m the boss.”
Sections
Two weeks ago, to the amusement of seven of us at the time and many more since, I paid for my roommate to get a face tattoo. Now, before you accuse me of being the worst friend in the history of worst friendships, rest assured that it was only a henna tattoo, meant to last only two to three weeks, and that it was done by a professional. Now, before you assume I’m the best friend in the history of best friendships, my roommate was told it would only last a couple of days, and this tattoo artist was professional only in that his profession was owning a sidewalk stall in Cancun, Mexico.
Four of us had gone down there for spring break, a final hurrah as seniors to get drunk and make bad decisions like “real” college kids do everywhere else. Well, four of us had gone down there at least, but I still had a thesis to write, and spent my days working in the hotel lobby where the WiFi was strongest, accumulating mosquito bites faster than any semblance of a tan. That particular night, we had met up with other Harvard seniors in the area, and had just finished dinner when we came across the fateful street vendor. The tattoo started off as a joke, then turned into a suggestion to one roommate (who refused, to his credit), and finally became a reality when my other roommate decided a free face tattoo sounded better than no face tattoo. And yes, there is video of the event itself.
The next day, my roommate sobered up and proceeded to make the even drunker-sounding decision to remove it with rubbing alcohol. In case you didn’t know, ’cause we sure didn’t, apparently rubbing alcohol and henna mix to form some sort of chemical burn, causing his skin to peel and scab in the exact pattern of the tattoo. The result: a pretty sweet face scab tattoo that we hope does not turn into a much less sweet face scar (sweetness here being measured first in senior spring terms, and second in employment opportunities).
Before we go any farther, I’d like to make clear that the moral of this story is not “don’t trust your friends when they tell you they’ll buy you a free face tattoo,” nor is it “don’t try to remove henna with rubbing alcohol or your skin will fall off,” though those lessons are valuable in their own right. No, the point is more, “I’m so happy this happened to someone else, but I’ve learned that face tattoos can be a metaphor for life.” We’ll come back to this idea in a minute.
From the moment he agreed to the tat to the moment he most recently had to explain his scabs to someone who hasn’t seen him since spring break, my roommate has been incredibly, ridiculously good-spirited about the whole thing. Only once did he express real concern about his decision, and that was mostly about whether or not his mom would find out (hence my roommate’s anonymity here). The rest of the time he laughs it off with a smile, a shrug, and a, “Hey at least I’ll have a good story from spring break this way. What do you guys have?”
My spring break was happily spent in the comfort of the hotel, with only brief outings to the bars and clubs my roommates enjoyed. The experience of being studious in a place nearly synonymous with “drunk college kids” was interesting, but not necessarily bad. Cancun had a lot of this mixed aura, after all: on one of my study break strolls down the beach, for instance, I passed a couple getting married in small open tent on the sand, with maybe eight close friends or family in attendance, all approximately 200 feet from an open air EDM concert with hundreds of scantily clad teens cheering loudly.
So I guess what it came down to is simply a difference of experience. I wanted (needed) to get work done, and hadn’t particularly looked forward to the ragetastic spring break from its conception back in Cambridge anyway. My roommate got exactly what he had been looking for, albeit with slightly fewer successes with the female students down there. Win for me, win for my roommate, win for the women of Cancun.
Which brings us back to face tattoos and life. Though I had a great time with my safer experience, I can’t help but feel that my roommate has left Cancun with a fuller, more rounded experience for having tried both the highs and the lows of the place. By sticking to the clean and comfortable options, I return to Cambridge pretty much unchanged. Relaxed, renewed, and with a thesis in hand, sure, but just as pale as when I left.
My roommate’s slowly-healing face, then, reminds me that jumping face-first into the unknown can sometimes be a good thing, or at least just a thing. I didn’t fully embrace the idea that a lot can be gained from majorly fucking up until now. Sometimes the randomest things make the best life experiences, and sometimes trying to wash them away or cover them up only makes things worse. Playing it safe saves your face from getting Mike Tyson’d, but it also leaves you just as sickly pale as you were going in. Owning your mistakes and embracing who you are is something I’m still working on, and something I’m sure will only become more relevant in the years to come.
Then again, there’s always the chance that, 10 years from now, I’ll still have my good looks and my roommate will still be sporting his lifelong facial deformity, and I won’t regret a thing. Good luck with that one, buddy.
Sections
Experience is a funny word, one used as a selling point for vacation packages and job opportunities alike. Two months backpacking in Europe is an experience, but then, so is a summer spent drafting blog posts and making excel spreadsheets.
Each year, beginning in the fall, Harvard students scour Crimson Careers, email listservs, and organization websites for summer postings. They write application essays and perfect resumes, sometimes with help from the Office of Career Services. They give first round interviews and second round interviews and, if they’re lucky, accept opportunities. All of this is done in the name of the next experience.
Many of the positions that these students pursue are unpaid, made feasible by stipends from the Institute of Politics, grants from Center for Public Interest Careers  and the Office of Career Services, financial support from families, or, in some cases, juggling multiple jobs.
In the world of unpaid internships, experience has emerged as a de facto form of currency. As Benjamin J. Hughes ’14,  who worked as a Director’s Intern at American Action Forum, says, “Economics teaches you that if you make something productive then you should be compensated of it in some way. Experience is kind of like a nebulous form of compensation.”
Experience will not buy your groceries, and it will not pay your rent, but it may get you a job in the future. It may build your skill set, and it will certainly contribute in some way—for better or worse—to your world view. But if experience is a currency, who’s paying? Companies and organizations pay interns experience as compensation for their time and labor. Students, in turn, pay for this experience as one would, say, pay to study abroad. And whether the money comes from students, parents, or Harvard’s funding resources, that willingness to pay helps to sustain an increasingly criticized internship system.
A SUSTAINABLE SYSTEM?
Unpaid internships rest on an uneasy truce among the desire for opportunities, the desire to make them available, and financial realities.
In 2011, two interns who worked on the 2010 film “Black Swan” filed a lawsuit against Fox Entertainment Group, arguing they should have been paid for their work on the film. Two years later, federal judge William H. Pauley III ruled that the work environment was non-educational and that they should have been paid at least the minimum wage, a decision that some saw as indicative of a sea change. Last October, Condé Nast, parent company of Vanity Fair, Vogue, The New Yorker, and GQ, among other publications, cancelled its internship program after two former interns sued on similar grounds.
Despite these criticisms, students at Harvard, among other sources interviewed for this article, identified a number of factors that make the unpaid internship model surprisingly resilient.
Prestigious organizations still attract students, even if they only offer unpaid positions. Jenna D. Martin ’14, who interned at The New Yorker through the publication’s now-defunct internship program last summer says, “If anyone came to me now, and the internship was the same program, and said should I go for this? I would unambiguously say yes, if you can.” Martin elaborates, “I think that it’s unfortunate it’s not the same.”
Christina A. Nguyen ’15, who took her sophomore spring off to pursue a six-month, unpaid internship at the National Economic Council at the White House, is of a like mind. Reflecting back on her time in D.C. Nguyen says she and her family feel that “it was an experience worth paying for” because “it’s not like an experience you can get anywhere else.”
Yet others see this awareness of prestige and student competition as part of the reason that the system of unpaid internships has continued to sustain itself. Sam F. Wohns ’14, an inactive Crimson magazine editor, who worked at Greenpeace USA as a Director’s Intern last summer, said that other interns at Greenpeace, who were unpaid, were so grateful to have the opportunity that the thought of making a fuss never occurred to them. He found the same to be true for other unpaid interns he talked with that summer.
“They knew that there were so many other people behind them that would gladly take that job without any kind of stipend,” he says.
Mikey I. Franklin, one of the co-founders of the Fair Pay Campaign, an organization that seeks to organize interns and advocates for the abolition of unpaid internships, explains that the prestige and connections attached to such opportunities can discourage complaints. “Understandably, even if you’ve been treated very badly in your unpaid internship, if you worked for six or nine months to make connections and become known in a highly competitive industry, you’re not going to want to speak out publicly about the injustices that you faced,” Franklin says. He notes that one of the interns who sued Fox was leaving the film industry and thus willing to sever ties by bringing a lawsuit.
Others, however, are less critical, believing that the unpaid internship model makes sense since most interns do develop marketable skills. As Martin puts it, “I was very aware I was coming to this with no experience, no demonstrated skills just yet and that I had to prove myself over the course of the internship.”
Robin E. Mount, director of Career, Research, and International Opportunities at the OCS likens this situation to a “Catch-22.” “It’s a chicken and an egg type of problem,” she says. “There are certain places that they’re like, we’re not going to pay you until you have the skills that we need. But if you’ve never worked, how do you get the skills that you need? Because they’re nothing you’re going to learn in a classroom.”
Looking beyond student considerations, many organizations simply do not have the financial resources to pay students. Travis A. Lovett, director of CPIC, finds that, “given the financial climate…, many of our partners just aren’t in the position to pay students.” Depending on the sector, not paying interns is a necessary step to keep their operation afloat while still exposing young people to their projects and exciting them about their work.
In fields in which unpaid internships are the norm, many students feel that change is unlikely. Jennifer T. Soong ’14, an inactive Crimson Arts editor, has worked two unpaid internships in New York, one in publishing and one in museum curatorial work. From what she understands, internships in these fields are uniformly unpaid, meaning organizations have little incentive to break from tradition and pay their interns.
Student competition, the perception of internships as learning rather than work opportunities, the idea that internships are part of the inevitable process of “paying dues,” and other financial considerations in certain industries have come together to create a system that Franklin calls “deeply ingrained.”
“The culture of unpaid internships runs deep in academic life, in political life, in journalism, all of these industries,” he says. “It’s a huge problem.”
INTERNSHIPS AS CAREER STEPPING STONES?
“No one is forced to do this,” Ashley D. Dozier ’14 says of unpaid internships. Dozier herself spent the summer after her freshman year in Atlanta, working an unpaid internship in hospital administration at Emory University Hospital. Many students feel that in order to become a competitive candidate in today’s job market, they need to get experience somehow. For Dozier, working unpaid internships is a way of “putting in your time,” in the hope that it will eventually lead to a paid work arrangement at some point in the future.
But when it comes to unpaid internships, the path to employment may take a few more twists and turns. Sasanka N. Jinadasa ’15, who worked as a Director’s Intern at the Center for American Progress in Washington, D.C., last summer, says that think tank internships are not designed to train future employees at the same organization, which results in less investment and mentorship in a given internship. There were 100 students in the CAP summer intern class, Jinadasa says, so opportunities for interns to forge personal contacts with employees were slim. If she had wanted more personal contact, Jinadasa supposes she could have “gone to D.C. and asked for informational interviews with all those people.”
Dozier, who spent last summer at Bain & Company in San Francisco, says that paid internships at consulting firms are often designed to retain interns, in hopes of eventually hiring them as full-time employees.
“They invest a lot into you as an intern, not necessarily financially, but just time, the amount of effort it takes in the interview process, flying partners out to Boston,” Dozier says. “So their goal is to keep as many of their interns going into full time as possible.”
Unpaid internships, despite the monetary investment involved, are commonly used for purposes more nebulous than landing another job. Often, students use internships to try a career or industry on for size. “What last year’s internship did best for me is it helped me figure out if a career in government is something that I would want that to do,” says Hughes of his internship at the think tank American Action Forum. “It helped a lot having that experience and knowing that I enjoyed it for sure, having gotten my hands dirty actually doing some policy stuff.”
Jenna R. Overton ’14, an Environmental Science and Public Policy concentrator and inactive Crimson Arts editor, interned at the Sierra Club in D.C. last summer, also through the Director’s Internship program. Overton, who switched from concentrating in English to ESPP, saw the internship as a way to gauge her interest in further environmental work.
Despite the lack of a clear path to employment, many students feel obligated to take unpaid internships as part of their career plans. When asked why she pursued an internship experience versus another sort of summer experience, Jinadasa replied, “You’re asking me why I didn’t go into consulting?”
The fact that she assumed a paid internship was the only alternative to her personal unpaid experience may reflect the growing view that summer is a time for work. “Traveling never occurred to me. It’s not that I don’t like to travel; it’s just that I have to get work experience,” says Jinadasa.
Even students who engage in other types of experiences may see them as less legitimate.
“I didn’t do anything real,” Maddy M. Berg ’15 says of the summer after her freshman year. “I nannied at Martha’s Vineyard and worked a little bit part time at the newspaper there.” Last summer, Berg interned for the Center for the Prevention of Genocide at the Holocaust Museum in D.C. as a Director’s Intern, an internship that would have been unpaid without the stipend provided through the program; nannying, by contrast, turned out to be fairly lucrative. At the Center for the Prevention of Genocide, Berg conducted research and organized a conference; last fall, she did an independent study with two of her summer supervisors. When comparing these two experiences, Berg speaks fondly of both, but ultimately the legitimacy of an internship pervades; making money as a nanny is not ‘real’ in the way time interning at an office is.
LOCATION IS EVERYTHING
After accepting an internship offer, students face practical concerns such as finding a place to stay and paying for living expenses to make the internship possible.
Students from cities rich in internship opportunities often have the luxury of local family support. Hughes and Victoria B. Piccione ’16 both lived at home while working at internships in  D.C. and Boston areas, respectively.
Some filter their internship search from the outset, only considering internships in their hometowns. The summer after her freshman year, Dozier decided she wanted to go home, and “the internship was more of a secondary decision, as opposed to the other way around.” While living at home, Dozier commuted about an hour each way. Since housing and food were taken care of for her while in Atlanta, the time and gas costs of the commute felt reasonable.
Many students do not have the luxury or the convenience of guaranteed housing in the city of their desired internship. If Jinadasa and Overton, neither of whom live in the Washington, D.C., area, had not received the $4,000 stipend through the Director’s Internship program, it would not have been possible for them to take their unpaid internship offers. Even with the stipend, Overton had to carefully budget to live in D.C.; between housing, food, and other expenses, she just about broke even.
With these economic practicalities weighing on them in different ways, students are both satisfied and frustrated when engaging in substantive work while being unpaid. Amy Howell, the director of Career and Internship Services at the IOP, finds that, on the whole, Director’s Interns are enjoying themselves and “adding value to causes they often care about.”
While substantive projects can make an internship satisfying, they can also make the lack of payment all the more frustrating. Nguyen, who interned for six months at the White House during the spring of her sophomore year for the National Economic Council, remembers fellow interns occasionally asking her why she was working so hard. “There were people who would use the unpaid part as something to justify what they were doing,” remembers Nguyen. “Like, If I was working on something really hard, and I would stay there really late, somebody would be like, ‘Christina, we’re unpaid.’”
HARVARD HELPS
At Harvard, grants and other such opportunities can make pursuing an unpaid internship possible.
Harvard offers an array of funding options, though the most prominent are through the IOP and CPIC. “What we find, in fact is that Harvard students—I can’t really speak for other students—have a lot of resources that they can marshal,” Mount said.
The IOP Director’s Internship program partners with organizations to provide students with internship experience in the realms of politics and public service, providing merit-based scholarships of $4,000 to all selected Director’s Interns.
For some, these grants may make an unpaid internship a viable option. “Essentially what it came down to is that if I didn’t get the Director’s Internship then I was just going to go back to my home town and be a camp counselor, which is the job that I held for the two previous summers,” says Piccione, who ended up getting the internship and spent last summer working at Opportunity Nation, a small non-profit in Boston.
Many participants in the IOP’s Director’s Internship Program have gone on to careers in the fields under its purview. From data gathered from Director’s Interns from 1999-2013: 66 percent have worked in politics or public service since graduation,  41 percent are currently working in politics or public service. Seventy-four percent have been involved in public service since graduation through campaign/candidate support, community service, or volunteering, and 79 percent said the internship shaped their career path through connections made, a job offer with the internship organization, or identifying a field of interest to them.
Harvard also provides need-based support for students pursuing internships in public service. One example is the IOP’s Summer Stipend Program, which funds students who have independently found unpaid or low-paying internships and have demonstrated financial need.
CPIC is another such resource. It identifies organizations and funding sources for students looking to work at nonprofit organizations in public health, education, environmental work, youth services, public interest, law, community development, and advocacy. For eight years, Harvard students on financial aid or with other demonstrated financial need have been granted $4000 stipends by the Heckscher Foundation for Children, as well as housing at NYU for the summer to pursue an internship in one of the fields mentioned above.
Without CPIC’s funding, most of the organizations it works with would leave students uncompensated. Yet even with this funding, students may need to seek out other resources. Recalling past students’ experiences with CPIC, Lovett says, “resources that we provide oftentimes aren’t enough to make a student experience possible.... The student may have to take on loans, they may have to take on a second job, they may have to do other things to make their experience happen.  We try to provide as much support as we can. For most of our programs, the target goal for funding is anywhere from three to five thousand dollars.”
The Office of Careers Services also serves to support student summer experiences. It administers over 100 different funds to support student summer experiences, as well. Many of these, like the David Rockefeller grants and the Weissman International Internship Program, go toward international experiences (the Weissman supports both for-profit and not-for-profit internships abroad), but the office also offers funding for domestic public service opportunities (OCS funds no domestic, for-profit summer experiences), and offers advising on summer opportunities to all students.
The larger Harvard network off campus also helps make internships possible for students. Nguyen, who interned at the White House for six months, initially had a hard time finding housing because she could not physically go and look at specific apartments, because many listings required a one-year lease.  She ended up reaching out to the Harvard Club of D.C., and a few emails later, a fellow Quincy penguin who had graduated a couple years earlier responded with an offer.
While these resources may benefit individual students, some see them as enabling a system that is sustained by unpaid work. IOP Director C.M. Trey Grayson ’94 acknowledges, “I’m sure there are some organizations that take advantage of the fact that we or some other school or program are going to pay.”
Grayson emphasizes, however, that the money is used to make opportunities possible with groups that would not otherwise be able to afford an intern. “For the most part, we are dealing with organizations that are nonprofits, that have very tight budgets,” he says. “And this is a bonus, and it’s a way to create opportunities that wouldn’t otherwise exist.”
For Lovett, Harvard funding potentially lifts the burden of paying interns from the organization. For his part, he focuses on the big picture. “What we’ve really tried to do to combat this culture is to invest in organizations that hire our students long-term,” Lovett says. “With the funding we have available to students, we try to use those funds to develop partnerships with organizations that have made a clear commitment to hire Harvard seniors and recent grads at their organizations.”
A NATIONAL PERSPECTIVE
According to the U.S. Department of Labor, there are six guidelines that, when met, legally qualify an opportunity as an unpaid internship. Three of the six place a direct emphasis on the benefit of the internship to the student: “1. The internship, even though it includes actual operation of the facilities of the employer, is similar to training which would be given in an educational environment; 2. The internship experience is for the benefit of the intern;” and “4. The employer that provides the training derives no immediate advantage from the activities of the intern; and on occasion its operations may actually be impeded.”
When done right, there are plenty of tangible benefits to taking an unpaid internship. “Every job I have gotten since my first summer in D.C. has been in some part because of people I knew through previous experiences,” says Jinadasa. Berg and Overton were both able to ask summer supervisors to write them letters of recommendations for other opportunities.
Martin sums up these advantages, stating, “I think now it’s kind of expected that you’ve done an internship. Especially if you’re coming to the industry without connections, I think it’s a great way to get that. It’s a great way to get a recommendation, and it’s a great way to gain some experience.”
And yet, there are whole groups created to end these internships. “It’s pretty rare that I speak to people that don’t support our work,” claims Franklin of the Fair Pay Campaign. “People recognize that the current system of having to work for free is deeply unfair, it’s robbing people of the wages they earn, but, more importantly, it’s privileging people not based on talent, but based on parental income.”
While the resources at Harvard may allow more students to enjoy the privilege of an unpaid internship experience, it does not change the fact that this is not a traditional work environment—this is experience that you pay for. As Wohns puts it, “I think unpaid internships, it’s a misnomer; it’s almost a euphemism. It’s a paid internship. You’re paying to work for someone else.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
For the third consecutive year, 12 advisors at the College have been recognized by the Advising Programs Office for their outstanding guidance and mentorship in their work with undergraduates.
 
The award, called the Star Family Prizes for Excellence in Advising, was established by alumnus James A. Star ’83 and recognizes three individuals from four different categories of advising—freshman, sophomore, concentration, and faculty. This year, 156 advisors were nominated for an award.
 
“A prize like this sends a powerful, important symbolic message to the community about the importance of advising, of the role of advising in an undergraduate campus in promoting the welfare and well-being of our students,” said Director of Advising Programs Glenn R. Magid.
 
According to Magid, the Advising Programs Office sent emails to undergraduates in early February inviting them to nominate their advisors, and award winners were notified in late March. Selection of winners was based on the thoughtfulness of the written nomination and the evidence of impact the advisor had on the student.
 
Many of the prize-winners, who range from faculty members to House tutors, expressed gratitude that their advisees felt impacted by their work.
 
“I was completely surprised and really humbled,” said Mackenzie J. Lowry ’11, a proctor for the freshman entryway Wigglesworth E who won a freshman advising award. “I certainly admire past winners so it was really amazing to think that I also got this award.”
 
One of these past winners was Waqas Jawaid, a freshman proctor who worked with Lowry when she was a Peer Advising Fellow.
 
“It’s sort of like completing the advising circle,” Lowry said. “I’m completely elated to be considered in the same league as him.”
 
Asad Asad, a Mather House tutor and third-year graduate student who won a sophomore advising award, said that although it is his first year as an advisor at the College, he loves his advising work.
 
“I couldn’t be where I am now without the mentorship and advice from people who are senior to me,” Asad said.  “Nobody got to where they are now without help.”
 
According to Magid, freshmen submitted the majority of nominations this year. One of these first-year students was Amy Zhan ’17, who nominated freshman advising award winner Lynn Fitzgerald. Zhan said she and Fitzgerald worked together in the fall going through the course catalogue and determining what courses Zhan should take.
 
“She spends a lot of time helping us out,” Zhan said of Fitzgerald. “She always asks to grab lunch with us, so she keeps up to date about how our lives are going.”
 
Award recipients will be formally recognized in a by-invitation event in the Student Organization Center at Hilles on May 5.
 
Freshman advising award winners are proctor Brandon Edwards, academic advisor Lynn Fitzgerald, and proctor Mackenzie J. Lowry ’11. Sophomore advising award winners are Mather tutor Asad Asad, Leverett tutor Elena Lisitskaya, and Adams House pre-med advisor Jay Miller ’09. 
Concentration advising award winners are Applied Mathematics Assistant Director for Undergraduate Studies Margo Levine, Earth and Planetary Sciences Academic Program Manager Chenoweth Moffat, and Co-Director of Undergraduate Studies in Chemistry Gregg Tucci.
Faculty advising award winners are English professor Jorie Graham, Women and Gender Studies Director of Undergraduate Studies Caroline Light, and Linguistics Director of Undergraduate Studies Maria Polinsky.
 —Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at meg.bernhard@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @Meg_Bernhard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
To address public confusion surrounding the Affordable Care Act and new applications of big data, the Harvard School of Public Health has developed two new courses slated to launch April 7 on HarvardX, the University’s open online education platform. One course will educate enrollees about the country’s health system while the other, more advanced course will build upon topics in genomics.
 
The first course, PH210x: “United States Health Policy,” will provide a broad survey of the country’s health system, including its structure and methods of delivering healthcare on the local, state, and federal levels.
 
John E. McDonough, a professor of the practice of public health at the school, will teach the course, which is targeted at the general public and will include an explanation of how the Affordable Care Act has impacted the American healthcare system. In addition, the course will feature guest lectures from “probably the richest collection of health policy experts and stars you’re going to find in any school of public health in the world,” McDonough said in a press release.
 
The other course, PH525x: “Data Analysis for Genomics,” will teach students how to apply the tools of modern genomic analysis to cell biology and clinical problems. It will be taught by Rafael A. Irizarry, professor of biostatistics at the School of Public Health, and Michael Love, a postdoctoral fellow.
 
Unlike “United States Health Policy,” the course requires programming skills, knowledge of "R" programming language, and completion of PH207x, which covers biostatistics and epidemiology, prior to enrollment. However, the new course will introduce the necessary new statistical concepts as part of the course material, according to the edX website.
 
“Many fields that previously relied on very basic data analysis are now being transformed with data sets that are pretty big and complicated,” Irizarry said in the press release. “Genetic epidemiology is one of the fields greatly affected by these huge data sets.”
 
Both courses are part of a growing number of courses on edX that can be either audited by registrants or taken for a “verified certificate of achievement,” which uses a webcam and the photo ID to verify a user’s identity, a service that incurs a fee. According to the edX website, employers and educational institutions sometimes seek proof of completion of online courses.
 
—Staff writer Michael V. Rothberg can be reached at mrothberg@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @mvrothberg.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In an effort to promote a welcoming environment for students of non-religious backgrounds to speak openly about their spiritual views, the Harvard College Humanists, Agnostics, and Atheists is hosting a series of events this week for “Atheist Coming Out Week.”
“There is a lot of stigma surrounding the word ‘atheist’.... This is an attempt to reclaim a word that has been turned negative,” said HCHAA President Julia M. Bruce ’15.
The kickoff event on Monday provided a safe space for students to share stories about coming out as atheists. On Wednesday, HCHAA members met for a discussion with members from the on-campus student organization Harvard Effective Altruism.
Bruce noted that the goal of HCHAA and its coming out week is not to aggressively promote atheism, but to provide a “support network” for students who may feel uncomfortable for any variety of reasons to express their true spiritual views.
“What we offer is a community for people who want a safe space to discuss really interesting things about life that they may not get in another arena,” Bruce said.
While she said that many students who have attended events so far are HCHAA members, she has also seen some students unaffiliated with the Humanist group at its events.
Harvard Humanist Chaplain and Vice President of the Harvard Chaplains Greg M. Epstein said that this week’s worth of events put on by HCHAA is part of ongoing efforts to celebrate the Humanist community at the University, especially in light of the recent opening of the Humanist Hub at 30 JFK St., which serves as a gathering place for all members of the community to discuss, meditate, and bring in guest speakers.
“The mission here is to create a network of communities...that are diverse, inclusive, and inspir[e] ways for humanists, atheists, agnostics, and non-religious [individuals] to connect, act, and evolve,” Epstein said.
He added that while he generally thinks the University is very welcoming to the Humanist community, there have been instances where he felt that his community was not recognized in the same way as peer organizations.
Epstein pointed to a promotional video earlier in the year that was created by the University about religious life at Harvard. While the video highlighted members of many different religious communities and organizations, no Humanist groups were included nor was Epstein contacted about the video.
“I was a little disappointed not to be included in that video...but I understand that not every resource that is created will be included,” Epstein said. “But I would like a chance to sit with the makers of the video and help educate them about how meaningful it can be if our community is involved in a resource like that.”
Lucy A. Forster-Smith, who joined the Harvard community in February as the Sedgwick Chaplain to the University and senior minister to the Memorial Church said that she is excited to engage in discussion and learn more about the Humanist community at Harvard.
“I am completely not only open, but also covet opportunities to...be involved in efforts to deepen the multiplicity of perspectives of spirituality,” Forster-Smith said.
On Friday, Atheist Coming Out Week will culminate with the Humanist Community at Harvard awarding former Massachusetts Congressman Barney Frank '61-'62 the 8th Annual Outstanding Lifetime Achievement Award in Cultural Humanism at 8 p.m. in the Science Center lecture hall C.
—Staff writer Theodore R. Delwiche can be reached at theodore.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter @trdelwic.
 
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 6, 2014
An earlier version of a photo caption accompanying this article misspelled the name of Angie Jo '16.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Throughout the past week, freshmen have discussed concentrations over pizza, cupcakes, and sushi as part of Advising Fortnight, a two-week series of over 50 events hosted by different Harvard academic departments across campus.
Advising Fortnight is organized by the Advising Programs Office each year in order to encourage students to learn more about their academic options.
At Tuesday’s open house for Human Evolutionary Biology, sushi and baked goods were served as Dominique N. Kim ’17 and other students spoke with faculty members, advisors, and concentrators. According to one advisor, the spread fit into “humans’ biologically preferred high-fat diet.”
“[Advising Fortnight] puts a face to the department,” Kim said. “You usually just think of it as just this bureaucracy.”
Kim said that she was better able to assess the concentration after interacting with the department’s faculty.
“It’s easy to think, ‘Oh, I can find all this information online,’ but it’s good to see that the professors are interested and excited about what they’re teaching,” she said.
The APO created Advising Fortnight in the wake of the College’s decision to move the deadline to declare a concentration a semester later, to the end of the student's third term. According to Advising Programs Director Glenn R. Magid, the change initially drew faculty concern that students declaring a concentration during their sophomore years would not engage as deeply in them as students who had dome so as freshmen.
“With so much time for students to explore before they were perhaps connecting with departmental advisors to get really critical information—especially in those fields that really did require advanced thinking—there needed to be something to close that potential gap,” Magid said.
To remedy the problem, the APO decided to hold Advising Fortnight in the middle of freshmen spring.
Some freshman this year said that they were unsatisfied with the selected dates for Advising Fortnight. Job B. Nyaosi ’17 said that attending events has been difficult for him because it has coincided with some of his midterms.
Others, like Allyson R. Perez ’17, disagreed, though, saying that they were satisfied with its timing.
“[It’s] after Housing Day, after Spring Break, but not quite towards Visitas,” she said. “We’re able to think about our own lives, before we start selling Harvard to other people.”
Magid agreed, adding that freshmen only have so long before they have to decide a concentration.
“This is really meant to be a reminder to students about the enormous decision that they will be making so many months hence at the end of the third term,” Magid said.
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at meg.bernhard@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @Meg_Bernhard.
—Staff writer Quynh-Nhu Le can be reached at quynhnhu.le@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Buried among the 979 pages of Congressman David L. Camp’s tax reform plan lie 42 lines that could cost Harvard tens of millions of dollars in endowment taxes. Unveiled in late February, section 5206 of the amendment details a proposal for a 1 percent excise tax on net investment income for some private colleges and universities.
Only private institutions of higher education with endowment assets of at least $100,000 per full-time student would be affected by the proposed tax. Harvard, with its $32.7 billion endowment and about 21,000 students across the University, would qualify, along with roughly 18 other institutions in Massachusetts, including five seminaries, according to Richard Doherty ’76, president of the Association of Independent Colleges and Universities in Massachusetts.
While legal experts say Camp’s plan is highly unlikely to become law, they said it deserves recognition as a substantive effort to reform the tax code and helps renew and old debate about the tax-exempt status of institutions of higher learning.
Professor of the practice of law Stephen E. Shay, a former deputy assistant secretary for international tax affairs in the U.S. Treasury Department, said that Camp deserved credit for producing a “specific and detailed” draft with “numbers that could all work together.”
“[Camp’s plan] certainly doesn’t have the support yet of the Republican caucus or is supported in any formal way by members of the [Ways and Means] Committee,” Shay said.
He said that Camp had two main objectives in his legislation—to reduce the top individual income tax rate to 25 percent, as well as to abolish the alternative minimum tax. The Joint Commission on Taxation estimated that the repeal of the AMT would cost the government more than $1.2 trillion over the next 10 years.
“Because of these huge revenue losses, the rest of the bill tried to make up that revenue,” Shay said.
Howard E. Abrams, a Law School professor who focuses on tax law and policy, said the section 5206 proposition would not be “a huge hit by any measure” and “should not be considered a policy-based decision in any serious sense.”
Noting that it only taxes a small portion of the endowment’s net investment income, “The line in the plan is based purely on revenue,” Abrams said. A nonpartisan review of Camp’s plan indicated that the endowment tax would increase revenues by $1.7 billion over the next 10 years.
Law School professor Daniel I. Halperin, who wrote a journal article entitled “Does Tax Exemption for Charitable Endowments Subsidize Excessive Accumulation?” in 2008, said he supports the endowment tax from a policy point of view. He said that large endowments are “high[ly] concentrated” in a few institutions and that the tax would curb the current “incentive and bias for accumulation” for charities that maintain funds for the future.
The University, along with peer institutions and associations, has reviewed Camp’s draft legislation. “We...are encouraged that the House Ways and Means Committee has been open to hearing about the potential impacts of its provisions on endowment-supported institutions,” University spokesperson Kevin Galvin wrote in an email.
This proposal is not the first challenge to Harvard’s tax-exempt status. In 2009, legislators in the Massachusetts House of Representatives proposed a 2.5 percent tax on university endowment assets exceeding $1 billion. Although that tax did not pass, Doherty said that there have been similar measures attempted in Massachusetts each year since then.
While Doherty acknowledged that these types of proposals are unlikely to become law in the near future, he said that they should remind higher education institutions to not take their tax-exempt status for granted.
“They need to consistently communicate with legislative leaders and members about the reasons they have a tax exemption and the public goods that they provide,” he said.
—Staff writer Christine Y. Cahill can be reached at christine.cahill@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cycahill16.
—Staff writer Amna H. Hashmi can be reached at amnahashmi@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @amna_hashmi.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Committee on Undergraduate Education continued an ongoing discussion about extending the pass/fail deadline later into the semester at its monthly meeting on Wednesday.
The conversation was first brought to CUE by members of the Undergraduate Council Education Committee last month, as one of four initiatives the group is pursuing this semester. On Wednesday, CUE considered the benefits and drawbacks of pushing the pass/fail deadline to the seventh Monday of the semester.
Currently, the deadline to make a class pass/fail falls on the fifth Monday of the semester.
"Looking at our peer institutions suggests that our deadline is far too early," said Dhruv P. Goyal ’16, chair of the UC’s Education Committee. At the CUE meeting last month, Goyal cited universities like Princeton that allow students to change their courses to pass/fail until the ninth week of classes.
Other members of the committee argued against extending the deadline because students might lose sight of learning outcomes and focus only on their letter grade in a course. Those members suggested instead that students should use the pass/fail option to take academic risks in courses they aren’t otherwise comfortable taking.
Adding to this argument, Classics professor Richard F. Thomas said that he thinks undergraduates do not understand what a pass/fail represents on a student’s record. He argued that the College should encourage a greater awareness among undergraduates that having a pass/fail course on a transcript will not hurt a student’s application to graduate school or medical school.
“We need to educate some of the students on these realities," Thomas said.
According to Goyal, he and the UC Education Committee also want to address the needs of students under personal pressure.
 
"We are addressing two types of students,” Goyal said.  “One, those students who feel like they are going out of their comfort zones, and two, students who are under extreme circumstances."
This turn in discussion initiated a conversation about whether or not the Administrative Board should allow for a personal extension of the pass/fail deadline for these types of cases. Some members of the committee agreed that students facing extreme circumstances should be able to appeal to the Administrative Board, believing that such a change would not significantly increase the number of students who would try switching their courses to pass/fail.
The committee also discussed whether students should be awarded credentials for completing all of the concentration requirements in multiple departments akin to a double major at other universities.
 
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at meg.bernhard@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @Meg_Bernhard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At Harvard College, a student who has been the victim of a sexual assault may choose to respond in several different ways. The student may alert the Harvard University Police Department, press charges against a perpetrator in the legal system, utilize Harvard’s counseling and medical resources, take the case to the Administrative Board, or choose not to take action.
Those avenues have come under renewed scrutiny this week in the wake of a first-person, anonymous op-ed published in The Crimson on Monday, which has prompted both national media attention and a charged debate on campus about the way Harvard handles sexual assault, even as the University continues its two-year evaluation of its policies.
Criticism is nothing new for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences policy on sexual assault and misconduct, which governs the handling of incidents of assault within the College. Since its establishment in 1993, the policy has periodically faced student protests and federal investigations, as the policies of Harvard’s peers have become increasingly progressive.
The 1993 FAS policy defines rape as “any act of sexual intercourse that takes place against a person’s will or that is accompanied by physical coercion or the threat of bodily injury,” and notes that “[u]nwillingness may be expressed verbally or physically.” The policy also says that an individual may be rendered incapable of expressing unwillingness “as a result of conditions including, but not limited to, those caused by the intake of alcohol or drugs.”
Harvard’s policy, unlike that of its peers, is not one of affirmative consent—in which partners must affirmatively communicate their willingness to participate in sexual activity—a fact that has drawn fire from activist groups and others who have called for policy reform. The Our Harvard Can Do Better campaign, a student group that advocates for changes to Harvard’s sexual assault policies, lists adopting an affirmative consent standard as one of its demands on its website.
Beyond pressing legal charges and going to the police, sexual assault victims at Harvard have other options for pursuing disciplinary action if their assailant also attends the College. Victims may take their situation to the Ad Board, the College’s primary disciplinary body, which would hear the case as a peer dispute.
For disciplinary cases, the administrative and faculty members of the Ad Board have several choices of action, ranging from scratching a case or dropping all charges to putting a student on probation and requiring them to temporarily withdraw from the College.
In extreme cases, the Ad Board—which hears disciplinary cases beyond peer disputes—may also recommend that the Faculty Council dismiss or expel a student from the College. According to Ad Board Secretary John “Jay” L. Ellison, in cases of rape, the Ad Board has historically required an accused student to withdraw and, in certain cases, has further recommended dismissal or expulsion.
Before the Ad Board may hand down such a sanction, however, its members must determine the student’s guilt. The burden of proof required in sexual misconduct disciplinary cases is currently not standardized across the University. At the College, however, the Ad Board’s policies dictate that, in all disciplinary cases it reviews, the board must be “sufficiently persuaded that the student has violated the rules of the Faculty.”
The Ad Board’s “sufficiently persuaded” standard is believed to be a higher burden of proof than the “preponderance of the evidence” standard—which requires more than 50 percent certainty—held by all schools in the Ivy League except Harvard and Princeton. Harvard’s current standard makes it more difficult to discipline students accused of sexual misconduct here than at peer institutions.
The Department of Education’s Office of Civil Rights recommended that all colleges and universities adopt the “preponderance of the evidence” standard in its April 2011 “Dear Colleague” letter. Some have voiced concerns over what they characterize as a lack of clarity in the Ad Board’s “sufficiently persuaded” standard.
Harvard’s Title IX officer, Mia Karvonides, convened a University-wide working group to review these policies and those of other schools last spring.
Beyond the Ad Board, the College offers a number of counseling and medical resources for victims of sexual assault, including the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response, two College Title IX coordinators, and Sexual Assault/Sexual Harassment tutors. Consent, Assault Awareness and Relationship Education proctors live in freshman dorms, while peer counselors are available through Response and Room 13.
Resources are also available at Harvard University Health Services and the Bureau of Study Counsel.
—Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
—Staff writer Steven S. Lee can be reached at steven.lee@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @StevenSJLee.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 3, 2014, at 9:40 p.m.
Two people, including at least one member of the student activist campaign Our Harvard Can Do Better, have filed a complaint against Harvard with the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights, alleging that the College’s sexual assault policies violate Title IX.
Emily M. Fox-Penner ’17, an organizer for Our Harvard Can Do Better, was a lead complainant, Fox-Penner confirmed Thursday. The second has remained anonymous. According to Fox-Penner, the complaint includes testimonials from 10 sexual assault victims.


The complaint comes as Harvard is in the midst of evaluating its sexual assault policies. Mia Karvonides, the University’s Title IX officer, convened a University-wide working group last spring to reconsider Harvard’s policies across schools and their compliance with Title IX regulations. According to Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Jeff Neal, work to implement a new University-wide Title IX policy is “nearing its completion.”
News of the complaint, which was filed last Friday, also comes just days after a first-person, anonymous op-ed published in The Crimson reignited campus debate about sexual assault and Harvard’s associated policies. The FAS policy—which covers the College—was adopted in 1993.
In a statement, members of the Our Harvard Can Do Better campaign wrote that they “acknowledge the recent steps Harvard has taken to reexamine Title IX compliance on campus” but that “Harvard’s consistent shunning of student voice on the issue of sexual assault policy has led us to believe in the need for an externally-imposed mechanism for oversight of the policy review process to ensure its accountability to survivors.”
The statement alleges that sexual assault victims who the Our Harvard Can Do Better campaign worked with “have repeatedly been given false or inadequate information from administrators about pursuing accommodations” and were discouraged from pursuing disciplinary action.
According to Jessica R. Fournier ’17, an organizer for Our Harvard Can Do Better, the group’s complaint outlines grievances with the College’s informal accommodations process for victims; the Administrative Board’s disciplinary system; and the “hostile environment” she said Harvard has created for sexual assault victims.
Fournier said that the complaint calls for the College to standardize its process for informal accommodations—which include no contact orders, housing changes, and coursework extensions—and train all administrators to know what accommodations are available. Additionally, according to Fox-Penner and Fournier, the complaint recommends that the College adopt a policy of affirmative consent and that the Ad Board change its burden of proof standard to “the preponderance of the evidence,” which would require over 50 percent certainty to determine guilt, in sexual assault cases.
Current Ad Board policy stipulates that the body must be “sufficiently persuaded” that a student has broken Faculty rules to discipline the accused. Of schools in the Ivy League, only Harvard and Princeton have not adopted “the preponderance of the evidence” as its standard in sexual assault cases. The Office for Civil Rights recommended that standard in its April 2011 “Dear Colleague” letter.
The complaint also requests that the Ad Board be required to issue sexual assault victims pursuing disciplinary action before the body its verdict in writing, among other proposed changes, according to Fox-Penner.
A U.S. Department of Education spokesperson confirmed that the Office for Civil Rights has received a complaint apparently alleging that Harvard did not “respond appropriately” to sexual violence complaints. The complaint is currently under review.
Neal declined to comment on the complaint, writing in an email that Harvard officials have not seen it. Still, he wrote that “Harvard, as a University and as a community, takes the issue of sexual harassment and sexual violence extremely seriously.”
Hours after Our Harvard Can Do Better made its complaint public, University President Drew G. Faust announced the creation of a presidential task force on sexual misconduct. According to an email sent to the Harvard community, the task force is charged with formulating recommendations to improve efforts to prevent sexual misconduct. The 17-member task force, chaired by former University Provost Steven E. Hyman, is made up of two undergraduates, a Law School student, as well as various faculty members and administrators from across the University.
Friday’s complaint is not the first about Harvard’s sexual assault policies filed against the University, nor against the College. In June 2002, prompted by an approved change in how the College investigated sexual assault complaints, an undergraduate filed a complaint with the Office for Civil Rights, also alleging that the College’s sexual assault policy violated Title IX. The Office later began an investigation but eventually decided that Harvard’s policies did not violate the law.
 
More recently, in 2010, a complaint alleging Title IX violation was filed against Harvard Law School, prompting an Office for Civil Rights investigation that is ongoing.
 
The Our Harvard Can Do Better campaign sponsored a UC referendum in November 2012 calling on the College to re-examine its sexual assault policy. Even before voting had closed on the referendum, which garnered 85 percent support, then-Dean of the College Evelynn M. Hammonds said the school was far from revising its sexual assault policies. Instead, Hammonds convened a working group to evaluate sexual assault resources on campus.
—Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
 —Staff writer Steven S. Lee can be reached at steven.lee@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @StevenSJLee.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered


UPDATE: April 3, 2014, at 11:54 p.m.
On the heels of a surge in campus-wide and national attention on Harvard’s current sexual assault policies, University President Drew G. Faust announced the creation of a task force focused on sexual assault and misconduct in an email to the Harvard community Thursday afternoon.
The email comes just three days after the publication of a first-person, anonymous op-ed in The Crimson, which detailed the author’s experience with sexual assault at Harvard and what she felt to be the University’s inadequate response. However, Faust wrote in the email that this announcement was the result of “consultation with deans and others over recent weeks.”
“[The task force] will develop recommendations about how Harvard can improve efforts to prevent sexual misconduct and develop insight into these issues based on input from both within and beyond our community,” Faust wrote.
The task force will be chaired by former University Provost Steven E. Hyman, a professor of stem cell and regenerative biology who, during his tenure as provost, helped oversee the creation of the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response.
He will be joined by 17 members of the Harvard community from across the campus, including Director of Harvard University Health Services Paul J. Barreira, the minister of Memorial Church Jonathan L. Walton, Cabot House Co-Master Stephanie R. Khurana, professors from the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and several graduate schools, and two current College students, among others. 


 
This is not the first group to be convened recently at Harvard on the topic of sexual assault. Last May, University Title IX Coordinator Mia Karvonides convened a working group tasked with evaluating whether Harvard’s current sexual assault policies met federal Title IX regulations. The charge of the new task force, however, emphasizes community awareness and prevention efforts to supplement Harvard’s “legal obligations”.
“Harvard must and will meet our legal obligations, but those obligations should not alone define Harvard’s commitment to providing an educational environment in which all students have the opportunity to thrive,” Faust wrote.
Questions the task force will be asked to consider include, “Do members of our community have a clear understanding of what sexual misconduct entails?” and, “Are faculty and other members of the Harvard community properly informed about how to help a student who reports having experienced sexual misconduct?”, according to the charge.
In an email, Hyman wrote that he was first contacted about the task force several weeks ago, explaining that he expected the group to ultimately make recommendations for ways to better prevent sexual assault.
“We simply have to find better ways to prevent these terrible incidents, and we must make sure that we provide appropriate support to students who have experienced violence and related forms of sexual misconduct.,” Hyman wrote.
At the College, where the current iteration of the debate about sexual assault originated, leaders of the Undergraduate Council and student advocates expressed mixed emotions about the extent to which undergraduates will be involved in the task force and the process by which the undergraduate task force members were selected.
In a statement to the Crimson, Quinn D. Hatoff  ’15 and Eva Stojchevska ’15, co-chairs of the UC’s sexual assault policy task force that was formed Monday, wrote that “President Faust’s announcement of yet another task force should be met with cautious optimism.”
Hatoff and Stojchevska, neither of whom was contacted about the formation of a University task force, wrote that they are “concerned that some very relevant student leaders working on this issue are left out of the conversation.”
UC President Gus A. Mayopoulos '15 noted similar concerns, confirming that the UC was not contacted by the University about the task force. He said that he has been frustrated by the extent to which administrators have sought student input in the past.
“It is outrageously late in the game to start including student input on these policies. Obviously better late than never...but honestly I don't understand what the logic was in not including students on the University-wide sexual assault policy a few years ago,” Mayopoulos said.
Demetrio D. Anaya ’15, one of two undergraduate members of the task force, spoke more optimistically about its creation. Anaya, the current president of Consent, Assault Awareness, and Relationship Educators, said that he received an email from Faust earlier this week asking if he would be interested in joining the task force.
 
“I feel that it’s very important for the University to make sure that all their policies are up to date, and I am optimistic that this task force will be able to make improvements in the Harvard community,” Anaya said.
Emily M. Fox-Penner '17, an organizer for Our Harvard Can Do Better, a student advocacy group that filed a complaint with the Department of Education March 28 alleging that Harvard’s policy violates Title IX, expressed reservations about the announcement.
“Our concern is just that it will be just yet another cosmetic way to look like policy is being under review without really giving students the voice that they deserve to debate the policy,” Fox-Penner said.
In January, President Obama signed a similar memorandum creating a task force of senior administrations to coordinate federal enforcement efforts to prevent and police sexual assaults on college campuses. The task force, which includes the U.S. Attorney General and the secretaries of the Education, Health and Human Services, and Interior Departments, will submit their recommendations for best practices for colleges to prevent or respond to assaults and to check that they are complying with existing legal obligations at the end of the month.
—Staff writers Amna H. Hashmi and Madeline R. Conway contributed to the reporting of this story.  
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche. 
—Staff writer Christine Y. Cahill can be reached at christine.cahill@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @cycahill16.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
It was open water for Brown junior Emily McNamara as the clock wound down under 30 seconds. The senior, isolated against Harvard goalie junior Ariel Dukes, put the game with her third goal of the night and the 13th of the night for the Brown’s women’s water polo team.
 
Despite a strong first period, the Crimson (12-14, 1-1 CWPA) was unable to keep up with Brown (14-12, 2-0), losing to the Bears by a final score of 13-9.
 
“We didn’t score enough goals,” Harvard coach Ted Minnis said. “I thought we came out and played a good first quarter. We had a few defensive breakdowns in the last three quarters.”
 
Both teams are coming off of California road trips, though with varying degrees of success. The Crimson finished 3-7 with victories against Cal Lutheran and Pomona-Pitzer, while the Bears finished 8-4 against its West Coast foes.
 
Since returning East, Harvard had been on a two-game win streak, defeating George Washington and James Madison. The Crimson notched 10 goals in each match as they earned its first victory in divisional play against the Colonials.
 
In the match against George Washington, sophomore Yoshi Andersen lead the way in scoring, and she did not let up against Brown. Andersen had five of the team’s nine goals to bring her season total to 58. The first two of her five opened the match to give Harvard an early lead, but it would not be able to hold on.
 
Overall the Crimson outscored the Bears 3-1 in the first period. Andersen’s first goal came off of a power play that ended with the ball in the back left corner of the Brown net. A little over two minutes later, she scored again to put the Crimson up 2-0. The Bears finally made it on to the board with 1:57 seconds left in the quarter.
 
However, as the game continued, Brown got into a scoring groove and Harvard couldn’t keep up.
 
“We felt like going into it we could have beat them,” senior Shayna Price said. “We came out strong and then a lot of things just sort of steamrolled on us and it didn’t turn out the way we wanted it to.”
 
The Bears would go on to score four goals in each of the subsequent three periods. The scoring was spread out amongst six different players, with McNamara and junior Liz Rosen leading the Bears with three goals each. Kate Woods, Shannon Crowley, and Marisa Kolokotronis notched two apiece, and Sarah Presant scored once in the fourth period to finish the scoring for Brown.
 
“We were trying to steal the ball and go down the other way and score,” Price said. “We wanted strong defense, but it didn’t turn out the way we wanted it to.”
 
As the Brown scoring heated up, Harvard’s offense slowed. The Crimson put two shots past Bear goalie Sarah Shin in the second period, followed by three in the third.
 
Down just one goal going into the fourth period, the Crimson was still in striking distance during the final minutes. With several possessions giving it the chance to set up and pass the ball around for an open shot, the Crimson was only able to connect on Price’s shot with 3:42 left, but it would be the last score Harvard tallied and not enough to match Brown’s four scores in the frame.
 
The Crimson attempted to adjust in the final few minutes after both teams took multiple timeouts, but Harvard was unable to capitalize.
 
‘We practice those situations and being down a certain number of goals with time left,” Minnis said. “It’s stuff we always talk about in practice, it’s just reinforcing what they’re supposed to do in those situations.”
 
Aside from Andersen’s five goals and Price’s one, senior Jelena Cyr and freshman Melissa Balding, and freshman Alexis Del Toro each added a score apiece.
 
“We’re always making adjustments during the game, we change up our sets pretty regularly,” Minnis said. “[There was] nothing that we didn’t see in the scouts and watching film on them. They were pretty much doing everything that we knew they were going to do they just did it a little better than we were able to stop defense wise.”
 
Dukes made five saves in net while Price led the way in steals with three, but the Crimson was consistently outnumbered by Bears on the defensive end.
 
“We just really wanted to come out strong and play mistake free,” Price said. “Our shots just didn’t really fall and a lot of things resulted in goals on their side.”
 
—Staff writer Theresa C. Hebert can be reached at thebert@college.harvard.edu. 
 
 
 
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
The last time the Harvard women’s lacrosse team took the field at Harvard Stadium, the weather was below freezing and the Crimson fell, 13-9, to Boston College.
Wednesday afternoon, the team had escaped what Harvard coach Lisa Miller called “the frozen tundra” and came up with a 12-8 victory over Vanderbilt (4-7, 1-1 ALC) at home. With the win, the Crimson (5-4, 2-1 Ivy) moved above .500 on the season. 
Once again, Harvard’s offense was led by freshman attacker Marisa Romeo, who reached a new career high with six goals in the contest. This was the third straight game in which she scored at least four goals, and she has scored at least four goals in six of the team’s nine games this season. The rookie leads the team with 32 goals and 36 points. 
“She is making the people around her better,” Miller said. “She’s just calm and skilled and smart and she takes advantage when she should and distributes the ball when she should. To have a freshman come in and play that way elevates the level of everyone around them. She has a good crew around her.”
The Crimson came out strong in the first half, scoring six unanswered goals in the opening 20 minutes of play. Vanderbilt struck back with three goals right before the half, but the final possession of the half belonged to Harvard and the Crimson prevented the Commodores from tacking on another goal before the whistle blew for halftime.
“We killed momentum, which is something we didn’t do against Boston College,” Miller said. “I was pleased with that. Even though we didn’t score they had that three-goal run but we came up with the draw control and killed the momentum.”
Building on that stop, the Crimson came out of the half determined to extend the lead and succeeded in doing so. For the first 15 minutes of the second half, the ball did not cross onto Harvard’s side of the field as the Crimson dominated play. 
Early in the half, sophomore Audrey Todd and Romeo had back-to-back goals in a 55-second span to boost the lead to five. Another Romeo score five minutes later boosted Harvard’s lead to 9-3 over the Commodores. Todd’s goal came off a pass from sophomore attacker Alexis Nicolia that the sophomore bounced past the left side of the goaltender. On the next possession the Crimson won its draw control, giving Romeo the opportunity to run through the Commodores’ defense and score unassisted. 
“We’ve been working a lot this year on game management and putting our offense together because we are a young team,” co-captain Chelsey Newman said. “A lot of different people were able to score this game, which has been a big improvement.”
Alongside Romeo and Rodd, who accounted for nine of the team’s 12 goals, Newman, Nicolia, and co-captain Kyle Keating proved to be integral parts of the Crimson offense. All three added a goal in the victory. 
Toward the end of the game, Vanderbilt put together a 3-0 run which brought it within four goals. That was the closest they would get, as sophomore goalie Kelly Weis had key saves late in the game that kept the Commodores from scoring on anything that was not a free position shot. 
“She’s consistent, she understands the game, and she makes big saves, and she understands momentum.” Miller said. “She’s a good leader; you can hear her chirping away [from the goal] because she always knows the game plan. She’s a great competitive leader and we’ve learned to count on her.”
Overall, Weis made 10 saves on the 18 shots she faced while in goal. Four of the eight goals she let by came off of free position shots. Vanderbilt was able to convert four of its nine free position opportunities while the Crimson found the back of the net on three of its four shots. 
Vanderbilt did outshoot the Harvard, 25-22, throughout the contest, but the Commodore goaltender duo of Callahan Kent and Maddie Kratz could not contain the Crimson’s offense.
For the second straight game Harvard was beat in the draw circle, with the Vanderbilt controlling 13 of the 21 draws that were available throughout the game. The teams each had 14 turnovers in the game, and the Commodores came out with a slight 16-15 advantage in ground balls. 
“Right now our Ivy League games [coming up later this week] are the most important so this is definitely a great momentum builder for us going into the rest of the season and hopefully making the Ivy tournament at the end.” 
 —Staff writer Ariel Smolik-Valles can be reached at asmolikvalles@college.harvard.edu.  
 
 
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Although the Harvard baseball team (4-13) heads into Ivy League play with a losing record, the Crimson has clinched more victories in fewer games this season as compared to this time last year. The Harvard squad has won nearly a quarter of its contests, all of which were on the road, topping its 2013 nonconference record of 3-17.
“Coming into this year, we definitely have a lot to prove to all of the Ivy League,” said senior utilityman Carlton Bailey, who has registered seven RBIs and a .323 batting average this season. “I think every week we have the same goal with every team—treat [the opponent] like they’re the best team we have ever played.”
The 2013-2014 Crimson lost three players to graduation, most notably former co-captain and infielder Robert Wineski, who bolstered the offense with 10 runs and eight RBIs. But the trio’s absence has been filled by a group of nine seniors this season, and several have demonstrated their potential on the mound, in the field, and at bat.
Thus far this year, significant senior performances include a batting surge from second baseman Kyle Larrow, who notched four RBIs in a win over Michigan State. The showing turned heads around the Ivy League, which included Larrow in the Weekly Honor Roll.
Senior pitcher Sam Dodge (0-1, 4.19 ERA) has taken the mound as a starter for Harvard, throwing over 18 innings in four games with 14 strikeouts. Dodge is one of four main Crimson starters, including junior Tanner Anderson (0-1, 2.82), sophomore Sean Poppen (2-1, 1.44), and freshman Nick Gruener (0-1, 4.01).
“I think the story right now is definitely our pitching,” said junior co-captain catcher Ethan Ferreira. “Our four starters have done a great job keeping us in ball games and throwing real well…. Every time they step on the mound, we have a lot of confidence in them.”
While its pitching has consistently delivered, Harvard maintains a losing record largely because of its struggles to capitalize at the plate.
“I think we’re hitting maybe .240, which is a little bit lower than our target, which was initially .300,” Ferreira said. “I think we’ll pick that up. We need to focus on getting the clutch hit in a game…. If we’re not going to be a team that just bangs the ball out, we need to be a team that executes with bunts and getting guys in during clutch situations. We just need to work better on that.”
Often, the Crimson squad will fail to hold an early lead or close the scoring gap in the latter innings of contests, as evidenced by the second game in the Army series and the loss to UConn earlier that same week. Harvard put up two runs early on against the Black Knights, but was ineffective the rest of the afternoon, eventually falling, 3-2. Similarly, the Crimson was able to hold a 4-2 lead until the bottom three innings when the Huskies scored five runs in a single inning, while Harvard went scoreless after the third.
“We score runs early in the game,” Bailey said. “That’s what we’ve seemed to notice. But then we kind of get out of our funk, and, later in the game, we don’t produce as many runs. That’s definitely something we are planning on changing over the course of Ivy League play. ”
Despite a disappointing team batting average, several Crimson players have stepped up at the plate. In addition to Bailey, who leads the team in batting average, junior co-captain outfielder Jack Colton has 10 RBIs and three doubles while batting .271.
“Jack Colton has been clutch,” Bailey said. “He brings it just about every game. He never takes a day off. Coach likes to give people breaks, but [Jack] hates taking a break.”
Junior outfielder Mike Martin has also contributed to the batting lineup with big hits, registering a home run, a triple, and a double thus far. Martin’s homer against Lamar in early March was the first home run of the season for the Crimson and enabled Harvard to hold a lead in the contest for the first four innings. Another notable batting performance by Martin included a four-hit game against Army in a split doubleheader series in late March.
“Mike Martin’s bat is on fire,” Bailey said. “He’s very electric on our offense and defense.”
The junior has tallied 18 hits and 12 runs for the Crimson. Martin also holds the highest slugging percentage on the team at .353, and has registered at least one hit in all but five of Harvard’s 17 contests thus far. Crossing the plate 12 times for the squad, he has aided the offense in a dynamic way.
The new freshman class is small with only five players, but it packs a punch nonetheless. Two pitchers—Gruener and Kevin Rex—in particular have stood out on the mound. Gruener is currently the number two starter for the Crimson, pitching over 24 innings and forcing 18 strikeouts.
“The freshmen are awesome,” Bailey said. “They all have contributed to the team. Kevin Rex has ended up starting a few games for us, which is pretty big for a freshman to do for any program…. The freshmen are definitely role players. They have a significant part in our lineup and on our team.”
Some players have demonstrated consistency and contributed heavily to the team in roles that may not necessarily be in the spotlight.
“Ethan Ferreira, as a catcher, achieves a lot during games,” Bailey said. “But not many people know that because he’s bent down catching the ball the whole game, which is tough—but he never complains. ”
Harvard will have 10 doubleheaders during conference play, and will face off against Columbia—the reigning Ivy League champion—this weekend.
“Of course we want to take on Columbia,” Ferreira said. “They won the Ivy League championship last year, and we played them real close the last two games last year. We play them home this year, so we definitely want to take care of business.”
But the team remains focused and is not overlooking any of its Ancient Eight competition.
“We’ve been following every team in the Ivy League,” Ferreira said. “They’ve all been doing well against talented opponents. The Ivy League season is going to be a grind—it looks pretty stacked, so we’re not underestimating anybody right now.”
—Staff writer Kelley Guinn McArtor can be reached at kelley.mcartor@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was a mild, clear day in Baton Rouge, La.,  and the Harvard softball team was locked in a 1-1 tie with the Lamar University Cardinals.
The beginning of the game saw stingy defense and solid pitching. Neither team was able to get anything going until Lamar managed to scrape a run across in the fifth inning. Two innings later in the top of the seventh, the Crimson answered on an RBI single from freshman left fielder Catherine Callaway, which knotted the game up and sent it into extra innings.
At the top of the 10th inning, freshman designated hitter Savannah Bradley stepped up to the plate with a runner on second base.
All kinds of things could have been going through her mind. She could have been thinking about the fact that this was only her fourth collegiate game. She could have remembered the two at-bats that hadn’t gone her way earlier in the contest. She could have thought back to her previous missed opportunity to put her team ahead in a critical situation.
Bradley managed to push all of those thoughts aside, however, with the mentality she has maintained all year.
“When I step up to the plate, I just tell myself that I can do it,” Bradley said. “I have the control, I have the power to…get this hit.”
Her mantra proved true. Bradley smashed a two-run homer—the first of her career—to give Harvard a 3-1 lead that would provide the final margin of victory. The blast helped establish a theme that the Crimson has embraced ever since: the rookies mean business.
“These freshmen have really come in and have vied for starting roles,” Harvard coach Jenny Allard said. “Some of them are either going to start or they’re going to…really push our starters.”
Bradley has proven that she can “push” the starters, performing well at the beginning of the season and quickly establishing herself as a strong offensive contributor. The rookie has gotten most of her offensive opportunities as a designated hitter or as a pinch hitter. She is currently tied for fifth on the team with seven RBIs, and ranks second among freshmen in at-bats.
Callaway’s success in the Lamar game has carried over throughout the season. After suffering a broken nose in the second game of the year, she has worked her way into the starting lineup as an outfielder. Callaway has matched Bradley with seven RBIs on the year, and her patience at the plate has helped her post a .315 on-base percentage.
“She’s a really strong hitter for us,” Allard said. “She’s earned a lot of time starting with her really good bat, and she’s been a really good freshman in the lineup.”
The freshman class has also made its presence felt on the mound with the powerful arm of rookie pitcher Taylor Cabe. The rookie, a key cog in the Crimson’s stalwart pitching staff, has wasted no time stepping into her role.
“She’s just a workhorse,” Allard explained. “She has great command of all of her pitches…and she’s already made some great impressions.”
Cabe’s dedication to pitching began in Little League.
“I started pitching when I was about nine,” Taylor said.
“Since then, that’s pretty much what I’ve been doing with my life,” she added.
Thus far, Cabe has posted a 2.44 ERA through 57.1 innings as a starter. The opportunity to pitch for the Crimson is a dream come true for the rookie.
“I think every little girl who plays dreams of playing NCAA Division I softball at some point,” she said. “My dreams of playing in college started very young. Even before I tried out for my high school team, I would say I knew I wanted to play college ball.”
The number of talented freshmen on the roster has given the coaching staff flexibility  in the lineup through the first month of the season. The addition of rookies Lindsey Hagberg and Cynthia Okamoto has deepened the Crimson’s depth at the catcher position. Hagberg in particular has seen a lot of time behind the plate after injuries forced junior catcher Katherine Appelbe to play different positions.
“Lindsey is a really great receiver,” Allard said. “She has a quick release, and she puts the ball in play as a hitter.”
Other freshmen have been challenging their teammates in practice for spots in the rotation. Utility player Giana Panariello, who has appeared in 16 games this season, and first baseman Jillian Leslie have been two such players for Allard.
“We’re pushing for Giana to really push our middle infielders to be stronger,” Allard said. “She’s been able to step in defensively last week and help us as well. And [Leslie] started our last game out at the LSU tournament and she drove in the first RBI…. They’ve been working for playing time, and in the time that they have, they’ve been doing well.”
With many capable freshmen competing with upperclassmen for playing time, one might expect some level of competition between the players. However, Bradley said that has not been the case.
“The upperclassmen have been doing a great job making us feel welcome,” Bradley said. “They’ve been helping us not feel like just freshmen and really [feel like] equals.”
Allard said that the freshman class has been an asset to the team atmosphere in general.
“I think...we have a really supportive team, so I think the upperclassmen are being true mentors to the freshmen and helping them develop,” Allard explained. “But the upperclassmen are like, ‘Okay, she’s here to try to take my spot, and I’m going to work hard.’ It’s not a personal thing in that way, it’s more of just healthy competitiveness for the team.”
Bradley feels the same way.
“Harvard softball is really a tight knit community, and it’s been great,” Bradley said. “It’s really felt like a family away from home.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A little over a year ago, then-rookie starting pitcher Sean Poppen could only watch from the dugout as Rice leftfielder Keenan Cook raced three-quarters of the way around the diamond. The triple plated three runs—all unearned—and all three would be credited to Poppen’s name.
Five innings, nine runs, seven hits, and two walks read his official box score after the Crimson’s 12-0 loss to the Owls. The defeat was the ninth in a row for Harvard, a streak that saw the team’s pitchers give up an average of more than eight runs a game.
Flash forward to March 21, 2014, with Poppen walking back to the Crimson bench after striking out two in the top of the seventh against Army. This time, the sophomore’s pitching line read differently. Seven innings, zero earned runs, six strikeouts, and one victory, his second of the young season.
“Having pitched with [Poppen] for an entire season, he has come back totally different,” senior pitcher Sam Dodge said. “I would say that he’s probably the most improved player on the team…. He’s made incredible improvements.”
And yet, even with four straight starts of at least five innings and a 2-1 record, Poppen does not have his spot at the top of the rotation set in stone because of improvement across the revamped pitching rotation.
“Sean Poppen…has earned [the number one starting position] for right now, but that doesn’t mean we couldn’t flip at any point,” Harvard coach Bill Decker said.
Much has changed since the 10-31 2013 campaign that saw nine different Harvard pitchers take the hill and the pitching staff finish with a 6.31 earned run average. And though this year’s overall record hasn’t reflected the magnitude of the shift, the pitching has continued to improve. The pitchers have a 4.06 ERA through 17 games; the highest individual ERA of a pitcher with at least two starts is roughly equivalent to the best Crimson starter’s from last season.
According to Dodge—who, as the lone senior on the squad, has a 4.19 ERA through four starts—the source of the change has come from the bench.
“I think the culture shift starts at the top two years ago [with the coaching changes],” Dodge said. “[Assistant] coach Mike Zandler has really changed the culture of the pitching staff, and I think that the whole culture has changed from the top with Coach Decker.”
Even before the first pitch of the 2014 season was thrown, members of the rotation saw a transformation occurring.
“A lot of what [Zandler] teaches is about the mental side of baseball and pitching,” Dodge said. “I think that’s something that we didn’t necessarily focus a lot on in the past…. Guys are a lot more confident than they have been in my tenure here.”
If Coach Zandler and the starters have any say in the matter, according to freshman right-handed Nick Gruener, the group won’t be content with staying at the same level it is at right now.
“Our team didn’t exactly have a pitching coach the past couple years, and to have [Zandler] come in and do all the work with the pitchers is pretty huge because all of us…get to work with him a lot,” said Gruener, who threw seven and two-thirds innings in his first collegiate start. “[Zandler] expects a lot out of us, and we constantly try to impress him.”
In particular, Gruener has been doing quite a bit of impressing in his short time with Harvard. The Miami, Fla. native struck out 18 in his first four starts and owns a 4.01 ERA thus far this year.
“For what [Gruener] has shown us inside in our [Harvard bubble], for him to transition that to outside, was awesome,” Decker said. “He kept his composure [in his first start] and pitched with a purpose, which is what [Zandler] wanted him to do. He kept his composure and did a good job competing.”
His throwing partner has seen a similar drive in his rookie teammate.
“I think [Gruener] is pitching better than anyone thought a freshman was going to do right away,” Dodge said. “He came back when we were scrimmaging in [February]...and [we said], ‘Wow, this kid is better than we all thought.’”
It’s been a top-to-bottom change in attitude for the main Crimson arms, starting with the new coaching staff and continuing with the veteran throwers on the team down to the less-experienced.
“Sean, Dodge, and [junior] Tanner [Anderson] are all exceptional pitchers,” Gruener said. “I kind of get to look at them and see how they excel and where they excel and build off that.”
The upperclassmen have similarly seen progress in their game stemming from some of the changes.
“It’s fun to have internal competition and, this last year, trying to be just as good as these guys every day,” Dodge said. “It’s making us all better [and] we’re seeing [that] on the field.”
The improvement has been considerable for Dodge and Anderson, the latter of whom owns a 2.82 ERA through seven appearances—two starts—and three saves. Anderson finished with a 5.11 ERA in his sophomore year and appears to have found his niche rotating through the rotation, bullpen, and the field, where he was a second-team All-Ivy second baseman a year ago.
Though the Crimson’s losing record doesn’t fully reflect the pitching staff’s growth, the coaching staff has taken note.
“I think the [positive] first thing [to take away from the first few games] is that I thought our four guys that started did a really good job,” Decker said. “I’m real happy with their progress—they all pitched late into games…. The four guys we’re going to roll out are going to give us a chance to compete.”
Even with the early nonconference losses, the pitchers have taken the defeats in stride and have tried to use them as further motivation.
“One thing that I always try to do...is to go out and be better each time out and to improve,” Dodge said. “And if [we] do that every time out, we’re going to give ourselves a chance to win.”
The four starters will need more support from the bullpen and some clutch hitting for the team to string together some wins; it is only early April and the squad has already lost six one-run games.
However, Harvard will continue to look to whoever takes the hill in the first inning to keep them competitive.
“Nick Gruener is going to battle, Sean Poppen is going to battle, Sam Dodge is going to battle, Tanner Anderson is going to battle,” Decker said. “That’s really the thing that all four of those guys have in common—we’re going [to] get after it.”
—Staff writer Caleb Y. Lee can be reached at caleblee@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To say that co-captains Shelbi Olson and Kasey Lange have merely had an impact on the Harvard softball program would be an understatement. In fact, the duo has propelled the Crimson both offensively and defensively for much of their careers.
Olson is the scrappy hitter and fielder who does whatever it takes to get on base and cover ground in the outfield. Lange is the muscle who drives in runners and the glove who patrols the hot corner at third base.
However, this duo came to Cambridge from two unalike backgrounds. Lange came to Harvard from the softball powerhouse of California while Olson arrived from Kansas, a state known more for college basketball than high school softball.
“The first time I saw Kasey play, I immediately knew that she was a great hitter,” Harvard coach Jenny Allard said. “Kasey gets up there and she swings. A lot of hitters get in their own way [by] thinking, guessing. Kasey gets up there, she sees the ball, and she swings the bat.”
For Olson, the recruitment process came as slightly more of a surprise.
“As a recruit, you kind of just send a lot of information out to a lot of different places hoping coaches somewhere will like you and get back to you,” Olson said. “Harvard kind of fell [into] my lap.”
Just as the pair had dissimilar roots, so too did they begin their Harvrad careers differently. Lange’s freshman year was one of the greatest offensive seasons by any Crimson hitter in program history and arguably the best ever by a first-year. Unanimously named the Ivy League Rookie of the Year, Lange posted a .449 average and blasted 11 home runs in addition to setting program records with 65 RBIs and 20 doubles.
“Probably her freshman year she was one of the top two hitters in the league,” Allard said.
Olson’s freshman year was somewhat less notable. She posted a respectable .301 average, below what is typically expected of a leadoff hitter. Both Allard and Olson knew that she had more potential.
“I came in feeling a little out of place because softball is huge out in California and Florida and in all the warm places, but I wasn’t from a big softball hub,” Olson said. “I trained really hard in high school. I was physically ready for college softball, but I didn’t know how good I was when I got here.”
For both players, sophomore year was more of the same. Lange came back to Earth offensively, but still crushed six home runs and had 40 RBIs while cranking out a .372 batting average. Olson hit at a near .300 clip once again as the Crimson dominated the Ivy League for a second straight title and won two games in the NCAA tournament, eventually falling to Washington in the regional final.
Last season, however, appeared to be more of a rebuilding year at first. None of the pitchers from the 2012 campaign returned to the team’s roster, and the leading hitter from that season, then-senior Jane Alexander, had graduated. Olson, only a junior, was named captain.
The 2013 season witnessed Olson become a constant presence on the base paths. Her batting average jumped 70 points up to .371 to lead the team. Olson’s improvement allowed Lange to do what she does best—drive runners in.
Early in the season, Lange struggled at times to find the consistent superstar-level output that was expected of her. But once Ivy League play rolled around, she began to tee off. In 20 conference games, Lange hit nine home runs, giving her 13 on the season and a Harvard-record 30 for her career. Four of Lange’s homers were two-run shots with Olson on base.
The 2013 Ivy League season ended in disappointment for the Crimson as a group, however. Harvard was alive entering the last weekend of the season, but for the first time since Olson and Lange arrived in Cambridge, the team did not make it to the Ivy League Championship Series.
But the bond between the two also extends off the field. Both are pre-med and have shared numerous classes throughout the years.
Their final season with the Crimson has been up and down offensively. While Lange and Olson have produced at the plate, occupying the top two spots on the team in batting average, their numbers are not at the sensational levels of the past few seasons.
Yet, with the majority of league play to go, the pair’s goal—a third Ivy League championship—remains very much within reach.
“We won my freshman and sophomore year, but fell short last year,” Olson said. “So we are hungry for another title.”
—Staff writer Jacob W. Lynch can be reached at jacoblync@gmail.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
Dear Ted Mosby,
 
During the past nine seasons of "How I Met Your Mother", we have both been on one roller coaster of a ride. You struggled in New York to find the love of your life, and I struggled with awkward middle school relationships. You decided to take a job at Goliath National Bank to pay your bills, and I decided to wash windows during the summer to pay for car insurance. You and Barney made laser-tag in suits look so cool that my best friend and I came super close to actually laser-tagging in suits—before deciding that wearing them to school was good enough.
And I even identified with you, you were a nice normal guy with black curly hair, and a bit too much introspection. I was rooting for you—I knew the mother was just around corner!
 
But then season 7 came, then season 8, and my patience started to fade. What seemed endearingly idealistic and romantic at first, over time turned into annoyance. Everybody around you was living the dream, while you persisted in being classic Ted.
 
So by the time season 9 rolled along, I was happy to see you find happiness and ready to move on. And everything seemed set to go that way—Barney and Robin get happily married, and you meet the beautiful perfect lady you’ve been looking for.
 
But not so fast.. In the last episode (spoiler alert), you just had to ruin everything! Or the writers did. Either way it makes no sense! Why do you spend nine years waiting for this perfect woman, then wait like seven years before getting married, and then have her die of cancer a mere 10 years later? If Robin and Barney are such a great couple for season 8 and 9, then how come it only takes them three years to get divorced and completely fall out of each other's lives? And to top it all off, there’s the very fact that the show ends with you and old Auntie Robin getting back together after all. And why does this all take place in the span of 10 minutes? I’ll take this as an admission that you really should have just ended the show during the sixth season.
 
Now don’t take this the wrong way—there are many things I love about HIMYM. Of course, there’s the storyline and the characters. And who could forget all the high fives, the suits, the bro-code and playbook, “haaave you met Ted,” and all the dumb jokes like how you and Robin always salute whenever someone says “General Knowledge” or “Private Information.”
 
But at the end of the day, I feel confused and unsatisfied. Like a legen-wait for it, wait for it, wait for it.
 
 Come on, Teddy Westside.
Want more? Like Flyby on Facebook and follow us on Twitter @crimsonflyby!
Sections
 
It’s Thursday! In honor of Throwback Thursday, here are some throwbacks to some of our favorite childhood TV shows and movies:
1) #tbt to whenever Jimmy Neutron would say “Brain Blast”
2) #tbt to whenever Kevin would miraculously turn everything back to normal and then run away whenever his parents confronted him at the end of every Home Alone movie
3) #tbt to when the graphics from The Nightmare Before Christmas actually scared us a little bit but we didn’t want to admit it
4) #tbt to those times after we had a fight with our parents and were afraid we would switch bodies with them, just like Lindsay Lohan did in Freaky Friday
 
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
It’s going to be sunny and a high of 53 degrees today! Who’s taking bets on how long this streak of long weather is going to last? 
IN THE D-HALLS
Lunch:Sloppy JoesThai Green Chicken CurryGrilled Cheese Sandwich with Tomato and Red Onion
Dinner:Chicken ParmesanSalmon PuttanescaGrape and Mozzarella Pizza
ON FLYBY
1) "I'm Obsessed With You": A Talk With Up-and-coming Actress, Writer, and Filmmaker Genevieve Adams - “Flyby sat down with Genevieve Adams, a young actress, writer, and filmmaker, to discuss herfirst co-produced independent film I’m Obsessed with You (But You’ve Got to Leave Me Alone), which she also wrote and starred in.”
2) Planning Ahead: When to Get Snipped - In the spirit of men across America getting vasectomies to stay home and follow March Madness, here are some other occasions in which they should get their vas deferens snipped!
ON FM
 3) Unpaid Internships: A Priceless Experience?- “In the world of unpaid internships, experience has emerged as a de facto form of currency."
4) The Legend of the Z-List- “The Z-list inhabits an especially remote cranny in the cave of Harvard lore. The core of the Z-list intrigue is exclusivity. As admission rates have plummeted, mystery has increased.”
5) Face Tattoos Are a Metaphor for Life. Truth.
IN THE NEWS
6) Harvard Square Developer Sets off Opposition Over Historic Park- “For most Harvard students, Winthrop Square Park is just a small patch of grass wedged between Peet’s Coffee and JFK St. However, this small plot of land has played an outsized role not only in American history, but also in the current controversy over development in Harvard Square.”
EVENTS
The MIT Spring Career Fair is going from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. at 84 Mass Ave.! Talk to 42 diverse employers at a fair open only to MIT and Harvard Students.
The Boston Startup Fair is happening today from 2 to 4 p.m. at 1 Memorial Drive. The best Boston startups are looking for job seekers. Learn more at http://boston.startupjobfair.org/.
PHOTO OF THE DAY
 
The English Department hosts a "Cupcakes and Soundbites" event during Advising Fortnight. Teaching Fellow A. Joseph McMullen wraps up a two minute discussion on the English Junior Tutorial.
Want more? Like Flyby on Facebook and follow us on Twitter @crimsonflyby!
Sections
 
 Our 300th favorite day of the year, April Fool’s Day, just came and went. We hope your girlfriend isn’t actually pregnant. If she is, congratulations! It’ll be a January baby! Aside from the classic “I’m not rooming with you next year”—our roommates were totally kidding about that one—there have been many other pranks throughout H-Y-P history. We warn you: these Ivy Leaguers set a low bar.
1. On April 1, 1982, harried Comparative Literature students at Princeton were busy turning in their senior theses when three “mysterious” extra theses landed in Professor David Quint’s mailbox. The theses included "Strength and Wealth: Dostoyevsky's Bionic Hero," and "Six Million Ruble Man," by K. Brothers, Princeton class of '82. We can only hope that the actual theses turned in that day contained just as much bullshit.Grade: Needs Review.
2. At Harvard in 1996, Jonathan E. Simpson '99 thought about pranking his roommates by setting their clocks one hour back, but then realized “it's too serious to miss class here at Harvard”. Someone lived in the age before lectures were taped. Jonathan, wherever you are, we hope that lecture 6 of your sophomore spring English class still comes in handy.Grade: F.
 3. In 2001, the Yale Daily News published a joke column entitled, “Confessions of an Jewish Asian Worshipper.” Replete with what some students defended as hilarious and “blatantly outrageous” statements like “Asian women are sluts,” and “Asian men are impotent,” we’ll give them the benefit of the doubt and just chalk it up to racism.Grade: F, please see the Ad Board.
 4. 2002 was a slightly better year for Harvard. In a fake Yard Bulletin, freshmen “interested in history were told to contact Henry VIII, the department’s new Head Tudor.” Apparently, the Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis '68 loved the prank. “I laughed. Everyone I showed it to laughed,” he said. We bet he showed it to no one. Grade: Unsat.
5. In 1992, freshmen received information that they could call a phone number in order to find out their Housing Day placements early. The calls were directed to the Harvard Crimson’s business office and were probably the only unsolicited calls ever received there. Although some were suspicious that the Lampoon, a semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine, was to blame, Lampoon Narthex Stephen G. Lookner '93 quashed such rumors. "I don't think it's funny. I think it's stupid,” said Lookner and everyone who has ever read The Lampoon Magazine.Grade: A-, show yourself, prankster, and claim your prize.
Want more? Like Flyby on Facebook and follow us on Twitter @crimsonflyby!
It’s a fact that students in the lowest income quartile constitute less than 4% of enrollment at the nation’s most selective institutions. Among the many possible explanations, one of the most-talked about reasons is the theory of undermatching. In layman’s terms, this is the phenomenon when academically talented, low income students who could succeed at top colleges aren’t applying to, enrolling in, or graduating from them. Recent analysis, however, suggests that perhaps this theory isn’t as sound as we all seem to think.
A study done by Michael N. Bastedo and Allyson Flaster of the University of Michigan presents three key flaws in current research on undermatching. For one, they said, the research ignores an important choice that disadvantaged students frequently make between community colleges and four-year institutions, of which they prefer the former. Secondly, researchers often erroneously assume that they can predict which students would be admitted to a top college if they applied. Finally, researchers also wrongfully assume that a high SAT score and a purely meritocratic admissions process would close the gap for disadvantaged students.
Controversy has already been expressed over Bastedo and Flaster’s opinions. Some professors who have published work on undermatching such as Caroline M. Hoxby of Stanford University and Christopher Avery of Harvard University are critical, particularly because interventions targeted at undermatching have proven successful in the past. Other professors, however, such as Sara Goldrick-Rab of the University of Wisconsin at Madison, agree with this perspective. Goldrick-Rab believes that the undermatching theory should not assume that it knows what is best for low-income students. She stresses further that the merit of the institution must be balanced by the long-term costs of taking out loans.
While undermatching might not yet be as much of a buzz word in college admissions as the phrase “affirmative action,” the attention it has received from scholars like Bastedo and Avery and the valid questions it raises about the admissions process foreshadow its potential influence in the future.
