News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
PRINCETON, N.J.—This time, the game was actually over at halftime. Two years after a Harvard-dominated first half turned into a Princeton football comeback win at Powers Field, the Crimson (6-0, 3-0 Ivy) led 28-0 at halftime and cruised to a 49-7 win to remain undefeated Saturday.
Sidelined for a month with a back injury, senior quarterback Conner Hempel returned Saturday to pick apart the Tigers (3-3, 2-1) secondary. He completed 25 of his 31 passes for a career-high 382 yards and three touchdowns. Hempel ran for an additional 52 yards and another pair of scores.
"That was one of the finest performances that I could recall against us," Princeton coach Bob Surace said of Hempel's play.
The signal-caller showed no signs of injury-related limitations, evading free rushers on multiple occasions and extending drives with his legs. His first touchdown toss came when he spun away from two blitzers and found sophomore Joseph Foster, who weaved his way through the defense for a 39-yard score. Foster now has three receptions and two touchdowns on the season.
Senior wideout Seitu Smith and senior tight end Tyler Hamblin also returned from injury to help keep Harvard tied with Dartmouth atop the Ivy League standings. Smith finished with 78 yards and a touchdown while Hamblin brought down three passes for 58 yards. Sophomore tight end Anthony Firkser led the group with 86 yards and a touchdown.
Junior running back Paul Stanton started slow but finished with 105 yards thanks in part to a 33-yard score that put Harvard up 35-0 in the third quarter.
A quarter later, Hempel connected with Firkser for a 42-yard score. At that point, junior lineman Adam Redmond turned around and lifted Hempel in the air. It was a fitting sign of gratification after Hempel carried his team to a number of notable milestones.
The win was Harvard coach Tim Murphy’s 100th Ivy victory, making him the fourth to reach the mark. The 42-point margin is the largest in the 107 meetings between Harvard and Princeton.
“I thought our kids stepped up tremendously on an intangible level,” Murphy said. “We obviously executed very well offensively, defensively, and on special teams, and it was just one of those days.”
The Crimson also snapped a two-game losing streak against the Tigers. In 2012, Princeton scored 29 unanswered points to eliminate a 24-point fourth-quarter deficit in a 39-34 thriller. Last season, the Tigers outlasted Harvard in triple-overtime, 51-48.
“I’ll never forget the game down here two years ago—it’ll haunt me to my grave," Murphy said, adding that the loss affected his strategy in the second half. Murphy elected to keep Hempel under center until the fourth quarter, when the squad extended its lead to 42-0.
For Princeton, the defeat was its first at home since 2012. It nearly suffered a shutout but for a garbage-time touchdown with 28 seconds left.
The Tigers managed to gain 14 first downs, nine fewer than they averaged coming in. Quarterbacks Quinn Epperly and Connor Michelsen combined to average 4.2 yards per attempt while the Princeton runners gained 60 yards on 19 attempts.
After averaging 453 yards per game coming in, Princeton was held to just 244 on Saturday as the Harvard defense registered its third straight first-half shutout. The home team punted 12 times.
"Our butts are going to be sore because they got kicked," Surace said. "Everything that could have went wrong went wrong against a team that is going to make you pay for every mistake."
Junior quarterback Scott Hosch, sophomore quarterback Joseph Viviano, and freshman running back Semar Smith helped keep the Crimson offense rolling as Murphy emptied his bench in the fourth quarter. Smith finished with 124 yards on 12 carries. Harvard tallied 698 yards of total offense.
“We knew the sky was the limit, especially with the way our defense is playing," Hempel said. "We knew we could put up as many points as we wanted to as long as we executed, and we did.”
With senior kicker Andrew Flesher unavailable to play, the Crimson went for four fourth downs and did not attempt any field goals.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacob.feldman@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We all know what it takes to get the Harvard School of Public Health named after you. But what did the colorful characters the Houses are named after contribute to our glorious University’s history? Here are the highlights:
Dunster (1640-1654) – Henry Dunster was the first president of Harvard College. He established the corporate charter that still governs Harvard to this day, and the motto “Veritas” was proposed during his Presidency. VE-RI-COOL! Dunster also married twice to women named Elizabeth. Guess he never had to regret that “I <3 Lizzy” tattoo.Eliot (1869-1909) – In his forty years as president, Charles William Eliot oversaw Harvard’s transition from a small college into a modern research university. You can blame Eliot for why your professor doesn’t respond to your emails. Also, Charles was the cousin of poet T.S. Eliot; never since Eliot Christmases have there been such intellectually stimulating (yawn…) holiday dinners.Kirkland (1810-1828) – John Thornton Kirkland instituted many of your favorite parts of Harvard during his term, namely grades and sections. Next time you’re in Ec 10 section, curse Kirkland instead of Greg Mankiw! He also was president during a giant food fight in University Hall. Must have been the swai.Leverett (1708-1724) – John Leverett was Harvard’s first secular (non-clerical) president. During his presidency, Massachusetts Hall was constructed and Harvard’s student population grew to an overwhelming 124 residential students. The line at Ye Olde Tasty Burger must have been the worst.Lowell (1909-1933) – A. Lawrence Lowell oversaw the “clubby” and “social” campus as it transitioned to his vision of the present House system. He also forced freshmen to live on campus, though this didn’t yet mean exclusively inside the Yard. Nor does it still. I’m still seething with Union Dorm angst.Mather (1692-1701) – Increase Mather served president for nine years, but he wasn’t around for much of it. He spent a lot of time lobbying in England, so it should come as no surprise that in 1702 Mather wrote “[t]he Colledge is in a miserable state.” Maybe that’s why Mather House is located so far from civilization today. Fun fact about Mather: he was involved with the infamous Salem Witch Trials, and refused to denounce them! The concrete jungle remains haunted by those spirits to this very day. Quincy (1829-1845) – Josiah Quincy took John Thornton Kirkland’s grading system and added a bonus level “Scale of Merit” that included demerits for behavioral infractions. I wonder how many strikes texting in class is worth? Quincy also served as mayor of Boston for six years, during which the present-day Quincy Market was built. I wonder if Josiah was a froyo or soft pretzel kind of guy?
