News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
Commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the Harvard Business School’s decision to admit women to their MBA programs, Dean Nitin Nohria pledged to double the number of women featured in the case studies HBS develops. HBS, which produces pedagogical materials utilized in business education globally, currently features women protagonists in merely nine percent of its case studies. We certainly believe that increasing the percentage of businesswomen featured in case studies is a positive development, but the currently lopsided gender ratio is evidence of a systemic problem in the corporate world. Women continue to face discriminatory barriers in business that handicap their ability to climb the corporate ladder. We hope that increasing the number of women featured in business school case studies will be part of a larger effort toward true equality in the business world.
Women have historically been poorly represented in business. The Cult of Domesticity influenced the American woman through the mid-1900s (and arguably beyond), limiting her ability to enter upper-level management. Women first entered the workplace in subsidiary roles, including assistants and receptionists. Granted, World War II-era Rosie the Riveter heralded a more prominent role for women in the labor market, and women have since made significant strides in business ownership and management. Women continue, however, to trail their male counterparts.
 Today, women on average earn less than men. Even in the tech startup world of Silicon Valley, an ostensibly meritocratic and dynamic arena, women are credited with founding fewer than 5 percent of tech startup companies.
 These statistics demonstrate a disheartening level of gender inequality in business, and HBS’s commitment to female protagonists does not reflect a sudden influx of women in higher management. In order to find female protagonists, HBS will have to start analyzing midlevel management, a rung on the corporate ladder that is characterized by a more balanced gender ratio
 Gender parity, at least in the business world, has quite demonstrably not been achieved. Organizations that promote women in business however, have enormous potential to narrow the gap. Women 2.0 is one such organization, dedicated to facilitating networking and advising to women interested in tech entrepreneurship.
Efforts to dispell the deeply ingrained stereotypes about women in business can also benefit from businesswomen like Marissa Mayer. The President and CEO of Yahoo!, Mayer famously balances motherhood with work and can serve as an icon for the American businesswoman.
 The HBS pledge to increase the ratio of female to male protagonists is no doubt positive, and helps to rectify some of the gender imbalance of which America is still guilty. It also follows a spate of encouraging developments at HBS, a historically male-dominated school that has made innovative, exemplary strides to open its academic environment to women. On a national scale, however, more must be done to tip the scales toward parity. The struggle of the American businesswoman is a reflection of our societal ideals, and will require fundamental changes to our psyche to rectify. Producing more case studies of women, though a start, is just the beginning.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
In January 2012, Stephen Colbert launched the Colbert Super PAC on his late night talk show, “The Colbert Report,” lambasting the rules governing formation of and coordination in political action committees. Surprisingly, Colbert succeeded where many authentic news sources have not in explaining the inconsistencies in and implications of laws governing PACs clearly. The episode garnered 1.3 million viewers, not including online audiences.
Political satire outlets have risen in popularity considerably in recent years. In fact, Jon Stewart’s “The Daily Show” and “The Colbert Report” were the two most-watched late night talk shows among 18- to 49-year-olds in the first quarter of 2013. “The Onion”, a well-known satirical newspaper and website with a political section, started with modest beginnings and now boasts 7.5 million viewers monthly.
This meteoric rise has led scholars and laymen alike to question the impact humorous news outlets have on politics. One thing is clear: Satire has made politics more accessible, leading to more informed viewers who have the potential to form more educated opinions and discuss those views with others.
This advantage of satirical news is particularly important today, when many serious news sources find themselves restricted by pressures to fill time and produce profit. Due to these pressures, many news outlets portray politics dramatically, and often will pay brief mention to less exciting but important political news. These selection criteria and overwrought portrayals mislead those who fail to realize what outlets have omitted and increase distrust in those who realize that events are only reported for their value as a “story.”
In contrast, political satire chooses reports based on comedic value, which—instead of deviating from essential information—often accentuates the news and underscores important issues in politics. Colbert’s super PAC is a prime example. Although the comedian seemed to be exaggerating, current PAC regulation allowed Colbert to do nearly anything he wanted with his committee, and he took full advantage to accessibly and humorously underscore his unrestricted freedom without deviating from facts.
Despite these advantages, some have argued that political satire encourages cynicism, trivializes politics, and promotes a narrow point of view (stemming from the predominantly liberal leanings of most political satirists and comedians). It is true that, when taken in isolation, political satire poses many drawbacks, and that the constant critique of political figures and media outlets can lead to skepticism.
However, viewers of satire are more likely to watch and read traditional news sources as well, according to an article in the Columbia Journalism Review. In fact, satirists often refer to other news sources to provide background for their critiques, as Stewart has done numerous times with CNN and Fox News, serving the dual purpose of communicating news and criticizing the current methods of political media. The same article also references research that suggests increased viewership of political humor does not distance the audience from politics but instead “increases knowledge of current events, leads to further information-seeking on related topics, and increases viewer interest in and attention paid to politics and news.” This more informed and interested audience naturally has more opportunities to share educated opinions with others and provoke discussion.
Arguments that satire actually increases narrow-mindedness because it panders to liberals also have their flaws. While there are few Republican and conservative viewers, data show that less than half of the viewers of “The Daily Show” and “The Colbert Report” are liberals; in fact, 38 percent of viewers of “The Colbert Report,” as well as 41 percent of those watching “The Daily Show,” consider themselves independents. These shows have roughly the same percentage of Democrat viewers as the New York Times and USA Today and a lower percentage than CNN, all of which claim to be non-partisan news sources.
Moreover, humorists connect with their audience more effectively than news anchors do. While politics in news is often portrayed as a field separate from daily life, Stewart and Colbert easily relate their coverage to the average viewer. In contrast to Sunday talk shows such as NBC’s “Meet the Press” and ABC’s “This Week,” which host roundtables of pundits discussing the political issues of the day in non-personal terms, satirists need to be personal for their comedy to be understood and entertaining.
Finally, instead of allowing experts to express their opinions as fact as some journalists do, humorists often challenge the views of experts to the audience’s benefit. For example, in October 2013, Stewart hosted Kathleen Sebelius, the US Secretary of Health and Human Services, and criticized Obamacare for delaying compliance with the bill for big businesses but not individuals. He critiqued the fact that these businesses can lobby for their interests while individuals cannot. Although some coverage of this issue made news sources, Stewart presented it at length with an authentic source and in a comedic and memorable fashion. He caught viewers’ attention and demonstrated that experts are not always correct.
Taken together with traditional news sources, political humor at least molds a more informed public and at best increases political involvement and excitement. The humor provides the tools; viewers must decide whether to use them.
Anthony Thai ’17 is a Crimson editorial writer in Straus Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Animal Abuse at Harvard
To the editor:
Kudos to The Crimson for its stance against animal cruelty in Harvard’s laboratories and its call for the University to take the lead in developing non-animal testing methods (“Confronting Cruelty,” Jan. 26).
All animal experiments are inherently cruel, but here are some of the troubling details behind the recent government citations against Harvard’s New England Primate Research Center: one monkey died when an employee failed to remove her from her cage before sending it through scalding hot water in a mechanical cage washer; another was killed after a drug overdose he was given caused liver failure; and yet another died after being roughly handled. Inspectors found monkeys confined to cages too small for their bodies and suffering from various abnormal behaviors that are the result of severe psychological distress.
These cases violated the law, but students, faculty and alumni would likely be dismayed to learn that the legal experimentation that occurs at Harvard and masquerades as “science” is just as horrific. If Harvard treats non-human primates in this fashion, one can only imagine the abuse to which it subjects other species.
Harvard confines many primates—in fact, it has one of the largest primate populations locked in any U.S. university laboratory.  Many of these animals are subjected to painful and distressing experiments, including ones in which they are addicted to cocaine, heroin, nicotine, and alcohol.
The taxpayers and donors who fund these experiments—not to mention the public—would be better served if the millions spent on these experiments were used for clinical studies and treatment for human addicts rather than tormenting monkeys in crude studies that aren’t applicable to human drug addiction and which cause more suffering in the world than they alleviate.
Jessica Sandler ’78
Director, Regulatory Testing Division
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
Norfolk, Va.
Tangible Rights
To the editor:
One thing is for sure—Crimson contributor Derek Bekebrede ’13 must love irony. You can tell because his piece “Life, Liberty, and Birth Control?” is positively littered with it. The crown jewel has to be the part where he denounces the liberal conception of rights as “absurd,” and then—you guessed it—goes on to describe his own conception of rights, which itself is completely…well, that’s the irony of it.
In describing his own conception of rights, Bekebrede tries to draw a distinction between “natural” and “unnatural” rights. He defines “natural” rights as those outlined in the Declaration of Independence: the “inalienable” rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness that “are part of our nature as human beings.”  On the other hand, he blasts progressives for granting “unnatural rights”—like the right to basic health care, for instance.  Bekebrede argues that the duty of government is to “protect the [natural] rights of the people,” not to grant them “unnatural” rights. And yet, what Bekebrede ultimately fails to grasp is that without the extension of what he considers “unnatural” rights, the commitment to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness is an empty one. Consider the Bill of Rights.  The First Amendment provides for freedom of speech, of the press, of assembly, petition, and religion.  The Second provides for the right to bear arms. The Third, protection from quartering troops, the Fourth, protection from unreasonable searches and seizures, and of course the list goes on. You might notice that almost none of these are “natural” rights as Bekebrede conceives of them. Human beings are not “endowed by their Creator” with the right to petition government. Nor, I might add, does the natural human condition suggest an inalienable right to wield firearms.
In fact, if we were to apply the “Bekebrede Rule” across the board, you would see your rights rapidly dissolve. Indeed, almost the entire Bill of Rights would get the heave.   Now do you see the irony? Carried out to its logical ends, Bekebrede’s conception of rights looks uniquely “absurd.”  What he ultimately fails to grasp is the fact that what he terms “unnatural rights” are precisely what give tangible meaning to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. They are the practical application of those “natural” rights. Throughout this century and the last, progressives (and others) have fought to give tangible weight to the rights described in the Declaration of Independence. The recent fight to provide every American with basic health care, including access to contraception for women, embodies this same spirit.
Brendan Kopp ’12
Cambridge, Mass.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
J-Term can make quite a bit of difference. Harvard’s campus probably looks just as snowy, icy, and dreary as it did in December. Yet inside of some of the most important buildings in and around Harvard Yard, changes have been implemented that will change students’ lives on a daily basis. What do I mean? What am I talking about? Just some programs going by the names of “Secure Exit” and “Harvard Direct.” 
To appreciate the former, simply walk up the Widener steps and enter the library. Warm up from the cold, take a bit of a walk around, perhaps a quick trip to your study carrel, to catch up with your books (your thesis has missed you a helluva lot more than you missed it), a peek at the Gutenberg Bible (you’ll make a lot of tourists jealous), and then head to the door. At this point all should seem the same. You’ll wonder what revolutionary new innovation I’ve been talking about. But as you prepare your bag to be searched as you exit the library, you’ll find it. Secure Exit. A barcode scanner. Now all the library books in your bag will be scanned as you exit. Surely a step up from the visual inspection of the due date stamped on the tag glued to the back of the book.
This being Harvard, ancient and older than the United States themselves, with Gutenberg Bibles and Bay Psalm Books displayed like coffee table Taschens, changes sometimes come slowly. The technology used at the circulation desk (and at the supermarket, the gas station, the bookstore, etc.) has finally reached the guards’ desks at Widener and at Lamont.
Secure Exit is currently a pilot project, so if it fails to meet its goal of reducing the wait times and shrinking the lines to leave the library at peak hours, it might not last. Clearly, Secure Exit is a SECUR-ity program designed to help eliminate book theft, which has been and continues to be a problem at Harvard as it is a problem at every library. Recent examples include thefts of rare books from libraries in Naples, Italy, and in Stockholm, Sweden; both of these cases involved employee thefts, which a program like Secure Exit might deter but couldn’t totally prevent.
I applaud the library for taking steps to alleviate the massive delays experienced at closing time in Widener and virtually every hour, on the hour, during class sessions in Lamont. I once had a section that met in a Lamont Library classroom. All 18 of us leaving at once with all of our textbooks and course packs jammed the line; it was often better to go sit and read for ten minutes than to attempt a “speedy” exit.
Secure Exit also makes a provision that Lamont have two security exit lanes, which hopefully will speed exits for students, keeping them on time for classes. Even if the Secure Exit procedure slows down each individual inspection, conducting multiple inspections at a time should more than compensate. Beyond the costs in time, the costs of replacing books stolen should also be factored in. Some items cannot be replaced if they are out of print; facsimile copies made of out-of-print books can often be difficult to read; Google’s scans, too, can be illegible.
However, the best solution to the problem might be not having to enter the library in the first place. This is where Harvard Direct comes into play. Harvard Direct allows library users to request delivery of books from the stacks of Widener, Countway Medical Library, or the Harvard Law School Library to any other library.  In theory, nobody would ever have to venture into the stacks for their own books. By a simple click of the mouse, the HOLLIS catalogue opens up the contents of Widener and Countway and the Law Library to all users.
Where I work—Cabot Science Library—I help students and faculty find books on many topics, including medicine. Oftentimes books that Cabot has are needed by students in the Longwood Medical Area (HMS, HSPH, HSDM), and books that undergraduates need are housed in Boston, across the Charles River at Countway. Needless to say, this distance has been a source of frustration for students and an impediment to learning and research across the biological and medical sciences. Now, Harvard Direct will allow these students, and others, to save time and energy for reading, instead of the long M2 Shuttle commute across from Cambridge to Boston.
It is momentous whenever the Harvard University Library makes a change, and unusual to have two major upgrades implemented side by side. I think we as a university community should celebrate the initiatives and hope for their success, while being mindful of potential drawbacks such as increasing delays in book delivery, and exit queues as long as Netflix queues.
Michael T. Feehly ’14 is a joint history and Scandinavian studies concentrator in Mather House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
 
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Although Josh stopped coming to us for advice after the last “Advice to Josh” column, we decided to give our freshman friend some tips for how to survive Freshman Formal. Here are some of the questions we (rightly) assumed he would be asking. You’re welcome, Josh!
The girl I want to take to Formal is in a long-distance relationship, but she wants to go “as friends” so that she will match with someone in the Mathews A entryway pre-formal photo.  What should I do?
FM1: Common issue, Josh. I recommend skinny-arming it, so that when you show the photo to your friends from home, and tell everyone that you are dating her, your arms won’t look chubby.
FM2: First off, let’s make one thing clear: there’s no such thing as a long-distance relationship. There are only short-distance relationships, and people you used to know really well and now only text occasionally when you’re by yourself at a party and want to look and feel like you’re not alone. That being said, the “friend zone” is very real and very unfortunate. Sometimes, the only way out is to put it all on the line, by which I mean sending her Snapchats of your junk.
FM3: Buy her boyfriend a plane ticket so he can come. That’s what she’s really asking for.
How do I pregame?
FM1: As a 21 year old, I cannot condone underage drinking; it would be morally irresponsible, and from what my parents tell me, highly illegal. So don’t pregame, Josh. Stay sober, and instead prepare with 5-7 servings of fruits and veggies.
FM2: Have you ever tried to make your own vodka? Grab mixers from Annenberg.
FM3: Bring a flask to dinner and spike your apple juice, orange juice, or combo of the two.
How do I get there?
FM1: I recommend the T. It’s environmentally friendly.
FM2: The only socially acceptable way to roll in is in a party bus, with the coolest kids in the freshman class. Anything else would constitute social suicide.
FM3: First you have to get into Harvard. Then you have to not flunk out  of freshman fall. If you can check those two boxes, then we’re on the same page. Good. Use Uber. It’s just so simple!!
What if I drunkenly run into my proctor?
FM1: Keep running.
FM2: Really, any response is fine in this scenario. Anything from “I thought it would be wise to pregame Freshman Formal” to “Sorry, I was at a wine and cheese tasting with my grandmother” is a fine excuse. Just don’t invite your proctor to any post-Formal rendezvous.
FM3: Great time to ask him or her about a recommendation for summer opportunities.
Will seniors be there? If so, how do I keep them away?
FM1: Seniors probably won’t be there. A junior might be, if that boy in my Ec10 section who I’ve had my eyes on finally  asks me.
FM2: Seniors will not be there. Trust me, Josh, they have better things to do. Like lie down on their bed and watch Girls.
FM3: Seniors might be there, regardless of what FM1 and 2 say. But they’re probably going with a specific person. You have nothing to fear.
Sections
When I tell people I’m from Alaska I get a variety of responses from “You must get a lot of snow!” to “Doesn’t it get dark there all the time?” to “Do you have penguins?”. I’m not kidding about these. I’ve heard them all, and more. Alaska has such a distinct character that most people feel they’re well acquainted with the “Last Frontier.” Unfortunately, this acquaintance often seems to stem from a regrettable combination of Sarah Palin and TLC.
My hometown isn’t stereotypically Alaskan. Because we’re in the southern part of the state, we see warmer temperatures—even in winter—and a lot more sun. Alaska is huge (I mean, it’s twice the size of Texas), so the defining characteristics of a particular region can vary radically—from the frozen tundra of the North, to the windswept, barren landscape of the West, to the sprawling, temperate rainforest of the Southeast that I call home.
And, of course, it’s far away. When I came home for winter break, I took a five-hour flight from Boston to Seattle, slept overnight in an airport, and got on a plane from there to my hometown of Ketchikan —located on the southern tip of the Alaskan Panhandle.
More specifically, Ketchikan sits on the remote island of Revillagigedo, though our airport is located on the island of Gravina, a nearby slab of land separated from Revillagigedo by the Tongass Narros, a half-mile channel. Before I can officially be deemed “home,” I have to board a ferry from Gravina and spend five minutes (literally, the ferry trip across takes five minutes) filled with excitement and exhaustion.
But then, yes, I’m home. Ketchikan is a small town with a population of just over 8,000 people. When I tell “southerners” this fact, they usually try to one-up me, claiming their hometown is even smaller — population-wise— than Ketchikan. But the “smallness” I’m speaking of here really has very little to do with population; it’s all about isolation.
All Ketchikan residents are connected by the Tongass Highway, which isn’t a highway at all, just a two-lane road that’s a whopping 37 miles in length. You can go north for about 30 minutes, hit an actual “END” road sign, turn around, go for just under an hour south, and hit another “END” sign.
We have no big cities to hop to, no huge metropolitan areas. We have one movie theatre, with two screens. For we Ketchikanites, winter break pans out a little differently.
Over these many weeks, I have been to bonfires on beaches (our beaches are cold, covered in rocks instead of sand, and dark, dark, dark), attended the huge basketball tournament that just about the entire town shows up to because we have one high school we all raucously support, curled up indoors with a book while the rain pounded away at our living room windows.
We average a little over 150 inches of rainfall a year. Not exactly the snowy Alaska everyone imagines. We’re gray. We have cloudy skies just about every other day. My own wisdom says for every day of sun experienced we get two days of rain. My winter is wet. Even as I write this article, the sky is clouded, the air is cold, and everything yields to a steady downpour from the sky.
So my break was a little different. Instead of polar vortex snow, I faced a steady but comforting front of rain. Instead of exploring cities with friends, I spent nights catching up with towering evergreens, the cold gray ocean only a few feet away. And, in place of week-long ordeals, our road trips ended in a matter of minutes.
Sections
It was an outrageously funny but simultaneously frightening moment, which in retrospect seems to be the kind of thing you secretly hope for when you travel far away from home.
“Let us stay up all night and then have tea by the river at sunrise,” Kalpan says.
It’s late, and the hazy, orange-lit streets are eerily deserted aside from a few meandering cabs and us: a ragtag clutch of students from the university defying biology and Kolkata’s 2 a.m. curfew. Kolkata is a laid-back city that likes to go to bed early but also likes to get up late, and though we don’t have anywhere to go, being in good company, with bellies full of chicken bharta and naan, is enough reason to stay up.
“Let’s go somewhere,” another friend suggests, and as we make our way towards prospective cabs, he turns around and whispers, “Try not to look drunk!”
After some short negotiations in Bengali, Kalpan beckons. I don’t know where we’re headed, but I step into the cab, and we’re off. Wandering through the city at night is like seeing a dog walk on its hind legs: unexpectedly gratifying but also vaguely voyeuristic, considering how packed the streets are during the day.
The cab driver starts chatting in Bengali with Kalpan, who’s sitting in the front, and switches on the radio. A soaring, sweeping voice erupts from the backseat speakers over the unmistakable, upbeat strains of Bollywood strings and drums.
O PARDESIYA-A-A-A-A-A-A-AH,
PARDESIYA-A-AH YEH SACH HAI PIYA
SAB KEHTE HAIN MAINE TUJHKO DIL DE DIYA
PARDESIYA-A-A-A-A-A-A-AH....
I lean back into the seat and look out the window, staring contemplatively but really not thinking about anything in particular. Out of the corner of my eye, I see Kalpan raise his arms and start dancing to the music.
The smile that I grant myself quickly turns into a dumbly paralyzed ‘O’ after the cab driver takes both hands off the wheel. He has joined in the dancing and is synchronously rocking his arms left and right alongside Kalpan, who is either completely unperturbed or unaware of the fact that we’ve gone on autopilot.
To his credit, the cab driver’s gyrations easily match the joyous spirit of the song now echoing raucously off the empty flyovers and closed storefronts. Without interruption of motion, he occasionally jerks the wheel left or right to avoid the roadblocks that are impotently marked “KOLKATA TRAFFIC POLICE.”
After what feels like an hour of passionate Bollywood cardancing, we come to a stop near a brightly lit park. We pay the fare and the cab driver gets out but leaves the music roaring across silent streets. As we start walking away, another cab driver pulls up to join the impromptu roadside celebration.
Sections
The strength of Harvard’s alumni network today rests on the relationships formed between students while they’re undergraduates. As freshmen, students often take their first steps into the Yard with little concrete advice on how to navigate the academic and social scene on campus. That’s where upperclassmen “mentors”—friends, siblings, role models in organizations—come in to help spell out the “dos and don’ts” of Harvard. These mentors—both current Harvard students and recent alumni—have helped shape the course of their younger peers’ college experiences, leaving a mark on Harvard that goes beyond their own four years in Cambridge. FM set out to investigate one strand of these upperclassmen-freshman mentor relationships, beginning with current freshman Priscilla K. Russo ’17 and following the network through to  Ryan A. Peterson ’08.
Priscilla K. Russo ’17
Mentor: Jimmy P. Biblarz ’14
Relationship: He is my PAF.
Influence: Jimmy has been a guiding hand throughout my freshman year. He has been there during the times I got lost on campus and listened to me vent during times of stress. He has always looked out for me in academic and social environments. Jimmy even spoke up for me when I was not entirely happy about how someone was treating me. Without him I would not have been able to find many of my classes. He also helped me navigate the extracurricular scene on campus. I go to him whenever I need something, whether it be advice or a good laugh.
Jimmy P. Biblarz ’14
Mentor: Senan Ebrahim ’12
Relationship: I worked on his UC presidential campaign when I was a freshman.
Influence: Senan taught me how to navigate Harvard, how to fight for myself here, and how to make the most out of this place. [I’ve] never felt so inspired by someone my own age. [Because of him] I’ve been more thoughtful about my decisions, more critical of accepted standards, [and] more in the know about social and academic life here. We usually cross paths whenever he’s around Boston. [It’s] harder than one would like to keep in touch post-grad.
Senan Ebrahim ’12
Mentor: Matthew L. Sundquist ’09
Relationship: He was UC president when I was a freshman and was one of the reasons I got involved.
Influence: We met in Dorm Crew when Matt was a captain of the program. During freshman year, the dynamic was one way, with me really looking up to him and taking his advice on projects and what I should focus on. As I got older and after he graduated, I became more independent and sometimes went against his advice on many things. I came into my own right, and at that point we became true peers. I can’t even imagine what [my Harvard experience] would have been like had I not met this guy. I wouldn’t have joined the UC, which was the experience of a lifetime. I didn’t really understand what student government was about until I heard his stories. He’s really someone who inspires me in life.
Matthew L. Sundquist '09
Mentor: Ryan A. Petersen ’08
Relationship: Ryan was a year ahead of me and I was the vice president while he was the president of the UC. He was super smart and thoughtful and really helped me learn about life and the UC.
Influence: Ryan got me interested in the UC and in the issues that we were working on together. It’s really cool to build a friendship with someone while working on the issues you care about. We both live in San Francisco now, so we still keep in touch.
Sections
The Crimson’s former Managing Editor, Rebecca D. Robbins, complained to me about the typical structure of endpapers. “They’re all sad but beautiful,” she said.
And I thought about avoiding that monotony, but I didn’t have any funny stories, and I didn’t have unique life circumstances. I had a series of bland sentences, and the only one with promise was about friendship. But the thing about my friendships is that they are beautiful, but I don’t think they’re sad.
So, Rebecca, I’m trying to write about friendship.
I’m trying to express the love I have for my best friend from preschool—we’re more like sisters than friends by this point, I think. I’m trying to write about the overwhelming gratitude I have for a friend who I didn’t prioritize over a boy when I should have, but who put me before everything when he didn’t. I’m trying to write about the warmth with which a lovely young woman, someone I had only met a month before, welcomed me into her arms and her life because I was upset and alone. I’m trying to write about Friday night, when I sat around a table, my cheeks sore from laughing, and it struck me: a ‘Modern Love’-style endpaper—something about romance and heartbreak with a solid theme and a loose moral and a sad but beautiful ending—that’s about love, and love is what art is made for but friendship is its tragically overlooked counterpart.
Romance is easy to write about. Romance is about “the moment when you knew” and “how did he propose” and “what was it like” and friendship is about waking nights that fly by because talking is more compelling than sleeping. Friendship is about 5 a.m. drives to remote diners that make for boring stories but great cornerstones. Friendship is about looking down at your phone on a bad day and seeing that your roommate texted to make sure you’re okay. None of those things make for top-40 hits or timeless sonnets.
Allow me to be the human evolutionary biology major that I am for just a second.
I’ve spent the last four years understanding humanity in the context of evolution—understanding a lover’s feelings because partnering with her man increases her reproductive potential. Romantic love is essential, but it’s biological, not transcendent. It’s the relationships where I don’t see evolution—the way that we are willing to give to people with whom we share no genetic material and no reproductive potential—those are the relationships that strike me as sacred.
But we have a tendency to put relationships with our friends after our relationships with our lovers or after our work or after our ambitions. And really, that’s a disservice to friendship. Because friends are more stable than romances and ambitions, and when a test goes badly you can’t apologize and make up but friends will almost always take you back, and if you get fired from your job who are you going to run home to if not to your friends?
I made the mistake, in high school, of allowing my boyfriend to become the most important thing in my life. I let him become more important than my friends, and chose him over them more often than I want to remember. When we broke up, of course, I ran immediately to the friends who I had earlier failed to prioritize, and my friends consoled me and comforted me without a word.
But here’s the one problem with putting all your trust in friendships: I’m going to graduate in four months, and my friends are going to scatter. And unlike a boyfriend, no matter how much I love my friends, no matter how perfect our relationships are, no one changes the course of their life to stay with their friends.
When I was five, my best friend Sarah and I told the kids on the school bus to kindergarten that we were going to get married. They made fun of us (homophobicly, in retrospect, but bafflingly in the moment), and we didn’t understand why if we loved each other, if we wanted to spend time with each other and no one else, why that was different from the love between our parents.
Now, of course, Sarah goes to college in Vermont and is looking at moving across the country upon her graduation, and we have no plans to get married. On second thought, maybe that is kind of sad.
Sections
Not ready to enter the real world after college? Don’t worry; that’s what grad school is for! But it’s far from cheap. FM did a little math and even went undercover, started working on some applications to find out what attending some of Harvard’s graduate and professional schools might cost you. (All numbers as of Academic Year 2013-2014 and taken from University websites.)
Harvard law School
J.D. Program
Tuition (per year): $52,350
Total Estimated Cost (per year): $78,700
Application Fee: $85
Financial Aid: Based upon demonstrated need; no standard package or quota.
Harvard Divinity School
MTS/M.DIV./THM
Tuition (per year): $25,504
Total Estimated Cost (per year): $49,140
Application Fee: $75
Financial Aid: Based upon demonstrated need; no standard package or quota.
Harvard Business School
MBA Program
Tuition (per year): $56,175
Total Estimated Cost (per year): $91,200
Application Fee: $250
Financial Aid: 65 percent of students receive some sort of need-based financial aid; 50 percent receive an average of $32,000 per year (this does not include potential outside scholarships, only HBS fellowships).
Ph.D Program
Tuition (per year): $0
Total Estimated Cost (per year): Only what the student chooses to spendabove the fellowship
Application Fee: $105
Financial Aid: All incoming students regardless of background or need receive a full fellowship.
Graduate School of Design
Tuition (per year): $42,056
Total Estimated Cost (per year): $63,632
Application Fee: $55
Financial Aid: Need-based grants, loans, and a federal work-study program are all available.
Graduate School of Education
Ed.M.
Tuition (per year): $40,016
Total Estimated Cost (per year): $64,954
Application Fee: $85
Financial Aid: Need-based aid; beyond that, must apply for outside fellowships and grants.
Harvard Kennedy School
MPP, MPA2, and MPA/ID
Tuition (per year): $42,868
Total Estimated Cost (per year): $72,302
Application Fee: $100
Financial Aid: Need-based scholarships and merit-based fellowships available, up to the full cost of tuition and possible stipends.
MC/MPA
Tuition (per year): $42,868
Total Estimated Cost (per year): $83,331
Application Fee: $100
Financial Aid: Need-based scholarships and merit-based fellowships available, up to the full cost of tuition and possible stipends.
Harvard School of Dental Medicine
Tuition (per year): $49,875 for the first four years; the fifth is determined by the program director
Total Estimated Cost (per year): $73,249 for the first year; $90,259 for the second year; $92,672 for the third year; $83,360 for the fourth year; the fifth is determined by the program director
Application Fee: $75
Financial Aid: Need-based; more than 75 percent of students receive some sort of aid.
Graduate School of Arts &
Sciences
Tuition (per year): $38,888 for the first two years; $10,112 for the third and fourth years; $2,574 thereafter
Total Estimated Cost (per year): $67,816 for the first two years; $39,040 for the third and fourth years; $31,502 thereafter
Application Fee: $105
Financial Aid: Full financial support is provided for at least five years, though students are encouraged to seek for outside grants, fellowships, and funding.
Harvard Medical School
Tuition: $52,100 for the first four years; $3,050 thereafter
Total Estimated Cost: $82,540 for the first four years; $33,490 thereafter
Application Fee: $100
Financial Aid: In 2012-2013, the Financial Aid Office offered $30 million in loans, employment, and scholarship funding to approximately 84 percent of the student body. Financial aid is based on need alone; there are no merit-based scholarships.
Harvard School of Public health
Masters’ COA
Tuition (per year): $45,900 for a one-year program; $38,800 for a two-year program
Total Estimated Cost (per year): $69,303 for a one-year program; $62,203 for a two-year program
Application Fee: None
Financial Aid: About 10 percent and 55 percent of students enrolled in the one-year and two-year programs respectively received grants from Harvard, at an average of $23,000 and $17,000. About 45percent and 65 percent received outside grants at an average of $18,000 and $19,000.
Sections
On weekend afternoons in cafes over lattes or weeknights over drinks during the semester, I’d often put lecture notes aside to share my half-joke revelation about how to best savor time at Harvard: books, I declared, would always be here, but the electricity of connection between people around us is only now.
Many of my books (with introductions and conclusions colorfully annotated, pages of body paragraphs sadly black and white, and an occasional pencil underline on a page referenced in section) could have come home with me for winter break. But lug the books home I did not. They remain on my shelf, and they won’t be going anywhere without me.
My current roommates, however, may indeed be going places. Being away allowed me to glimpse the scope of this potential loss. One of my roommates, Tessa, went to high school with me. The other, Hannah, spent part of her gap year in my neighborhood. I was lucky enough to see them a few times during our separation, but this only confirmed how much giddier, safer, and fuller I felt in their presences.
One Thursday morning after a night that left me feeling unsettled, I texted Hannah that I missed her, and she asked me what I missed. At first, I thought it was a silly question, the kind a long distance couple might ask.
But while thinking about my answer, I realized I was glad she’d asked. Remembering and recounting all the things I love about what I now call home (I have to correct myself around my parents) succesfully distracted me from the missing-something feeling that had overcome me at what I had called home for 19 years.
Cuddling, talking out loud about all the things that go through my head and feel like a big deal until I say them, I typed eagerly, listening to your wisdom, sharing warmth and chocolate.
She missed those things too. And I miss waking up to you in the morning and seeing your smile every day and your feet.
Less than a week later, I sat at dinner on my last night before returning to life in our fifth-floor wonderland. My mom was in the bathroom, and I peeked at my phone to find a slew of texts from Tessa.
YOU COME TOMORROW!
1) I might not let you go, this single woman life is getting lonely
2) I had a nightmare about a mouse last night
3) I miss you!
4) I should probably clean up all them clothes on the floor since I haven’t felt the need.
I replied with the thoughts spilling more quickly than the fingers would comply.
I’M OBSESSED WITH YOU
(That’s 1)
Through 3
Actually 2 is that we can absolutely cuddle when you have nightmares
And 4 is that there is no need for you to clean up your clothes from the floor as long as you aren’t wearing any
In the coming months, we will share both lattes and lecture notes. Books will sit on our shelves, in our over-stuffed backpacks, and on the tables and couches between us as we take too many breaks, sharing fun facts we’ve just read, things that go through our heads that feel like a big deal until we say them, blankets, dreams, and various iterations of Trader Joe’s dark chocolate.
Sections
I’m kind of addicted to sadness.
Just the other day I was staring at the Pacific Ocean’s dirty-window sheen, discussing the futility of marriage and ambling down a beach strewn with scrappy shrubs and barely-clothed people. (No matter the weather, no matter the Ugg boots, Southern Californians always seem a little bit naked.)
The sun hurt my eyes, amping up my wistful objectless longing. I thought, aw yeah.
This need for sadness has really hit me while I was home for break. Yes, yes, my parents loved me as a child, and, no, I don’t abhor going home. In fact, I have a sort of Lena Dunham attitude about the whole living-at-home thing: infinite sunshine, delicious food in the fridge, lots of fresh towels—what’s not to love?
Over Sunday waffles, my family was discussing a New Yorker post by John Hodgman entitled “Downton Abbey with Cats.”
“I thought it was hilarious,” said my mother, citing the moment when the narrator realizes, to his horror, that he and his cats (actually his children) are partaking in an eternal cycle of families watching bad British TV about servants.
“Really?” I said. “I found that article so sad.”
“What is wrong with you?” said my little sister.
She’s right, though, my sister. I’ve got a blissful life, but for some reason I’m not satisfied until I’ve turned every last bit of joy into a Strindberg play.
Favorite singer: Sufjan Stevens. Favorite beach book: "Crime and Punishment." Favorite topic to write poems about as a child: dead children. My sister and I recently argued over whether to go see feel-good Disney propaganda “Saving Mr. Banks” or “Her,” the story of the doomed love affair between Joaquin Phoenix and sexified Siri set against a bleak Los Angeles skyline. I’ll leave you to guess my preference.
Sometimes I wonder if my constant need for a sadness fix is just a Southern California thing. There’s something awfully sad about the concrete strip malls with broken neon signs that line nearly every city street along the coast, I told my sister.
“Stop being depressing,” she said. “It’s Christmas.”
I thought going back east for school would cure me of the sadness, of the unique angle of California sunlight that blinds your eyes, saturating the world in Hollywood colors and rendering you helpless before the universe. Maybe it’s the heaps of literary paeans to California that I’ve read that are making me suspect every Santa Ana gust or curbside palm tree has a secret story of bleak eternal isolation. (Curse you, Joan Didion.)
Anyway, my plan didn’t work: I seem to have traded stark sunlight for oppressive Boston skies.
“You’re just sad,” said my little sister, who is taller than I am. I intuited that by “sad” she didn’t mean forlorn. She tapped lazily at her phone, no doubt bantering with one of the several boys with whom she texts regularly.
But no matter how lame my sister thinks I am, I stubbornly insist that melancholy has got a weight and import to it that funny can’t touch. Why watch the cotton-candy fluff of “How I Met Your Mother” and get all those extra pleasure calories when you can have the painful, the cathartic, the dare I say life-transforming emotional calorie burn that is HBO’s “Girls”? (Okay, okay, I might be overextending myself here, but you get the point.)
It dawns on me that I probably haven’t met the boy my sister was texting.  I don’t even know which of these acne-faced early-teen hormonal puppies she actually likes.
My sister and I compromised on the movies, by the way.  We went to see the new Disney princess flick “Frozen,” which promised a happy ending for her and some heartbreak for me.
But I was shocked to find that I couldn’t even watch the first scene.  For once, something was too sad, like a pleasingly tart grape gone sour in my mouth.  The little sister bangs over and over on the door of the older one, pleading for her go out and play—but the girl inside might as well be across the country, so frightened and consumed by her icicle-making powers that she won’t embrace the life mere inches away.
Sections
Shopping week is over, but when reading assignments get boring, you might want to check out some of the passionate (and perhaps hyperbolic) prose in Harvard’s Q Guide. Here are some of the comments that stand out, ranked in ascending order by score.
Q: 4.25ENGLISH 178x: “The American Novel: Dreiser to the Present”
"TAKE THIS CLASS…. Fisher is amazing, rockstar, GOD. You don’t know anything about literature until you’ve listened to this man speak."
"I wish that Professor Fisher could read to me every night before I go to bed."
ENGLISH 179x: "Bedtime Stories with Phil Fisher?"
Q: 4.39ENG-SCI 50: “Introduction to Electrical Engineering”
"Resistance is futile."
Resistance? As in engineering? Get it? (Full disclosure: My science-y friend had to explain this pun to me.)
Q: 4.51CHEM 20: “Organic Chemistry”
"…if you don’t let it take over your life, you’re doing it wrong. Good luck, you’ll need it."
Retreats back into humanities corner with a novel.
Q: 4.68ENGLISH 170a: “High and Low in Postwar America”
"I would recommend any class taught by Prof. Menand. This class is taught by Prof. Menand."
Well, that’s settled.
Q: 4.70ANTHRO 1080: “North American Archeology: Lost Tribes and Ancient Capitals of North America”
"Ever thrown a spear at a buffalo? Want to? This class is for you."
Is that...legal?
Q: 4.71E-PSCI 56: “Geobiology and the History of Life”
"Dinosaurs! Fossil-hunting excursions! Uncovering the secrets of the history of life!...SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE!"
Okay! Awesome! WE’LL SHOP IT!
Q: 4.82FRSEMR21w: “Research at the Harvard Forest: Global Change Ecology-Forests, Ecosystem Function, the Future”
"THIS IS THE GREATEST CLASS YOU CAN TAKE AT HARVARD…. IT TEACHES YOU EVERYTHING you’ll ever want to know about the forest.… IT’S GREATTTTTTT. Also, more boys should take this seminar. There was a lack of boys."
Because Harvard students have now resorted to scouring for dates in the forest.
Q: 4.89ENGLISH Capr: “Poetry: Workshop”
"If you have an opportunity to take this course you must do so! Or I will break your legs!"
Haha! All right!... Please don’t break my legs!
Q: 4.90HIST80a: “Roman Imperialism”
"Prof. Dench is such a wonderful person, teacher and scholar. You just want to sit there and listen to her."
Sit there and listen to the professor? In a seminar? Unheard of!
Q: 5.00ENGLISH Calr: “Dramatic Screenwriting II: Workshop”
"Danny Rubin is a Boss."
With a capital B. Too bad he’s not teaching this anymore.
 
Sections
In honor of Neil Patrick Harris’s upcoming visit, FM presents a revelatory string of connections linking our own University President Drew Gilpin Faust to the aforementioned dynamo.
1) In 2013, Forbes magazine named Faust one of the “100 Most Powerful Women,” citing both her status as the first female president of Harvard University and her intimidating deadlifts.
2) Michael Perlis, the current president and CEO of Forbes Media, was formerly employed by Playboy Magazine, a fact we assume he sometimes denies in conversation.
3) Playboy founder Hugh Hefner once told ESPN that he believed he met the late LA Lakers owner Jerry Buss at a Playboy party, but, not surprisingly, he couldn’t quite remember all the details.
4) Earvin “Magic” Johnson, arguably the greatest point guard of all time and, coincidentally, an avid reader of Faust’s histories, played 13 seasons for the LA Lakers.
5) The president of the board of directors of Hollywood’s “Magic Castle,” a position held by magic’s most enthusiastic supporter, is Neil Patrick Harris.
Sections
When Valerie J. Piro ’14 was Currier HoCo chair, she couldn’t storm the freshman dorms on Housing Day like everyone else—she had to hand off the housing letters to a friend and watch as the rest of the group ran in. Dianna Hu ’15, a computer science concentrator, can’t use the back door of the Science Center—she has to enter through the front despite where she’s coming from, as there is no automatic button at the back for her to press. No matter how much she may want to, Chanel E. Washington ’15 can’t attend social events in certain houses; if the common rooms aren’t accessible, then she’s out of luck.
Physically disabled students at Harvard must overcome countless obstacles that would not occur to the average student. Class schedules must always be planned ahead to ensure that no classes are held in inaccessible locations. Roundabout routes must be taken to enter most buildings whose ramps aren’t located immediately beside the main entrance. Visits to friends in other Houses and dorms must often be forgone, as most cannot accommodate wheelchairs. Living comfortably becomes a daily challenge on top of the academic and extracurricular stresses every Harvard student must face.
NEW HOUSES, OLD PROBLEM
Since many of Harvard’s buildings have been standing for centuries, it can be difficult to increase accessibility while negotiating the restraints imposed by their historic protections. With their vertical entryways and varying architectural styles, the freshman dorms present a unique obstacle.
“While in theory it would be amazing if every freshman dorm could be accessible, it will never happen, just because they have those historical qualities behind them,” says Washington.
Few freshman dorms are fully accessible; currently, the same is true for Houses. A Crimson article from 2011 quoted administrators as noting that increased accessibility would be a major consideration in House renewals, as per the Americans with Disabilities Act. Old Quincy, now Stone Hall, was Harvard’s first test project with this kind of renovation.
Though Quincy was already one of the few fully accessible houses, only New Quincy could accommodate wheelchair-bound students; this posed an issue for disabled Quincy sophomores, who would be living in New Quincy while unable to visit the rest of their peers living in Old Quincy. This problem would be elimnated once Old Quincy was renovated and accessibility was improved.
However, for disabled students, Quincy House renewal fell short of its potential. Based on their descriptions, though there are two ramped doors that open automatically after swiping in, inside there is an additional door to the hallway that has no automatic button. The hallways are narrow, and even some rooms deemed fully accessible lack ample room for a wheelchair or scooter to turn properly.
“[Stone Hall] feels like an accessible space created by an able-bodied person,” Washington says.
Hu, a Quincy junior, feels the same way. To avoid running into this issue in the future, she suggests that administrators and architects undertaking future renewal projects invite a wheelchair-bound student to survey the space and determine whether the improvements make the House truly accessible.
“Having someone who is in a wheelchair providing feedback would be really helpful,” she says.
DAILY CHALLENGES
Though Hu, Washington, and Piro all agree that accessibility is more widespread in academic buildings than in the Houses, the academic buildings still leave much to be desired. Washington and Hu say that the buttons in the Sever Hall elevator are too high for them to reach. Hu recalls numerous instances in which she was forced to wait inside the elevator for someone else to come in and push the buttons for her. “You would think that people in wheelchairs should be able to use the elevators,” she says.
Piro has faced similar issues in academic buildings. As a history concentrator, she spends much of her time in Robinson Hall. Since the building has no elevator, she can’t access her professor’s office hours on the lower level. She also notes Lamont’s lack of accessible bathrooms. “They say that they [have them], but they don’t. My chair will not fit in there.”
Harvard does, however, make significant attempts to accommodate disabled students when it comes to academic scheduling. If a disabled student is interested in taking a class that is being held in a non-accessible location, a new classroom will be found. Along with the shuttles, which all have ramps, Harvard also runs a van service for disabled students living in the Quad who need to get to the Yard for classes. “They’ve been really accommodating,” says Piro. The Harvard Accessible Education Office was unavailable for comment on this story, but their website notes, “Harvard is committed to providing support services and accommodations to all students in all programs who need and have a legal entitlement to them.”
However, according to Washington, there is room for improvement. “There are some deeper issues of disability on campus that can be improved with some advocacy and some hard work,” Washington says.
Sections
Then the dust got so bad in the winter you had to do the floors every day, twice a day, grime thick on the table, my laptop, our books. I hardly left the boys’ place. Woke with my mouth glued open and my nostrils dry, construction workers banging across the way. Deep in the night (and we all crashed at their apartment in a last study binge, kept jagged hours in the sore-throat tipsy-sunny early December, scrambling to get papers done) the watchmen knocked their staffs against the bone ground calling jaagte raho! jaagte raho!—stay awake!—striding in tandem like the ladies that power-walked together every day down the streets of my New Jersey housing development.
That was around the time the Aam Aadmi Party won big gains in the Delhi elections, and men in support of them kept loping around the city in those sloganed white caps that read main hun aam aadmi—I am the common man. They came by accident to the gay protest the day after the Supreme Court reinstated Indian Penal Code Section 377, which made most of the sexual behavior of most of the queer community (and most everyone else in the country) illegal again. The Aam Aadmi guys kept asking yeh Aam Aadmi ka protest hai kya? A whole group of us standing there sucking cigarettes, nervously, passing them back and forth, discarding them under our dusty sandals, talking big and wounded and swaggery—so much for that government job; why don’t we just be separatists; I’m leaving this fucking country. And my head floated somewhere by the stage where the angry woman was shouting we shall overcome, ham honge kamyab. Is this the Aam Aadmi protest? And we kept saying no, it’s 377, until we realized afterward just to make them stay we should have told them it was.
Earlier that Delhi fall I had sat in a conference of well-known feminists, the kind that made me feel like a frizzy-haired fangirl, listening to them fear for the state of the country in the face of spring’s upcoming national elections. A beleaguered anxiety. One of my professors was the facilitator of that feminist conference, and the day after she stood in lecture speaking about labor politics in Assam under the British, and I could tell she was still coming off the anxious nihilism of the day before. The anxiety that maybe one cannot do much against the kind of dull, pervasive extremism whose aim is the eradication of alterity. She was looking at me and she said something like, well, students, all our attempts at getting it right thus far have failed utterly. And I could see she hadn’t quit thinking about yesterday, had kept it going through the night like an ulcer or laugh lines, something etched across your face or fracturing deep inside your belly that’s not leaving you, and how it was the undercurrent of her current lecture. She said, we haven’t managed to get it right thus far in history. (Winter in the city, the dusty streets resplendent in all their fetid paradisal beauty. On the dry road the textured alphabet of watchmen spelling stay awake.)
She was looking at me. But history isn’t over.
Sections
If someone had told twelve-year old me that I would someday voluntarily join a dog sledding trip in January in Maine, I would have put down my cold medicine next to my three inhalers and wheeze-laughed until I cried. If someone had told fifteen-year-old me that I would someday voluntarily wake at 6:30 a.m. to shovel dog shit, I would have rolled over in bed and asked for ten more minutes.
However, if someone had told six-year-old me—someone who couldn’t have a dog because of apartment space and an allergic mother—that I would some day spend quality time with fifty-plus husky mixes, I probably would have fainted from joy.
I like to think it was the six-year-old in me that prompted me to sign up for the first annual dog sledding Wintersession adventure put on by Pforzheimer House. Despite the fact that I had never once in my life been camping, I put my name down for the trip, which was based out of a lodge in western Maine.
As I packed, I pictured myself in my chic après-dog-sledding attire, sitting in front of a fire, delicately worn out after a day of light exertion with the dogs. The reality, of course, had a lot more swearing, feces, dog hair, and hauling around animals 50,000 times stronger than me. And it was so much better than I could have imagined.
Accompanying me on the trip were seven other Pfoho residents, along with the two masters and their energetic nine-year-old son. When we arrived at the lodge, which was run by a couple with decades of animal training between them, we were sent to help stuff the dog’s crates with fresh hay. We did this in the growing darkness, crouching and stuffing, often  falling violently on the icy terrain. Then it was back to the lodge for a huge dinner and as many word games we could think of to fill the absence of TV and internet.
We woke up at 6:30 the next day to do our chores in the dog yard. This involved shoveling dog excrement into a bright orange sled pulled by one of our less lucky compatriots. In the process, we realized that the ground in the dog yard, where we had spent so much time prostrate the night before, was often more yellow and brown than white.
Once the poop was shoveled, we were sent to fetch the dogs one by one in order to put them in the truck that would take us to the trail. This involved unclipping them from their chains, and then, hauling them up on their back legs and hopping them over to the truck. One enthusiastic dog managed to take me down to the feces-covered snow but I, like a true American Dog Man, never let go and got right back up again.
We then headed off to a local state park, where we did more hauling and hopping as we organized the dogs and hitched them up to the sled. The yowling and howling of the excited dogs almost covered my own shouting as I realized I had been peed on by one dog and jumped on by one who had just stepped in said pee.
After getting briefed in sled etiquette (which boiled down to never letting go of the sled), we were ready to go, with the four sleds lined up and the dogs straining and jumping in excitement. Our first time out, the arrangement of bodies in the sled put the guide standing on the back while the two students were stuffed together into the basket of the sled. If you are ever looking for a way to get to know somebody better, I highly recommend sitting in their lap in a dog sled less than twenty-four hours after meeting them. Instant comrades.
It was, for lack of a better word, exhausting to guide the sleds. The dogs, though excited to run, unfortunately strayed too far towards every steep embankment they could find. Since it was our job to make sure the sled didn’t go too far to the left or right, we also managed to get in a great core workout. By the second day, however, I had become an old pro, issuing insightful statements like “ABC is running a little funny” or “XYZ seems to really want to hump his partner.”
For the two full days we were there, we ran the dogs in the mornings. In the afternoons, we went snow tubing on the first day (where we bullied the attendant into letting us go down ten at a time and nearly killed ourselves) and then cross-country skiing on the second (less dangerous but still super fun). On the third day, after a morning spent shoveling dog poop and doing some “exploring” (read: crashing around in the woods), we bid a fond farewell to the wonderful dogs and staff and journeyed back to Cambridge.
While my bruises are fading and the dog smell is finally coming out of my clothes, I know that I will forever value my brief glimpse into the grueling but rewarding lives of American dog men, using my memories to trump other people’s stories at parties and threaten my children with tales of the poop sled.
Sections
“One of the reasons you are here is because we recognized your capacity for leaving your comfort zones,” President Drew G. Faust told Harvard’s newest class in September 2012, welcoming the Class of 2016 to Harvard at their Freshman Convocation.
The ceremony sets the tone of these students’ undergraduate experience, the first time they are gathered together as a class. But Convocation also explicitly foreshadows Commencement: The only other time a class finds itself together at once is on their graduation day four years later. From the day they arrive on Harvard’s campus, Harvard students are told that they are guaranteed the resources for “a lifetime of infinite possibility,” in the words of former Harvard Alumni Association President Carl F. Muller ’73. The promise of their next four years is inherently linked to ideas of what they will achieve afterwards.
Faust acknowledged this tension as she cautioned her young audience. “You may have sensed that some of us are expecting you to save the world, preferably by the time you graduate,” she said. “Just remember this piece of sage advice: Sometimes the way you’ll find your way is by not taking others’ sage advice.”
Faust’s first message to the class encouraged students to think outside of the bubble, so to speak: to pursue risks, to stray from comfort. But Harvard students finding their way on campus face even more pressure to make their mark once they leave. Graduates become assets of Harvard’s community valued almost more than the students within its gates. Suddenly they belong to the school’s impressive base of high-powered alumni who have made names for themselves across the globe. They bear the pressures of the weighty Harvard name and network.
Somehow Harvard students are marked for life. Faust hinted at it. They sense it. But there is a fundamental paradox in Harvard’s vision of success: its inconceivable opportunities are often predictable, the supposed flexibility of its expansive network confining.  Successful Harvard grads follow well-tread paths that lead from campus to New York, Hollywood, and across the globe. If they go where the existing university network shapes their trajectory, it is too easy to remain within the Harvard bubble—obscuring the possibilities that exist outside of it.
***
When I spoke with Catherine A. Gellert ’93 in November, she had just gotten back from a week in South America, traveling to meet with Harvard alumni in the region. She had been to Europe the month before and was planning a trip to Asia in January, too, she told me. Gellert, the current president of the Harvard Alumni Association, works internationally to strengthen Harvard clubs and the University’s network abroad. “What do our alumni want? It’s really that connection to lifelong learning,” she’s observed, a continuation of their experiences on campus.
Gellert says she is a good example of the type of engagement HAA seeks to promote: Not only connections between alumni, but also those of alumni and the University itself. Gellert first became involved with planning the five-year reunion of her class; fifteen years later, she is passionate about expanding the association’s opportunities for making new connections in addition to maintaining those of old.
In a video on Harvard’s website, Gellert reflects on her ideas of how Harvard marks the lives of its alumni. “How you use the fact that you attended the College—what that does for your life going forward—I think is the measure of whether or not you were the right person to admit in the first place,” she says. “I think a Harvard citizen is someone who believes that because of the experiences they’ve had, they can make a difference in the world going forward.” This can take a variety of forms: “Anything from having the most interesting dining room table conversations, ... to being involved in public service in your community, to taking a leadership role on the world stage.”
Gellert’s comments are optimistic, but they also place tremendous responsibility on Harvard graduates to succeed—and to do so in the right way. Joining the established circles of the elite Harvard graduate pool becomes both an entitlement and a pressure, a blessing and, for those who don’t use the fact that they attended Harvard in a way perceived as correct, a curse.
Harvard students are drawn into this alumni network even before they graduate. Based out of its Mt. Auburn Street office, HAA is involved in the planning of the Freshman Convocation ceremony, and student representatives sit on the Board of Directors Building Community Committee to evaluate how current students can engage with alumni far from Cambridge. Opportunities take the form of Wintersession programming and Spring Break trips with alumni of different industries; various Harvard Clubs reach out by providing grants for summer service projects advertised to current students, as well.
The formal HAA network features over 185 Harvard Clubs across the globe, and more than 40 Shared Interest Groups, which alumni can join to connect with others who share similar passions. To benefit recent alumni in particular, HAA organizes “Welcome to Your City” events introducing recent alumni who reside in the same city. Over 1500 recent grads attended nearly 30 of these events this fall, in cities ranging from New York to San Francisco, to Shanghai to Mumbai, according to Clint D. Ficula, a Graduate School of Education graduate and assistant director of the College Alumni Programs at HAA. HAA aims to keep this connection back to the University current—ever present and tangible in the daily lives of its students and alums.
While the organization hopes to bridge the Harvard community as a whole, other formalized networks serve more specific interests. Alums within the arts industry benefit from Harvardwood, for instance, a nonprofit offering professional development and resources for both Harvard students and graduates. Harvardwood seeks to serve as an umbrella group for Harvard’s creative community—expanding its network beyond the organization-specific networks like those of the Signet Society or the Hasty Pudding—and extend its reach broader than the hills of Hollywood, with chapters from London to Toronto.
These formalized networks necessarily lead to high concentrations of Harvard graduates in certain locales; recent grads follow familiar footsteps into industries or cities that seem like established choices. And within those choices, formal Harvard networking can feel less like outreach and more like life: Walking out of Harvard Yard after Commencement simply means entering the the next phase of the Harvard establishment.
 JOINING THE CLUB


When she graduated, Julia M. Fifer ’11 moved from Lowell House to a building one block away from Boston’s Harvard Club, where she is a member and goes frequently to play squash. She serves as a “City Captain” for her class, part of the group that organizes alumni events such as happy hours within the city, and she works at the Harvard Management Company. “My main social group is 80 percent Harvard kids,” she tells me with a laugh. The Harvard connection in her day-to-day life is not something she thinks specifically about, however. “I don’t view it as a Harvard network,” she says of the connections she regularly maintains. “It’s my entire life.”
Of course, Boston’s immediate Harvard network provides a strong “Harvard social scene,” where social and professional worlds can easily collide, Fifer says, but for alums in different industries, the connection is not ever-present. Haley L. Bennett ’13 still lives in Cambridge with another graduate of her class—within walking distance from campus—but she has not yet attended any of the local Harvard alumni events. She says she finds herself reaching out to other Harvard grads more frequently when she’s outside of Boston, like in New York.
Harvard maintains its strongest presence along the East Coast—55 percent of the 2013 graduating class reported relocating there, according to The Crimson’s Senior Survey. And New York may well be the one city where Harvard maintains a presence comparable to that of Boston: 13.5 percent of the Class of 2012 left for the Big Apple after Commencement, according to that year’s Senior Survey.
“Everyone from Harvard is in New York,” jokes Blythe B. Roberson ’13, who lives in Brooklyn with three other friends from Harvard (two of whom she met during Freshman Outdoor Program). “It’s like mini-Harvard—or bigger Harvard.”
Roberson’s roommate, Caitlin N. Lewis ’13 laughs as she describes running into other Harvard grads on the subway at least once a week, and says she sometimes feels like the University has an even larger presence there than in Boston—it certainly feels so at specific bars.
Even as these unplanned encounters are inevitable within a big city, alumni outreach to recent grads has increased even since Ben D. Wei ’08 moved to New York after his own graduation, he says. Although Wei lived with his blockmate and saw his close Harvard friends regularly, many formal opportunities for engagement, like “Welcome to Your City” events, were not yet established. Wei now leads the Young Alumni Task Force out of the Harvard Club of New York and coordinated the event in 2013; he reported close to 400 attendees. He also notes the popularity of a champagne brunch hosted by the club for young alumni, its atmosphere an “Annenberg feel.”
Perhaps one with less freshman uncertainty: Harvard’s New York alumni are clearly well represented in important firms and consultancies. The physical New York clubhouse seems as if it would breed power, reminiscent of an elite Harvard past. The historic midtown building features a dining room, hotel rooms, a library, and two floors’ worth of athletic facilities. Membership is application-based, and dues are steep (“hella expensive,” according to Roberson, who is not a member). The Harvard Club of New York’s website emphatically lists incentives to joining “the place to network,” in human capital: “Need to brush up on your French? Looking for a game of poker? Finished the Iliad but not the Odyssey?” The club’s organizations include “Lawyers Group,” “French over Lunch,”  “Poker Group,” and “Homer & The Classics.”
The club remains a very central hub for its alums: Benny Belvin II, Director of Alumni, Student Group, and Employer Educational Programming at OCS, describes the club’s atmosphere on a weekday at 6 p.m. during a recent visit (part of a Harvard Fashion and Beauty Career Trek with current students) as “packed—like being on campus.”
Boston’s club, with similarly entrenched Harvard history, is also grandiose: “If our walls could talk…they’d also recount some of the most interesting conversations in Boston,” its website boasts. Harvard membership, and Harvard’s legacy, seems cemented within the age-old foundations of an established structure.
FRIENDS WITH BENEFITS
Within certain industries, too, established Harvard networks provide easy networking opportunities. Alumni cite Harvard’s heavy presence within certain industries as one reason for their popularity, perhaps best shown by the high number of Harvard graduates who work in finance after graduation. “In a corporate environment—at the Bain environment—no one thinks twice about the fact that you went to Harvard,” says Jason Q. Berkenfeld ’11, who works as a senior associate consultant for the company. The high concentration of graduates in cities like New York doesn’t come as a surprise when considering that over 15 percent of the Class of 2013 graduated with jobs in finance.
Jonathan L. Newmark ’12, a paralegal at Lankler Siffert & Wohl LLP, says that his career trajectory has not yet required much professional networking on his part. But Harvard played a large part in his job-search process and in its day-to-day interactions. His firm hires paralegals only from top universities, he says, and many of the current attorneys are Harvard graduates from years ago. “When I interviewed there it was a great starting point of making connections and eventually securing the job,” he says. “It’s really nice to be able to talk about, ‘Oh, what House are you in?’”
In many cases, the sheer number of Harvard grads in prominent positions accounts for quintessential “Harvard luck.” Mia Riverton ’99, co-founder of Harvardwood, found herself working for Will Griffin at News Corporation, the parent company of FOX, on the first day of her temp job. “As it turns out, he’s a Harvard law grad,” Riverton explains. “The first thing he asked me to do was a powerpoint presentation which I could do in my sleep, having been an economics major that worked at Goldman Sachs. So I turned it around in 10 minutes, and he looked at me kind of funny and he said, ‘You’re not a typical $12 per hour temp, are you?’”
The next question, of course, was: “Where’d you go to school?’” After establishing their shared connection, “he immediately gave me a job, on the spot.”
Riverton’s career in entertainment grew from there; today she is a successful actress, writer, and producer. Her collaboration with writer and director Georgia S. Lee ’98 in a 2005 movie, “Red Doors,” demonstrates the power of the Harvard network. “It was very Harvard-driven experience,” Riverton explains of the film, which won Best Narrative Feature at the 2005 Tribeca Film Festival, among other awards. Apart from Lee and Riverton, Harvard graduates working on the film included two other main producers and many of the investors who helped financed it.
The nation’s capital is another popular destination attracting Harvard’s political types, one where its networks are easy to access. Jeff F. Solnet ’12, a former president of the Institute of Politics, started building his D.C network as an undergraduate coordinator for the organization’s “Summer in Washington” program,” connecting students working in D.C. for the summer with alumni in the city. The Harvard Club of D.C. itself also organizes frequent opportunities, but Solnet finds that, “if you ask around,” it’s easy to find young alumni planning events almost any given day.
SEMI-FORMAL
 Some recent graduates find sanctioned networking settings unappealing. “I don’t want to work more to sit in a fancy room that looks like Adams D-hall,” Roberson says of the opportunity to join the Club of New York.
“The only Harvard events I’ve taken advantage of are the ones that have an open bar,” says Nick A. Nehamas ’11, currently at Columbia’s Journalism school, stressing that he is averse to the term “professional networking.” “It turns meeting new people, which is such a fun, social thing, into something instrumental.”
In cities only more recently inundated by Harvard grads, the Harvard network feels more organic. When Ling Lin ’12 moved out to Seattle with a relatively small number of grads from her class, she encountered a community drawn closer by its scarceness.
“The further you get from the physical location of the University, the further from Cambridge, the more connected you feel to people of a similar background,” she says. Lin served as City Captain for her class, and quickly became president of the Harvard Club of Seattle this July. Though without a physical presence in Seattle, the club circulates a newsletter to around 4500 alums in the greater Washington area and has seen a 22 percent increase in its paying membership from the last quarter, Lin says.
What Seattle’s club lacks, in fact, might serve as its strength. “For the younger alumni,” Lin says, “[higher dues attributed to a club building] takes out a huge group of people that would have participated but couldn’t afford the up-front membership dues.” And as a result, Lin says she finds the Seattle club “much more informal and relaxed” than that of Boston, where she grew up, or Chicago, where she spent one summer. The stereotypical East Coast networking feel is lost, too: “People go to these events because they’re fun—they’re there to make new friends, not just to collect business cards,” she says.
Especially abroad, Harvard-heavy locales may feel similarly informal. Dalumuzi H. Mhlanga ’13, currently a graduate student at Oxford, feels highly connected to an active Harvard community through events such as a Harvard-Yale meet-ups in London to watch The Game.
Harvard’s vast array of fellowships and resources for students pursuing graduate school in the UK has created a cluster of over 30 Class of 2013 graduates at Cambridge University alone. Yacoub H. Kureh ’13, a City Captain studying mathematics there, speaks of the immediate and comfortable community provided by other Harvard students on the Cambridge campus: “It’s almost like camp.”
ON-CAMPUS TRAINING
 Though post-grad networking, even if there’s a reluctance to see it as such, plays a crucial role in industries and locales clearly marked by Harvard’s name, some of the most beneficial connections are formed while students are still on campus, through specific organizations and extracurriculars.
Newmark and Berkenfeld, both former presidents of the Harvard Democrats, recognize the importance of maintaining these organizational ties; they recently turned back to HAA’s resources to create a Harvard Democrats Alumni Shared Interest Group to improve the club’s alumni records and provide mentorship programs to current members.
Berkenfeld says that the undergraduate organization suffered from a lack of institutional memory that deserved improvement. When he graduated, “it became even more important to keep that community alive in some way—to bring together people who’d had that experience years and maybe decades ago.”
And Riverton’s luck aside, affiliation with a university alone usually means almost nothing in Hollywood, where success is aided not by where you went but by who you know. Networking itself is the industry’s business, and it’s here that Harvard organizations are well-known and tangibly felt. The Harvard Lampoon and its deeply extended alumni network is known for its strong presence on shows such as Saturday Night Live and The Simpsons, for instance.
“I never ever wrote a cover letter,” says Ben W. K.  Smith ’12, who is a writer for ABC’s “Trophy Wife.” “It’s a face-to-face industry.” Two of the “Trophy Wife” creators are Harvard graduates, and of its 14 writers, five are Harvard graduates. Smith attributes the relationships he formed within the industry to his involvement with the Lampoon and improv groups, On Thin Ice and the Immediate Gratification Players.
During his time on the Lampoon staff, agents and managers visited to “do face-time” for representation in the industry, he explains. “I think those representatives were comfortable taking a risk moving forward primarily because of the Harvard Lampoon pedigree,” Smith says. “You obviously still have to be good, but there’s this sexiness to it that you’re more likely to be read, and more likely to be considered because of this expectation that you’ll be good.”
Riverton attributes these strong organizational relationships to the comfort of working with those familiar to you—relationships which lead to success. “Certainly in my industry you see people reaching these echelons of success at much greater percentages than alums at other schools. Part of that is a selection thing, because Harvard selects amazing people, but part of that is because of that network of personal relationships that exists,” Riverton says. And, “Why shouldn’t you work with people that you think are talented and that you like and that you’re familiar with? Hopefully not at the cost of other types of diversity, but, you know….”
While the Lampoon is especially known within Harvard for its alumni network, other organizations on campus may provide similar, if more casual, benefits. Those offered by final clubs are among the most well-known Harvard-specific examples. Members speak of a shared mentality by which its members look out for each other, which makes reaching out to alumni many years out of the College, and perhaps more established, more comfortable. “They’re usually very responsive,” says a 2012 graduate of the Fox Club, whom the Crimson graned anonymity because he did not wish to promote scrutiny of the club. “You have this very basic, standard bond—it’s very strong.”
Bonds such as these are also created within athletics, where industry and institutional connections are often ingrained in certain teams. “In the fall in particular, it was a well-beaten path from the boathouse to the Sheraton, or wherever there was some type of networking event,” says Alex M. Macintosh ’13. “Guys would just run off in suits.” A member of the rowing team, the Fox Club, and the Crimson Key Society, Macintosh concentrated in history and was never interested in the finance world pursued by many of his peers, although he was made well aware of its option and other career opportunities. Alumni of the rowing team often emailed the coach to pass job opportunities along to its current members; teammates who applied might get preferential treatment for interviews.
Harvard’s Varsity Club offers an online database to members of all Varsity teams, listing all the alumni of each team in various industries. Macintosh once used this tool to contact an alum at a law firm, who shared information with him about how to get into the field.
“The final club, or sports team, or any sort of student organization where you know someone who works at the company—that’s a huge advantage. And I don’t think that’s something that OCS can provide,” Macintosh says. He stresses, however, the connections that arise unexpectedly out of friendships. Macintosh works in San Francisco for a tech company, a job he learned of through a friend from the rowing team and the Fox, who posted information about it on Facebook. “It definitely helps to have people to talk to, a personal connection, that gets you a look from the company,” he says, echoing Newmark’s experience during his job search. “I felt pretty comfortable in the interview process—it’s the first step to put your foot in the door.”
Macintosh’s San Francisco office experience mirrors that of Smith’s Los Angeles writing room, and Newmark’s New York law firm: Of the 15 recent hires, a third are Harvard graduates.
OUTSIDE HARVARD TRADITION
 For many students, postgraduate success depends deeply on the choices made during their undergraduate years—and by the accomplishments of the alumni in whose footsteps they follow. But further from the popular destinations of Harvard fame, Harvard connections are not only more infrequent; the Harvard name holds less weight.
In these locations, even well-established organizations only reach so far. Kayla A. Escobedo ’12-’13 says she has not found that her on-campus affiliations—the Lampoon, the Signet, and the Advocate—have not substantially furthered her art career in Texas, where she has participated in group and solo art shows. The worlds of Dallas and of practicing artists, “have their own weird insulated structure,” she says, “so I don’t mean to downplay what an asset a Harvard degree is in most professions.”
Escobedo knows of only one or two other alumni in the Dallas area. (That some areas are not popular destinations seems to be obvious to most: “My friends who live in Texas aren’t hanging out with Harvard kids because there aren’t a lot there,” Fifer, in Boston, says.) And in certain areas abroad, the Harvard presence is understandably more disparate. Helen Pitchik ’12 says she rarely encountered other Harvard graduates in New Delhi while working at the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy. Emails from the Harvard Club of India listed events few and far between—and across the country in Mumbai or Kolkata.
“The reality is that we’re not part of a really, really strong Harvard network, especially when we go back home,” says Mhlanga, who worked on his own company in his home of Zimbabwe during his college summers.
Even in the highly-concentrated Harvard world of New York, Roberson feels distanced from certain opportunities because of her less traditional route into comedy. Though not a Lampoon member, Roberson was heavily involved with the campus comedy show, On Harvard Time, and started her own improv group, Three Letter Acronym. In 2012, she graduated a semester early and interned at The Onion in Chicago (“no one really moves from Harvard to Chicago,” she says). She is now still writing headlines for The Onion, while working at a SAT/ACT tutoring company and searching for another comedy job.
“There’s such a strong network in my chosen, quote-unquote, industry for Harvard,” she says, “but it’s a network that I’m not a part of.” During her job search—applying for assistant jobs on TV shows, for instance—Roberson finds herself having to explain over and over that she was not on the Lampoon.
Alumni sometimes feel far from the concentration of Harvard’s resources. Lewis ended up in the large New York contingent after “sort of flailing” in the senior job search. She had taken a job at a nonprofit that she dropped before she started and started working at an internship before finding her current job at Times Square Alliance.“It’s hard because Harvard’s not super conducive to helping you find any opportunities in the realm of public service,” she says. “I’ve used so many connections that are through Harvard, but largely non-traditional—mostly networking on an individual basis.”
And even back in Boston, Bennett says she believes that her career interests of theater and education were not among the University’s list of priority career resources. “Had I decided to apply to law school or medical school or interview for consulting firms, I feel certain that the guidance would have been in place,” she wrote in an email.
But this uneven perception is largely a result of unequal recruitment strategies across professions, says OCS Director Robin Mount. The most visible are those of the Fortune 500 companies who approach Harvard to recruit on campus in batches, willing to pay high price-tags that other industries cannot match. OCS makes many efforts to program opportunities for those interested in other professions: A January Public Interested conference it took part in, for instance, hosted over 100 alumni speakers in the field. (And this past Monday, as Mount describes these options, a career exploration program on combining arts and sciences in animation is just wrapping up at the office.)
“It’s kind of cute in way, that [students] think that we’re so powerful—that Harvard is so powerful—but we can’t change how sectors decide to source talent,” Mount says.
Lewis and Bennett’s perspectives echo the sentiments of a younger Riverton, who was hoping to find a path into the arts industry. At the time that she was a student, Riverton says, she felt that most students who weren’t becoming doctors and lawyers pursued investment banking and consulting—the “wining and dining, big salary numbers and signing bonuses” of recruitment on campus resulted in weight given to those professions, while entertainment “was not presented on campus anywhere as a career path at the time.” After her graduation, she went to the Office of Career Services for advice, but found the infrastructure provided for other fields not present.
So instead, Riverton reached out to a few alumni she knew who had broken into the entertainment field, and started an e-mail list to keep up with connections and opportunities in the art world. The list originally hosted a few alums in L.A. and some New Yorkers. Its early members posted for roommates, for day jobs, for publicizing comedy shows—and over time, its membership grew. Riverton linked up with Stacy Cohen ’89 and Adam J. Fratto ’90, alums who had been helping Harvard students and alumni with internships and jobs in the industry, structuring the humble e-mail list into today’s Harvardwood. “We realized there is a huge appetite for this,” Riverton says, “and a huge potential pool of people, a network that we could tap into.”
In 2002, when the organization launched Harvardwood 101, a program offering career exploration to current students, its funding necessitated a corporate structure within the network. Harvardwood started charging dues and became incorporated as a nonprofit; today it has over 5000 members worldwide.
A Harvard degree alone, Mount stresses, is no sure path to success: With no extra effort, such as Riverton’s outreach, “If Harvard’s on your resume, people will probably look at your resume twice before throwing it into the waste basket,” she jokes.
THE DOUBLE-EDGED SWORD
For alumni like Riverton and even Lewis, Harvard’s worth lies in its random connections across industries and the globe. Yet its title can be both an asset and a liability.
After his graduation, Matt Kramer ’08 worked his way into professional baseball, joining the Atlanta Braves organization for the 2009 and some of the 2010 season, and later signing with the Boston Red Sox. But Kramer believes he wouldn’t have had the opportunity to play for as long—maybe play at all—without his Harvard affiliation. “A lot of people don’t associate Harvard with baseball, or even with sports for that matter,” Kramer says, but many graduates have gone into business management and administrative positions. “Those people were willing to give me a chance.”
Kramer says his Ivy League education forced him to make an even stronger case for himself when getting into baseball, however. “A lot of the coaches, from a professional perspective, were maybe a little bit hesitant at first trying to gauge my interest and my commitment to baseball. I’d get comments like, ‘Why are you playing baseball, making below minimum wage in the minor league, when you could go get a million dollar job?’”
While stationed in Boston, Kramer still maintained his strong Harvard community through his close ties to the Owl Club and the baseball team. And he found essential support from Dunster House while he applied to medical school in 2011, as well as from professors who were willing to update recommendation letters now four or five years old. Kramer is now at medical school in Chicago at Rush Medical College, far removed from the world of baseball and Harvard Yard. Like Gellert years ago, he’s decided to stay involved by helping plan his class’s five-year reunion.
Kramer’s case serves as an example of the widespread network of support provided for alums almost everywhere they go. But this safety net might prepare students of a skewed real-world experience: So tangible in the lives of alumni, the Harvard network can foster the expectation of an insular and easy success.
“I definitely plug into the Harvard network everyday, but I try to distance myself a tiny bit to start living life outside of Harvard’s gates,” says Lewis, whose Times Square Alliance Office does not have a heavy Harvard presence. “There are a lot of things Harvard students don’t learn to do that most other college students do—like pay your bills, cook a meal, and clean your bathroom.”
Smith, too, points to an admittedly not very sharp double-edged sword, whereby grads expecting to do well in industries where their peers have established a legacy of success sense failure if they cannot match it. And it’s no secret that Harvard’s reputation is not always viewed favorably. In Hollywood, “There’s also a bitterness among writers of other backgrounds, who are like, ‘Oh, great, another fucking Harvard person—what do I expect?’” he says.
Mount stresses that, despite perceptions of ease from the outside, even the On Campus Interview program doesn’t come with built-in connections; the recruitment process still requires large networking efforts from participating students. Pursuing opportunities on a student’s own, what she calls the “entrepreneurial job search,” might be more beneficial in the long run: “If you get your job through on-campus recruiting, you really haven’t learned how to look for a job,” she says.
Those grads who find themselves looking on the brink of the delicate Harvard bubble find that it should not overshadow other essential resources off campus and beyond.
Mhlanga explains that real life demands more self-reliance. “The world really—excuse my French—does not give a whatever about what university I went to,” he says. “What are the real, substantive contributions you’re going to make? The fact that I went to Harvard might open a door, but then keeping that door open—you can’t just rely on Harvard.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The University remained open Wednesday, though more than ten inches of slushy snow that fell across Boston caused professors at Harvard and other area universities to cancel classes and close offices.
Early Wednesday morning, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences sent an inclement weather update notifying students and faculty that despite the heavy snowfall, classes within the Faculty of Arts and Sciences would continue as normal. According to the update, morning classes at the Division of Continuing Education were cancelled.
Some faculty members, however, chose to cancel their Wednesday classes and events at their own discretion.
According to Gavin S. Sullivan ’17, a student in Greek 110r: “Plato’s Symposium,” the course was cancelled because the professor was wary of commuting to campus in the snow.
“My professor said he was unable to come to school due to the conditions,” Sullivan said, adding that he received an email from the professor, Albert M. Henrichs, around 8:30 a.m. “He pointed out that he lives kind of far from the university, and it wouldn't be safe for him to make the trek out.”
Reid A. Grinspoon ’17, a student in Modern Hebrew 120b: “Intermediate Hebrew II,” said the news that class was cancelled “was awesome.”
“I went right back to sleep,” Grinspoon said.
“I wished all my classes were cancelled today,” said Katherine E. Pinkas ’16, a student in History of Science 149v: “Explaining Epidemics.” The course was cancelled because the instructor, Aaron P. Mauck, a lecturer in the History of Science Department, could not commute to campus. Pinkas’s other classes were not cancelled, and she said she was frustrated by the difficulty of moving around campus in the storm.
“Overall, though, I think it was smart not to cancel classes for the whole day because the afternoon turned out fine,” Pinkas said.
Several universities in the Boston area cancelled all classes and closed administrative offices on Wednesday, including Boston College, Boston University, Northeastern University, and Tufts University. Each school cited the timing of the storm as a major reason for its decision. The heaviest snowfall was in the morning and mid-afternoon, making commutes difficult.
Harvard has historically been reluctant to cancel classes in the wake of heavy snow. The University has only closed facilities once since 1978 due to blizzard conditions: at noon on Friday, Feb. 8, 2013, in the wake of “super-storm” Nemo.
Yet for the few students whose professors did cancel classes, the snow day roused memories of childhood.
“I was excited,” said Sullivan. “It felt like I was back in high school in Chicago. I miss getting that phone call in the morning and hearing that there is no school.”
–Staff writer Karl M. Aspelund can be reached at karl.aspelund@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kma_crimson.
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at mbernhard@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on twitter @Meg_Bernhard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
On Wednesday night, students filled Sanders Theatre for the fifth annual Harvard Thinks Big, a collection of short presentations from six professors speaking about academic ventures ranging from online classes to hip-hop.
“It was really inspiring,” Elaine Y. Dai ’17 said. “I was always wondering why Harvard doesn’t have TED talks, so I thought this was a really great version of that.”
The program, featuring ten-minute presentations by each professor, began with an introduction by Interim Dean of the College Donald H. Pfister, who praised the initiative for bringing to the forefront “some of the innovation and thinking that is going on around us.” 
In a presentation that elicited both laughs and murmurs of surprise from the audience, Economics professor Jeffrey A. Miron advocated the legalization of all drugs.
“I thought it was provocative, well thought-out, and a bit unrealistic,” Eric J. Hollenberg ’17 said.
Miron challenged the view that it makes sense to systematically eliminate drug use and argued that the current U.S. policy of prohibiting drug use is both costly and ineffective, estimating that the government spends $50 billion on drug prohibition and that the U.S. government is missing out on another $50 billion because it does not tax the underground drug trade.
 
“People go to great lengths despite all of the risk to use drugs because they seem to think it makes them better off,” Miron said. “In my opinion policy should accept that.”
In another presentation, education professor Katherine K. Merseth encouraged students to consider a career in teaching.
“The main influence on student achievement is the quality of the teacher and the teaching,” Merseth said. “It’s not just the academic achievement, it’s the well-being of human beings.”
At the end of her speech, nearly half of the audience stood up when Merseth asked which students plan to teach later in life, a moment student emcee Pilar I. Fitzgerald ’15 called “inspiring."
Other presenters included biology professor Robert A. Lue who facilitates HarvardX, Harvard’s division of edX, a web platform that offers free interactive classes from top universities. Lue emphasized the ways in which online education can have a broader impact on the world by transforming publishing, cities and communities, private enterprise, public media, and more.
“We have the opportunity to take what Harvard does and share it more broadly with the world,” Lue said.
Public policy professor Nicco Mele discussed the ways in which evolving technology is creating a generation of “people with all of this power in their pockets” by pushing power from institutions to individuals. 
“[Mele’s speech] makes us think hard about the impact of our technological advances,” Dai said.
Biology professor Jeff W. Lichtman, a self-proclaimed “savant” who has studied the wiring of the brain for over 30 years, enlightened the audience about “brain pruning”—the process in which human infants gradually lose brain synapses as their brains become more specialized.
“The way you get to be a very smart adult is by changing the wiring in your brain,” Lichtman said.
Linguistic anthropologist and and hip-hop expert Marcyliena Morgan reflected on the journey that led her to study hip-hop and explained common themes in the genre, including dreams and imagination.
—Staff writer Mariel A. Klein can be reached at marielklein@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @mariel_klein.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
 
 
UPDATED: Feb. 7, 2014, at 3:50 p.m.


A 2006 graduate of the College jumped over the side of William James Hall to his death at about 9:30 a.m. Thursday morning, according to the Harvard University Police Department’s public police log. 
Interim Dean of the College Donald H. Pfister delivered news of the incident in an email to undergraduates Thursday evening.
According to the police report, officers were dispatched after receiving a report of someone on the building’s balcony. Police then saw the man jump off the side of the building, and he was pronounced dead at the scene. According to the report, the case is now closed.
The incident is “not considered to be foul play or a suspicious death,” according to MaryBeth Long, a spokesperson for the Middlesex District Attorney’s Office. She clarified that the case is no longer a criminal matter in a phone interview Thursday evening.

 
In a statement, the Harvard University Police Department described the incident as “the unattended death of a 29-year-old man.”
HUPD, the Cambridge Police Department, and Massachusetts State Police Crime Prevention and Control unit were all investigating the incident as of Thursday night, according to Joseph L. Wilson, a deputy superintendent for CPD.
“This is a terrible tragedy for the individual’s family and friends and for the extended College community,” Pfister wrote in his email. “My thoughts are with all of those who have been touched by this tragedy.”
Though College students were notified of the incident, other members of the Harvard community reported that they had received no official word of the death from the University.
Interim chair of the Sociology Department Mary C. Waters wrote in an email to The Crimson Thursday night that she had not been notified of the incident by the University. Waters, whose office and department is housed within William James Hall, wrote later in the email that students and staff in her department knew that someone had fallen and that “we found it hard to go about our daily routines.”
No crime scene was apparent around the perimeter of William James Hall at 6:15 p.m. on Thursday, and students and staff were normally going about their activities within the building and the Tozzer Library, which is currently housed there.
—Alexander H. Patel contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
—Staff writer Steven S. Lee can be reached at steven.lee@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @StevenSJLee.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former Harvard Law student and SAC Capital Advisors portfolio manager Mathew Martoma was found guilty of two counts of securities fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud Thursday afternoon. The 39-year-old Martoma faces a maximum sentence of 45 years.
In a scheme that netted SAC Capital $275 million and scored a $9.3 million bonus for Martoma, he and colleagues made trades based on insider information about the testing of a drug to potentially cure Alzheimer’s, according the federal complaint against Martoma.
During the court proceedings, it was also discovered that Martoma was expelled from Harvard Law School in 1999 for creating a false transcript and using it to apply for clerkships with federal judges.
Administrators and faculty at the Law School repeatedly declined to comment on the case.
Martoma came to Harvard Law School after graduating from Duke University. Following his expulsion from Harvard Law School, Martoma applied to and was accepted to Stanford Business School, where he earned an MBA in 2003.
The court documents also revealed that Martoma, who changed his name from Ajai Mathew Thomas to Mathew Martoma after his expulsion, tried to deceive the Law School Administrative Board during his hearing there. Martoma altered emails and submitted a counterfeit report from a computer forensics firm that he created to hide his activities from the Ad Board.
Expulsions of such a nature are incredibly rare at Harvard Law School, according to Law School professor Alan M. Dershowitz. Dershowitz said that the Martoma case was a once-in-a-decade event in an interview with Bloomberg News last month.
The Law School refused to disclose how many Ad Board cases, which are kept confidential, occur each year.
Martoma’s Ad Board hearing and subsequent expulsion were only revealed after a judge unsealed court records detailing the case before Martoma’s federal trial.
More recently, in November, SAC Capital announced that it would pay a $1.8 billion penalty for the insider trading scheme. SAC Capital was founded and is run by hedge fund titan Steven A. Cohen, who has also been sued in civil court by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Martoma was the eighth SAC Capital employee to plead guilty or be convicted of insider trading. Martoma’s lawyer told news outlets that his client planned to appeal.
—Staff writer Tyler S. Olkowski can be reached at tyler.olkowski@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Across the nation today, students signed on the dotted line to commit to play a sport in college. However, there weren’t any future Crimson signing any dotted lines. As Harvard is a member of the Ivy League, prospective student athletes are not able to receive athletic scholarships and therefore do not sign National Letters of Intent. Instead, a simple verbal agreement is all that they must give to secure his/her spot on one of Harvard’s 42 athletic squads.
With the lack of athletic scholarships, athletes, just like a non-athlete would, go through the need-based financial aid process. However, the chance to earn a first class education often outweighs the lack of an athletic scholarship for many student-athletes in the decision making process.
Even though there are no letters of intent technically signed, many players declare their verbal intent to play at Harvard around this date as their teammates officially sign to their respective schools. Harvard may not stand up in terms of volume of recruits compared to schools in bigger conferences such as the SEC, but it stands to gain some valuable freshman in this year’s recruiting classes.
One future freshman that has declared his intent to play with Harvard is football player Tanner Lee from Daphne, Alabama. Lee, who plays defensive back, also had offers from Army and Wofford, but chose Harvard after visiting the campus January 18th and 19th. As a senior, he had 71 tackles and two interceptions while retaining the number one spot in his class academically.
Crimson football will also welcome Jack Stansell from Dothan High School. The Tiger senior plays tight end. He was debating between a chance to try out as a walk-on player at Auburn University and the offer from Harvard.
“It’s an absolutely surreal experience,” Stansell said in an interview with a local news station after his declaration of intent. “I’ve been looking forward to it since I started playing football for real and once I started high school. I never imagined I’d be signing somewhere like Harvard. I always was hoping it would be some southeastern conference team but really this is an even better opportunity for me just academically and for the rest of my life and I’m very excited.”
Although much of the publicity on National Signing Day is on football players, athletes from other sports made their commitments as well. Jack Kelly of Ponte Vedra High School in Florida will join the men’s crew team, Caroline Chagares of Ramapo High School in New Jersey will join the women’s soccer team, and Kanon Dean of Lowell, Michigan will compete for the wrestling team.
Because of the lack of official letters of intent that bind student-athletes to their school, Harvard’s future athletes could back out of their verbal agreements at any time and choose to go elsewhere. However, this is quite rare.
With the football team coming off of an Ivy League Title, the men’s basketball team making it to the NCAA tournament in the 2012-2013 season, and countless other teams excelling in their respective leagues, Harvard’s ability to recruit athletes is growing.
So far in this academic year, many freshmen from the class of 2017 have made significant impacts for their teams. In men’s hockey, freshman Alexander Kerfoot is third on the team with six goals on the season. In women’s soccer, freshman Midge Purce was named Ivy League Player and Rookie of the Year. She was the first freshman to ever receive the honor of Player of the Year as she led the team with 11 goals. Field hockey’s Marissa Balleza led the team with 12 goals in 17 games in her first season with the Crimson. Although there are still several months before we will see these new recruits, they are definitely players to watch.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
In a battle of the top two teams in the country, the Harvard women’s squash team showed why it deserved its No. 1 ranking. The Crimson came away with a close, 5-4 win over second-ranked Trinity College in arguably its toughest match of the year, maintaining its perfect 2013-2014 record.
The last time the two teams played was in the 2013 Howe Cup finals at last season’s CSA National Championships, which ended in a narrow, 5-4, decision in Harvard’s favor. This year’s competition was no less dramatic, with the outcome coming down to the very last match. Junior Amanda Sobhy beat Trinity sophomore Kanzy El Defrawy in straight sets by scores of 11-4, 12-10, and 11-4 to clinch the deciding match for the Crimson.
“I think that the match last night went extremely well,” Sobhy said. “On paper, we were probably the weaker team, so we didn't have any pressure on us, which was a good thing because it allowed some players to play more freely….We have all been working so hard and so we just went in there last night and played our game and left everything on court.”
The Harvard women are undefeated after they lost a game last season for the first time in almost four years to Princeton. 
“We’re trying not to focus [on being undefeated],” junior co-captain Haley Mendez said. “It’s obviously nice, and it’ll help with our seeding for nationals, but in the tournament everyone sort of goes in with a clean slate and any team could win the tournament on that particular day.” 
Both Harvard and Trinity played remarkably tight throughout the match, with no clear winner emerging through the first eight matches. The closeness of the two teams was perhaps most evident in the contest between the No. 2 seeds, where Bantam co-captain Catalina Palaez defeated Mendez, 3-2. After trading sets to knot the score at 2-2, Palaez narrowly escaped a 10-8 deficit to earn a 16-14 win over Mendez and tie up the overall matchup at three games apiece. Palaez remained undefeated on the season with the win.
The next two matches didn’t give either team an advantage, as Harvard freshman Dileas MacGowan and Trinity freshman Anna Kimberley traded wins in the fourth and seventh positions. Each rookie came out with a 3-1 victory to keep the teams neck-and-neck with four wins apiece, leaving Sobhy in the first position to notch the victory for the Crimson.
“There’s always extra pressure [on the deciding match], but I am feeling very confident about my game at the moment, so I am super happy just to be able to play for Harvard and my teammates and bring home the win,” Sobhy said. “Knowing that it is 4-4 and you are the decider makes you push harder and fight for everything, so both myself and my opponent last night probably left everything we could on court.” 
After bouncing back from some difficult matches in January with wins over both Cornell and Columbia, Harvard junior Julianne Chu and freshman Megan Murray continued to show strong play in the sixth and ninth positions, respectively. Both swept their matches with 3-0 wins to give Harvard a 2-0 lead early in the match.
Trinity bounced back, however, as Bantam seniors Wee Nee Low and Jennifer Pelletier took wins to tie the match at two-all. Low topped Katie Tutrone in the third spot with scores of 11-5, 8-11, 11-8, and 11-7, and Pelletier defeated Isabelle Dowling in the eighth position by a 3-1 tally. 
The Crimson’s fifth win came in the fifth position, where sophomore Michelle Gemmell swept Trinity’s Ashley Tidman, 11-5, 11-9, 11-8, to earn the victory. The team now looks to the next few weeks, where they will play against Yale and then move onto the national tournament. 
“We have all been working so hard this season, and I think this is the fittest and best I have ever seen the team throughout my three years here at Harvard,” Sobhy said. “Hopefully we can keep up the good form for the next two weeks….It would be great to reclaim the Ivy Title and defend our national title. I have a lot of faith in everyone that we can do it.” 
 
—Staff writer Glynis K. Healey can be reached at ghealey@college.harvard.edu.
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It’s Thursday! For some of people who are fortunate enough not to have Friday classes (please teach us how you managed to schedule this), it means the weekend, for others it means Thirsty Thursday, but for us, it means Throwback Thursday!
 
On this day in history in 1978, Harvard was hit with a massive blizzard with winds up to 92 miles per hour and 8 to 16 inches of snow (and we thought we had it bad yesterday). A state of emergency was declared in Massachusetts and 8,500 National Guards were enlisted to help clean the roads. The next day, Harvard had its first snow day that lasted for three days. Snow day activities included using the steps of Widener as a ski-jump and wearing swimsuits out into the cold.
 
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
There’s no more snow today, at least not until the weekend. There’s no chance of precipitation all day, and the high will be 27 degrees. At this point, we’re convinced all of the snow on campus will freeze over, so you’re probably better off ditching those snow boots for a pair of ice skates.
 
IN THE D-HALLSLunch:Chicken Pot PieSalmon with Green CurryTuscan ChickpeasDinner:Home Made FishcakesRoasted Pepper PorkSweet and Sour TofuIt’s Chicken and Waffles Night! You get to have breakfast for dinner–how glorious!
 
EVENTS
 Hear from New York Times journalist Michael Kimmelman as he discusses The Politics of Public Space, a lecture on how public spaces in cities around the world are becoming hotbeds of revolution, change, and growth. Taking place at the Knafel Center (10 Garden St.) at 4 p.m.
Stop by the Carpenter Center at 6 p.m. to soak in some culture at the opening reception of Living as Form (the Nomadic Version),an exhibition of pieces in a variety of mediums which blur the line between art and everyday life.
There are not many people who love the SAT. Most high school students will not rave about the countless weeks spent preparing for the grueling four hour test. But Debbie J. Stier is different. In fact, Stier is not even a high school student. Rather, she is a middle-aged working mom. But in 2011, she took the SAT seven times.
For Stier, it all started in 2011 when she realized that her son was quickly approaching senior year. To Stier, her son did not seem to possess many traits, aspirations, or interests that would really stand out to an admissions officer. Like most other parents, she had heard that to be a competitive applicant nowadays involved getting straight A’s and holding top positions in numerous extracurricular activities. Suddenly frightened, she realized that the SAT was one of the few chances left for her son to stand out.
Stier started preparing for the test with her son by receiving the SAT question of the day. After weeks of solving these questions, Stier came up with an idea.
“I would try all these different test preps and take the test itself,” she said.
In the coming months, Stier did just that. She poured through test prep materials and sat down right next to her son with practice tests. All the while, she maintained a blog about her adventures entitled The Perfect Score Project.
In February, she turned these blog posts into a book which narrates her quest for the perfect SAT score and her experiences throughout the year in which the SAT became her life.
According to Stier, her book contains all the information one would ever need to know about the SAT, from tutors to preparation materials to testing strategies. She said that next to nothing is glossed over.
The main advice that Stier had for anybody who wants to study for the SAT is to buy the official blue book published by the College Board and to do a timed test every weekend.
“Everyone thinks they don't have time...but you have to do that, you have to set aside time,” said Stier.
Stier also warned of the dangers of supplementary materials. For Stier, the Kaplan method was “a total and utter disaster” that ended up lowering her score thirty percent on a blue book test and sending her running to another tutor to repair the damage.
Stier makes sure not to disparage all supplementary resources, though, acknowledging that some books can serve as suitable aids.
“In general, there is some good advice and some bad advice. The problem is you don’t know what’s good and what’s bad,” she said.
At the end of her year-long quest for the perfect score, Stier notes that she did not achieve the elusive 2400, but said that really never was her true mission. Her son, however, did ended up improving his score by 590 points.
“The best part of the whole project was not the score gain, but was the shared experience that the two of us had,” she said.
When asked about the clear connection some may make between her and infamous ‘tiger mom’ Amy Chua, Stier laughs.
“[I] did the work with him instead of hovering above him,” she said.
The Perfect Score Project: Uncovering the Secrets of the SAT ιs currently available for pre-order, and according to Amazon.com, will be released on February 25th.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Feb. 6, 2013
An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of author Debbie J. Stier.
