News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
In January, Massachusetts began issuing licenses for medical marijuana dispensaries. With the revelation of false data recorded in certain bids for permits, the development of this new industry is off to a rocky start. While we condemn the falsification of facts, we also believe that the application process is flawed. The granting of licenses should be divorced from local politics, and medical marijuana should be available for reasons of public health. 
When Massachusetts legalized medical marijuana in 2012, it did so by passing a ballot measure with popular support from more than 60 percent of voters. In passing that measure, Massachusetts voters affirmed their belief in the exigency of cannabis for medical use. Medical marijuana can be used to treat a variety of illnesses—from chemotherapy-induced nausea to Crohn’s disease—and Massachusetts is right to make treatment accessible. By allowing medical marijuana, Massachusetts allows its people to seek proper medical treatment.
The current application process for medical marijuana dispensaries—which requires applicants to demonstrate public support for, or at a minimum non-objection to, their practice—turns a matter of public health into one of local politics.  Massachusetts voters have already approved medical marijuana, and the application process should reflect that statewide approval, rather than forcing dispensaries to seek local support. Medical marijuana should not be considered a political question of local opinion, but instead an issue of public health. Where the medical community and the Massachusetts Department of Public Health determine dispensaries should exist, there they should be built.
As long as the current system remains in place, local politics will serve as an unnecessary obstacle to the establishment of dispensaries. In the meantime, individuals who need medical marijuana will not be able to access it, and will suffer as a result of their loss. We bemoan the fact that people may not be able to access needed treatment because of political or logistical reasons.
Massachusetts voters determined that medical marijuana be legal in the state. We support this decision, and believe that it is therefore the state government’s responsibility to facilitate medical marijuana's availability in a quick and efficient manner. The implementation of the state’s dispensary application policy should consequently be revisited in light of its recent failure, a symptom of the unnecessary regulations.
Still, we do not believe that marijuana dispensaries should be free from any and all regulation. It is important that, like any industry, this one is subject to scrutiny. And because marijuana is currently only legal for certain people in this state, it is important that dispensaries take precautions to ensure that the right people get medicine. It is also important that those patients obtain a safe product. Of utmost importance, however, is that they receive the treatment they need. Any policy that undercuts this goal should be amended.
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
 
I’m the sort of person who starts off the new year with a Goodreads reading challenge of 100 books in a year. By February, 19 down. If you haven’t used it before, you might not understand the appeal of goodreads.com, which is a social networking site for readers, now owned by Amazon. Goodreads boasts an impressive community, with 25 million members, 29 million book reviews, and over 750 million books catalogued by user-librarians. I use the site to track my reading, receive recommendations, and feel less alone as a reader by keeping up with my friends’ reading goals and progress.
 Being a reader in the United States might feel lonely when one considers the data on readership collected by The Pew Research Center and Gallup. 23 percent of Americans read no books in the past year; of those who read, 48 percent finished fewer than 10 books, less than a book a month. Only a little over a quarter of bibliophile Americans manage to break the double-digit barrier. 
 But these numbers without historical context are meaningless. In 1978, Gallup reported that only 8 percent of Americans averted their eyes from the typeset print on paper between the (presumably uninviting) front cover and the blurb-barbed back. Not only did more individuals read, or reported reading, in the past, they also claimed to read more as individuals—42 percent said their annual reading consisted of 11 or more books. It should go without saying, of course, that these figures are survey results, self-reported, and that respondents would have an incentive to inflate their numbers or perhaps faulty memories that caused them to round their totals down. What counts as a book is also up for discussion: Do we, or did they, consider comics, romance novels, or poetry chapbooks to count? Or is a “book” only one of those door-stopping tomes by Dickens, Tolstoy, or George Eliot? 
 An even more important point to consider is the question of why we should care about books, how many are read, and how many people read them. What good is it really if all of us as Americans fetishize the book, as we often do when categorically averring “the book was better than the movie”? Why should we accord books a sacral symbolism in the age when most facts can be Googled, or provided by Siri, or when even a playwright like Conor McPherson can tell an interviewer that “television is where all the creative work is”? Even poetry, in which writers freely experiment with mise-en-page, can be circulated and consumed via YouTube. Both the factual or educational and the literary uses of the book can be served, and served well, by digital means.
 I don’t think we can truly be concerned, in a deep or informed way, with the fact of the decline of the reader unless we can express what we will lose as a result of this trend. I believe the decline in reading will lead to, and in fact has led to, a less robust cultural marketplace undergirded by outdated economics of publishing; and I believe we'll lose opportunities for personal growth in this mode of decline.
 For the observant, the decline in print and publishing has been decades in the making, and began arguably with the decline of the newspapers in the U.S. Television news replaced the evening papers, and then the morning papers; now services like Twitter loom ominously over those that remain. It’s a free rider problem: Why purchase the New York Times if you can read the tweeted headline for free? But publishing houses have not been seen as so fragile, perhaps because of large mergers between them, such as the Random House-Penguin deal. Successful publishers are in trouble: Quercus, which published Stieg Larsson’s “Dragon Tattoo” Millennium trilogy in Britain, is up for sale, seeking to be acquired to survive. Authors themselves don’t fare much better than their publishers. The 2014 Digital Book World conference released its survey data that show that 54 percent of authors published in the traditional way (not self-published) make under $1,000 per year. Half the writers published today could give up their vocation and take up more lucrative careers in fast food.
 And for those who might believe that opportunities for personal growth will not be fall by the wayside, I suggest they read the January 22 column by New York Times writer Charles Blow (if they can read). His words—“It is no exaggeration to say that those books saved me: from a life of poverty, stress, depression and isolation”—are far more eloquent than my own, but they will only resonate for readers opening newspapers, periodicals, and books, looking for ways to expand their knowledge, imagination, and selves.
 Michael T. Feehly ’14 is a joint history and Scandinavian studies concentrator in Mather House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
In a recent article, The Crimson framed the 2014 Massachusetts gubernatorial election as a two-way race between Martha M. Coakley and Steve Grossman. The Cambridge Ward Eight Democratic caucus on Feb. 9, which encompassed all but one of Harvard’s 12 Houses, told a different story, however: Not a single delegate pledged to either Coakley or Grossman was elected, and instead, Harvard students registered as Democrats helped lead Juliette N. Kayyem ’91 to victory, sweeping all six of the delegates at stake. 
While The Crimson labeled Coakley and Grossman as frontrunners, neither of the two campaigns has inspired the progressive Democratic activism on campus Kayyem has—no Harvard undergraduates showed up to caucus for either Coakley or Grossman, and we have seen virtually no grassroots campus organizing on their behalves.
 
Kayyem has excited campus progressives with her advocacy for issues too often left by the wayside—climate change and criminal justice reform, to name two. Harvard students of various political stripes and from a wide range of activist circles are excited about Kayyem, with the caucus results demonstrating that the depth of support for her ideas runs deep. The 2014 gubernatorial race is by no stretch of the imagination a two-way contest. In fact, here at Harvard, it might as well be a one-way race.
Every candidate in the race may profess to be the one most ready to tackle the challenges facing Massachusetts, but Kayyem has demonstrated again and again her courage to discuss issues that other candidates would prefer to ignore. And she has the experience and skills necessary to deliver results if elected.
 
Kayyem has distinguished herself from her opponents when it comes climate change in particular. Kayyem’s energy plan not only acknowledges the reality of climate change, but also argues that climate change presents an opportunity for Massachusetts to get ahead of the pack in creating sustainable energy solutions for the future. To accomplish this goal, she advocates for the creation of a public “Green Bank” to “incentivize private investment in a clean energy infrastructure.”
 
Kayyem’s plan for Massachusetts also confronts the extraordinary inequities in the criminal justice system. Kayyem recognizes that a system built on high rates of incarceration and recidivism is far more costly, socially and fiscally, than one focused on successful reintegration to society of prisoners upon release. She advocates for investment in treatment, prevention, and reintegration programs as well as for reforms to drug sentencing. Kayyem has argued that we should “put fewer people into jail for nonviolent crimes.” Instead, she believes that the goals of the justice system in these cases should be successful rehabilitation and reintegration—not your typical politicial rhetoric.
 
But it’s not just innovative ideas that make Kayyem stand out—she also has the wide-ranging and diverse executive experience necessary to turn this talk into results. A graduate of Harvard College and a former member of the Institute of Politics Student Advisory Committee, Kayyem has led a life marked by her devotion to public service. Early in her career, she worked as a civil rights attorney in the Department of Justice, litigating cases involving the rights of children. Kayyem then served in Governor Deval Patrick’s administration as a homeland security adviser. In this role, she oversaw the 8,000-member Massachusetts National Guard and the state’s strategic security planning.
 
Later, as Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in the Obama administration, Kayyem supervised the cleanup of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, working closely with the governors of affected states. The Coast Guard awarded her their highest civilian honor for her work. Responsible for coordinating planning between the federal government and all of its state and local partners, Kayyem worked on a wide range of issues. She has proven herself as an adept and smart leader who is capable of bringing people together from the community, government, and private sector to accomplish a common goal.
 
As college students and young people, we have an interest in supporting responsible leaders who have creative solutions to longstanding problems and the acumen to carry them through. That’s why we support Juliette and share her vision for the future of Massachusetts.
 
This coming November, for the first time since 2002, Deval L. Patrick ’78 will not be on the ballot as a candidate. We must continue the progress of the Patrick administration. We can’t step back now. Beacon Hill needs a courageous leader, and Juliette Kayyem—the only candidate focused on real progressive reforms and challenging the status quo on issues that affect the most marginalized—is the best candidate for the job.
 
This Saturday registered Democrats living in a freshman dorm or Adams House will be eligible to attend the Ward Seven caucus. Please consider joining us in caucusing for Kayyem and demonstrating that the contest for governor is anything but a two-way race.
 Michael F. Cotter ’14, a Crimson editorial chair emeritus, is a history concentrator in Winthrop House. Simon M. Thompson ’14 is a government concentrator in Pforzheimer House. Jordan T. Weiers ’16 is a social studies concentrator in Winthrop House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
When it comes to dating, it definitely seems like a disproportionate number of students at Harvard identify with the lyrics of Radiohead’s “Creep” more often than they would like to admit. On occasion, I too have been known to descend into deep, dark awkwardness. For instance, I felt like the words “I’m a creep/I’m a weirdo/What the hell am I doing here” really applied to me one night freshman year, as I perched outside my crush’s dorm room window and watched him for a couple of hours.
Just kidding, I was only there for 30 minutes. Jeez…
Anyway, this is not to say that nobody at Harvard knows how to cultivate a healthy romantic relationship. Indeed, some Harvardians didn’t spend their Valentine’s Days eating copious amounts of sushi with their roommates like I did. If you went on a real date on Valentine’s Day, I, like Adele, wish nothing but the best for you. (You might not have caught that subtle reference to “Someone Like You” because, at the moment, you can relate to the generally lovey-dovey tone of the album “19” more than the tumultuous breakup described in “21.”) But seriously—I applaud you for being one of the socially adept elite. 
I, on the other hand, filled out my Datamatch survey, and definitely not in the altruistic way that involves giving the computer the name of my significant other so that the Harvard Computer Society could exploit my romantic success for their algorithm (by the way, thank you, HCS, for reminding me that I indeed do not have a significant other). 
According to my survey answers, I can recognize object code when I see it, I can get down with a little bit of sexual humor, and I care just as little about my Datamatch survey answers as anyone else. But what if I maybe cared a little? 
What if I told you that, through my answers, I was attempting to find a few cute boys with whom I could discuss object code over a couple of Evelynn Hammondses (according to the Datamatch survey, this drink consists of Bacardi, Coke, and your email inbox)? That would be crazy, right?
I agree that hookup culture is over-discussed, and much of the discussion about hookup culture is unproductive.  Like Slate Magazine’s Katy Waldman, I am sick of old people telling our generation that we’ve lost the ability to love. And, as much as I love to crack the occasional self-deprecating joke about my perpetual singleness, I truly believe that the fact that I don’t have to care about love right now is a luxury worth embracing. I’m eternally thankful that, unlike many women who came before me and many women around the world today, my future does not depend on finding a husband. 
For now, I can flirt with a boy without wanting or expecting a free dinner from him and then return home to my true significant others: my problem sets and the Marshmallow Mateys at brain break. 
Opining on this so-called “hookup culture” or the “end of courtship” has always been difficult for me because thinking about dating culture always forces me to recognize my own hypocrisy. I complain about the fact that people at Harvard never seem to go on dates (or maybe, just the fact that boys at Harvard never take me on dates), but I blame my woes on dating culture instead of just taking ownership for my own insecurities. I call myself a proud feminist, but I know that I would prefer that a boy be the one to ask me out first. 
I am not the only hypocrite. I’ve heard many of my friends—whether male, female, LGBTQ, or straight—complain about the fact that dating at Harvard is “weird” or “screwed up.” Yet, I never hear of people asking their Datamatches out. Seriously, the Harvard Computer Society offers a potentially awesome opportunity to go on up to 10 incredibly awkward first dates, but I bet most people don’t even bother to stalk all of their matches on the Harvard College Facebook.
Maybe our dating culture is truly “screwed up.” Being transparent about what you want from your love interests can be hard and awkward. But, if you aren’t trying hard to make this campus a place where we can be honest and open about the kinds of relationships we want to have with each other, then I’m not so sure that complaining is the best use of your time.
And, to those seven lucky men who were matched with me through the power of data, I say hello. None of you live in the Quad like me, but I just wanted to let you know that I’m down for long-distance if you are. Who knows, maybe you’ll find me perched outside your window tonight. 
Jennifer A. Gathright ’16, a Crimson editorial writer, is an economics concentrator in Currier House.
 
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
When Mark Zuckerberg launched Facebook from his Kirkland House dorm room in February 2004, he wasn’t much different from any other Harvard student. A decade later, he’s a household name worth billions of dollars. I had the opportunity to meet up with four of the seven charismatic young men who now live in Zuckerberg’s suite for some retrospection, reflection, and laughs. Just like any blocking group of junior boys, the seven of them have ample shared memories and jokes, though they insist the next big thing in technology won’t be coming from their room.
The Zuckerberg suite wasn’t the blocking group’s top choice in last year’s housing lottery. “We got pushed out of the seven-man lottery, so it was our top choice to crowd a six, and when we toured the room, the previous residents told us it was Zuckerberg’s room and we were pretty stoked,” recalls R. Reid Bergsund’ 15. The room, he assures me, is the same size and quality as any other six-man suite in Kirkland. “It’s a cool piece of history, but there’s nothing to indicate that anything out of the ordinary happened there.”
Not everyone agrees with Bergsund’s recollection: blockmate Andrew S. Flesher ’15 said he didn’t know whose room he was moving into. “I wasn’t even aware. I just thought we were getting a bad room, but a few weeks later we found out,” he recalls. “We just thought we were getting n-1 housing. We were pretty bummed.”
“No, I thought some of us knew,” Bergsund counters. Blockmate Jordan N. Mann ’15 recalls being uncertain. “I wasn’t sure if it was a myth, where people thought that’s where it was but no one actually knew,” he adds.
Though none of the blockmates have ever met or interacted with Zuckerberg, blockmate Alejandro Perez ’15,  a Crimson business editor, has what he calls “literally the smallest connection” to Facebook’s founding. “The co-founder, Eduardo Saverin, went to my high school. I’ve met him,” Perez says. A blockmate adds, “Double coincidence,” and all four boys nod in agreement.
Though Zuckerberg himself never came as a visitor, the room has attracted some unexpected, Facebook-related guests. Mann recalls, “We briefly had four random strangers in our room last week. They just came in through the fire door and we didn’t realize they were there. They were just having drinks in the room to celebrate Facebook’s tenth anniversary.”
Bergsund, who had been in the room at the time, says, “I heard them talking, and thought they were one of you guys. Lo and behold, they were four people I’ve never met before. But I met them then, and we toasted Facebook’s success.”
However, the room has changed somewhat since the halcyon days of 2004. “The way the room is set up right now is two beds and probably eighteen pieces of furniture. There’s legitimately no space right now. I don’t think it looks anything like it did back then,” Flesher says.
He adds, “I saw some photo where [Zuckerberg] had a desk and was able to move around a little bit, but there’s not too much space for that currently. Also, we connected H33 and H34 through the fire doors. I don’t know if they did that then. You can get in through the other side.” He hesitates, “Wait, I hope strangers don’t read FM….”
Like most Harvard students, these Kirkland blockmates are subject to the competitive atmosphere that thrives on-campus. “I feel like we’re going to outdo him,” says Perez about Zuckerberg. “What’s he worth, $30 billion? And he’s, like, 30 years old?”
Though the blocking group hasn’t invented a new form of social media yet, they have invented a game: “Bounce or Shatter.” “It’s where we accidentally drop things and see if they bounce or shatter,” Flesher says, as the group erupts into laughter. Bergsund adds, “Then we purposefully drop more things from higher and higher heights until they shatter.”
The group also explained the Battleship-like card game they had invented, though I didn’t pick it up well enough to explain it here. It’s a blocking group thing.Though these blockmates may not have invented Facebook, they enjoy the benefits of living in its creator’s former room. The famed Zuckerberg Kirkland dorm room hasn’t brought them start-up fortunes, but it has given them what really matters: a couple of really good Facebook statuses. “What [being in Zuckerberg’s room] really boils down to,” says Bergsund, “is that it made a great Facebook status when we found out we had this room. A lot of likes. Then Andrew put up a great photo for the tenth anniversary, and that did pretty well for us.”
Sections
I am too old for this. Last week I arrived at a house party only to spend the first 20 minutes putting the finishing touches on my gender studies junior tutorial syllabus. Tonight is squishy, slushy, miserable, the kind of night that will leave the streets shiny, lethal disco floors by morning. It’s 11:30 p.m. on Saturday, I’m trudging alone down Mass Ave on the way to Eliot Street, and I have never more deeply regretted the existence of New England.
My assignment: check out O Sushi, a mid-range bar and sushi restaurant in the Square and the area’s newest, freshest party spot for the College’s newest, freshest members. I have heard the rumors about the freshman class’s goings-on at this place, and I can’t write them for fear of libel. Suffice it to say that on Saturday nights the scene is reputed to heat up with equal parts body heat and scandal.
But I can’t get anyone to go with me. Even the freshmen who initially agree to show me their den of sin sink into the woodwork at my renewed urging. This may have something to do with the fact that I try to arrange the tryst via email using a lot of exclamation marks and maybe even the phrase “super rad,” but I tell myself it’s because they lack my intrepid spirit. My friends, with whom I’ve just spent the past couple hours calmly drinking, claim they’d rather get scorpion bowls and call it an evening. Also, they don’t like sushi. When I beg them once again in a last-ditch attempt to avoid existential loneliness, I am told: “Have fun doing cocaine with freshmen.”
So here I am, trudging resignedly in the snow, unaccompanied. Some guy passing by in new Timberlands uses this as an excuse to give me a look that is a nauseating concoction of sexual harassment and pity. Let me look you up and down in your large amorphous puffy coat as you talk to yourself on an unmentionably slushy evening in February, this glance says. Let my leering appraisal comfort you for being such a loser. I would flip him off, but I am wearing mittens.
I am too old for this.
By the time I round the corner of Elliot Street, I have registered the dearth of weekend activity in the Square. The weather seems to have prevented even the hardiest of partiers from leaving their gin-soaked shag rugs, and the scene at O Sushi does not seem promising.
I enter the restaurant in a haze of warmth and anticipated sake, and encounter… approximately nothing. Well, that’s not true, strictly. The place has class and ambience. A bar of some onyx-colored substance, the texture of which I would like to file my nails on. The kind of low-vibe music satellite radio likes to label “adult contemporary.” Angular black tables, stiff red booths, and, on the wall, a picture of a koi fish. I claim a seat at the near-empty bar and take off my extra 35 pounds of coat. There are no apparent freshmen.
The evidence is incontrovertible: Well-dressed couples with nice hair-dos huddle together intimately, reminding me I have not been invited to their tables. A 30-something gentleman with a tattooed forearm (obscured by his shirt: I can’t quite see whether it’s Scooby-Doo or the grim reaper) gazes wistfully at a Saturday night basketball game on the bar’s television. I wonder: Where are the shirtless youths engaged in oral sex and devil worship? Where is my material? Maybe, I think, the hordes of wild freshmen will move in later, at 12, 12:30 for a final edamame nightcap. At that moment, I spot my target: one table of semi-boisterous undergrads.
I’m pulled back to the bar by an affable inquiry from the bartender, a nice-looking dude with a ponytail who kindly asks me if I want anything. I tell him I will order later—I am waiting for somebody. I am not actually waiting for anybody; I just don’t feel like swending the money. (Surprisingly, there is nothing on the drink menu compatible with my $4 budget.) I have used this waiting-for-somebody structure while travel writing in bars from Cambridge to the Cinque Terre. There are dozens of bartenders in the Greater Boston Area and all over northern Italy still waiting for me to meet my date. This is very Beckettian of them. I imagine them setting up an association, convening for conferences, comparing their mustaches: the Alliance of Bartenders Who Have Seen Reina Be Stood Up by Somebody.
I depart for the bathroom with low expectations, in the off-chance it will house a cabal of eighteen-year-olds gathered for total debauchery, a live video chat with Lady Gaga, or, even rarer, a compassionate and socially conscious conversation about their feelings.
I find merely an impressive degree of bathroom cleanliness, with a poster advertising a Valentine’s Day special ostensibly intended for the reading pleasure of full-bladdered ladies. I’ve just about given up hope when I hear voices outside the door. Someone is telling someone their dorm location. I’ve spotted them: freshmen.
I stumble out of the bathroom into two reasonably well-coiffed white men in ironic t-shirts (one has a border of Coronas).
They refuse to give me their names or confirm my suspicions about their class years. “I have a cousin in media,” one guy says, “So I know all about you.” I’m not entirely sure I know all about myself, so I am intrigued. I suspect he is warning me against being the kind of sarcastic asshole who ruins other people’s evenings and sushi establishments for the sake of journalism.
He continues to eye me warily. “If you print anything I’m telling you, it will probably be slander.” I correct him and say it will probably be libel, but thanks for worrying.
I’ve never been able to deal with guys like this, guys who are confident, six four, and probably wasted. They make me feel vulnerable and ridiculous. This is probably what happens when you grow up as a fat, nerdy lesbian in a socially conservative suburb. The best solution I have come up with is to be amusingly caustic.
The guys are smirking. I am too old for this. “So someone told me this was the day to come,” I tell them. “But where is everybody? Where’s the booze? The mayhem?”
“Thursday,” the guy says, making an expression clearly meant to impress upon me the sheer coolness of the day that falls after Wednesday but before the weekend. “Come back on Thursday. The social clubs have parties on Saturdays, so there are fewer people here tonight.”
I say, “Social clubs?” revealing my peripheral status in Harvard’s institutional hierarchy. “Like the Hasty Pudding?” “Like final clubs,” he says.
I went to a final club once, I want to tell him. It was sweaty. They’re edging to go, and I feel I’ve wrung all possible information out of them. I’m about to sneak more surreptitiously than strictly necessary through the back exit, which conveniently exists for the benefit of super heroes and reporters, when Hawaiian-shirt-guy gestures to me.
“We love this place,” he says. “Don’t kill it.”
I slip out into the miserable night, too old to feel bad about the encounter, too young to feel anything but.
Sections
It’s a snowstorm Saturday in Cambridge, and I’ve been hit by an unusual wave of both ennui and energy. Either the weather or some suppressed self-loathing has made me hungry to rip something to shreds. The critic rears its ugly head. My target today: Harvard’s art.
My first stop is Kirkland B basement, where I’m told graduating seniors have attempted mini-murals of their blocking groups. I expect cute Miyazaki figures or maybe saccharine messages done in block lettering.
Instead, I spy a panel titled “How to Tie a Bow Tie with Kirkland Gentlemen.” But instead of a suave, instructional diagram, I’m presented with eight identical, mostly earless heads with what look like different blood spurts shooting out of each neck. Lovely. Directly above, there’s a group called “Harem,” with names arranged into a multi-color keyhole. How Orientalist.
Around the corner, I find pre-school style paint handprints and suns, alongside a heart-headed yellow monster accompanied by mysterious floating strawberries. Is this a commentary on the infantile nature of our generation? The Nintendo 64 graphic and a child-like family drawn with their pet goat would seem to suggest so.
My personal favorite, though, is a blocking group qua rap album entitled “Domestic Ratchet.” This synesthetic, appropriating terror features such tracks as “She Look Good; She Don’t Go Here” and “Glow Me (Gently).” I think I’d take the blood spurting, phantom Kirkland gentlemen.
Suffocating in the abyss of mediocrity, I rush out to the snow-crisp air and shuffle to Winthrop courtyard, where I meet a naked, headless, and left-armless metal sculpture in a contorted ballerina stretch. He’s a tortured and mutilated Degas mid-voodoo performance, a strip-tease that keeps the genitals barely covered with a rag transforming into tree trunk. Think Venus de Milo mixed with Apollo and Daphne, but full of agony and fewer body parts.
Passing Winthrop’s majestic eagle and levitating fully-nude-full-limbed man, I head to Quincy, a House my art contacts have called a paradigm of aesthetic horror. Feeling hungry for the future, my first stop is the dining hall, where I’m told I’ll spot the rare “Ascent of Man” mural. First the piece seems like a grotesque emoticon, then I spot the extraterrestrial spaceship with a frighteningly normal sun.
The artist has selected color dyads similar enough to impede both blending and separation: teal, blue, ruddy orange, and gold. I’m reminded of a time when my friend wore lime pants and an olive sweater. You’d be hoping for an alien intervention.
The colorblind creator couldn’t quite fit his mischosen hues into an outlined design. Color swatches form similar shapes like silhouettes that have been just slightly shifted over; Wall-E the outline, a potential saving grace for the piece, appears three feet to the right and a foot above chromatic Wall-E. Is this neo-cubist? A massively failed color-between-the-lines? You decide.
No, I decide. The three-eyed spaceship (look closely, the left eye is actually two!) has outline-scars running through its optic orifices. Which means they can’t see the scene. Lucky aliens.
Having lost my appetite, I head out of the dining hall, stopping only to wonder why “Ascent of Man” has been fossilized and reproduced as a rock climbing wall along the stairs. Suddenly, I’m paralyzed by the abomination before me: a horrifying green alien feasting on small pale limbs. My Quincy correspondent calls this a “Gollum-like character eating another Gollum-like character.” I call it the single worst Goya knock-off the world has ever seen. (See: “Saturn Devouring His Son.”)
Screaming, I run past Quincy Grille and seek refuge in an inlet with snack dispensers. There’s a bizarre metal fixture crafted of gold and silver half-tubes that I can only hope is a commentary on the shiny brand advertising of the soda machine it overlooks. Put off, but slightly calmer, I take two steps when I see what seem like studies of classic paintings. There are two O’ Keeffe’s, two Picasso’s, five Munch’s, and a Thiebaud painting of cake. I guess the shrieker wasn’t actually evoking the horror of modern isolation; he was just hungry.
By the elevators I spot a painting of a kraken who lives in a small cove and has traded tentacles for legs. He’s eating a submarine that somehow got within feet of a beachy shore. This piece may not be cannibalistic like Gollum-Goya, but I’ve had enough of Quincy’s banquets.
Before I make it to Mass. Ave., though, my stomach grumbles again, and I head to Adams. I take one step into the dining hall when, on my left, I’m stopped by a portrait of John Silas Reed. He’s over shaded to the point where I wonder if someone threw ash all over his face. Straight ahead, an angular and disproportional Abigail Adams greets me. Further ahead on the left, two Chinese demon-dragons—one with a baby demon-dragon on its rump—guard the deformed portraits. I appreciate Adams’s attempt at cultural inclusion, but I’ve permanently lost my appetite.
Next it’s the Barker Center, where “Book Glasses Ironing Board Table”—another neo-Cubist mess of muddled crepe tape silhouettes—has recently appeared to the left of the Cafe. I discern a table, a ladder with two rungs, another table, and half a bicycle. I have to wonder how the humanists and aesthetic scholars here can be so tolerant? How does textual exegesis occur amid this excrement?
Sadly, the scientific folks fare no better. The blue sculpture at the entrance to the Science Center seems like “Ascent of Man” come to life, and the mural spanning Lecture Hall B plays the role of its lesser-known cousin. It’s plainer and less threatening, but is no superior.
Back in the blizzard, I push north toward the Law School. Through the storm, I spot a giant black-metal abomination: onyx-colored sheets, grafted and intertwined, that rise several feet above my head. I’m surrounded by stately brick buildings and fields of white, and then there’s this torture device masquerading as a sculpture. I can only hope it’s a reminder to law students of what happens when Hobbes goes awry.
Sections
This President’s Day weekend, young debaters flocked to Cambridge for the 40th annual Harvard National High School Invitational Forensics Tournament. Dressed in pencil skirts and oxford shirts, these high schoolers meant business. In their down time away from judges, however, their speech went unchecked:
"First time at Harvard! Yo-ho!"
 -Boy in Greenhouse Cafe
---
"I'm going back to the hotel."
-Girl in Science Center Plaza
"But I can't walk alone in Cambridge!"
 -Distressed Boy in Science Center Plaza
---
"If I encounter theory, I'm running semantics."
-Boy in Radcliffe Yard
---
"Why be nervous? None of these people are Harvard students yet."
-Girl in Science Center
---
"We're 3-2."
-Girl
"Turn up."
-Boy

Sections
“I feel like it’s going to be a shit show no matter what, so why not be drunk for it?” Serena says. It’s a rhetorical question. Tonight, she explains, even people who don’t normally drink, do. Serena’s name, along with all names that appear only as first names in this article, has been changed due to the sensitive nature of the topics discussed. Serena is tall and slim. She’s wearing a strapless, floor-length dress and heels, her nails painted silver.
It’s 9 p.m. on a Friday night, and Serena and five friends from her freshman entryway are getting ready for the annual freshman formal. Sitting around a second-floor common room with all the lights on and a “HARVARD 2017” banner hanging over the mantle, they’re drinking mango-flavored vodka and Coke from nine-ounce red plastic cups. They estimate that they’ve each had about four shots since returning from the formal dinner in Annenberg, though they’re not sure.
There’s a knock on the door and a few more friends come in; soon two of the freshmen decide to “shotgun” beer in the bathroom, puncturing the cans with their dorm keys. Three others look on, their iPhones poised to capture Snapchats and videos of their friends in action. A paper party hat that reads “FUCKING WASTED” sits on a bookshelf near the door; later, Serena will tuck the hat into her coat and take it with her to the formal.
They head upstairs, where dozens of their peers, in suits and ties and dresses—long and short—are dancing in a circle, singing along to Don Omar and Lorenzo’s “Danza Kuduro” with the lights out. The wooden desks here are littered with Solo cups and Coke bottles, while empty bottles of spiced rum and Gordon’s Dry Gin lie in the blue Harvard-provided recycling bins on the floor. Twenty cut-out cardboard sides of 30-racks of beer decorate one wall; the boys in this room, I’m told, are known for hosting well-attended get-togethers that often involve alcohol.
A few minutes after 10 p.m., the group leaves Wigglesworth and joins the other members of the Class of 2017 streaming out of Harvard Yard. “To formal!” some shout as they walk down Mass. Ave. toward the T. They take selfies on the platform as they wait for the Red Line and, once they board the train, introduce themselves to fellow freshmen. Each time the freshmen meet someone new they politely shake hands, a gesture familiar to all Harvard students as standard etiquette for introductions. Some pass the time by singing loudly—Beyonce’s “Drunk in Love,” Kanye West’s “Gold Digger,” Miley Cyrus’s “Party in the USA”—while others chat about courses they’re taking this semester.
“Guys, I have so much work this weekend!” one says; others agree. Between songs, they make plans to study at the Law School on Saturday.
By the time they arrive at the Seaport Hotel on Boston Harbor, where the formal is being held, it’s 11 p.m. The formal started at nine.
Freshmen and administrators alike agree that the formal is unusual; on most Friday nights, there is not such a high concentration of drinkers at Harvard, nor do those who do drink venture so far from campus while intoxicated. Still, a culture of sporadic but intense drinking pervades at the College, particularly among freshmen. While Harvard students come to college having had markedly less experience with alcohol than their peers at other colleges, University health surveys indicate that they quickly catch up.
Recognizing these trends, College policy aims, above all, to promote harm reduction. As with many other aspects of campus life, Harvard undergraduates’ desire to be so-called “normal” college students is in tension with a perception, reinforced by College messaging, that they are exceptional. As students navigate the realities of extracurricular and academic demands, exclusive social spaces, and high expectations for success across these realms, a culture of intense pregaming and the use of hard liquor is the norm among those who drink—but mostly just on weekend nights.
RUSH TO CATCH UP
Ryan M. Travia, who came to Harvard nine years ago as the founding director of Harvard’s Office of Alcohol and Other Drug Services, says that Harvard students who drink (about 75 percent, according to University health surveys) diverge from national trends in their alcohol intake in three primary ways: frequency of consumption, inexperience, and consumption of hard liquor.
Travia has a friendly, open face and rectangular glasses. He wears a neatly knotted tie with a matching sweater. His office on Linden St., above the Bureau of Study Counsel, is tidy and brightly decorated with lime-green accents. He has a tendency to lean in and raise his voice when he makes an important point.
“Harvard students tend to drink alcohol less frequently than their peers at other institutions but the intensity often is just as high,” Travia says. Compared to many other American colleges and universities, Harvard has a larger proportion of students who arrive on campus inexperienced with drinking, though after a few weeks of school, the freshman class is generally at about the national average. And, Travia says, “Whereas beer traditionally has been the drug of choice for most students nationally, it’s clearly hard alcohol here. And that also tends to be directly correlated with most of the problematic drinking, medical transports, and negative consequences that we see.”
Travia believes that these tendencies may be due to Harvard students’ driven mentalities. “On the one hand these are very analytical, highly efficient students who are competing for time, which is always [at] a premium,” Travia says. “As such, many want the biggest bang for their buck and have, given the lower frequency, often a small window of opportunity to party. I’ve heard so many students say over the years, ‘I just want to be like a normal college student on a Friday or Saturday night,’ and whatever their interpretation of that is, often go straight to doing shots.”
Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 says that in his experience, too, no matter how well-educated Harvard freshmen are about the potential risks of alcohol consumption, they have an idea of what “normal” college students do, and as such choose to begin drinking heavily in a way he deems concerning. “There’s still this odd rush to catch up with the perceived norm,” Dingman says.
According to David R. Hinshillwood ’15, even students who have had experience with alcohol prior to coming to Harvard can find it difficult, at first, to drink responsibly on campus. Hinshillwood himself drank moderately in high school, both with his family and at cast parties for theater productions in which he participated.
His first night at Harvard, he drank an entire handle of vodka and woke up the next day in Harvard University Health Services. “When I think back and remember what my BAC was,” Hinshillwood says, “I don’t know how I’m alive.”
He believes those who choose to drink for the first time upon getting to college see alcohol as a rite of passage or even a reward for their hard work and postponement of experimentation in high school. “It takes [people here] a long time to understand moderation,” Hinshillwood says. He remembers meeting “extremes,” as he calls them, at the beginning of freshman year—students who would drink upwards of five shots in a short time frame as well as others who were barely comfortable being around alcohol.
AMNESTY POLITICS
It is with full knowledge of students’ varying levels of experience and judgment with regard to alcohol that the Harvard administration has, in recent years, taken measures to formalize policies in order to encourage students in dangerous situations to seek and receive help.
“At the end of the day, the real concern is students not either knowing how much they’re drinking or [not] knowing enough about the effects of alcohol that they end up in over their heads or in trouble,” says Associate Dean of Student Life David R. Friedrich. “We always want to avoid those scenarios. In the situations where they do arise we want students to be equipped to help out, so that’s where the amnesty policy comes in.”
When Travia first arrived at Harvard, a de facto amnesty policy existed, but the formal policy was not yet in place. The current amnesty policy received faculty approval in 2007. The policy states, “Any student may bring an intoxicated or drug-impaired friend to Harvard University Health Services or to a hospital, or seek assistance from College residential life staff or HUPD, and by doing this, neither they nor the friend will face disciplinary action from the College for having used or provided alcohol or drugs.”
Dr. Paul J. Barreira, director of UHS, states that the policy has, so far, fulfilled its intended goals. “This amnesty policy purposefully follows the University’s mission of fostering the advancement and education of its students in a safe environment, and we believe it has succeeded in encouraging students to get help for themselves and their friends,” Barreira wrote in an email.
But evaluating the extent to which the policy has succeeded is not a straightforward task. Following the implementation of the policy, Travia says, there was a substantial and consistent increase in alcohol-related admissions to UHS as well as transports to local hospitals, a trend that he says continued for approximately three years. While this increase was troubling to some observers, many were heartened by it and had no reason to believe that students were drinking more frequently or more dangerously than before.
“We felt like more and more students were actually taking the policy for what it was intended to do and getting help, and in fact now they had a mechanism for doing that without risking parental notification, or getting in trouble with the College or the Administrative Board,” Travia says. He cites research indicating that “culture change” around similar policy initiatives typically runs in three- to four-year cycles, and says that the rate of admission to UHS has since leveled off “exactly where you’d imagine it would be.”
Hinshillwood sees the practice of getting medical help for those who may be dangerously intoxicated as necessary and believes that Harvard students accept this responsibility as a norm. “Especially in freshman and sophomore years, [calling UHS] is very commonplace,” Hinshillwood says. “If you don’t know how to handle a drinking situation, if your friends are put in a drinking situation that is not good, UHS intervenes, which I think is a really good thing.”
By contrast, Roberta, now a junior, recalls that, as a freshman, her peers were skeptical of the amnesty policy and hesitant to seek help. “Freshman year,” she says, “I think the greatest fear was being taken to UHS, and the drunk people would always be like, ‘Don’t take me, I’m fine, I’m fine.’”
There exist nuances to the policy, and to medical treatment for alcohol use, of which some students are not aware until they encounter them firsthand.
In November, Cecil, a freshman, woke up alone and disoriented in Mt. Auburn Hospital after having blacked out; he was later brought back to UHS. In the days and weeks following his release, he went through mandatory consultation with his proctor and resident dean and participated in the two-session Brief Alcohol Screening and Intervention for College Students (“BASICS”) program. Above all, however, he cites the high cost of his hospitalization as an unforeseen and damaging consequence of the amnesty policy in action.
“I’ve been receiving bills for that visit [to Mt. Auburn Hospital] since it happened,” Cecil says. “No one has asked me whether I was able to pay those bills.”
When he first heard about Harvard’s amnesty policy in the fall, he was impressed. “I thought it was a pretty enlightened philosophy,” he says. His experience at Mt. Auburn, however, completely changed his view on the policy’s efficacy. “It’s not at all what I pictured,” Cecil says. “It’s problematic and needs work.”
HARVARD PROOF
Freshmen are taught about the amnesty policy before they arrive on campus with an online training course and, once they are in Cambridge, with in-person DAPA group sessions that take place during Opening Days. While Katie W. Steele, director for freshman programming, acknowledges that ongoing educational efforts may be necessary, they can be challenging to organize as students’ lives get busier. “The work [of alcohol education] is certainly not done [after Opening Days],” Steele says. “It just gets harder.”
In the fall of 2013, Harvard implemented a new educational program for freshmen in place of AlcoholEdu, the online program that had previously been required. This new program, which is mandatory, was created by AODS, the office that deals with alcohol use,  in collaboration with the Drug and Alcohol Peer Advisors, and is called “Harvard Proof.”
The introduction to the program is telling of its overall tone and of the cultural messages it sends in addition to its practical educational purposes. Harvard Proof opens with a video of four students—three women and one man—who sit in a row wearing black sweatshirts with lime green DAPA lettering. They briefly explain the DAPA program and tell freshmen, “As Harvard undergrads just like you, we advocate for a fun, safe social community.” They introduce themselves by name, class year, and House affiliation and joke about this online training being a way for Harvard to give freshmen homework before they get to campus.
While Harvard students will almost certainly encounter alcohol as undergraduates, the DAPAs in the video say, “Contrary to popular stereotype, not everyone in college drinks. In fact, approximately only 25 percent of incoming Harvard freshmen consider themselves as drinkers.” If students do drink while at Harvard, the DAPAs hope they will make good choices. “After all, you go to Harvard. You’re smart. So party smart.”
Even as it is careful to dispel the myth that all college students are drinkers, the script of this introductory video engages in another kind of norm-setting as well, actively reinforcing the notion that all Harvard students are driven and high-achieving, ready to prioritize a difficult academic program.
Later in the program, during the section on “Optimal Buzz,” a woman holding a textbook tells viewers, “When I go out, I never exceed the optimal buzz, because I have work to do and being hung over wouldn’t help me.”
Near the end of the introductory video, one DAPA says, of Harvard Proof, “While this doesn’t count toward your GPA, you do need to complete the program before coming to school in the fall.”
“Don’t worry, though,” another DAPA says. “This might be the simplest assignment of your Harvard career.”
BEYOND THE TEST
By and large, Harvard students do well on such a “simple assignment.”
But Dingman says that while Harvard students are convincing in their apparent mastery of the educational programming, he remains concerned about its effectiveness in making campus drinking culture safer. “[Freshmen] do the course and then, as dutiful learners they show marked improvement in their understanding of what alcohol in your system can do and your own susceptibility to it,” Dingman says. “But the greater concern has been whether that new awareness impacts behavior. We haven’t yet achieved the results that we [would] like. There are too many Saturday nights when people end up in Stillman or emergency rooms because they’ve been somewhat reckless about their consumption.”
Though Hinshillwood, as a freshman in 2011, did not participate in Harvard Proof but instead completed AlcoholEdu, his sentiments about the effectiveness of alcohol education programs echo Dingman’s. “I think AlcoholEdu, at least at Harvard, is innately flawed because most of us are good test takers and we could have literally done nothing and just barely studied and sat down and gotten a passing grade [at the end of AlcoholEdu] without having learned anything about safe alcohol consumption,” Hinshillwood says.
Further, some challenge the claim that intellectual capacity and alcohol consumption are related at all. James G. Dyett ’06, a tutor in Eliot House, says that when he tells people outside of Harvard about his job, they often assume it is easy, since there is a conception that students at Harvard study often and party tamely. He reminds them that “college students are college students.” In Dyett’s view, intelligence and motivation do not always correlate with good decision-making when it comes to drugs and alcohol.
“Anecdotally, I don’t see the fact that you’re a Harvard student meaning it’s less likely that you’re going to want to party and engage in binge drinking,” Dyett says. As a tutor, he says he sees raucous partying and at least a few students who appear to be in “really bad shape” almost every weekend.
Ari R. Hoffman ’10, a tutor in Lowell House, agrees. “I don’t think it has anything to do with being smart,” he says.
From students’ perspectives, it can seem as though DAPAs paint a picture of students’ ability to control their drinking that is out of touch with reality.
“It was too much on the side of ‘don’t drink’ when obviously I was going to drink,” Cecil recalls of Harvard Proof and the follow-up DAPA session during opening days. He adds that while he knows DAPA cups with measurement markings to help people keep track of their consumption do exist, he has yet to see them used. “When I drink in my room with friends,” Cecil says, “we have red Solo cups so you have no idea what you’re drinking.”
Roberta says that she finds DAPA recommendations to be difficult to put into practice. Beer pong, she says, is an example of a commonly played drinking game that makes alternating or counting drinks almost impossible. “You drink however many cups as you have to drink,” she says. “And [if] you’re bored, you feel like it’s wearing off, you’re gonna drink again.”
Though students may be critical of the DAPA message, both students and administrators alike say that the peer education aspect of the DAPA model is perhaps its strongest asset. “It’s much more effective when it’s a peer-to-peer message,” Steele says.
Dyett agrees. “With the entire binge drinking issue, to me it’s all about students helping each other,” he says. “The tutors [and] the administrators can be there as support, but ultimately I’ve got a lot more confidence that DAPA can make a difference on this issue than that I can.”
Travia says that DAPA, which he started in 2006 (the group is now training its ninth consecutive class of peer advisors), is probably his proudest accomplishment at Harvard.
“I really felt strongly at the time and continue to feel very passionately about the fact that we need student leaders who are core to this effort,” Travia says. “Because if they’re not on board and they’re not engaged in it we’re not going to actually make any progress at all.”
That DAPAs are peers does not go unnoticed by students themselves. “I definitely feel like it’s better coming from peers,” Cecil says. “It’s like, ‘We should do this and you should do this too, not just because we’re adults and we do this better than you.’”
For their part, DAPAs are conscious of the importance of maintaining their position as equals concerned for their peers’ safety. “I am most proud of the non-judgmental perspective we have used to educate our peers about how to socialize in a fun and safe way whether they choose to drink or not,” Danielle N. Barbian ’15, president of DAPA, wrote in an email. “I think taking this perspective has really helped us garner respect from our peers.”
However, Cecil thinks that the group’s messaging risks coming across as condescending. “My problem with it is that the people in it kept saying over and over, ‘You don’t need alcohol to have fun, we’re fun people, we never have alcohol, we’re just naturally fun people,’” he says.
PARTY/SMART
To some, the “you’re smart; party smart” maxim means, in effect, just the opposite of what DAPA intends it to.
“[Harvard students] go as intensely with drinking as they do with academics,” Cecil says.  “Everyone here does everything to the max.”
Virtually all of the students, tutors, and administrators interviewed for this article say that Harvard students tend to be intense in all that they do and that they manage this intensity by developing elaborate systems of compartmentalization.
For this reason, drinking at Harvard tends to be a weekend-only activity. “Harvard’s pretty different from other schools that I have friends at in that there isn’t a substantial population of four-day, five-day drinkers,” says Josh, a junior.
Some believe that this brand of compartmentalization can lead to a desire to relieve tension with heavy drinking when the opportunity presents itself.
“During the week people don’t talk about drinking or partying,” Cecil says. “During the weekend it’s a completely different story. People here only give themselves these really transient outlets to let out all of that repression, only on Friday or Saturday nights.”
According to Cecil, this is not surprising. “Even if we go to Harvard, we’re still human, we still need those outlets,” he says. “Even if we are smart, we’re not necessarily going to ‘party smart’ because we still need to let go sometimes. The stress that builds up during the week, that intensity, it has to go somewhere.”
Indeed, not only freshmen but also upperclassmen greet the weekend, with its relative lack of classes, meetings, and scheduled activities and responsibilities, with open arms and a readiness to consume alcohol.
“When the weekend hits and you finally have this free time, at least I and my blockmates and the people I’ve interacted with kind of do go crazy because they’re just happy to have that one moment of freedom,” Hinshillwood says.
In the spring semester of their freshman years and the fall of their sophomore years, many Harvard students, male and female, become members of sororities, fraternities, or final clubs. Though not officially recognized by the University, these groups continue to attract hundreds of new members each year. In 2014, The Crimson reported, a record-breaking 272 women registered for sorority rush. Roberta believes that whether or not one is in a social organization has important implications for the nature of one’s social life and drinking patterns at Harvard.
Roberta and her roommates are all members of sororities or final clubs, and when they go out it is often to an event sponsored by one of these groups. To some extent, she says, social organizations promote a culture of intense partying as a way of impressing other members and potential members. “I think for men’s clubs they impress the potential new members with their space and their ability to throw parties, and I think for women’s clubs and organizations they impress their potential new members by their connections to men’s spaces,” she says.
Roberta explains that obtaining alcohol at male clubs requires effort and is not always a certainty, so many women opt to drink before they arrive at the clubs. “There’s the knowledge that in order to acquire alcohol at one of these clubs you have to talk to a guy or have a guy to pour you a drink,” she says.
Josh, who is a member of a fraternity, says that in his experience gender and pregaming are correlated. “Women pregame a lot more than men before they go out to clubs and frats,” he says. “Men don’t do that as much because they have their own space.”
But while Roberta went out “a lot” as a freshman, she says her priorities, and therefore her drinking patterns, have changed over time. “As a junior, my alcohol consumption is literally like once a month, [my roommates and I] get a bottle of wine and split it,” she says. “[Social drinking] is not something that we value more than, for example, sleep.”
Students who do not participate in Greek life or social clubs find alternative drinking spaces through their extracurricular involvement. “I work at a [Harvard] café where we have ‘drink-ups,’ and we have employee bonding that pretty much is fully alcohol-centric,” Hinshillwood says. Additionally, in his experience, “wine-throughs”—script read-throughs accompanied by wine—are common practice for the casts of campus theater productions.
Other alternatives come via the House system, where tutors and students help organize stein clubs, formals, and other special events to promote safer drinking patterns. “We’re very aware of the paucity of options [on campus],” Hoffman, who helps organize stein clubs for Lowell House, says. “The idea is to make House life as dynamic and attractive and cool and engaging as possible precisely because it’s open and it’s accessible.”
“THE MOST ENJOYABLE NIGHT OF THE YEAR”
While freshmen do not yet enjoy social opportunities provided through the House system, the freshman formal, like House events, is by definition inclusive and accessible in that it is designed to be attended by the entire freshman class.
According to Steele, it is not unusual for students to drink too much before freshman formal and end up unable to go to the event itself or get very sick while there, risking the shut-down of the formal for all their classmates.
Before the formal this year, Dingman emailed the freshman class reminding them in bold text of the College’s amnesty policy and imploring them, “Please be smart, and please look after each other.” He related the story of several freshmen who, prior to last year’s formal, “pre-gamed, misjudged their limits, and never got on the dance floor.” Ultimately, for these freshmen, Dingman wrote, “What looked like it might be the most enjoyable night of the year became a harrowing experience.”
And yet, he told the Class of 2017, this outcome could and should be avoided. “We expect the formal to be one of the highlights of the year for you.”
When Serena and her friends arrive at the Gatsby-themed “Great Gala” formal, replete with black and gold balloons, members of the First-Year Social Committee check their tickets as Steele and Dingman look on. Bag checks are underway, so that students cannot sneak alcohol onto the dance floor; most of their alcohol consumption, then, will have taken place at pregames. A uniformed police officer stands nearby.
By midnight, one freshman has been hospitalized for intoxication and several others are sick. The hotel will decide to shut down the event.
After almost two hours of pregaming, an hour of transportation, and an hour at the formal, Serena and her friends will head back to Harvard Yard an hour earlier than anticipated, taking Harvard-provided yellow school buses across the Charles River from the Seaport Hotel.
“Thank God for shuttles back,” one freshman says, “because [otherwise] I’d actually die.”
Sections
Upon meeting me, Sam Cooper ’14 of Hot Breakfast offers me a plate of oysters from Eliot dining hall and informs me that I am his Datamatch. This might be a conflict of interest.
It is Valentine’s Day, and I am with Hot Breakfast, a student band made up of four seniors: Michael Senter-Zapata; Cooper, my Datamatch; Mateus Falci; and Paul C. Castrigano. The one sophomore member is Pranav Krishnan—or as his band mates call him, “PK Softmore.” Except for Senter-Zapata, all of them are single.
S-15, their practice room, is a tiny square in the basement of Eliot next to the gym. It is not soundproof, and it is barely large enough to fit the six of us. But then again, perhaps this is perfect; most of the band’s performances are in similar venues: the Eliot Cockpit, the Currier Bingham Solarium, and Lev Stein Club.
“It’s hot and sweaty,” Falci, the drummer, explains, “We thrive off of that. Performing for drunk college kids is the best audience we could ask for.”
While Hot Breakfast itself is a new creation, each member has been in a band before, many of them in high school—Cooper alone lists off five or six. No one has a formal position. They switch off depending on what the song requires.
Castrigano, Krishnan and Cooper are all members of the Intrinsics, and Senter-Zapata is a member of The Harvard Opportunes. With all of these commitments, scheduling a time to practice is not just difficult, but the hardest part about making the band work, according to Cooper. The band members agree that the school should give more support to on campus bands, such as soundproof practice rooms in the new Smith Center or “a venue whose specific purpose is to put on live music,” as Cooper suggests.
So perhaps practicing from two to five p.m. in S-15 on Valentine’s Day is not ideal, but it’s the best that they can do: they have to learn a new song before their performance at the Fox Club on March 1.
When the band played its first gig in November, the set was eight songs long. Now they have two sets, totalling up to 21 songs. For their gig in February, the band learned seven songs in a week.
So they have to be efficient, and S-15 doubles as a dining hall. With a tray of oysters balanced on the Casio keyboard, Cooper yells out chord changes between bites as the rest of the band plays along to Third Eye Blind’s “Semi-Charmed Life.”  For the most part the band performs “crowd pleasing pop rock,” but their set list has no formal requirements. It spans The Beatles, The Killers, Weezer, and Red Hot Chili Peppers. They play what they like, and when you have five different members, tastes tend to differ.
But disagreements are civil. Earlier in the year Cooper “politely” objected to playing a Backstreet Boys song by promising to quietly sit out if the band chose to play the song. It was a bit of an “existential crisis,” but eventually he changed his mind.
“I talked to my family, I talked to some of my best friends, they talked me back into it. I don’t regret it,” he says.
Coming to a consensus on a name for the band was not a simple process either. Cooper forwarded me a series of the group’s first email correspondence from October 2013. The subject line, written by Castrigano, is a joke taken from “Zoolander”: “We’re really, really, ridiculously good.” (Note: In their defense, they are.)
The email, which chronicles the founding of the band, has a list of possible names, some jokes, including: Beer Goggles, The Section Kids, Intro to Congress, The Romans, The Next Zuckerbergs, Sex in the Stacks, Charles River Bridge, The Mather Express, Truman’s Asshole, Ghost Drunks, Table Grope, Gary Hooch and The Moose Knuckles, and, Cooper’s favorite, Long John Harvard.
According to Falci, during their first gig in the Eliot Cockpit, their band manager, Cam J. Heron ’14, introduced them as The Marshmallow Mateys. It was then that Falci vetoed the name, and they decided that Hot Breakfast would be a better fit.
Four months after that first gig, Hot Breakfast has a loyal, mostly male, following. While Falci’s brother is the “biggest groupie of the band,” members of the Fox, the Opportunes, and the inhabitants of the Eliot Cockpit are also strong supporters.
A member of the Opportunes emailed Senter-Zapata to tell him that one freshman boy was overhead in Annenberg bragging, “Dude, I have been to three Hot Breakfast gigs, it’s sick.” (Freshman fan, if you are reading this, Hot Breakfast wants to meet you.)
With so much recognition, I ask Heron if he actively tries to get Hot Breakfast gigs. “No.”
But the band manager’s not useless, “He is our muse,” Falci jokes.
Saturday they play at the Co-op, and next week, the Fox Club and Eliot Stein Club. The band is planning to perform at Dunster formal (maybe at Lev as well) and hopes to open at Yardfest.
In the interest of journalistic transparency, I should note that I will be attending all of these performances.
“Anyone want to practice now?” Cooper suggests during Sunday brunch. But they can’t. Castrigano and Krishnan have to take down the set from the Intrinsics’s performance at the Spee; Falci, a VES concentrator, has a documentary to make; and Senter-Zapata, a pre-med student, has an essay due the next day. Needless to say, most of these guys wouldn’t have time for hot breakfast, even if it was served.
Sections
Once upon a time, a student at Harvard could speak openly of his drunken whereabouts:
“You were on the cars Fast Day night?”
“Yes, sir.”
“You were drunk?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Very drunk?”
“Yes, sir.”
This conversation, recounted by Nicholas L. Anderson, Class of 1858, in his “Letters and Journals,” occurred between one of his friends and the President of Harvard College. It ended with the friend’s reassuring assertion that he had already made a temperance pledge to Anderson; further drinking wouldn’t be a problem.
The early 19th century witnessed the rise of temperance movements ranging in zeal from the promotion of moderate consumption of beer and wine (instead of hard liquor), to teetotalism. These movements influenced college administrations, but Prohibition was still almost a century away, and alcohol remained a major element in students’ lives.
The diaries of Benjamin W. Crowninshield, also Class of 1858, reveal that several societies on campus—including The Hasty Pudding Club, of which Crowninshield was a member—had meetings that consisted of poetry readings and lively speeches, followed by supper and booze. Sometimes the students would be so drunk that poems were left unfinished. The night was considered a success if all members lost consciousness, plunging into drunken bliss.
Student protests were also an occasion for drinking at Harvad in days of yore. In 1768, one unfortunate student, Thurston Whiting, Class of 1770, was locked in a room for seven hours by a particularly cruel tutor. Fellow students responded to this tyranny by throwing bricks at the tutor’s window. Four of the protesters were expelled. In response, the student body got drunk and marched around the Rebellion Tree in front of Hollis Hall (a verdant nod to the Liberty Tree, located in Boston Common, a popular site of protest in pre-Revolutionary times). Three of the expelled students were later readmitted, according to University library records.
Though they lacked the now-standard array of empty bottles of Rubinoff, Svedka, and Bud Light, 19th century dorm rooms offered a variety of arguably classier drinks. Beer, wine, champagne, punch, blackstrap rum, and hard cider—a drink that John Adams, Class of 1755, encountered at Harvard and which became a part of his daily routine later in life—all flowed freely. One of the earliest recorded stories about Harvard concerns a Mistress Eaton, who was responsible for running a residential house. It’s rumored that she served the students hasty pudding laced with goat dung. As quoted by Samuel Eliot Morrison in “The Founding of Harvard College,” according to Mistress Eaton’s testimony before the Massachussets Bay Colony Court, “And for their wanting beer, betwixt brewings, a week or a half together, I am sorry that it was so at any time, and should tremble to have it so, were it in my hands to do again.”
Fast forward to Prohibition and we find the Harvard men conflicted and confused. The Crimson announced on Jan. 9, 1924 a poll, organized by college dailies across the country, that students could take to voice their opinions on the 18th Amendment. College students’ responses were released on Jan. 11. The results appear below:
1. Do you favor an amendment to the Constitution repealing the present Prohibition amendment?
Yes: 478
No: 848
No Vote: 94
2. Do you favor modification of the Volstead Act to permit the sale of light wines and beers?
Yes: 777
No: 551
No Vote: 92
3. Do you favor more rigorous enforcement of the Prohibition Amendment and the Volstead Act, to make Prohibition an actuality?
Yes: 708*
No: 577
No Vote: 135
*Includes 244 who favored rigorous enforcement while the existing laws remain on the statute books but who also favored repeal or modification or both.
The end of Prohibition was celebrated on Dec. 6, 1933 by a Crimson writer: “The night of Repeal, now many months heralded by brassy clarion sounds and the low moans of boot-leggers, is the finish of a flaming column in the scroll of American delusion.”
Beer made its return to the dining halls, though a different writer foresaw a division in the dining halls and called for the drinking age to be lowered: “A concession might be made in the form of the stronger malt beverages, of porter and ale, but the limit itself must be reduced to eightees [sic] years.”
According to a 1934 issue of The Crimson, beer was again served freely in the dining halls to those who presented a blue card signed by the House Master signifying that they were 21.
And so the seemingly endless debate on drinking age began to appear in the pages of The Crimson. The legal age for the purchase of alcohol in Massachusetts was lowered to 18 in 1973, raised to 20 in 1979, and to 21 in 1984, causing House Masters’ Sherry Hours (students drinking sherry with their House Master) of the ’70s and ’80s to become the Not-Just-Sherry Hours of today (as in Leverett House). According to an article that appeared in The Crimson in 1985, the Kong was said, at the time to accept library cards as proof of age, and Harvard Student Agencies was once a source for international student I.D.s with altered birth dates.
In time, however, Harvard’s policies began to align more strictly with incremental changes in governmental policy: beer disappeared from the dining halls, wine cellars were forced to close,  and inter-House parties went dry. A 1997 Crimson article quoted Dean of Students Archie C. Epps ’68 as stating that College administrators were “moving towards a no tolerance posture” on underage drinking.
Perhaps it wasn’t so different in the early days, after all. In 1655 the Harvard College Handbook stated clearly: “Neither Shall hee without sufficient reason such as the President or his Tutor shall approve of, eyther take Tobacco or bring or permit to be brought into his Chamber strong Beere, wine, or strong water, or any other inebriating Drinke to the end that all excesse and abuse thereof may bee prevented.”
Sections
Entry into many of Harvard’s various student organizations comes at a price. The loss of brain cells hangs in the balance on the most fateful and celebratory of occasions: Initiations. FM has arrived—water and snacks in hand—to speculate as to how, exactly, DAPA would conduct their paradoxical initiations.
Given DAPA’s reputation of health and wellness, the organization’s options are unfortunately limited. Chugging Gatorade? Shots of soda? No, no, these simply will not do. “You’re smart, party smart,” is their mantra. Their drink of choice is something low-cal, nutritious, and, of course, non-alcoholic. Given their advice to alternate, we assume they switch between sparkling and flat water.
Unlike your overworked roommate, drunkenly collapsed upon your shoddily constructed futon, our hatchlings’ night has only just begun. Once launched from their perches, they must now face the bane of every UHS worker’s and every DAPA’s, existence: the eternally underwhelming but overstocked Quad party.
As these young, temperate crusaders march towards the wilderness (Radcliffe Quadrangle), the liquor-soaked screeches of the evening’s first victims ring through the air. As a flock of vultures circling above a decaying carcass, these creatures of the night seem to sense, subconsciously, the naïve optimism of their would-be saviors. Like Mufasa clamoring to escape the stampede of wildebeests below, the DAPAs rapidly throw water bottles and Pop-Tarts every which way. They reflexively recite the College’s amnesty policy while gasping for air. They assure one particularly drunk individual that, yes, the Quad Grill is indeed open for business.
Opting for a retreat, they begin their voyage anew. This time, our flustered rookies head toward a destination only recently incorporated into the DAPA initiation: Tasty Burger. This fast-food establishment attracts Harvard’s most drunken students like moths to a luminous grease fire. When the DAPAs arrive, they’re told they must save the poor souls within. Yes, even that sexually frustrated pre-med, vainly attempting to ease his heartache with a sixth hamburger, deserves some DAPA lovin’. They give him a green paper plate on which to eat his burger.
If they’re lucky enough to survive the night—and believe me, this is no guarantee—the rewards are great. Forever haunted by the sights, sounds, and smells of their beautifully crafted initiation, these fully-fledged DAPAs will join a community of sobriety and temperance amidst a stressed-out student body hellbent on quenching its robust thirst.
Sections
There is a house in an imaginary Newark, in a row of red brick buildings between the highway and the sun.
The sky blazes a blue there you haven’t seen before, a blue that doesn’t exist. Laundry hangs from a line. Clematis winds up the stoop. There is a garden where the tomatoes are ripe, where you can dip your fingers in the grass and draw up color, cool and creamy as globs of paint. The fig trees are always in fruit.
“Aunt Lucia has started confabulating,” my mother says. We are sitting in the car on the way to the city. I am heading back to school.
“She fell and hit her head. She is confabulating now.”
I don’t know what the word means. I picture something complex and delicious, round as grapes or the word bamboozle, something that pops in my mouth.
“It’s like talking to a toddler,” my mother says. “She’ll forget the year. She’ll tell you it’s 1950 or that she’s been talking to someone who’s been dead for decades. Then you realize that all that time, you’ve been having a conversation with someone in another place.”
When I was growing up, Aunt Lucia sat dour-faced, sneering, in the corner of family parties, asking me why I was so fat. When I got skinny, Aunt Lucia had to content herself with asking why I wasn’t wearing any stockings. The last time I saw her, I polished Lucia’s silver. She was too deaf and too old then to have much of anything to ask.
She was matte-faced, sweet-smelling, nude-hosed and cruel. In her later years, when I knew her—sitting crunched under pressure of age next to the space heater—she couldn’t hear at all. Never-married, childless, she had been alone for the past thirty years. Before that, before the last of them died, she had lived with her sisters and her brother Alessandro, my great-grandfather, at the top of the old family house in Newark, with a garden out back.
“There were twisted carrots and grapes on the fence,” Lucia told me when I asked. “We’d go picking dandelion greens for salad in the fields that became Newark Airport.” I imagined heavy-faced Italian girls in ripped dresses, leaning in the weeds against a blue sky buzzing with planes. “On Sundays, we’d make tomato sauce.”
It was then I started imagining the house: the garden and the rooms full of dusty furniture. Family members I had never met. When Lucia started confabulating, I knew that was where her mind had gone.
After Lucia falls, we bring her to a nursing home. Lately she’s stopped going to the beauty parlor for her weekly set, stopped freezing jars of milk to make them last. Her curls are white. The people at the nursing home put her to bed in a t-shirt that says “Jersey Gangster” with a dollar sign for the “s.” That’s how my mother finds her when she goes to pick her up for a family party a few weeks later.
She enters my grandmother’s small suburban house with a walker. She enters an imaginary Newark. There are kisses all around. There are screaming children. There is pork roast. Papa plucks a grape from the back fence.
“When’s Alessandro coming?” Lucia asks. Alessandro is Papa, my great-grandfather, Grandma’s father, Aunt Lucia’s brother, the grower of grapes.
My mother explains that he’s dead.
Alessandro sits in an old wooden rocking chair next to a carved dresser covered with dull white sheets.
“He’s coming later,” Aunt Lucia says.
My sister wears a t-shirt that says “Jersey Girl” with a fancy cursive “s.” Lucia approaches her and says, “But wait, wasn’t the girl just—there?” She gestures towards the floor, a space about two feet above it.
“Yes,” my mother says, “but they grow fast.”
“Ah,” she responds, like it’s natural. Like in the course of the day a clematis vine can grow from barely vibrating over the dust to the top of the trellis. It is a natural thing.
My mother is the one who brings her back to the nursing home at the party’s end.
“When will your Papa come?” Aunt Lucia asks.
“Papa’s at home,” my mother says.
Lucia looks at my mother. She is back at the home, stumbling into the small bed. “I will remember this day for the rest of my life,” she tells my mother.
My mother’s voice swells as she tells me this. We both know what little life Lucia has left.
After Aunt Lucia dies, I think of a story that goes like this:
One day, while folding laundry—the smell of fabric softener and the drier’s purr in the warm air—my mother opens the washing machine and remembers suddenly a time when she was a child, something she didn’t understand. When Lucia, normally cantankerous, grasped her hand in her aunts’ tiny parlor—the older hand already going slack—and said, Thank you, Carla, thank you for that, meaning the afternoon of the family party, the one she will remember forever, the one that hadn’t happened yet. There, in her blue house on its big lawn, in her own life, my mother realizes it, and her rough hands pause in their folding. Knowledge is something that goes forwards and backwards, she thinks (and when I think this, I have been reading Marquez); things seep into history; history seeps into us.
It is enough to make me want to believe in heaven. It is enough to disrupt time.
There are roses carved into the wardrobes, peeled white paint on the headboards, flowerbeds, dust. I open the linen closet as I bear a basket full of laundry. I fold a dress into the flower-carved drawer of Papa’s old dresser, the one we still have in our house.
It is mid-afternoon. I imagine walking through the closet into a room full of dusty furniture (my great-grandmother’s dresser, her dining room chairs) and seeing someone—Papa, maybe, whom I know only from photographs—snoring under a cloth.
Didn’t you used to be this tall? he says, starting awake on the rickety wood, pushing the sheet up, taking in lungfuls, gesturing to a space two feet above the ground. A few strands of spider-silk drift gleaming into the back-bending afternoon light from where he has moved the blanket.
We grow quickly, I will answer, opening the door to the garden, letting the distant drone of planes in, gesturing to a trembling slip of clematis winding up the stoop.
Reina A. E. Gattuso ’15 is a joint concentrator in Literature and Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality in Adams House. She is a Jer$ey Girl.
Sections
Linkmates:
Second to your blockmates
People to hook up with
See them once a year
Last-minute blocking drama
Forget about them after graduating
Can be hard to find
Definitely won’t live in a house with them
LinkedIn:
Second to your Facebook
Hooks you up with people
Log in once a year
Last-minute job drama
Use it more after graduating
Can be hard to find people on it
Might not live in a house without it
Both:
Really unimportant once you have them
You get requests from people you don’t really know
You think they will expand your network
Aggressive people get them too early
Won’t get you a job
Difficult to explain to your grandma
Your friends peer pressure you into having them
Sections
What’s on the mind of every freshman as soon as she sets foot back on campus in late January, you ask? Housing Day. That looming morning, far-off-yet-so-close-it-gives-you-night-terrors, when the Housing Gods decide if you’ll be taking a shuttle to get to class for the next three years. As if all the blocking and linking group drama weren’t enough, there’s a new medium to constantly remind us of our upcoming woes: previews for housing day videos.
When I first received the email from lowellhousebells@gmail.com, I felt a chill run down my spine as I read the subject line: “Hope you win the lottery!” Naturally, I figured this was Lowell House pushing for me, just wishing that I would get to join them in one of the best-situated houses on campus.
I hit play on the attached video. But after falling in love with Lowell’s adorable, proper, tea-drinking House Masters, I was taken aback when the video abruptly finished just as quickly as it had started: the whole thing lasted for only 45 seconds. That’s when I realized that what I had just watched was a teaser for the actual video.
What is the point of a preview for the Housing Day videos? The videos themselves are only about five minutes long. By contrast, two-hour long movies get a two to four-minute trailer. By releasing previews in addition to videos, the Houses are only extending the Housing Day ordeal. The actual videos, although certainly made with good intentions, are enough to stress me out, so the teasers just feel like they’re twisting the knife.
Let’s face the facts: there is nothing any freshman can do to guarantee entrance into her house of choice. Housing Day videos (and especially teasers) need to stop implying the opposite. At the end of the Adams Housing Day trailer, the house states they’re “royalty” and then asks “Who says you have to be born into it?” Well, maybe we don’t have to be born into it, but we certainly (and very unfortunately) don’t have a say in the matter.
Sure, the previews generate excitement—I may or may not have gone to bed that night with the sound of the Lowell bell chimes echoing in my head—but, isn’t that what the Housing Day videos are for in the first place? We don’t need both.
Sections
The roof sits so low you expect Bilbo Baggins to be inside, surrounded by a band of drunken dwarves. A fading Budweiser sign rises above the roof. In this snug brick building fifteen minutes from campus, a bearded bartender shook, stirred, then poured. He slid a glowing-red glass towards me, filled to the brim with one of the best cocktails I’ve tasted.
Green Street, just off Massachusetts  Ave. in Central Square, is the joint’s location and name. It is neither rambunctious nor solemn, and, unfortunately, I saw no hobbits when I dropped in on a Wednesday night. A diverse crowd filled up the place. Three 30-year-olds talked business. Two 20-somethings flirted.
Green Street has the feel of an old neighborhood tavern because there has been a bar here, in one form or another, for a very long time. This building was the first place in the city to start serving alcohol after Prohibition ended. And the building is even older. When Dylan Black bought the place in 2006, he found records dating back to 1812.
I ordered a cocktail made of molasses, rum, and lime juice. It’s called the Kill Divil, and it is delicious. The lime thins out the molasses to make a sweet, but not saccharine syrup that goes down smooth. Dylan found the recipe in a book from 1850, and put it on the menu with only one change: adding ice. Some of the drinks are named for horses that won money for a gambling friend. The Ft. Washington Flip is named for a spot down the road, where George Washington fought the British.
Dylan Black was wearing a grey hoodie and a Sox cap when I met him, a White Sox cap. He grew up in Cambridge, but his family is from Chicago, where his great grandfather Frank Black ran a bar. A squat man, Frank once wore a white shirt and suspenders and stood next to a barrel of beer for a photograph. Dylan keeps that black and white picture in his office. He brought it out to show me and tapped his finger at what looked like Frank’s hat. “See that?” Dylan smiled. His great grandfather wore a wig.
Dylan learned to make cocktails in the late ‘90s at a now-closed bar called the B-Side Lounge. In 1998 he invented a drink called the Daisy Black, a nod to his great grandfather. It contains honey, lemon, and Frank Black’s favorite rye, with a mint leaf. Like most of the drinks I had at Green Street, the Daisy Black has a delicate balance of flavors. It wasn’t overwhelming or eye-popping, just satisfying with every sip.
These days Dylan leaves the cocktail creation to his bartenders; he may own a bar known for its cocktails, but he’s a beer and wine guy. Green Street serves eight wines in glasses, nine beers on tap, and about 20 bottles of each. As the sign out front indicates, one of those bottles is Budweiser.
By this point, I had to order food. There are a range of small plates and entrees, and I spied one patron digging into a bowl of chocolate mousse. The style is simple, excellent American cuisine drawn from local sources. You can see every ingredient on your plate. On mine there was orzo, a green tzatziki sauce, tiny jalapenos, and grilled octopus. Quality does not entail snobbery here. The small plates range from $4-$11, cocktails are $7-$9, entrees run up to $25. You can order classics like French onion soup, mac and cheese, or a burger.
A bar, Dylan told me, is one of the few places in the world where you can get the best of something for under $10. The first time I came to Green Street was an accident. I wandered in, a little lost, on a frigid Friday this February. The bar was warm with conversation, too crowded to order a drink at first, but cozy enough to warrant patience. I had spent the summer developing a terribly elitist taste in New York City cocktails. I clung to that memory through the fall, insisting to my friends with not enough self-deprecation that I had been to the best cocktail bar in New York and would drink only beer in Boston. I read the menu, still holding on to my pretension, prepared for disappointment. The server guided me through the possible tastes with the friendly competence everyone at Green Street emanates. She suggested the Parisian Orchid. A few minutes later I sipped. I smiled. I’ve been back twice, and soon I’ll be going again.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When members of the club cricket team were deciding how to travel to a national tournament in Florida last year, they had two options, Rishav Mukherji ’15 said. They could either buy a plane ticket at their own cost or ride in a rented car.
Mukherji, a member of the team, described the experience as “pretty horrible.” He recalled that team members had to drive the long trip down in 28 hours, play their games, and quickly return.
 
The cricket team relies on UC grants to support its costs, yet in recent years, the UC has had to cut funding for club sports like cricket because of budget concerns.
On Thursday afternoon, the UC president and vice president will meet with University President Drew Faust to request an additional $250,000 in funding that would primarily be distributed to student groups. UC leaders have argued that additional funds are necessary to keep pace with peer institutions and support a growing array of student activities.
 
Although Mukherji admitted he does not know what would result from the meeting, he does know that the cricket team’s current annual budget of $1,050 “is not enough to cover costs.”
 
Like Mukherji, several members of student organizations interviewed Wednesday agreed that more funding would be helpful and pledged either their support or presence at the meeting Thursday.
Yet many expressed uncertainty about whether UC leaders will be able to acquire their desired funds.
 
Ned S. H. Lu ’16, treasurer of the Chinese Students Association, one of the largest cultural groups on campus, says that the group would benefit greatly if the UC were able to provide more financial assistance.
“We really rely on UC funding,” Lu said, noting that the majority of the CSA’s budget comes from UC grants.
Although Lu said the CSA and UC have maintained a good relationship, he also noted that his group has not been able to receive as much funding for larger events as they have in the past. He attributes that shift to a change in UC finance rules in the fall that reduced the maximum allowed funding per individual for such events from $5 to $4.
“We’ve received less money this year relative to previous years,” Lu said. “It hurt us.”
 
Lu also voiced his support for the UC’s efforts to request more funding Thursday.
Meredith D. Arra ’15, who serves as the treasurer for the Phillips Brooks House Association, a nonprofit group that pursues social justice efforts, expressed a similar sentiment 
According to Arra, more funding would enable the organization to better support its volunteers. Although the PBHA receives about $3 million in total funding from various outlets, most of it cannot be directed towards the volunteers, she said.
 
The $30,000 that the UC has granted to the PBHA for each of the past three years allows the group to cover operating costs and assist volunteers by covering costs for transportation to after school mentoring programs, training, and food, Arra said.
 
“If we received more, it would greatly benefit our programs,” she said.
 
Still, Arra said that although she is hopeful, she is uncertain about what will happen as a result of the meeting.
 —Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Kennedy’s Public House, a local Irish and American tavern, plans to open a Harvard Square branch to replace The First Printer Restaurant at its 15 Dunster St. location.
Kennedy’s, which is owned by the same company as Tommy Doyle’s, will reintroduce Irish cuisine to the Square after Tommy Doyle's closed in December.
The establishment serves classic American and Irish bar cuisine, with entrees ranging from $12 sandwiches to $24 pork chops. Specialties include buttermilk fried chicken and waffles, and lobster pot pie.
According to Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, Kennedy’s managers moved into the Dunster St. location about three months ago and have already begun the process of transitioning ownership from First Printer.
 
“The new management for Kennedy’s has been here operating out of First Printer for a few months already,” Jillson said. “They brought in their team and they started almost as soon as they arrived.”
 
Representatives of the new establishment, which will be called Kennedy’s on the Square, will go before the Cambridge License Committee on Feb. 27 to request a transfer of the liquor license from the First Printer to Kennedy’s.
If approved, the liquor license will allow Kennedy’s to remain open until 1 a.m. every day and give the establishment 72 seats.
 
Although First Printer has yet to close its doors, some students said they will miss the restaurant, which has served Harvard Square for the last two years.
 
First Printer served modestly priced flatbreads and more expensive dinner fare, in a colonial American atmosphere that references the building’s history as the home of America’s first printing press.
 
“I love First Printer. I’ve had only good experiences there,” Katherine E. Pinkas '16 said. “I like that it’s a really central location, real cheap and good food, a nice atmosphere and environment.”
 
The surrounding area will see several major changes in the coming months, including construction on the Smith Campus Center and the arrival of Mike’s Pastries, which will open a new location only a few doors down from Kennedy’s this spring.
 
 
—Staff writer Ivan B. K. Levingston can be reached at Ivan.Levingston@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @IvanLevingston.
—Staff writer Celeste M. Mendoza can be reached at Celeste.Mendoza@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CelesteMMendoza.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: Feb. 20, 2014, at 2:06 a.m.
Students from across the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences raised concerns over section sizes, late paychecks, and teaching appointments at a Teaching Town Hall Wednesday evening.
The town hall, which attracted about 40 graduate students and lasted nearly two hours, was hosted by the Graduate Student Council and the recently formed Harvard Teaching Campaign, a coalition of teaching fellows, laboratory supervisors, and tutorial instructors that is “committed to improving the educational experience of undergraduates,” according to its website.
First in a panel and then in a larger discussion, students voiced several complaints about the systems that govern teaching fellows and their responsibilities, sharing stories about teaching for months without getting paid and scrambling to find teaching posts as enrollment numbers fluctuate during shopping week.
“A big part of what the University wants is a really amorphous system where everything is done on the fly,” said John Gee, the at-large representative for FAS’s Social Sciences Division on the Graduate Student Council. Many students also characterized the teaching fellows system as inconsistent and disorganized.
A major concern that students raised regarded the difficulties associated with teaching large sections, such as those with more than 20 undergraduates, and the impact of section size on the workload of teaching fellows and the quality of discussion in section.
“One of my sections had twenty-two students, and so there weren’t even enough spots for them all to sit down,” said one graduate student who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because the student feared that his or her relationship with faculty members would be negatively impacted.
“There will be more teaching [fellows] available and more predictability in our assignments if section sizes are smaller, and we can actually do what we want to do well,” said Rudi Batzell, a third-year graduate student.
For department in the sciences, large section sizes in laboratories raise further safety concerns for teaching fellows.
“When I have seventeen students in a section, I don’t have that time to check on all students, so they fall behind and make mistakes,” said a teaching fellow in the sciences. “There’s also a safety hazard because of chemicals in the laboratories.”
Another common complaint concerned the teaching fellow compensation system, which some town hall attendees described as disorganized and unfair. According to preliminary results of an ongoing survey conducted by the Graduate Student Council, a quarter of the approximately 450 respondents have experienced significant delays in receiving their paychecks, according to Harvard Teaching Campaign member Charles Petersen.
 
Summer A. Shafer, one of the panelists and president of the council, said that the classification of teaching fellows as employees of Harvard is unclear, resulting in tax filing problems for some students.
On top of class size and financial concerns, town hall participants also criticized the process of appointing teaching fellows. Many said that the structure of shopping week and the resulting uncertainty of class sizes leaves many graduate students in the dark as to whether they will serve as a teaching fellow in a given semester until after the semester has started.
Shafer said that because of the uncertainty regarding class enrollment and the demand for teaching fellows, she has been forced to request interviews and positions with professors in disciplines outside of her area of study.
“It was this uncertainty, this feeling of hopelessness and helplessness,” Shafer said.
Several students advocated for the elimination of shopping week, while others argued that an overall restructuring of the pre-term planning tool would be more beneficial.
As they exited the room, graduate students were encouraged to sign a petition sponsored by the Harvard Teaching Campaign that calls for the administration to set a limit of 12 students per section or lab group. The group also recently launched a survey of teaching fellows and other graduate student staff members and an official website to promote the campaign’s petition.
Throughout the town hall, students adopted a cautious tone, often refraining from naming specific courses or professors for fear of damaging personal connections.
“If you want to solve a problem, you have to raise noise,” Gee said. “However, that threatens the web of interpersonal relationships.”
Graduate students who attended the event said they appreciated the open discussion and overall willingness of participants to share their experiences, as well as the potential to collaborate with undergraduates in improving the teaching system. Some said they were surprised to learn that teaching fellows across different departments shared similar problems.
“I hope there will be a new sense of solidarity among graduate students with teaching issues now, and even better, some ideas about actions we can take to address these problems,” said linguistics teaching fellow Elaine F. Stranahan.
“You didn’t hear anyone dissenting,” said Byron M. Davies, a sixth-year graduate student. “You find that we’re all having this common experience.”
—Staff writer Callie H. Gilbert can be reached at callie.gilbert@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CallieGilbert95.
—Staff writer Dev A. Patel can be reached at dev.patel@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @dev_a_patel.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Feb. 20, 2014
An earlier version of this article incorrectly identified the group conducting a survey of graduate students regarding their experience as teaching fellows. In fact, the Graduate Student Council sponsored the survey.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The day before Undergraduate Council leaders plan to host a rally outside of Mass. Hall and ask University President Drew G. Faust for $250,000 in additional funding, Interim Dean of the College Donald H. Pfister said that “it makes sense” to give the UC more money to fund student groups.
In an interview in his University Hall office Wednesday afternoon, Pfister suggested that he would be in favor of increasing funding for student groups “if we can figure [out] a way to do it,” citing budgetary constraints as an obstacle.
“We want students to be able to have these opportunities [with extracurricular activities],” Pfister said. “So we have to solve this in some way, but I’m not sure how.”
UC leaders have long called for administrators to increase the Council’s budget, which was a little less than $500,000 for the 2013-2014 academic year. And while this figure has remained constant over the past several years, the budget has become increasingly constrained as more groups have applied for funding. The Council awards grants to recognized student organizations and club sports teams, in addition to funding House Committees. More than 65 percent of this academic year’s budget was allocated to go to student groups.
Most recently, UC leaders announced plans to ask Faust for a $250,000 increase in funding at their upcoming meeting with her Thursday. They later shared three proposals that UC President Gus A. Mayopoulos ’15 and UC Vice President Sietse K. Goffard ’15 said that they will present to Faust at the meeting. Each of the three proposed funding plans would include a term bill increase.
 
On Wednesday, Pfister said that he was “happy to see that [the UC is] active and thinking about this.” Still, he pointed out that there are financial constraints facing the University.
“So administrators, beyond me, are looking at this and saying, ‘It sounds like a small amount in terms of the whole budget,’ but indeed, if you don’t have it, you don’t have it—there’s not leeway to be able to manage it,” Pfister said.
In the days leading up to the meeting, the UC has made a public push for support, calling for students to join them at the rally with a social media campaign headlined “UC 250K.”
—Staff writer Madeline R. Conway can be reached at mconway@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @MadelineRConway.
 —Staff writer Steven S. Lee can be reached at steven.lee@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @StevenSJLee.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
Eric P. Lesser ’07, Kirkland House tutor and third year student at Harvard Law School, announced Tuesday that he will run for the Massachusetts State Senate seat for the First Hampden and Hampshire District.
In an interview Wednesday night, Lesser, who will take the semester off to conduct his campaign, said that he decided to enter the race to help support his community in the face of new economic challenges. He said that his priorities include improving the education system and enhancing community infrastructure and transportation.
“I think that people are hungering for something new in their politics, and I think people are hungering for a fresh perspective,” he said. “It’s a tough time, but it’s also an exciting time in many respects because it’s the chance to do something new and a chance to change things."
Lesser said that his Harvard education, both as an undergraduate and law student, has shaped his campaign in several ways and helped him appreciate “the power of a good idea.”
“It’s not Democrat or Republican, it’s what is a good idea,” he said. “Harvard has helped me develop that thinking. So let’s put aside the politics, let’s put aside the dogma,...and let’s look at the facts and do some real analysis about what the problems are and what the potential solutions are.”
Fellow Kirkland House tutor Eylem Ozaltun said that many people recognized that Lesser had a knack for politics and might one day run for office.
“It wasn’t a shock to anyone that he’s going into politics,” Ozaltun said.
While at the College, Lesser, who lived in Kirkland House, served as president of the Harvard Democrats. Following his graduation in 2007, Lesser worked as a luggage carrier for President Barack Obama’s first presidential campaign and later spent two years as special assistant to White House Senior Advisor David Axelrod. He has also served as the director of strategic planning for the White House Council of Economic Advisers and worked as a consultant for the HBO comedy show “Veep.”
In 2011, he returned to Cambridge to attend Harvard Law School and joined the tutor staff at Kirkland. He currently spends most of his time in Western Massachusetts while his wife and young daughter remain in-house at Kirkland.
Kirkland House Master Tom C. Conley called Lesser, who penned “Ode to Kirkland,” the House’s anthem, “one of the greatest residents we’ve ever had.”
“He came in, and he literally galvanized our community,” Conley said. “I think he’ll just be incredible. He’s got a great career before him.”
 
Candidates also running in the Democratic primary include Springfield City Council member Timothy C. Allen, Ludlow School Committee member James P. “Chip” Harrington, Hampden County Correctional Center counselor Tom Lachiusa, and Aaron Saunders, former chief of staff for the district’s current senator, Gale Candaras.
—Staff writer Conor J. Reilley can be reached at conor.reilley@thecrimson.com
—Staff writer Zohra D. Yaqhubi can be reached at zohra.yaqhubi@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @zohradyaqhubi.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: Feb. 21, 2014, at 1:00 a.m.
In the wake of their meeting with University President Drew G. Faust Thursday, Undergraduate Council President Gus A. Mayopoulos '15 and Vice President Sietse K. Goffard '15 said that Faust considered their request for the University to directly provide additional funding to the Council unrealistic and advised them to speak to other deans about funding alternatives.
Mayopoulos and Goffard, who hosted a rally in the Yard before their meeting with Faust, said that they discussed the additional funding’s importance with the president and how it might be acquired, either through a term bill increase or directly from the University. Ultimately, however, they said Faust said that the issue was not within her purview, but rather those of the leaders of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and the College.
Although Goffard described the meeting as “constructive and realistic,” Mayopoulos spoke more candidly about Faust’s stance.
“We did not get the $250,000. However, we did receive guidance,” he said. “It seems like our quest to improve the quality of co-curricular activities at Harvard will lead us to [FAS] Dean [Michael D.] Smith and [Interim College] Dean [Donald H.] Pfister.”
Even though Mayopoulos and Goffard said they understood the meeting with Faust would not be the only step in realizing their goals, Mayopoulos said that “it would have been extremely beneficial to have President Faust say that she supported our mission to secure more funding for student extracurriculars.”
 
Mayopoulos also said that he disagreed with Faust’s assessment of their request.
“[Faust] told us that she didn't necessarily think that it was realistic that the UC should expect this money to fall out of the sky,” Mayopoulos said. “[But] I think we were being extremely realistic…. What we are asking for amounts to a rounding error.”
He also argued that the University should prioritize supporting the lives of students currently attending Harvard. According to Goffard, Faust spoke much about “tradeoffs” that arise when allocating money for financial aid, infrastructure, athletics, and other student activities.
Weighing the significance of each priority against the importance of the campus activities, publications, and events that the UC funds was not difficult for Mayopoulos.
 
“I think if administrators understood how important extracurriculars are to students at Harvard, they would be treating this topic differently,” he said.
 
According to Goffard, Faust was “more receptive” to the idea of a term bill increase than to the proposal of direct University funding.
 
Yet Mayopoulos said that that Harvard “should bear a significant amount of the cost of extracurriculars” on campus.
 
“If an increase in the term bill is necessary, this increase will be matched by the University so that students are not alone in this,”  he said.
 
The meeting with Faust was a key step in the Council’s efforts to raise additional funds for student activities.
 
UC leaders had announced in early February that the Council would request an additional $250,000 in funding from the University. The group’s budget is a little less than $500,000 for the 2013-2014 academic year, but it is funded by an undergraduate term bill fee that has remained unchanged since 2006. The dialogue with Faust came a day after the University announced they had received their single greatest donation of $150 million from Kenneth C. Griffin ’89.
Prior to discussing funding with Faust, members of the UC held a rally outside Massachusetts Hall. The rally, which was advertised throughout the week via posters and Facebook posts, attracted a crowd of roughly 100 students.
Standing on a small platform, Mayopoulos spoke briefly about the importance of mitigating financial concerns for undergraduates in student organizations and then invited leaders from various student groups such as Drug & Alcohol Peer Advisors, the Chinese Students Association, and the Harvard Black Men’s Forum to speak about what additional funding would enable them to do.
Following his address, he distributed thick toilet paper, which had been an initiative in his campaign with former UC presidential candidate Samuel B. Clark '15 in the fall, with the words “UC 250k” written across the paper squares.
Looking ahead, Goffard and Mayopoulos expressed optimism about future efforts to increase funding and enhance the relationship between students and the UC. The pair said that the next step is to schedule meetings with Smith and Pfister, who said Wednesday that although the specific methods of acquiring the funding need to be worked out, “it makes sense” that the Council receive more resources to fund student groups.
Goffard and Mayopoulos also stressed the importance of student activism and highlighted the number of students who attended the rally prior to the meeting and voiced their concerns about what they want.
“This was not a failure,” Mayopoulos said. “This was a great day because students gathered outside Mass. Hall and were very open about what they want from the administration.”
 —Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com.
This article has been revised to reflect the following corrections:
CORRECTION: Feb. 20, 2014
An earlier version of the headline accompanying this article mischaracterized University President Drew G. Faust's reaction to the Undergraduate Council's proposal. An earlier version of the article also incorrectly stated the year in which the last term bill increase occured. In fact, it was in 2006.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
A member of the Harvard community was stripped of his or her access to the University’s research computing facilities last week after setting up a “dogecoin” mining operation using a Harvard research network, according to an internal email circulated by Faculty of Arts and Sciences Research Computing officials.
Dogecoin, a virtual currency which functions similarly to Bitcoin, is a decentralized digital currency that can be “mined” with sophisticated computer algorithms. The individual in question allegedly utilized the high-powered network that Harvard calls the “Odyssey cluster” to collect the coins.
“A "dogecoin" (bitcoin derivative) mining operation had been set up on the Odyssey cluster consuming significant resources in order to participate in a mining contest,” wrote Assistant Dean for Research Computing James A. Cuff, in an email to the FAS Research Computing Users Group last Friday.
Cuff went on to write that research computing resources cannot be used for “personal or private gain or any non-research related activity.” He wrote that the person involved in the mining operation no longer has access to “any and all research computing facilities on a fully permanent basis.”
“Any participation in “Klondike" style digital mining operations or contests for profit requiring Harvard-owned assets to examine digital currency key strength and length are strictly prohibited for fairly obvious reasons,” wrote Cuff.
Cuff and several other officials from FAS Research Computing declined to comment on the mining incident, or to specify the individual involved.
John C. Lo ’16, who has mined bitcoins in the past, said that after investing in standard, personal computing resources for crypto-mining, it would “take quite some time” for a miner to turn a profit. However, he noted, if a miner were to use a high-powered network maintained by a university, like Harvard’s Odyssey cluster, there would be few, if any, overhead costs.
The timing of the alleged mining coincided with an anticipated price fluctuation in the dogecoin market, according to Timothy R. Peterson, a postdoctoral fellow in the Molecular and Cellular Biology Department.
Peterson, who invests in dogecoin himself, said half of all dogecoins on the market were mined by last week, initiating a process called “halving.” When half of the total number of coins are mined, the reward for mining goes down, and with it the incentive to mine. Thus, Peterson said, the price of the dogecoin was expected to double shortly after the half-way benchmark.
Although the price did not increase as dramatically as expected, Peterson suspected that if someone had mined for many days last week on the Odyssey cluster, the financial gain could have been in the hundreds, and perhaps thousands of dollars.
A single dogecoin was worth roughly $.0012 at press time.
David Simmons-Duffin, a member of the School of Natural Sciences at Princeton’s Institute for Advanced Study who received a Ph.D from Harvard in 2012, noted that the Odyssey cluster supposedly used for ‘dogecoin’ mining is quite powerful.
“The Odyssey cluster is a bunch of computers networked together in a way that allows fast data transfer between processors.  Although each individual processor isn't much more powerful than your personal laptop, having many processors together can be a huge benefit when doing scientific computing,” Simmons-Duffin wrote in an email, adding that a typical workflow for the cluster could generates the same amount of data in eight hours that a personal computer would generate in a year.
—Staff writer Alexander H. Patel contributed to the reporting of this article.
—Staff writer Theodore R. Delwiche can be reached at theodore.delwiche@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
Kappa Sigma re-established its presence on campus this month, swearing in 29 members Feb. 9, eight decades after the fraternity closed its original Harvard chapter.
The fraternity has continued to grow in size since its Feb. 9 induction ceremony, with more than 40 men added to Harvard’s Gamma-Eta Chapter in the past few weeks, according to the executive director of the Kappa Sigma national chapter Mitchell B. Wilson.
Wilson said that the fraternity decided to move forward with re-establishing the chapter after interested Harvard students discussed the possibility of doing so with Kappa Sigma members from chapters at other schools.
“We found the men that were interested, and the interest group grew from there, so we established a colony when they reached 25 men,” Wilson said.
The Gamma-Eta Chapter of Kappa Sigma previously existed at Harvard from 1905 to 1933. According to the fraternity’s website, the chapter voluntarily dissolved itself “in response to actions taken by the University.”
The new Kappa Sigma chapters  joins a burgeoning Greek life at the College, now composed of  three other fraternities and four sororities, including the recently established Alpha Phi sorority.
“I think it’s healthy when you have a [chapter] population that reflects the diversity of the campus,” Wilson said. “We’re looking for a learning experience, and I think the best way to learn is with people who are from different backgrounds and different walks of life.”
Though the Harvard chapter has added new members since its formal induction earlier this month, Wilson said that national Kappa Sigma fraternity prefers to see their “colonies” reach 50 members by the time they are chartered.
Established in 1869, the Kappa Sigma fraternity has chapters at more than 300 colleges.
Though much has changed at the College since 1933, when the original Kappa Sigma chapter dissolved at Harvard, Wilson said that fraternities still maintain a significant presence on college campuses.
“The Greek system is just as viable and is needed as much today as it ever has been in the history of higher education,” he said.
Several members of the new chapter declined to comment when reached by The Crimson.
—Staff writer Nikki D. Erlick can be reached at nikki.erlick@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @nikkierlick.
—Staff writer Brianna D. MacGregor can be reached at brianna.macgregor@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @bdmacgregor.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the U.S. Secretary of Education, Harvard alum Arne S. Duncan ’86 is responsible for ensuring that the people of America receive a proper education. Friday night, Duncan continued to honor his job description from a new venue, schooling his competition at the 2014 NBA All-Star Celebrity Game in New Orleans.
Playing in the annual scrimmage for the fourth consecutive year, Duncan notched 20 points—a Celebrity Game record—to go along with 11 boards and six assists, leading the East squad to a 60-56 victory over the West.
His efforts earned him the MVP trophy, which was initially awarded to comedian Kevin Hart by virtue of a fan vote. Nonetheless, Hart recognized that the best performance of the night belonged to that of the Harvard grad and decided to pass along the honor.
After dominating play for most of the night, Duncan made the play of the game late in the fourth quarter. With just over four minutes remaining in the contest and his team trailing 54-53, Duncan received a pass from WNBA guard Skylar Diggins right outside the paint and immediately drew a double team.
Diggins cut to the basket, and Duncan delivered a no-look dish over his left shoulder, inches from the head of Michael Jordan (no, not that Michael Jordan—the actor Michael B. Jordan), to the WNBA star. She converted the highlight-reel pass into points as the East claimed a lead that it would not relinquish. Not only did Duncan’s pass help spark his team’s victory, the no-look dime led to the Secretary of Education trending on twitter and being featured on SportsCenter’s “Top 10 Plays.”
Duncan has now won all four of the celebrity competitions he has participated in, putting up monster numbers in the process. After playing just a small role in his debut in 2011, the forward has averaged 16.0 points, 8.7 rebounds, and 5.3 assists over his last three contests.
The Harvard graduate clearly has maintained some of his touch from his days in Cambridge. Duncan played three seasons for the Crimson basketball team from 1983-1987 and served as co-captain during his senior season. He averaged double-digit point totals in all three seasons, highlighted by his final year in which he tallied 16.9 points per game, earning a first-team Academic All-American nod.
Upon graduating from Harvard with a degree in sociology, Duncan began playing professional basketball for Australia’s National Basketball League for the Melbourne Eastside Spectres. The star decided to call it a career in 1991, but he has never officially parted ways with the game he loves. From pick-up games with the President to scrimmages against fellow prominent celebrities, basketball will always remain a part of Duncan’s life.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 15, 2014
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the class year of U.S. Secretary of Education Arne S. Duncan. In fact, Duncan was a member of the Class of 1986.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Heading into this weekend, there is an abundance of important men’s basketball storylines to follow in the Ancient Eight. After hanging on by the skin of its teeth last week against Princeton, can Yale continue its stellar play on the road? Can Harvard take down Princeton in Jadwin for the first time since the Game Boy was released? Will Cornell get its second win against Division I competition? What DOES the fox say?
However, I want to take this space to tackle a more important basketball question: Why is there no basketball Beanpot?
Backing up slightly, the Beanpot is an intercity athletic competition among the local Boston universities. Most popular is the men’s hockey Beanpot, where Harvard, Northeastern, Boston University, and Boston College play three games over two weeks to determine the best—and worst—hockey teams in the city. Played at TD Garden, the games draw heavy attendance from all over Beantown. There are also Beanpots for women’s hockey, baseball, baseball, softball, men’s and women’s soccer, women’s rowing, and cycling. Hell, even Qdoba used to sponsor a Rice and Bean Pot Burrito Bowl.
There is an easy set of candidates for a men’s and women’s basketball Beanpot. In fact, the six schools—Harvard, Holy Cross, BU, Northeastern, BC, and UMass—got together in the beginning of the year for the inaugural Coaches vs. Cancer tripleheader. Held in the Garden, the event was swallowed by the stadium it was played in. As the season opener for most participants, it fell on a Sunday in the middle of football season. Needless to stay, fewer fans showed up to the Garden than stay all the way through a Heat game.
The failure of the event to generate interest should not take away from the possible success of a prospective Beanpot. Just three years ago, Harvard coach Tommy Amaker stated that he “would certainly be in favor of anything like that.” Boston College’s current coach, Steve Donahue, who grew up in Philadelphia—the home of intercity basketball competition—also voiced his support. In Philly, the Big 5 pits each of the town’s Division I schools against each other, a throwback to an era where they all played their home games in the sacred Palestra. However, Boston doesn’t have anywhere near the same amount of college basketball history. A basketball Beanpot fizzled out in 1976 —after 14 unsuccessful years—mainly because Boston is, and always will be, a professional sports town. It is not Austin, Gainesville, or Tuscaloosa—college towns where student-athletes are lionized and Saturday, not Sunday, is the day where God delivers the gift of football.
But that is all the more reason for a Beanpot. From the Yankees and Rangers to the Colts and Lakers, Boston sports have been defined by rivalries. The Beanpot has proved a great way to develop those intercity rivalries in other sports. BU senior defenseman Adam Clendening once said, “You come to BU and you know you’re supposed to hate BC.” In basketball, the teams play each other every year, but bragging rights mean little without a city trophy to show for it.
The other main barriers to the tournament are logistical. A Beanpot would require sponsors and for many teams to give up a home game along with the revenue that comes with it. To fix what didn’t work once, the schools should harness what makes college sports great—the atmosphere and the fans. Instead of trying (and failing) to fill up the Garden, play a six-team tournament in a single gym over three days. Not only would this give the Beanpot a unique, authentic feel, but advertisers could sell anywhere between a single day pass and a three-day ticket that would span all five games. In a meritocracy, the RPI or KenPom could decide the two teams getting a bye. A more equitable proposal could rotate the two teams getting a bye to ensure different matchups every year. This could coincide with a change in venue—BC’s Conte Forum (capacity 8,600), UMass’ William D. Mullins Memorial Center (9,493), and the renovated Lavietes Pavilion all jump out as possible sites.
Ultimately, this idea will require time and a citywide buy-in. But a city that loves sports as much as Boston, especially one with two legitimate top-40 national teams in Harvard and UMass has the fans—and the teams—to see the event succeed.
—Staff writer David Freed can be reached at david.freed@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter @CrimsonDPFreed.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Slightly more than two weeks ago, the Harvard men’s hockey team fell handedly to Northeastern, 6-0, in the preliminary round of the annual Beanpot tournament. The loss was the Crimson’s fifth in a six-game stretch, landing the team six games below .500 on the season.
But since that game on Feb. 3, the Crimson has reversed course, rattling off a four-game point streak, picking up momentum heading into the final stretch of its 2013-2014 campaign. With four games remaining before the playoffs begin, Harvard (9-12-4, 5-9-4 ECAC) begins its last regular season homestand of the year, hoping to carry its recent success into postseason play.
If the team performs like it has of late, it may not be the last game that the Bright-Landry Hockey Center hosts year. Should the Crimson pick up some much needed wins in its final conference games, the squad may entertain the possibility of home-ice for the first round of the playoffs.
Up first on the Crimson’s weekend agenda is a rematch against Yale (13-8-4, 8-7-3). With memories of a 5-1 loss to the Bulldogs under the lights of Madison Square Garden on Jan. 11 still burning bright, Harvard will look for a redeeming performance in the familiar setting of Bright-Landry this Friday.
“It’s always a big rivalry game,” captain Dan Ford said. “We’re excited to play them. It’s a big game in the standings for us.”
The Crimson was able to skate with Yale for the first 20 minutes of the teams’ January matchup. But four straight goals by the Bulldogs—including two from sophomore forward Cody Learned—in the last 40 minutes of the game gave the Bulldogs the heavy-handed win.
“That wasn’t our best effort,” Ford said. “We’re looking forward to get[ting] a chance to play them here [since] we’re play[ying] good hockey now.”
One bright spot for Harvard from its performance in New York City was its ability to keep Bulldog captain Jesse Root off of the scoreboard for the defending national champions. The senior forward has 22 points on the season, and is tied for third in ECAC conference play. The senior is also tied for third in point differentials with a +13 rating.
The lone net on the night for the Crimson from sophomore forward Jimmy Vesey on a wraparound goal by freshman forward Luke Esposito while on man advantage.
In this weekend’s contest, Harvard will likely need to be more effectively on the power play than the team has been so far in conference matchups this season. In conference play, the squad has converted on only 12.7 percent of its chances on the man advantage, currently the worst rate in the ECAC.
But in contrast with its offensive shortcomings, the Crimson’s defense has held strong, boasting the second-best penalty kill in the league. Harvard currently holds a penalty kill percentage of 86.9 percent, fending off the vast majority of other teams’ chances during 5-on-4 play.
“It should be a good game and environment, and that’s what we’re looking forward to,” Ford said.
Harvard also hopes to avenge another early season loss when it plays Brown (10-12-3, 7-10-1) on Saturday. Despite a goal from Vesey in the waning minutes of the game, the Crimson was unable to close the 2-0 deficit it faced entering the third period, and Harvard left George V. Meehan Auditorium with a 2-1 loss that December night.
“Brown’s another good team,” Ford said. “They’ve been doing pretty well lately and are right around us in the standings...so it’s a big matchup for us.”
Harvard will attempt to exploit a lackluster Bears penalty kill performance in an effort to reverse its fortunes. Brown’s .741 mark is the worst in the ECAC, and the Crimson looks to improve on its 0-for-4 performance from its last time out against the Ivy rivals.
This weekend, Harvard will have its hands full trying to slow down sophomore forward Mark Naclerio.  Naclerio has registered 16 goals on the year, the sixth-most mark in the conference. Freshman forward Nick Lappin leads the team with 18 assists for the season..
After a slow start to its campaign and with a current .440 win percentage, the Crimson sits in ninth in the ECAC league standings, currently tied with St. Lawrence. However, Harvard sits only one point behind the Bears, and the Crimson has the chance to surpass Brown in the ECAC rankings with two wins on the weekend. As the season winds down, each point becomes increasingly critical.
“We need to play our game,” sophomore defenseman Patrick McNally said. “[We can’t] worry about what Yale is going to come at us with and what Brown is going to come at us with…. We have to focus on ourselves and play the way we’re capable of.”
—Staff writer Kurt T. Bullard can be reached at kurtbullard@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The last time that the Princeton women’s basketball team visited Lavietes Pavilion, it saw a 33-game winning streak snapped by a Crimson team led by then-senior Victoria Lippert’s 21 points.
Lippert may have graduated, but Harvard (17-5, 7-1 Ivy) is looking to repeat last year’s result when it takes on the Killer P’s to close out a four-game homestand. The Crimson will face the Quakers (16-5, 6-1) on Friday night, followed by the Tigers (15-6, 6-1) on Saturday, in an effort to extend its 21-game winning streak at Lavietes.
With just one league loss to date, Harvard is poised to contend for the Ancient Eight title this year, and this weekend’s matchups represent perhaps the biggest hurdle for the Crimson in its quest to take back the crown for the first time since 2008.
Harvard sits alone atop the Ivy League, with Princeton and Penn tied in second, just a half game behind. The three teams sit far ahead of the rest of the pack, and this weekend’s contests have the potential to shake up the league standings.
“We know that from here on out, we have to win,” junior guard Ali Curtis said. “I think we have a sense of, I like to say, swag on our team that we’ve never had before. It’s exciting to be able to come into the gym and say we are confident in our abilities this year, and if everything plays out right and we can play our game, that banner will be ours.”
The Tigers have won the last four Ancient Eight championships. Princeton managed to give the Crimson a scare when the two last faced each other earlier this season at Jadwin Gymnasium, but Harvard ultimately snapped a four-game losing streak at Princeton’s homecourt with a 78-68 win.
A 14-point lead at halftime shrank to just one late in the second half as the Tigers went on a 12-point run. Strong foul shooting—14 of the Crimson’s final 16 points came from behind the charity stripe—carried the squad to victory, but the close win prompted Harvard coach Kathy Delaney-Smith to heavily emphasize the importance of correcting mistakes to maintain advantages down the stretch.
“That’s unfortunately an occurrence that happens in almost every game,” Delaney-Smith said. “It’s just losing momentum, and I never really felt that we were going to lose that game. We know what they did to come back on us, so we know what we have to do to prevent that from happening."
Co-captain guard Christine Clark went 11-of-12 from the free-throw line—nine of which came in the final six minutes—and put up 25 points in that contest to lead the Crimson. The senior has spearheaded Harvard’s offensive production all year, averaging 16.7 points per game this season. Junior forward Temi Fagbenle has also been a notable contributor in the post, averaging 12.1 points per contest.
The Crimson’s frontcourt is anchored by senior forward Melissa Mullins and Fagbenle, who use their combined heights to force opponents into wayward shots. Harvard held Tigers guard Blake Dietrick, who averages 16 points per game, to just eight in the teams’ January meeting, a statistic the Crimson will likely have to repeat if it hopes to come away victorious a second time.
A day after Harvard outlasted Princeton, the Quakers handed the Crimson its only conference loss of the season. Penn shot just 36.4 percent from the floor, but Harvard countered the lackluster attack with an even poorer performance of its own—the Crimson converted just 18.3 percent of its shots, a season low.
Though Delaney-Smith called it one of the most bizarre experiences in her 30-plus years of coaching, the team recognizes the importance of not just chalking up the night to a fluke.
“Eighteen percent is not indicative of what we’re able to do, but there’s nothing that says it won’t happen again,” Curtis said. “We have to know how to make changes on the fly and how to attack their press, push the ball around, and get through their zone. But if we’re not shooting well, we’re going to have to find other ways to score and find a way to stop them defensively.”
Penn boasts the stingiest defense in the league, allowing just 57.2 points per game, and displays a balanced offensive attack in three players—guard Alyssa Baron, center Sydney Stipanovich, and forward Kara Bonenberger—who consistently score in the double digits.
But when the Crimson takes the court this weekend, it will attempt to put aside the longstanding rivalry with Princeton or any thoughts of revenge against Penn, and instead execute the game plan to win, according to Curtis.
“Obviously, this weekend is a very important one for us, but I think what’s been our focus this year is that going into every weekend, every weekend is the same,” Curtis said. “Every Ivy League team that we play is great competition, and I think if we go into the weekend thinking that and hoping that we can play our game, we won’t worry so much about our scoreboard.”
—Staff writer Samantha Lin can be reached at samantha.link@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @LinSamnity.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
Celebrities grace Harvard with their presence pretty regularly (what up Kanye West), so it's not all that surprising when you spot a famous person walking through the Yard every once in a while. But sometimes those double takes aren't the real Hollywood/ Washington bigwigs, but Harvard affiliates with an uncanny resemblance to the people who never follow back you on Twitter/ Instagram. Here's a list of some doppelgängers we tracked down on campus. If you see them, don't forget to ask for an autograph and tell them you love their work, especially their appearance on Flyby!DRAKE
 
Name: Davon RobertsonYear: FreshmanHometown: East Providence, RIExtracurriculars: Football and DAPA (in training)Thoughts on doppelgänger: “Drake is a hell of a rapper. Starting from his first song I heard, ‘Best I've Ever Had,’ I have been a big fan. He gets a lot of criticism for being ‘emotional’ but I feel like he just has a lot of haters that believe today's Rap/Hip Hop should only be about ‘violence’ and ‘toughness.’ He’s a great actor, being on Degrassi and SNL. It definitely has not been a bad thing to look like him, and it’s a great icebreaker as well.”VINCE HOWARD FROM FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS
 
Name: Siyani ChambersYear: SophomoreHometown: Golden Valley, MNExtracurricular: BasketballThoughts on doppelgänger: “I think it’s pretty accurate.”JESSE EISENBERG
 
Name: Alex MillerYear: JuniorHometown: Atlanta, GAExtracurriculars: Harvard Din & Tonics (a cappella), TheaterThoughts on doppelgänger: “Neither of us was punched by the Phoenix.”VANESSA HUDGENS
 
Name: Eriko KayYear: SophomoreHometown: Tokyo, JapanExtracurriculars: OAASIS (Organization of Asian American Sisters in Service), Japan Society, Harvard Vestis CouncilThoughts on doppelgänger: “I definitely had my High School Musical re-run days.”MACKLEMORE
 
Name: Jonah HahnYear: FreshmanHometown: Northampton, MAExtracurriculars: Harvard Political Review, Harvard Men’s Frisbee, Rootstrikers, CityServeThoughts on doppelgänger: “My oh my, I’ve spent about ten thousand hours trying to discern whether the comparison has wings. It’s a really thin line because despite my own doubts people on campus often tell me that I look like him. I remember in high school when my friends started listening to Macklemore, one jokingly said I should be him for Halloween. Another time I walked into a club and someone just shouted, ‘What’s up? You look like Macklemore.’ Maybe that was because I was rocking the leather jacket that day. Who knows? Although I was unsure of the resemblance, ultimately I’ve joined the other side. I’ve decided to celebrate my Irish appearance; I think that my doppelgänger is gold. I’ve certainly got some love for Macklemore, and if people think I look like him, then that’s fine by me.”KIMMY GIBBLER FROM FULL HOUSE
 
Name: Natalie DoyleYear: SeniorHometown: San Francisco, CAExtracurriculars: Volleyball, Peer Advising Fellow, Kappa Kappa Gamma, Initiative to End Childhood MalnutritionThoughts on doppelganger: “We’re both from San Francisco, but she’s the only one with smelly feet. I promise.”And now for some honorable mentions, faculty superstars and their superstar doppelgangers.DEAN DINGMAN and DENNIS QUAID
 
GREG MANKIW and GREG MANKIW
 
Sections
 
Happy Throwback Thursday! Today we’re honoring the history of Loeb House, the building between Lamont and Emerson Hall.Built in 1912 and funded the donation of former Harvard President A. Lawrence Lowell, Loeb House was originally known as President's House. During World War II, it was relinquished to the Navy for a training program, and was treated like a ship, with a 24-hour watch and a scrubbing of the “deck” (the oak floors). In 1995, the building was named in honor of John L. Loeb '24 and Frances Lehman Loeb, longtime benefactors to the university. In recent years, Loeb House has been used as a site for protest, a meeting place during the search for a new Harvard president, and as a reception place for some of Harvard's famous guests.
IN THE ATMOSPHEREFor the first time in what feels like forever, there’s no chance of rain during the day today! Combined with a high of 46 degrees, it seems like things are looking up. Unfortunately good things don't always last, and there's an 80 percent chance of rain during the evening.IN THE D-HALLSLunchBlackened SwaiRed Spiced Chicken BreastCheese and Mushroom QuicheDinnerHoney BBQ Pulled ChickenLemon Crusted CodQuinoa and Vegetable JambalayaIN THE NEWS1) Griffin ’89 Gives $150 Million to Harvard, Largest Gift in College's History: “Hedge fund manager Kenneth C. Griffin ’89 has donated $150 million to Harvard and has directed at least $125 million of the gift to support financial aid at the College. The gift, announced by the University on Wednesday afternoon, is the largest in the history of Harvard College.”2) UC Ed Committee Launches Initiative To Decrease Cost of Course Material: The UC Ed Committee is working towards lowering costs for course materials and increasing the amount of free materials via course websites.3) The Data on Datamatch: Harvard Computer Society’s President, William S. Xiao ‘16, explains more on the process behind Datamatching!AND ON FLYBY…4) Princeton Mom Is Back with More Romantic Advice: (In)famous Princeton Mom, Susan Patton, is back with more advice for women with regards to husband-hunting.EVENTSInterested in career opportunities and benefits through the U.S. Military? The OCS is holding an informative dinner called Military: Explore Careers at 79 J.F.K. Street from 7 to 8 p.m. with a panel of current Harvard graduate students who have served in the military. RSVP by emailing IOP_ICS@hks.harvard.edu.The OCS is also hosting a Career Insider: Office Hours with Sidhant Jena, Co-Founder and CEO of Jana Care, a diabetes technology company at 54 Dunster Street from 2 to 4 p.m. Register for a 20-minute appointment through Crimson Careers.The Harvard Public Service Network for Public Interest Careers is hosting Senior Loeb Scholar, Katherine Boo, as she holds a lecture entitled “Innovation, Exploitation, and Documentation in the 21st-Century Slums” at Piper Auditorium located at 48 Quincy Street from 6:30 to 8 p.m.
Sections
 
Blocking is quickly approaching for freshmen and friend drama is building to a fever pitch. Fed up of talking about who’s in and who’s out? What if you could build the ultimate blocking group full of FAS superstars? We have compiled a power ranking of the most desirable blockmates from the FAS faculty to help you out! (It would a little bizarre to rank current students, right?)
UPDATED: Feb. 20, 2014 at 11:08 p.m.
Henry Louis Gates Jr., Alphonse Fletcher University ProfessorProfessor Gates is one of America’s top public intellectuals and one of the most well-known professors in the world. “Skip” is very well connected, so you might find Obama cracking a beer or Oprah hosting a book club meeting in your room every now and then. If you think you can handle rubbing shoulders with A-listers on the regular, you and Skip may be blockmates made in heaven!David J. Malan '99, CS50 InstructorMalan is a versatile roommate who earns top “fun to motivated ratio” points, as is evident from his Facebook page. While there may be 800 confused CS p-setters in your room every Thursday night, Malan promises to bring along a green screen and Google-themed props to make the experience more bearable. He will also probably bring the printer.Drew G. Faust, Harvard PresidentPresident Faust will bring an unparalleled level of power to your blocking group. While you probably won’t get to throw parties every weekend (although you never know), President Faust will occasionally bring close friends like the Obamas and Matt Damon over for “chill kickbacks.” You also will not be quadded.Donald H. Pfister, Interim Dean of Harvard CollegeDean Pfister is undoubtedly a premium blockmate. Sick? Dean Pfister has an herbal remedy to soothe that sore throat. Stressed? Tired? you name it, Pfister has the organic cure. Will your room smell like a botany lab? Yes! But this is Dean Donald Pfister, you guys. Think of the group messages. Think of the book discussions. This is what winning at blocking looks like.Thomas A. Dingman ‘67, Dean of Freshmen“I thought that the majority of freshmen conducted themselves beautifully,” Dean Dingman recently said of Freshman Formal. We can only assume Dingman said this because his freshman formal in 1964 was a rager unlike anything Harvard has seen in recent years. Dingman’s formal was the Woodstock of formals before Woodstock even happened. This charming bro-at-heart promises to bring the party to your blocking group. He is charismatic, caring, and a strapping athlete with powerful calves (from what I can tell having seen him in Hemenway...). Dean Dingman is formidable force in the blocking game.
For students waiting to hear back about college acceptances, there are not many avenues to adequately determine admissions chances before decision arrive in late March. Recently, though, high school students have become more creative and even prescient in their efforts to judge their admissions chances early on in the application process. This admissions sorcery is the world of ‘chance me’ threads on College Confidential, a website used by high school to seek advice and input on the college admissions process.
The premise for the ‘chance me’ thread is simple: a high school student will post his respective statistics (GPA, test scores, etc.), interests, or clubs, and seeks his chances of admission to a particular school from members of the CC community. The student must present enough information for respondents to have an accurate image of their profile, but not quite enough to be identified by those who truly know them.
At the top of the ‘chance me’ forums,, a CC forum moderator posts a disclaimer: “If you are not a recruited athlete or a legacy applicant, your admission chances probably won't be any better than the school's overall admit rate. As long as you understand that, you have realistic expectations.”
With such a cautionary statement, one would think that the replies to ‘chance me’ requests would be brief and straightforward. You are applying to Yale, Stanford, and  Harvard, great choices. You have a  6.7, 5.7 and 5.8 percent chance respectively of being accepted at each school. But the world of ‘chance me’ threads is never that simple or polite.
The ‘chance me’ threads are a world where indifference and insincerity bound neatly together. Not all the content on CC—such as the test preparation material and discussions on different scholarship—is necessarily degenerate, but the ‘chance me’ thread highlights the best of internet trolls.
One user seeking his chances wrote “I don't feel like going into detail with all of my EC's but they are pretty good.” Taking his word, CC writers would grant him a 23 percent chance of admissions at any college of your choice.
As far as SAT scores go, some CC regulars say that you should absolutely retake the test if you received a 2400 but an 11 on the essay, because colleges don’t want to accept a lousy writer. And if you don’t have a perfect score to begin with, you are out of luck, since one user wrote that the average SAT for Princeton is closer to 2400.
‘Chance me’ threads offer an outlet for anxiety, but a means for increased frustration. The world of college admissions is tricky and confusing, and the ‘chance me’ thread does not often help in separating fact from fiction. That email in March will, though.
 
Over the past few years, the number of early applications received by schools has increased dramatically, as the commonly-held belief that early decision applicants gain an advantage over their regular decision peers continues to circulate in high schools across the nation.
This predicted rise in early application numbers for the Class of 2018 held true for many top schools across the nation, with nearly every single school in the Ivy League experiencing an increase from last year. Brown, Columbia, Dartmouth, Princeton, Yale, Cornell, and the University of Pennsylvania all saw this trend in their application pools; Harvard was the only Ivy League school to face a decrease in the number of its early decision applications, by 3 percent. Like Harvard, Stanford and MIT each experienced an increase in their early decision applications for this admissions cycle, as well.
Columbia, Brown, and Stanford also logged record-high early decision application pools for the Class of 2018, which are the largest in each school's history.
Many have voices that perhaps Harvard is losing its grip. Could the fall in early application numbers signal a declining interest in one of the nation's premier institutions?
Then again, Harvard’s 3 percent decrease in early applicants immediately follows an increase of 15 percent in the previous year, and minor year-to-year fluctuations are said to be common; only time will tell if Harvard fails to keep up with the early decision competition.
