News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The need for computer science is no secret. With the rise of coding as the new literacy of the twenty-first century, and the ascent of “Introduction to Computer Science I,” better known as CS50, to the most-enrolled class at Harvard, there is an unmistakable need for Harvard to prepare its students for the workforce by investing in computer science funding and faculty. Steve Ballmer’s generous recent gift to the University will expand Harvard’s computer science faculty by 12 professorships and carry its legacy of excellence into the realm of coding in years to come.
Ballmer’s large (albeit unspecified) gift comes in the wake of a growing interest from Harvard’s student body in computer science.  The computer science concentration has nearly doubled in size in the last two years, with its introductory course, CS50, displacing the introductory Economics course, “Principles of Economics,” as the largest class offered at the College this semester with 780 enrolled.
By comparison, Harvard’s competitors have capitalized on this shift in interest to Silicon Valley. Stanford, as highlighted in the recent comparison in Fifteen Minutes magazine, is outshining the Ivy League in technology and computer science with its reputation for innovation and proximity to Silicon Valley. Although Harvard has just recently invested in technology and entrepreneurship projects such as the Harvard Innovation Labs, where Ballmer’s gift was announced, Stanford has helped spawn almost 5,000 companies in high technology and other related fields. Ballmer himself listed MIT, Stanford, Carnegie Mellon, and possibly the University of California at Berkeley as what he perceived to be the universally agreed “top places” for computer science, but added that moving forward, he wanted Harvard on that list.
While Harvard will still maintain its role as a bastion of the humanities and the liberal arts, an expansion in Computer Science in no way detracts from our existing strengths. If Harvard seeks to continue its leadership in higher education as a whole, it’s crucial that we invest in computer science. Software is becoming the language of our world, and Harvard’s mission of training its graduates for leadership in the workforce needs strength in SEAS as well as the liberal arts. Given the upcoming increase in faculty, and the continued support from the Harvard community, there’s no reason that moving forward, our university will not continue to lead the charts in all areas we can.
The next Zuckerberg—or Ballmer—will come from Harvard yet.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For nearly a year, the Harvard Teaching Campaign has been seeking to cap section sizes at 12 students apiece, and since its inception, most of the support for the campaign has come from non-STEM fields. A simple look at the campaign’s endorsements shows that while the philosophy, sociology, and English departments all support smaller section sizes, there has yet to be a STEM field to follow up. Thus far, the list of faculty signers is missing STEM faculty.
I’m a science concentrator and pre-med. And I believe that students like myself need to express a vested interest in this campaign too.
For most students, science education consists of large lectures, topics of imposing difficulty, and frantic attempts to absorb as much information as possible. What we often miss from this standardized approach is the chance to truly talk through the subject.
Often in section, I feel that I should not ask questions, as I do not want to “hog” section time for my own inquiries. With a smaller section size, this problem can be remedied by creating a more intimate learning environment where students can ask questions and attempt to better explore the class material.
An April 2014 Undergraduate Council teaching survey indicated that nearly 80 percent of respondents believed “smaller section sizes encourage them to participate.” This participation should be the spirit of scientific inquiry.
Smaller sections facilitate this scientific conversation in class. Harvard does a good job with promoting this spirit—but, as Christina V. Groeger ’08 wisely pointed out in a recent op-ed in The Crimson, it can and should “set the bar high”, in all fields.
An additional concern largely unique to STEM fields is the lab component to classes. Assuming that there are 18 students in a section, a teaching fellow’s attention is constantly split between them. At any given moment, a lab TF is responsible for answering students’ questions, ensuring that lab protocol is being observed, and, most importantly, guaranteeing the safety of their students and responding to emergencies.
The Harvard Teaching Campaign recognizes this, and has asked for a cap on both mandatory sections and lab groups. This is reflected in the referendum question for the UC ballot in the current election.
Looking back at my past experiences in sections, it is very clear which have been effective and which have not. In LS1a, with a section of 15 students, I personally found it difficult to find confidence to contribute to such a large group. This was compounded by the fact that it was my first experience in the life sciences at Harvard. Had the section size been smaller, I am almost certain that I would have felt more confident contributing, and that my TF would have had an easier time facilitating a cooperative mentality that would ultimately lead to better learning.
Conversely, my smaller PS1 section better permitted discussion, as there was a more concentrated group of people contributing. In that environment, I had ample opportunity to speak up in section, as did my classmates, and we were able to cover both class material and discuss ideas that went beyond the lectures.
My section experiences push me to urge section size caps for all of my classes—not just those within my concentration. While there are arguments specific to STEM classes, STEM students participate in Harvard’s other educational offerings, such as the General Education program. And if Harvard really believes in the spirit of a liberal arts education, it should ensure the best learning environment in all fields by capping section size.
The only remaining question is, will enough of us take action to support the campaign and to have the departments to which we belong declare their support as well?
Please vote yes on a section cap.
Andrew Mazzanti ’17 is a human developmental and regenerative biology concentrator in Winthrop House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Statistically speaking, Americans do not like Obamacare.
According to RealClearPolitics’ polling average, only 37.7 percent of citizens support the law, while a majority opposes it. Add to this scores of protests and calls from populist politicians to “repeal and replace” the legislation, and you have a thoroughly disapproving public.
Anecdotally, this disapproval seems to have skipped over the ivory towers of our campus. Like the president himself, Harvard students are keen to move on to other topics, such as LGBT rights and immigration.
But new issues should not stop us from being vigilant about the actions of our government—even ones that took place five years ago. As Americans, we have supervisory responsibility over our elected officials. This responsibility is exactly what makes the recent revelations about the intellectually dishonest origins of Obamacare so disheartening: Our policymakers deceived us to achieve their goals, and even those of us Harvardians who agree with the Affordable Care Act and its ramifications must put up a fight against this culture of arrogance.
The deception essential to the passage of Obamacare is particularly striking because it comes from an administration purportedly dedicated to honesty. In 2008, one of President Barack Obama’s top advisers, John Podesta, promised “the most open and transparent administration in history.” In 2013, during a “Google Plus Fireside Hangout,” Obama reiterated, “This is the most transparent administration in history.” Perhaps Obama was merely calling prior administrations criminally opaque. Still, the sausage-making process behind Obamacare proves that calling the administration “transparent” is just one thread in the quilt of dishonesty woven by the Obama team.
The recent revelations about the extent of these lies start with one Jonathan Gruber, an economist right down the river at MIT who, as the so-called “architect of the Affordable Care Act, earned about $400,000 for his consulting work on the law. Recently, a Philadelphia man—personally affected by Obama’s false promise that “if you like your plan, you can keep your plan,” period—dug up videos of Gruber speaking at various symposia across the country.
These videos demonstrate the twisted thought processes that went into crafting the bill. For one thing, Gruber made it clear that, “This bill was written in a tortured way to ensure the CBO did not score the mandate as taxes.” He continued, “If the CBO scores the mandate as taxes, the bill dies.” Gruber also bragged about how “lack of transparency is a huge political advantage,” saying, “Basically, call it the stupidity of the American voter, but that was really critical to getting the thing to pass.” On a different occasion, Gruber praised his work in writing a bill that could pass as a “very clever basic exploitation of the lack of economic understanding of the American voter.”
This is not okay.
Contrary to the Obama administration’s supposed transparency, the president owes his signature achievement to a man who jokingly lamented, “I wish we could make this all transparent, but I’d rather have this law than not.” Regardless of what one thinks of the Affordable Care Act, this is not how our government should function, and it is not how it should view its relationship with voters.
The average employee may occasionally try and sneak a fast one over her boss, but that does not mean she can lie about the work she is doing. In the modern workplace, such a transgression would likely get her fired.
We missed our chance to fire Obama two years ago, and his contract runs up soon enough. But that does not mean we should allow him to spend these next two years with the same outlook on his job and on his role in this country’s vast political framework that has characterized his tenure so far.
It is imperative that Americans—even the 38 percent who appreciate Obamacare’s merits—fight back against the culture of deception in the White House, both in this administration and in those forthcoming. Lack of transparency should never be seen as a huge political advantage.
We should have learned our lesson 40 years ago, when the Committee to Re-Elect the President attempted dirty tricks to cement Richard Nixon’s place in history. The Obama administration’s own disdain for the American people and the democratic political process may have avoided the realm of illegality. But it reigns king over the realm of dishonesty. For the sake of posterity we should not let this president’s legacy escape unscathed.
John F.M. Kocsis ’15, a Crimson editorial executive, is a government concentrator in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When I read the words, “Dear Mr. Piltch, Congratulations! On behalf of the Admissions Committee, I am delighted to offer you admission to the Harvard Class of 2017,” I remember an excited shout escaping my throat because I was going to Harvard. At that time, however, I had little appreciation for what going to Harvard meant. I saw it as a real life version of a Harry Potter book: all different people from all different places (practically) doing magic to solve the world’s problems. I would never be alone and would meet no challenge I could not handle. Somehow, in this wonderland, the tough moments of feeling alone, being overwhelmed by or not understanding my work, and being disconnected from friends did not exist. 
A recent Crimson article, “The State of the Student Body,” makes it clear that these struggles exist not only for me but also many of my peers. Seventy percent of us do not sleep enough. Many of us do not exercise enough, and I imagine that some of us struggle with disordered eating. I am also confident that stress has unquantifiable effects on our friendships and other relationships. Though we may not realize it, the difficult moments and enormous sums of work we have dictate our lives more than we might have anticipated or currently want. 
The question is, “How do we fix this?” While I concur with Dean Dingman that we must change Harvard’s culture surrounding stress and wellbeing, I believe that the students cannot do this alone. Instead, the students, faculty, and administration need to work together towards a better, healthier community.
The changes the faculty must make ask them to think about students outside the classroom and understand that social, familial, and mental health challenges are at times much more important than the academic work we do. If faculty affirm this reality verbally and show genuine compassion, students will feel more comfortable sharing the challenges associated with doing their best work. Furthermore, faculty, with the help of the administration, should remove pressure from students by instituting a system in all classes that makes extension days readily available for students. Even the knowledge that an extra day or two is there if needed can help a student’s state-of-mind greatly. Similarly, it would help students enormously if professors from all disciplines work together to create a balance in students’ lives by each having a different week or two in the thick of the semester when reading demands are lighter and problem sets are shorter. This break would aid students greatly in handling all of their other work and addressing personal needs. If such a plan could be developed, students would be healthier and would demonstrate a deeper commitment to the work that professors deem most important to their classes.
More complex to execute but equally as important, we must be conscious of the ways we talk about the difficulties and stresses that do exist. I have gradually realized that Harvard is not the wonderland I imagined. There have been many nights when I stared at one page of my reading for fifteen minutes without comprehending it. I also feel alone at times, both physically and psychologically, and no number of parties or hangouts can fix it. Furthermore, regardless of the extracurricular activities I join or satisfying grades I receive, I sometimes feel like I do not belong; like I am the mistake; like I do not deserve to be here.
I imagine other students feel the same way, but acknowledging it is hard for any of us to do. My friends and I frequently dismiss these struggles as merely being stressed because explaining them might imply we are the ones who cannot handle Harvard. Of course, because talking about stress is also a way of belonging here, it can be difficult to not engage in these conversations.
It would benefit everyone to help change this dynamic. When we feel alone, we should not dismiss the loneliness (or any other internal struggle) as another stress on a long list and do our work routinely. We should instead acknowledge to our friends that this loneliness is inhibiting our ability to do our work because, like it or not, it influences our actions and moods every day. With the support of our friends, we will be better able to do the best we can on our work and to embrace that it will not be up to our normal level of performance. I believe our willingness to accept and acknowledge the moments when Harvard or life is hard, coupled with faculty support, will allow us to improve our debilitating stress culture.
My column this semester has focused on how we define excellence and difficulty. If I have taken anything away from it and from this article on stress, it’s that we must acknowledge difficulty and embrace searching for excellence, instead of achieving excellence the easiest way possible. While Harvard is not my ideal Hogwarts (and should not be) and is quite challenging (and should be), I believe that if we recognize our limitations and ask slightly less of ourselves, we, our friendships, our grades, our careers, and Harvard will all be better for it.
James Piltch ’17 lives in Leverett House. His column appears on alternate Mondays. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Hi, Yale friends. It can be hard navigating the Harvard social scene (though not as hard as navigating the New Haven crime scene). FM came up with some tips that should help you have a good time after The Game.
The Kong
Great Chinese food. Go for dinner, but make sure to get there early—after 12 a.m., it sucks.
The Owl
Dress like an owl, and they’ll let you in. Turn your head around 360 degrees and they will make you an honorary member.
The Crimson
We don’t let in freshmen boys.
Strauss A-23
Always the place to party. Make sure you know the password (it’s “dorm crew”).
Northwest Labs
It’s just like Toad’s. There is definitely some sort of jarred amphibian there.
Annenberg
SO MUCH LIQUOR. It’s where the phrase “boozy brunch” comes from.
CVS
Make sure to go to the 24-hour one. It’s CRAZY.
Office of Career Services
You won’t find a job here, unless of course, you are looking into consulting.
Currier Dhall
The best food on campus! It’s conveniently located, so don’t worry about getting lost.
The Phoenix
Harvard’s resident Harry Potter appreciation club.
Darwin’s Ltd.
Interested in Biology? Evolutionists eat here for free!
The Hasty Pudding
Dessert for only the most masculine of palates.
Memorial Church
Do you ever just have the urge to scream loudly out of frustration? Lucky for you, Harvard has a space for students to experience vocal catharsis, especially on Sunday mornings.
The IOP
An IHOP that disaffiliated from the big H. Specializes in sugar-coating everything it serves.
The PC
Home of Harvard’s activist community. Addresses political correctness on campus. Great space—make sure you explore the whole building.
Sections
Online dating is a thing people do. I have yet to personally do it, because my love style tends to go something like: meet random person making acerbic jokes about American racial politics; fall into deep soul-macerating love; lose all sense of self and world; have visited upon me the devastation that yea indeed was loosed upon Sodom and Gomorrah; rinse, and repeat. But now is the late autumn of our discontent (sweater season!) and an appropriate time to break out of the cycle of SWUG and into the strange erotic marketplace of OkCupid. Hop on the kvetchmobile, folks—things are about to get a little winey.
Vella White Zinfandel
(free; left in my room from a pregame)
Yeah, so, not quite sure what to write here. But I’ll give it a shot.
Hi! I’m Vella. Not Vel, Vellie, whatever you want to call me. Vella. It rhymes with Bella, like the one from “Twilight.”
I’m sweet, some say too sweet, but I don’t think life should have to be so serious.
My friends say that I’m fun to be around and I definitely help them unwind, though if you have too much of me, I can get pretty intense. I’ve been known to make people dizzy on an empty stomach ;)
I’m white, but down for all sorts of pairings! Particularly goat cheese or a nice cod.
I’m great chilled, but also definitely can be enjoyed a little hotter. On a typical Friday night, you can find me at a big party getting lots of people drunk or at home with the ladies snuggling over Netflix.
I’ll read anything by Junot Díaz.
The most personal thing I’m willing to admit: Honestly, I feel a little constrained sometimes. I guess I’m looking for someone to take me out of the box?
If that sounds cool to you, message me. I promise I don’t have much bite.
I’m also pretty juicy ;)
Bodega Norton Malbec
(Definitely above my price range, but why buy alcohol when you have friends who throw snobby parties?)
This is a soulful red with cinnamon notes that make it taste expensive. I sip it lying on the floor with my roommates, paging through my informationless and photoless OkCupid profile in alternating waves of wine tipsiness and deep emotional paralysis.
Message!
“I like your username a whole lot, and I like bi girls... so why no information?”
That thing you just did, dudeman, 26, from Tel Aviv. That’s why. That is why I have offered no information. That is why humanity is on the Acela quiet car to Shitville. What a piece of work is normative male socialization: It instills in humans the ability to hit on a pictureless profile with literally no information but a note on orientation and a username that references Italian food. Where is the “filter out heteropatriarchy” button on this thing again?
Me: I feel like cool men haven’t been approaching me lately. Am I not pretty?
Roommate: Your whole schtick is being gay. What part of this isn’t making sense to you?
Me: Oh, yeah. [Shakes fist forebodingly in air like rueful supervillain.] Curse you, Havelock Ellis!
At this point, I am submerged in a self-indulgent Bodega Norton Malbec bath of high-quality existential and erotic anguish. Taste of cherry.
Casillero del Diablo Pinot Noir
(Someone left this in our room once; why venture out into the cold to Trader Joe’s when I can finagle wine for free?)
Another day, another evening sipping Pinot Noir (wet; nicely acidic) and staring at my still-empty OkCupid profile. Online dating feels like wandering through the aisles of Trader Joe’s looking for the perfect wine. Do I want something light and a little tingly, or more complex and substantial? What am I willing to expend? Also, inordinate numbers of adorable lesbians. The point is that OkCupid is the logical conclusion of sexual late capitalism. But it’s also cool—if you’re a lonely Pinot Noir and your local vineyards just aren’t down for your fruitiness, the online dating store offers actual human connection and the knowledge that you are not the only weirdo in town. I am jerked from my Profound Reverie by a call from my roommate, who has ingested intoxicants a bit stronger than Casillero del Diablo and is in need of an escort home. I power walk to her rescue. Because she is in no state to sleep alone, she stays the night in my bed: She and her intoxication and I and my violent heart all lapped in seas of somewhat tannic Pinot Noir. This too is love.
Reina A. E. Gattuso ’15, The Crimson’s Resident Lesbian Sex Icon, is a Comparative Literature and Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality concentrator in Adams House. You can follow her on Twitter @reinagattuso.
Sections
With Thanksgiving around the corner, FM sat down with Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences’ Michael P. Brenner and David A. Weitz, who teach SPU 27: Science and Cooking, for advice on how to cook the perfect Thanksgiving dinner at the molecular level. 
How would you use modernist cuisine and your knowledge of materials science to cook the perfect turkey?
Weitz: I think the best turkey is still cooked the traditional way, but if you look, Nathan Myhrvold is the guru of modernist cuisine. He’s the former CTO of Microsoft who now has a food lab. He has fancy ways of cooking turkeys, so I’d look up what he does.
Brenner: Cooking involves transformations of food. Like for Thanksgiving, you have to cook the turkey so that the inside of the turkey is well cooked, as well as the outside is properly cooked. The constraints for those things are really different. Most people would want the inside of the turkey to be cooked at 175 degrees Fahrenheit, but the outside has to be cooked much hotter than that, because if it doesn’t it won’t brown. You won’t get that crispy brown flavor that tends to make things taste delicious. There’s a tension between getting the inside to cook at a temperature at you want, which is much lower than the outside in order to get the thing to work. It’s sort of like chess; recipes tell you ways to do this, but if you understand how heat in this way moves through food, then you can sort of think through it on your own, and that can certainly help make you a better cook.
Any other advice for major Thanksgiving staple foods?
Weitz: Cranberry sauce. That’s an interesting material—that’s making a gel out of cranberry. Really good cranberry sauce should be able to cook without a lot of pectin and still get it to gel. There’s pumpkin pie, right? Making more of a foamy pumpkin pie—that would be sort of interesting. What is your favorite Thanksgiving food?
Weitz: I mean, a good turkey, what else? That’s the way you have to have it.
Brenner: I’m not a great fan of Thanksgiving. […] I don’t actually eat meat. I’m interested intellectually in cooking turkey. None of the traditional foods, I must admit, I’m a great fan of. Sorry.
What is the kind of research that you do and, if possible, how does it relate to cooking?
Weitz: It’s not directly related to cooking, but it’s as close to cooking as most research comes. Rheology tells you the mechanical properties of something. When you chew on something: that’s the mechanical properties, that’s how things feel—not necessarily taste, but feel. It’s probably best quantified by something like rheology. I’m very interested in the structure of materials that are like many foods: gels, foams, emulsions. So I know a lot about that type of structure. The foods that we eat, especially by high-end chefs, are often like that.
Brenner: One of things that I’ve been interested in lately is trying to figure how to design materials that assemble themselves and do cool things like self replicate. We make mathematical models to try to understand constraints under which such things can happen. And I also make models of things which are sort of ordinary. For example, it turns out no one knows how a drop of fluid splashes on a solid surface. Everyone knows that it happens, but no one really understands why, if you think about it. So we sort of write down the equations of motions that correspond to such things and try to figure out why they work as they do. For me, the cooking class makes sense in that context because it’s really about how to understand phenomena that occur in daily life when you cook. Although I don’t study cooking professionally, I do try to understand things in simple terms.
Are you interested at all in the molecular gastronomy movement?
Weitz: So honestly most people who are interested in molecular gastronomy are a bunch of French scientists. Chefs themselves don’t like the term themselves. Modernist cuisine is a more acceptable terminology, so I sort of side with the chefs.
Does this knowledge help cooking at home?
Weitz: It should, but I don’t cook. That’s the beauty of the class is that we collaborate with these wonderful chefs. I do the science, they do the cooking. I believe in letting the experts do what the experts do—what they are experts at.
Brenner: I do cook and I do use these principles. As soon as you understand why it is you are doing things, then it makes it much easier to cook, because you don’t have to follow the recipe religiously. If you don’t know how the recipe works, then you have to follow the recipes religiously, because you don’t know which steps you can ignore, right? If you understand why the steps are there, then you how you can modify it and still have the thing work.
Sections
While our TFs always try to be helpful, sometimes their generous advice comes in the form of pure brutality. Every now and then, we get a paper back and the unforgiving red ink is more honest than we needed it to be. Because it happens way too often, FM takes another look at some of our TFs’ greatest hits in the genre of mean comments.
TF: “What do you think of this? Are you proud of this paper?”
It was written in an hour. So kind of.
TF: “This is the only part that supports your thesis here.”
Plan A to extend page length foiled. Plan B: size 14 periods.
TF: “Ok, but are all these points necessarily true?”
What constitutes truth, really? Too bad this isn’t a philosophy class.
TF: “I think you should base your analysis on what is in the painting as opposed to what isn’t.”
Perhaps, but that’s so confining. College is a place where you’re free to color outside the lines (or the frame).
In response to what the writer thought was a beautifully crafted piece of prose:
TF: “I would find another way to say this…”
The ellipses are the real killers here. A simple “wording” would have sufficed.
TF: “Interesting hypothesis, but it is really just a theory.”
Well, it was worth a try. You miss 100% of the claims you don’t make up.
Sections
The interuniversity trade routes between Yale and Harvard opened earlier this month by the proclamation of CS50’s export to Yale College, which is in Connecticut. This is no small step. CS50 is the best bioweapon we have engineered. With its t-shirts and free stuff, we are hopeful that it will divide the Yale campus into two groups: those who wear the “I took CS50” T-shirts, and those who do not. But this export should not be the last one by any means. FM considers other authentic items that Harvard has to offer to this time-honored rival for its betterment: Red BricksIvy classicism is best represented by these fancy rectangular units. Compared to the Ivy terror that Yale’s gothic architecture infuses in its visitors, the Harvard look instantly conveys a sense of privilege (success!), and contrary to common misconception, most red brick buildings in Harvard Square are not products of New England colonialism. They are all fairly new. (Are you surprised? Just because we’re the oldest doesn’t mean we don’t have to fake old sometimes. It’s part of the aura.)
The Comp ProcessNo, this is not like auditions. This is not the tap process for a clandestine society. The comp process could stand for two different processes: competition, or competency. For organizations like this one, The Crimson, it is just a set of requirements you must complete (or maybe not—I’m looking at you, Crimson Associate Editors with less than ten articles). Competition, on the other hand, is our way of feeling entitled to judge our peers. We drag them to our doorstep, we make them write, talk, and feel judged. Of course, this is only natural because they are being judged based on… Maybe it’s better not to go there. You will determine the specifics for yourself. I don’t know what counts as cool in New Haven.
First Chance DanceHere at Harvard, we believe in the organic development of things, and not the old-fashioned blind dates that you call Screw. First Chance Dance, followed by Last Chance Dance which gives the senior class one last chance to pair up, is a more liberating entry to sexual life at college. Drunk freshmen swarm and schmooze, and it is not compulsory to stay with one person the whole night. Fun guaranteed, traffic light dress code may protect you from people forcing themselves on you, but no guarantees. No shame, no regrets. Two messages that can improve your college life are first introduced to the incoming class at the First Chance Dance. Nothing is awkward after the First Chance Dance, because everything about it already is.
Honey Ginger Glaze SwaiThis mouthwatering dish is everyone’s favorite. Conceived and brought to us by HUDS, this gourmet dish brings together sweet, pungent, and tasteless. You will find it hard not to detest this item served often in your dining hall. We are given the chance to actively avoid swai, an endangered species, deemed a fish to avoid especially if it is imported, almost every day. This is one of the smart ways Harvard teaches its students how to make the right decisions, and be better leaders of the world.
Dorm CrewWe maximize workforce on this campus. There is no reason to hire more employees when students can be paid to clean each others’ bathrooms. This way, when they don’t have enough staff, they can show up once a month, or once a semester, and the school will, at the end, save money. Busy students, it turns out, are the best employees you want to have—when they don’t work, you don’t pay them. And it is guaranteed that they won’t—at least some of the time.
The KongWenzel meets Toad’s. Yes, Yalies, this is our home-grown midnight jamboree. Not the only midnight snack option, but the only institution that offers a comedy club, bar, restaurant, dance floor… The grease in the food will keep you up until closing time. The drunken stupor is best experienced when shared in a Scorpion Bowl. Join the line of drunken people outside the Kong.
The QuadCongratulations! Your fundraising efforts for the two new residential colleges are completed. Here are a few tips to ensure that you accomplish creating a Quad. First of all, make sure the shuttle does not run as planned. Shuttles that disappear on Transloc right before they arrive are preferred to shuttles that do not run at all. Secondly, create a distinct look in the interior decoration, which will help you describe these houses as “homey,” as this will be their only appeal. A lot of common spaces with puffy sofas will save the image of these forgotten lands. Hold sections of one of your most popular concentrations (I’m sorry—majors) nearby, so that the students who live near everybody else feel frustrated every week.
Sections
Last month saw the opening of the Ethelbert Cooper Gallery at the Hutchins Center, the first museum on Harvard’s campus dedicated solely to African and African American art. The inagural exhibition, creatively entitled Luminós/C/ity.Ordinary Joy, seeks to capture the multifaceted components that make up African city life through modern art. Equipped only with the knowledge of this title—which itself, I have to admit, wasn’t especially descriptive—I decided it was time to check out the new installation, located next to Peet’s Coffee in Harvard Square.
Upon first walking in with a photographer, a seated security guard was quick to remind us that no photography was allowed. But after informing the museum supervisors that I was here with The Crimson, the curator, Vera Grant, swiftly proposed a private tour and extended us the freedom to photograph every moment. Coincidentally, Glenn H. Hutchins ’77, who endowed the Hutchins Center, arrived at the same time to explore the space. Together, we embarked on a tour.
Thick wooden beams, intended to imitate both trees in an African forest and the openness of nature, lined the windows. The gallery wound its way through narrow, dimly lit hallways, giving off a general sense of uneasiness. The often somber subject matter presented in the exhibit was well paired to its backdrop.
In an art exhibit all about innovation, identity, and urbanity, the ambiance was arguably the most important component. From the outset of the tour, it was clear that the new gallery made this integration of art and atmosphere its main goal, assimilating distinct aspects of African culture within the display’s structure and use of space. Writen in big letters on the wall were the themes that organized the art, including: “Sin City,” “Inter/city,” and “Atro/city”. Each room in the gallery was dedicated to one of these ideas.
Spanning 98 works by 21 artists—most of them living—the collection aimed to encompass all aspects of the African city while praising everyday, “ordinary” joy. Contrary to what I expected, most of the art didn’t appear to reflect joy at all; some of the pieces depicted weapons, and others commented on poverty and greed. The artwork seemed to expose a fragmented society filled with anxious voices and conflicted attitudes about individual identity and cultural pride. Of course, he semi-claustrophobic space helped contribute to the existing tension.
Much of the art commented on the conflicted identity experienced by the portrayed Africans, the struggle between maintaining a traditional culture and absorbing Western, modern notions within city life. Rows of photographs down a hallway depicted children dressed in customary African garb yet flaunting glitzy jewelry and high-heels.
Many of the prominent installations showcased startlingly bright colors and bizarre structures, resembling dollhouses more than an artistic creation. The centerpiece of the exhibition was a structure about the size of a ping pong table, constructed by Bodys Isek Kingelez, an African sculptor. It depicted a miniaturized cityscape made up of what appeared to be typical urban buildings but distorted by color or structural impossibilities.
According to Grant, Kingelez used this fantastical vibrancy to comment on the excess and immorality beneath the attempted development of African metropolises, like his hometown in the Congo. “He is at once creating a joyful, imaginative view of what it could be like and critiquing the idea that you have these grand plans of African cities that never get manifested,” Grant explained. “It’s pointing to world debt. It’s pointing to corruption. It’s pointing to plans that were never realistically thought out.”
The city was represented as an ambivalent backdrop, providing opportunity and glamor, but also deception and loss. Grant commented on the work of one artist in particular, Kudzanai Chiurai of Zimbabwe. As he struggled with city life, she explained, he looked at “what life is like in an undemocratic, political zone where you have the cult of personality, where guns are a positive, visible part of your presence on the street, and where your administrators are celebrated as part of the corrupt atmosphere.” While the pieces came in a wide array of media—sculpture, painting, video, and drawing—many touched upon these same ideas of sin and destruction within African urban communities. If anything, the museum presented a jarring though unsurprising depiction of past and modern African turmoil. In an area scarred by historical torture and plagued by modern atrocities, the artists attempted to create joy, through whatever means possible.
Unexpectedly, the most impressive aspect of my visit wasn’t the art itself, but rather seeing the artists in communication and in response to one another. While many seemed to be exposing a particularly fractured society, others skillfully generated moments of beauty and illumination in a complex and exquisite culture. Among the latter was J.D. ‘Okhai Ojeikere, a Nigerian artist who depicted ornate hairstyles of African women through a series of photographs, celebrating the splendor and creativity of Nigerian societal life. Because of the small space, both genres were immediately juxtaposed, creating a perplexing, yet startlingly realistic representation of the artists’ sentiments.
The very last installation was a large bicycle made primarily out of wood and rope. In an exhibition featuring nuanced commentaries on the implications of the city, this served as a reminder of the “ordinary” joy that can accompany simple and everyday life.
Sections
Megan L. Amram ’10, a Twitter famous writer for NBC’s “Parks and Recreation,” calls her new book, “Science...For Her!” her “id of writing.” Having recently stopped by Cambridge for her book tour, she admits that Portland (her hometown) and Harvard were the two stops she was most looking forward to. “I had so much fun. It really was like, ‘Oh, my God, this is mah people!,’” she says. With Harvard-Yale almost upon us, Amram later tells me how much she loves The Game. Amram, a teasing curl in her voice, cheers, “Go Crimson! I love sports and I love Harvard. I can’t get enough of it!”
FM: Why did you want to write a book?MA: I have, for a few years, been writing comedy prose—short pieces for my blog, because I found it to be a good way to write while I was on a TV show. It was different enough from my scripts that it felt like a break, but it still was comedy, and very fun. I like to do comedy!
FM: What drew you to science? Way to prove Larry Summers wrong.MA: Yes. I mean, that was actually right before I got to Harvard, but it was definitely in the air. I definitely love science. I was a little afraid to do it at Harvard because there were actually smart people, whereas I was just high school smart. But I also have really been fascinated with women’s magazines. Fascinated and frustrated. I thought, just aesthetically, textbooks and women’s magazines look a lot alike, and I thought it would be a very fun character to play—the most sexist woman of all time.
FM: How does your new book relate to your Twitter persona?MA: I do kind of think they’re the same weirdo—possibly criminally psychotic. The person on my Twitter account has a much worse picture.… But I think they’re both as confused about how to live their lives.
FM: Did being at Harvard influence your comedy style at all?MA: Well, I wrote for the Hasty Pudding [Theatricals] when I was there, and I think that that was more than two years. It was super great to practice writing in a place, where you’re free to fail, but also free to try a lot of different things. If anything, it helped me crystallize what I really wanted to write. The stuff that made me laugh, I just want to write. My book is pretty crazy. I’m not a very good writer because I don’t have a lot of synonyms at my disposal. I am really proud of it. I think it’s exactly what I wanted to write. I think Harvard gave me that confidence.
FM: Neil DeGrasse Tyson already debunked the science in “Interstellar.” Do you think your book’s next?MA: (Sighs.) I’ve been tweeting at him.
FM: Has he responded?MA: He has not! It’s really crazy. It’s like, what could you possibly be doing? Rewatching “Interstellar” to look for more holes? I want him to, maybe not debunk it, but just say it’s correct.
FM: When you submitted the book for publishing, did anyone mistake the book for a serious take on women and science?MA: It was very funny to see who understood the voice and who didn’t. I would say, most people totally got it, which was really fun. And a relief. Though I think if I met with publishers who didn’t think I was really that sexist, and just didn’t understand, at all, the premise, then were like, “Maybe you could write a memoir?” And I was not ready to do that.
FM: What’s your book’s theme song?MA: It would be “Perfect Day” by Hoku, which starts up “Legally Blonde,” the movie.
FM: Good answer. MA: Yeah, thank you, that was very quick. It sounds like I’ve answered that before, and I haven’t. Or it would be…there’s a song called “Dumb Head.” It’s a sixties song, and it’s a woman just calling herself super stupid.
FM: How real is your alter ego, the “other Megan?” Does it take a lot out of you to write as her?MA: It doesn’t take anything out of me. It’s so fun and easy to flip into. Probably too easy.… I found it so fun to write the narrative. She tells her own story over the course of the book. It’s so fun because you can do anything to her. She’s an awful person. A lot of really bad things happen to her, but I didn’t feel bad about it because she’s so awful.
FM: How do you see your brand of comedy playing with society’s expectations of women?MA: Hmm. I really hope that girls who are teenagers, or are a little too young, get this book. It’d be really awesome just to find out some of these crazy things in society through dumb girls. I think that’s really important. The big thing about the Larry Summers quote that I found to be a fallacy was that girls are just told to be a certain way, and to do certain jobs when they’re younger. It struck me—I never thought that I had to be any one thing, but some little girls grow up thinking they should be a certain way or a certain job. That’s the way that I would want my book to affect people—to maybe point out little, subtle, sexist things in everyday stuff.
FM: Were you able to create any chemically altered cocktails?MA: I say that “Sex on the Bleach” is a really good option. Just “Sex on the Beach” with a ton of bleach in it. You know, I’ve never tried it, but I wanna say that it really could go in any direction. You try it and let me know.
FM: Did you ever read Fifteen Minutes as an undergrad?MA: Yes, of course! I loved it. I still read it every single time it comes out, looking for that hot 19 year old.
Sections
Each photo is intensely personal, each gaze piercingly direct, each sentence strikingly raw: “My blood is too gay to save a life.” “How much did your gender cost you?” “My identity is not a sin.” “No girl is too pretty to be a lesbian.” “Where are the queer Asian stories?”
“In the Making,” a new photography initiative from LGBTQ activists Curtis L. Lahaie ’15 and Kyle J. McFadden ’18, spotlights these thought-provoking lines and dozens more like them, challenging stereotypes about queer issues one handheld chalkboard at a time. What began as Lahaie’s class project for WGS 1211: “Queer Practice” has blossomed into a phenomenon that has garnered over 77,000 notes on Tumblr, includes more than 60 student portraits, and has collected upwards of $4,000 for LGBTQ charities via Indiegogo.
Over dinner in Dunster, Lahaie and McFadden explain that “In the Making” aims to advance the conversation about LGBTQ rights beyond the fight for marriage equality.
“There’s this misconception…that marriage equality means full equality for the LGBTQ community and that supporters of the movement might believe that once we have nationwide marriage equality, which I personally think is basically imminent, then we’re just done,” Lahaie says. “But in reality there are so many other issues that haven’t been fully addressed. So I wanted to come up with a way to make that message really clear, and I think one really powerful way is to do that through photos.”
The epicenter of the project is Lahaie’s Fairfax dorm room, where McFadden, a freelance photographer since high school, conducts the photo shoots. Participants write their own messages, all of which explore, in various combinations, topics such as sexuality, race, gender, and religion. The individuality of the statements is crucial to their power. “It was especially important that people chose lines that personally resonated with them so that...these aren’t just random lines chosen by us,” Lahaie says.
Our conversation turns to the broader ideas that have emerged from the photos. “Some things that did stand out to me as themes were making the movement more intersectional, specifically with regards to race,” Lahaie observes. “There are a lot of people who really feel that the movement needs to take into consideration their race, and I strongly agree with that.”
McFadden adds, “One of the overarching themes is normalizing not just being gay but the whole idea of sexuality in general.”
The photo shoots can be as emotional for those behind the camera as they are for those in front of it. “There was one model yesterday who on the chalkboard wrote three boxes and wrote ‘male,’ ‘female,’ ‘other’ and put an X over the ‘other’ box because this person doesn’t identify as either male or female,” Lahaie recalls. “And there was just this passion with which this person wrote it, especially when writing ‘other’ in all caps and writing that X….It was something very important to the person. Giving an avenue to these people to express what’s important to them has been really impactful.” Not all of the photos affiliated with the project come from these photo shoots. Supporters of the campaign outside of Harvard have submitted their own “In the Making”-style snapshots, which Lahaie and McFadden feature on their website.
But Lahaie and McFadden are on a mission to raise more than just awareness. Using Indiegogo, an online crowdfunding platform, they offer a variety of incentives for donations. $10, for instance, will buy you a social media shout-out, and for $100, McFadden will autograph the portrait of your choosing, among other prizes. Now close to halfway to their $10,000 goal, Lahaie and McFadden plan to divide the donations between three charities that tackle LGBTQ issues other than marriage equality: Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network, National LGBTQ Task Force, and Sylvia Rivera Law Project.
“It’s been incredibly exciting,” reflects McFadden. “Social activism was something that I focused on a lot back home prior to coming to Harvard, and having this kind of opportunity brought up so early the first semester, the first month I was here has…been fantastic.”
Harvard’s Open Gate Foundation has already awarded Lahaie and McFadden a grant that they put towards promoting the project, and they plan to apply for additional funding in the near future. Going forward, they also hope to use Mather House’s art gallery to display their portraits, and on Nov. 19, they will exhibit their photos at an event run by the Association of BGLTQ Faculty and Staff. Just like the LGBTQ movement it supports, the project is, in and of itself, still in the making.
Sections
Sections
By now, you’ve probably heard about Rick Perry’s uncomfortable visit to Hanover, although the jury’s still out on whether he really is willing to have anal sex for $102 million. The Texas governor was asked this question, and several others, during a Q&A session following his speech at Dartmouth College last Sunday. The questions—many of which involved sodomy—were distributed to audience members by campus activists who opposed Perry’s stances on homosexuality and gay marriage.
Perry’s experience highlights a key danger of speaking on Ivy League campuses: when addressing a room packed with outspoken, opinionated undergraduates, nothing is sacred. Conservative speakers in particular have often faced unwelcoming behavior from audiences on college campuses whose students are predominantly left-leaning. As eager as Harvard may be to sell itself as a forum for fair and nonpartisan debate, it has seen more than its fair share of disruptions. FM investigates past events at which speakers on campus have been given a less-than-warm welcome.
Student run-ins with speakers have ranged from comical to outright dangerous. Just last year, Michael R. Bloomberg, who graduated from the Business School in 1966, used his commencement speech to rail against the recent trend of colleges rejecting speakers for ideological reasons. “If a university thinks twice before inviting a commencement speaker because of his or her politics,” he said, “censorship and conformity—the mortal enemies of freedom—win out.”
In instances where students were unable to keep speakers away, they have, in the past, resorted to other means of protest, such as walk-outs—as with Alan Greenspan’s commencement speech in 1999. Other similar protests have involved verbal abuse.
Even when a controversial figure is able to deliver their speech uninterrupted, the danger of a heightened student response is not necessarily over after the event ends. In 2003, a heated debate between investment wizard Jim Rogers and HBS student Dmitry Alimov led to an email exchange that went viral in world financial circles. Alimov, whom Rogers called a “chauvinistic know-nothing” for his views on the Russian economy, subsequently received job offers from banks around the world. For better or for worse, the high profile of Harvard events means that controversy here cannot be kept under wraps.
But all of these confrontations pale in comparison to those of the 1980s, when tensions between liberal students and conservative speakers boiled over on several occasions. The antics carried out by protestors 30 years ago make today’s boycotts—and sodomy-focused Q&A sessions—look tame in comparison. In 1983, hecklers nearly derailed a talk by Caspar W. Weinberger ’38, Ronald Reagan’s Secretary of Defense, by unfurling upside-down American flags from the Sanders Theatre balcony and throwing balloons full of red dye at the stage. Protesters allegedly dressed as Grim Reapers and pointed at Weinberger throughout his speech.
Two years later, South African General Consul Abe S. Hoppenstein was blockaded in the Lowell House Junior Common Room by anti-apartheid protesters and was forced to escape underground using the house tunnels. In 1987, former Nicaraguan Contra leader Adolfo Calero was physically attacked by a Tufts student on his way to the podium at HLS.
So what happened to the bad old days of protest, when speakers faced human barricades and Grim Reapers? In the ’80s, each side blamed the other: Harvard conservatives blasted liberals for killing the university’s atmosphere of free speech, while liberals attacked conservative groups for deliberately booking inflammatory speakers.
Recently, even liberals have made news after appearances on the Harvard stage. Joe Biden found this out last month during his speech at the IOP, when he attempted to commiserate with UC Vice President Sietse K. Goffard ’15 over their mutual position.
“Ain’t it a bitch?” asked Biden when Goffard introduced himself as vice president, which prompted astonished laughter from the audience. The incident was quickly picked up by NBC and Politico, and soon went viral on the Internet, once again proving Harvard’s prominence in world news—and the perils of speeches here gone awry. Ain’t speaking at Harvard a bitch, Joe?
Sections
I read a lot. This fact is especially relevant to me this semester as I read the terrifyingly (and arguably, obnoxiously) enormous novel “Infinite Jest” by the late David Foster Wallace. 1,079 pages of fiction really reminds you how much you have to enjoy words. I always have enjoyed them, and I have always read a lot.
I just read a lot in different ways.
That is, I struggled to read “Infinite Jest.” I would brave 10 pages at a time, then find a reason to grab my phone and check Facebook. The platitude that people have low attention spans as a result of the digital age is all too real for me and it makes me sad.
I do love Facebook. Not because of the clichéd fascination with other people’s lives, or FOMO, or any social-based obsessions like that. I spend a lot of time on Facebook because I read a lot.
I read the New York Times, and Wired Magazine, and Forbes, and Slate, and The Atlantic, and The Nerdist, and any other interesting articles shared or linked. This past week I have read: a study on how house cats are less domesticated than dogs; an analysis of midterm elections and why Democrats will “never sway middle class white workers” to their cause; an argument for why too many superheroes will kill the industry, along with another argument for why there are just the right amount of superhero movies right now; TV shows that were cancelled in a fast-changing time of DVRs and steaming; that a candidate I supported was announced the winner of a hometown state legislature election; etc.
So I read a lot. I love information, and maybe that’s what was always the pull for reading for me. It’s simply that I don’t read the same way I always have and that brings me that nostalgic sadness for a simplistic childhood that surely everyone has from time to time, and especially in a demanding environment like post-secondary education that reminds you, “You’re an adult now, things are different.” It’s all too real for me.
I sit in Lamont Library, hunched over in my carrell, and when my eyes are tired from staring at a white screen for four-plus hours at 3 a.m. on a Thursday night, sometimes I just walk through the library. And it comes back to me, the contrast of “I read a lot” now and “I read a lot then.” The “then” of my childhood, of a different meaning of “I read a lot.”
There are literally hundreds of books, books that other places in the U.S. would love to have, and they just sit there in Lamont. When I was younger, I would have loved nothing more than to just stop, pick up something interesting, and read.
In middle school I had a free period during my second hour, and so I applied to become a library assistant. It was one of my favorite school experiences. I was in my element, surrounded by fiction books, nonfiction guides, and graphic novels. When I finished returning books to shelves or printing out bookmarks, or whatever task I was assigned that morning, I would just read. This is the memory I recall when I’m thinking of the miles and miles of book beneath Widener, and how middle-school-me would run from shelf to shelf looking for books on anything and everything.
I was always talkative in elementary school, to the point where teachers noted that I could be disruptive to other students. In my first grade parent/teacher conference my teacher recommended that I come to class with books to read for when I finished work, so that I would not be a distraction for those who still needed to focus. The first book I brought to school after that was “Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone.”
My mother and father instilled that love of reading in me. I have memories of libraries I would visit. I can think of full afternoons spent in the children’s sections. I can think of hours given to summer reading programs. I can think of the little plastic bags they would put all my books in. Dav Pilkey’s “Ricky Ricotta” series, “Encyclopedia Brown” books, Bruce Coville (my favorite) and his fantasy novels, or K.A. Applegate’s “Animorphs.” And lots and lots more.
I remember reading a whole book on raising and caring for bearded dragons, and being convinced I’d get one because I knew what to do. I would read DK guides, the illustrated nonfiction glossaries on everything from the history of “Star Wars” to the history of the Civil War. I read books about filmmaking, books about knights in the Middle Ages, books about writing books. I just read so much.
My mother had me join “Battle of the Books” which was a nationwide competition wherein kids like myself would spend the year reading 12 books of various genres and then proceed to answer questions on their content. Such as “In which book does x character tell y character that z happened?” Or something like, “In which book does a minor detail occur in this particular location?” I was literally reading so many books that I participated in competitive book-reading.
Like I said, I read a lot.
I can’t help but think of that subtle difference, now. How that word “read,” that is r-e-a-d, can be read like the color or like the plant. And the difference baffles me, because “read” like the color reminds me of happy childhood memories, and simplicity, and a oft-missed sense of hope and optimism for the future. It’s contrasted with the “read” like the plant, which makes me think of the here and now, and academic books that are fascinating, but I have to write a paper on them, or how I read dozens and dozens of online articles everyday but how this little phone that, in fact, allows me to read so much keeps me from reading what I used to.
So that when I read, it’s never for long. It’s never for the hours I did as I was younger. The pull of the new information, the stuff I got from books as a kid, is now in competition with what I loved before.
So, I read a lot. It’s just in different ways.
Marco A Torres '17 is a philosophy concentrator in Pforzheimer House. If he's not in the dining hall talking about superhero movies, he's probably pondering life's clichéd "big questions" on the Quad shuttle.
Sections
Bob Scalise rarely gives interviews. The Harvard athletic director is a busy man, and speaking on the record isn’t usually on the top of his priority list. But when given the opportunity to discuss the Ivy League’s eligibility policies, he takes it. These rules define the Ivy League, they add to the conference’s uniqueness—and they’re complicated.
But before we can discuss wrestlers deferring enrollment to train while attending a community college down the street, hockey players managing to graduate years older than they could have, and team leaders deciding to disappear for a year to maintain their eligibility, we need to start with Scalise.
His is one of a row of offices on the Murr Center’s third floor, protected from the hallway by a secretary. Scalise sits behind a clean desk, a large whiteboard behind him. It’s filled with three columns of buzzwords: diversity, gender equality, and the like. The room feels set up for office hours in William James Hall, and Scalise fits easily into that scene. He has the gray hair and quiet, didactic tone any casting director would look for in a Harvard professor, but the scene falls apart when you turn to the window. Harvard Stadium looms outside. The Horseshoe grandstands once hosted 57,166 spectators, which would rank in the top 50 for college football stadiums today—more than Oregon or Stanford’s stadiums hold.
Seeing the Stadium’s curved rows—which appear endless from Scalise’s close vantage point—reminds you that he is not a professor. Instead, he oversees the country’s largest athletic department, which boasts 42 teams.
Still, he plays the academic well. Soon after I sit down, Scalise has already jumped back to 1954 and the Ivy League’s decision to drop out of the college sports arms race, an explication that’s part of a 500-word response explaining why the Ivy League is the only Division 1 conference that prohibits traditional “redshirting.”
Elsewhere in the country, athletes who sit out most or all of the games for a season are given another year of athletic eligibility. They can then stretch their four years worth of academic requirements over five years, or enroll in graduate school while being on the team for a fifth calendar year.
At many schools, freshmen are told by their coaches to take this route. Football teams redshirt swaths of players to create cadres of fifth-year seniors who have already graduated, and are, to some education watchdogs, worryingly professional.
The Ivy League, representing itself as a bastion of amateurism, has largely avoided this trend.
The long and short of it, Scalise says, is that Harvard and the other Ivies want their athletes to have the same college experience as every other student—and that means not extending their stay on campus for athletic reasons.
“While winning is great—and we all like to win—we are really educators,” he says. “If you measured success solely by winning, maybe you are missing out on something [by not redshirting], but that’s not what we are all about.”
But if you walk out of Scalise’s office, descend the stairs, hang a couple of lefts, and walk onto the turf of the Stadium—observing things from the ground level and without the idealistic tint of Scalise’s window—you might find other viewpoints.
It’s simple, really, and entirely unsurprising: athletes want to play.
On many teams across the league, players work with the system to get the most out of their four years of eligibility. Some might do it to improve their professional prospects, but most are simply looking to be more competitive, help their team, and play the game they love for a little bit longer.
Cornell wrestler Dylan Palacio was labeled a “walking sound-byte” by the Big Red’s athletic department website last spring. As he explains why his school’s wrestling program is “lightyears ahead of any other [Ivy] school,” the reason becomes clear.
Palacio claims that Cornell has won the last 12 Ivy titles (the longest active streak in the League) largely because of a community college known as TC3.
Two years ago, before attending Cornell, three future Big Red wrestlers took classes at Tompkins Cortland Community College, which has a branch in Ithaca. They earned credits in difficult classes and wrestled three times a week at the same facilities Cornell’s team uses, setting themselves up for academic and athletic success the following year. Two of the wrestlers earned All-American status, while Palacio himself fell just shy. Palacio adds that all three made the NWCA’s True Freshman All-Academic Team, too.
“I feel so lucky to be a part of TC3 and the system and how much it really benefited me as a person and as an athlete,” Palacio says.
While the thought of running these athletes through a local community college might prompt questions, Cornell coach Rob Koll says it’s just a cheaper alternative to the more traditional post-graduate year taken after high school at well-known prep schools.
He also said he doesn’t see a downside to taking that year. The team gets four years of a more developed athlete, the school gets a wiser student, and the student-athlete comes in better able to take advantage of his four years there. For Koll, the only negative is the extra year of tuition.
Koll’s son is even doing something similar, taking classes part-time at Cornell while living off campus. He’ll attempt to join the Big Red squad next year with four years of eligibility remaining.
Harvard’s credit transfer policy is more strict, making that system less viable, but many Crimson athletes still seek out a year of development before coming to Cambridge. Football coach Tim Murphy says he helps connect roughly two players a year with prep schools that will help them develop academically and athletically. Former athletic director John P. “Jack” Reardon ’60 says this tradition dates back to the 1930s, if not earlier.
Reigning Ivy League Defensive Player of the Year Zachary B. Hodges ’15 went through just this system, taking a post-graduate year at Phillips Exeter Academy. The extra time, which he used to bulk up and perfect his understanding of the game while studying, has helped him reach as high as second place on a list of 236 linebacker draft prospects for the National Football League. 
Meanwhile, for basketball, one campus has become the standard layover destination for players in the Ivy League: Northfield Mount Hermon.
Two years ago, Harvard sophomore Zena K. Edosomwan ’17 enrolled at NMH for a post-graduate year and won a national championship playing alongside two current Yalies, a Princeton player, a current Penn commit, and other Ivy hopefuls. The school has also trained future Dartmouth players. Before Edosomwan, Laurent A. Rivard '14 and other Harvard players came through NMH.
Talking before the start of this year's season, Edosomwan said he now sees the benefits in spending that year in western Massachusetts. For one thing, many of the teams he faced that year boasted five-plus Division-1 recruits, meaning he’ll have totaled five years of upper-level competition by the time he graduates. What’s more, Edosomwan learned to find his role on a talented team and even goes so far as to claim the year was more beneficial than a redshirt year at Harvard would have been.
Not yet being at Harvard kept him hungry, Edosomwan argues. He says he can imagine that students who have already made it to their dream school might get complacent—he, on the other hand, had to keep working.
After a year at TC3, Palacio had a similar feeling, though the "walking sound-byte" expressed it a little differently.
"I felt like a hamster running on a treadmill," he says over the phone, explaining the metaphor he has used before. "The cheese was always in front of me; I just had to make it happen. It wasn't all me. It was all thanks to TC3. I can't even in a sentence explain how grateful I am to every single person I met there."
Men’s hockey co-captain Kyle A. Criscuolo ’16 doesn’t have the same professional prospects as Hodges, but he too entered college later than normal, spending an extra year at prep school and then competing in a junior hockey league for one season.
Criscuolo says about half of his teammates also spent a year in juniors before joining the Crimson. And a good portion of those guys had already committed to Harvard, Criscuolo says. They didn’t need the competition to show off for college scouts but instead used the year to better prepare themselves for collegiate competition.
For Criscuolo, that meant adding 10 pounds to his 5’8” frame.
“You don’t want to go into college and be behind the eight-ball,” Criscuolo says. “So I think all the guys find it helpful to take the extra year.”
Back in Scalise’s office, the athletic director expresses concern about the possibility of kids taking this post-high-school year if they were also allowed to spend five years in college. “Then you get an instance where you are having people graduating much older than they are graduating right now,” he explains.
“That’s why there is this big ruckus about hockey and people coming to school as hockey players—not at Harvard but at a lot of other places,” Scalise continues. “When Yale won the national championship, they were a little older. It raises a little bit of an eyebrow and a red flag.”
When Yale won the 2013 national championship, none of its seniors was younger than 23.
Harvard’s case is less extreme, but multiple freshmen on the hockey team will still turn 20 during this season, and the number of junior-league graduates is even higher on other Ivy rosters. Only two Cornell skaters have a school listed as their “last team” on the roster.
Non-Ivy schools rely on the junior leagues to develop players as well.
“There is really no redshirting in hockey because of the juniors,” former Princeton defenseman Matt Farris explained to The Daily Princetonian. “The level of competition and development is high [in the junior leagues], so the players can give big dividends to their college teams right out of the gate. It is our unofficial redshirt program.”
Having equally developed players has helped the Ancient Eight stay nationally competitive on the ice. Earlier this month, Harvard beat and tied top-10 Boston College and Union College, respectively.
The other established method for maximizing an athlete’s four athletic seasons is the leave of absence.
The Ivy League is the only conference to not allow a standard redshirt: sitting out all of the games for a season and stretching the four years of allotted athletic eligibility and four years of academic requirements over five years.
Instead, students must complete four seasons in eight academic terms, meaning they have to leave school for a term if they want to compete in an extra season.
Ivy League Assistant Executive Director for Compliance, Governance, and Championships Megan Morrison explains the rationale behind the rule: “The philosophy behind the Ivy League rule boils down to not allowing student-athletes to intentionally delay their graduation for athletic reasons.”
Harvard administrators defend the rule by arguing that spots in their selective schools are in demand, and therefore athletes should not be allowed to hold one of those spots for an extra year for athletic reasons.
And yet, Ivy players hungry for more competition have often found ways to earn a coveted fifth year by taking a leave of absence.
Columbia basketballer Alex Rosenberg, for instance, recently withdrew after suffering a foot injury, giving up on classes in which he was past the midpoint so that he could be a part of the basketball team for four full seasons.
“It’s part of the fabric of our institution, and I’m sure there are multiple reasons that that’s the way that it’s been and the way that it is,” men’s basketball coach Tommy Amaker said of the rule in a press conference last week.
Amaker turned down an interview request on the issue.
From a basketball standpoint, he continues, he would love for Harvard to have the same rules other schools do because it would mean another year of eligibility for a player like senior center Kenyatta A. Smith ’15, who has struggled with injuries.
“But that’s never been the way that we’ve operated, and we recognize that we’re different. We have different beliefs and perspectives and philosophies, and it’s been very healthy for us for the most part,” he says.
Some outside critics, though, find the rules odd and out-of-date. Discussing Rosenberg’s decision, Yahoo! Sports writer Jeff Eisenberg wrote that the Ivy rules are “archaic” and “ill-conceived.”
The rules, though, are more friendly to players on other teams. Athletes in sports that span just one semester (football in the fall or lacrosse in the spring, for example) can play five athletic seasons in eight academic terms by taking one offseason off.
Before leaving campus, they must file a waiver to the Ivy League office, ensuring they still have a season of athletic eligibility remaining. That’s the process wide receiver Joseph R. “Ricky” Zorn III ’14 went through.
Years after suffering a season-ending injury as a freshman, Zorn filed the necessary waiver his senior fall and then left campus. Before making the decision, Zorn talked it over with his coaches.
Zorn recalls that Murphy, the football coach who took a fifth year during his time at Springfield College, told him about the personal benefits he reaped from taking an extra year. It’s the same message Murphy gives to anyone who asks about taking additional semesters, whether or not they are an athlete.
“I tell my own children this and I tell players this: if you have an extra year, in my humble opinion but completely sincerely, you’re crazy if you don’t take it,” Murphy says. “The real world is great, but it’s nowhere near as great as college.”
Murphy, during his time at Cincinnati University, was one of the coaches who redshirted scores of players in order to benefit the program long-term. But he says the Ivy rules largely get it right, limiting the opportunity to injured players who must leave school for a semester.
During that time off, Zorn went home to Texas and worked in a Boston law firm instead of experiencing a traditional senior spring. “That was difficult,” Zorn says of leaving school, though he was able to participate in commencement ceremonies.
After returning to the team, Zorn got hurt again, and he has not seen the field since. Yet, he is still glad he came back for a fifth season and does not regret the choice.
“While it did stink to not be here for senior spring, it was also kind of nice to be able to take a step back from school for a little bit,” Zorn says. “That’s helped me in my studies this year.”
But Zorn was more skeptical about the league’s other quirk, saying “it’s kind of weird that you have to be injured to be able to have this redshirt year.”
Twenty-eight Harvard students applied for waivers last year, making up a large portion of the just-over-100 applicants around the league. Only 16 applied this year, which falls more in line with the league average.
It didn’t take an injury for Patrick Hogan ’15-’16 to decide to leave school just over a year ago. He spent last year training at Cornell and in Colorado Springs. By leaving before enrolling for his junior year, he maintained his athletic eligibility and came back a better wrestler in his estimation.
“I thought that having an extra year of training under my belt, getting a bunch more matches in, would make a big difference on my wrestling career,” he says. “There’s not really a lot of opportunity to wrestle after college...so you might as well do everything in your power to make sure you can be the best that you can be in the time that you have left.”
Hogan says he would have preferred to train at Harvard, but the rules do not allow it. He adds that leaving for a year was beneficial for him, and he would make the decision again because “you get another year to play the sport that you love.”
That’s what he told the two wrestlers who are taking this season off.
But the rules prohibit other athletes from taking their ideal routes through the University.
Men’s hockey players who get concussions early in the season, for instance, have limited options. At other schools, they could just sit out and retain a year of athletic eligibility to use in a fifth academic year, but Harvard’s rules do not permit that choice.
Athletes in this situation can either sacrifice a year of eligibility while healing on the sidelines or drop out of school to save one of their four academic years. Leaving involves sacrificing nearly a full term of academic progress.
“Obviously you want to play the four years, and you don’t want to be leaving school,” Criscuolo says, “But how the rules are set up, that’s how it goes.”
The policy, in combination with the fact that the conference does not allow graduate students with eligibility remaining to compete, also slows some students’ academic progress.
“If I’d gone to another school and wanted a fifth year, I feel like I would’ve wanted to stay in school and continue on with school,” Zorn says of not being able to complete his college education in four years and enroll as a graduate student during his fifth season. Murphy, by contrast, was able to enroll in a graduate program during his fifth year.
Andrew Van Nest ’12 transferred his fifth season of eligibility to Boston College, where he earned a graduate degree while playing basketball.
Van Nest says he was able to continue his basketball career in Europe largely because he played that extra year in college, but he adds that he understands the Ivy League’s policy to prohibit graduate players. He also says the Harvard program does not lose much by not having fifth-year guys on the roster since Amaker develops talent so well.
Koll, the Cornell wrestling coach, says he has lost wrestlers to Lehigh, Holy Cross, and other schools that allow students to use their final year of eligibility while enrolling in graduate school.
He has also seen athletes sometimes decide not to accelerate their graduation dates because they want to play out all of their eligibility at Cornell.
Students hoping to take a semester off and return with the same amount of eligibility must meet with Dean of Freshman Thomas A. Dingman ’67, the University’s faculty athletic representative, before leaving campus.
Dingman’s office is best described as some combination of a coastal bed and breakfast and the Oval Office. Even early in the morning, Dingman’s trademark enthusiasm is evident.
He explains that he was put in this position after the league’s presidents became concerned about the number of athletes competing in a fifth year. To address the situation, they appointed Dingman who ensures that each athlete both comes to the decision to leave without excessive coach influence and has substantive plans for their time away.
 This overlaps with Dingman’s primary role as the overseer of freshman life on campus. Freshman athletes are one of the biggest groups affected by Harvard’s lack of redshirting, and Dingman says playing so soon after setting foot on campus presents challenges.
“It’s hard for freshmen,” Dingman says. “We got some people who are used to competing at a high level and maybe putting in as many hours as they do here, but there are a whole lot of people for whom it’s a big step up. And then to do that alongside with four courses is a challenge. It’s hard to do other extracurricular things, for instance.”
“Sometimes those people are phantoms in entryways,” he explains, “which is really too bad.”
Back at Cornell, Palacio, a wrestler who also plays for the school’s soccer team, has seen some freshmen struggle if they did not take a gap year.
“It’s so hard for them, and I think their athletic performance shows,” he explains. “When the freshmen sometimes feel overwhelmed about how many practices they have, it affects their soccer, and that’s a real shame.“
Freshmen used to be prohibited from playing on varsity teams before the NCAA eliminated the ban in 1972. The Ancient Eight criticized the change and kept freshmen teams, especially for major sports, but only for a time. In 1977, the league agreed to allow freshmen to play basketball after teams lost recruits to competitors without “the freshman rule.”
Freshman football teams lasted longer, but they too were gone by 1993. Former football coach Joe Restic said at the time, “We're concerned about the academic side—as I'm sure everyone else in the league is.”
In the 20-plus years since, the debate about freshmen playing has largely disappeared. Yet the effects on Harvard’s youngest athletes remain.
“[A freshman team] was much more forgiving so that if you’re having trouble getting used to the rigor of college, you could take Tuesday afternoon off,” Dingman says. “Whereas varsities, I think, it’s harder to do that.”
And whereas elsewhere in the country, overwhelmed students might be able to delay their athletic eligibility and stretch out academic requirements with a redshirt, that is not a fallback at Harvard. Instead, Crimson freshmen must get the most out of a quarter of their time with the team right away.
Even if you would never use your redshirt year, Palacio says, it would be comforting to know you have it to fall back on if you want to slow down and figure out “the question we all want to answer: What are we doing here?” he says. “It’s hard to figure that out and thrive in your sport and be a great student.”
“You’ve got kids who are supposed to become masters of their destiny and know exactly what they want to do,” he adds, “when two months ago they were asking permission to go to the bathroom.”
The first words on the Ivy League’s rules page indicate the tall task the conference hopes to accomplish: mitigating the conflict between academic and athletic pursuits.
“The basic intent of the [Ivy League’s] original agreement was to improve and foster intercollegiate athletics while keeping the emphasis on such competition in harmony with the educational purpose of the institutions.”
Scalise echoed this idea last year while speaking to The Crimson: “Since the beginning of intercollegiate sports there has always been a question of the balance of athletics and academics at institutions like Harvard.”
Though the University fosters sports with institutional support, it also puts strict rules on participation. In many cases, administrators have stuck to the goal of treating athletes exactly like other students—expecting them to contribute as soon as they get on campus and assuming they will move on once their fourth year is over.
Athletes, though, make other plans.
Scalise preaches the maturing powers of athletics. It presents an unparalleled opportunity for education, proponents say, and creates bonds other student groups cannot replicate. If that is true, it makes sense that players like Nicholas J. “Nick” Burrello ’15 would do everything within their power to stay with the team for as long as possible.
A senior defensive back who plays only sparingly, Burrello is currently going through the application process to miss his senior spring and return for one more fall.
"There is nothing like coming back for another year with your boys, another year with your brothers working every day," Burrello explains, sticking around after practice last week. "It really stinks because what happened was I took last season off because of a concussion. I was out the whole season, and it was difficult because it was hard with a concussion to be down here everyday, so I was apart from my family and I was missing a part of me. It made me really realize how much football meant to me and even more importantly how much the brothers on this team meant to me.”
Burrello says finding something to do this spring will be difficult, but he is excited to explore the real world and then come back.
"A lot of people are like, 'Hey, you are giving up your senior spring, do you really want to do that?’ And my answer is ‘Absolutely,’" Burrello says. "Having the chance to come back for another fall and playing football is something that is so special that it's hard to explain to somebody else who really hasn't been through the process before.”
“We preach 'Crim Family,'” he explains, “and that's just something I couldn't get away from—missing out on a year of that is just something I didn't want to do."
Burrello adjusts his shoulder pads. The sun has already set on the November evening, but the Stadium lights shine all around him. Most of the players have run off the field by now—hurrying to take exams or watch films—removing their uniforms to tackle the next thing in their lives.
Burrello is happy to stick around a little longer.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Faculty, students, and teaching fellows from the Romance Languages and Literatures Department endorsed on Tuesday the Harvard Teaching Campaign, a movement urging administrators to cap sections and lab groups at 12 students.
The endorsement statement, signed by 30 instructors and students from the department, expressed support for the movement, citing individualized attention for undergraduates and professional development for graduate students as benefits of smaller sections.
“A 12-student section ensures a productive teaching and learning community in both language and literature courses, facilitating discussion, creativity and a fluid exchange of ideas,” the statement read.
Members from across the department expressed support for the campaign, according to Jonathan Solarte, a campaign organizer and a teaching fellow from the Romance Languages and Literatures Department.
“This endorsement, unlike previous ones, shows a level of solidarity between faculty, graduate students, undergraduates, and teaching fellows, that so far hasn’t really been seen,” he said.
Romance Languages and Literatures is the seventh department or committee to extend its support for the Harvard Teaching Campaign. Previously, endorsements have come from the humanities and social sciences. According to student organizers, campaign members are actively reaching out to departments in the sciences.
Amanda Gokee ’15, a Romance Languages and Literatures concentrator and a member of the campaign’s undergraduate committee, said that the department’s endorsement is timely as undergraduates are voting on a referendum question concerning section sizes on the Undergraduate Council ballot.
“Hopefully this endorsement will help the issue of section sizes gain visibility,” she said.
In addition to the endorsements it has received, the campaign has circulated an online petition calling for the University to cap sections and lab group sizes at 12. As of press time, it had been signed by 1,604 members of the Harvard community, according to the campaign’s website.
—Staff Writer Zara Zhang can be reached at zara.zhang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last month, a Harvard School of Public Health poll found that more than half of American adults were concerned about the possibility of a large-scale Ebola outbreak in the U.S.,  though just two patients have now died within the country’s borders. This is the kind of misguided fear that the Harvard Undergraduate Global Health Forum was trying to combat in a small art exhibition that ran this week in the Science Center.
“We had a discussion on Ebola in our general meeting and we decided that we wanted to bring awareness, but we were not sure what,” said Edgar Garcia ’18. “One of the main concerns that was brought up was that many people were overacting to the issue, and although Ebola is a very serious disease, some of the reactions have been very extreme.”
To address these extreme reactions, the group organized “The Great Showdown” exhibit, hosted outside of Science Center Lecture Hall B from Monday to Thursday, which compared the hemorrhagic fever to another potential “emerging epidemic,” referred to only as “disease X” until the final panel.
The series of five large poster boards compared the deadliness and transmission rates of the two diseases. The final panel offers a “Verdict,” arguing that Americans should be far more worried about  “disease X”—revealed to be influenza, or the flu.
Influenced by the style of comic books, Vivian Y. Chan ’15 and Cristina S. Parajon ’18 created the interactive panels using collages of paper, pom poms, and pipe cleaners. The small exhibit highlights a few statistics, meant to be digestible for curious passers-by.
“We are not devaluing Ebola’s severity, but the flu can spread faster and there’s a very cheap, affordable, and accessible vaccine and Ebola doesn't have one,” Chen said. “The main takeaway should be that we should be be aware of both these infectious diseases, both potential epidemics, and be educated and do what we can to protect ourselves.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
EdX held its inaugural Open edX conference on Tuesday and Wednesday to bring together nearly 200 of the platform’s collaborators, who hail from as nearby as Cambridge to as far away as Japan. The conference comes a year and a half after edX launched the open-source initiative, which allows third-party groups to install, use, and develop the edX platform for their own educational purposes.
The conference, held in Radcliffe Yard, featured keynote speakers and breakout sessions intended to gauge the state of Open edX and encourage the sharing of ideas between platform users.
“We open-sourced our platform in June of 2013 and since then we’ve seen a lot of adoption,” said Sarina Canelake, a software engineer for the company. “What’s cool about this conference is that we’ve seen a lot of people, from France and from Japan, who we’ve never had a chance to meet, and put them in the same room, put a face to a name.”
According to Canelake, more than 400 courses are offered through Open edX worldwide. Contributors to the platform include Google, the University of Queensland, and Tsinghua University in Beijing.
In various breakout presentation sessions, attendees discussed hosting and adopting the platform, research, and pedagogy. Chief Technical Officer at Harvard James H. Waldo spoke at the “APIs and Integrations” track.
The sessions ranged from topics as technical as software architecture to the pedagogical theory of edX. They were taught by representatives from universities and software companies.
Vice Provost for Advances in Learning Peter K. Bol opened the conference Tuesday with a speech about the past trajectory and future projections of the edX platform.
“We don’t think of what edX is going to become or the roadmap, we see just what capabilities are at that moment incorporated,” Bol said, who spoke about the platform’s future in broad terms. “We tend to think, as faculty, that things are frozen in time, and one of the challenges that I think we have is to get people to envision that what edX is today and what edX will be a year from now are very different.”
When the platform first offered HarvardX courses in Oct. 2012, more than 100,000 students registered. Today, that number is more than one million, and nearly four million students are registered on edX.
Looking toward the future, Canelake said that edX hopes to make its platform more accessible.
“We’re really interested in adding new features, new courses that expand our reach across the globe,” said Canelake, adding that the Open edX platform helps achieve that goal.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Students are turning out to vote in high numbers even as Undergraduate Council representatives withhold endorsements from a crowded Council presidency race entering its final day.
The relatively large number of representatives who have yet to commit to a ticket reflects a race unusually packed with candidates having UC experience, sources say. All four tickets have at least one UC representative, and of the 8 total candidates, five are current or former members of the Council’s executive board.
“The choice is not easy,” Sietse K. Goffard ’15, the Council’s current vice president said, adding that he has remained neutral throughout the race. “A lot of people probably consider the fact that all of them have experience, all of them have differentiated platform ideas.”
This year’s field is a contrast with last year’s election, in which the winning ticket ran on a platform of thicker toilet paper and more tomato basil ravioli soup.
“Last year the sentiment was ‘should I vote for a serious ticket or should I vote for a joke ticket’,” Goffard said.
Undergraduates, meanwhile, are casting ballots at a rate 0n pace to meet or even exceed last year’s turnout of nearly half the student body.
By 5 p.m. Wednesday, about 2,650 students had voted in the election that also features three referendum questions, according to UC Election Commission chair Matthew C. Estes ’18. Last year, 3,181 total votes were cast.
Voting closes at noon on Thursday.
Last year, 93 percent of UC representatives lined up behind the ticket of  C.C. Gong '15 and Goffard. Despite the support, a rival ticket running as a joke defeated Gong and Goffard in a tight race.
Many representatives this year have refrained from publicly endorsing or joining a campaign staff of the one of the tickets.
“A lot of the people on the UC this year didn't want to endorse someone,” Meghamsh Kanuparthy ’16, a UC presidential candidate said. He added that mostly freshman representatives endorsed tickets.
Ava Nasrollahzadeh ’16  and Dhruv P. Goyal ’16 agreed that Council members appear more split and undecided, but said Monday that 17 representatives have endorsed their campaign.
Goyal said that more representatives have signed on to his ticket than to others “by a huge margin.” Of the 17, six are freshman, meaning at least half of the Council’s freshman representatives will vote for his ticket, Goyal said.
Happy Yang ’16 and Faith A. Jackson ’16 have four Council representatives, including the body’s current parliamentarian, listed as official campaign staffers, according to logs Estes shared with The Crimson. Kanuparthy’s ticket and the ticket of Luke R. Heine ’17 and Stephen A. Turban ’17 do not list any current Council members as staffers.
Jackson said she personally believed their campaign was likely acquiring club endorsements more successfully than attracting a vast majority of Council representatives.
“We’re actually doing much better with regular clubs than we may be doing with the UC,” she said.
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: November 20, 2014, at 1:45 p.m.
Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter discussed the issues facing women during an event hosted by the Divinity School at Memorial Church on Tuesday. According to Carter, the maltreatment of women is the “most horrendous” human rights issue in the world today.
“There is [a parallel between] the way black people were treated in some parts of the country when I was a child to the way women and girls are treated all over the world now,” said Carter, the 39th president of the United States and 2002 Nobel Peace Prize recipient.
In his lecture, Carter shared facts about various forms of gender inequality, discussing the sex slave trade’s injustices against women, religious institutions’ discrimination against women, and sexual assault on college campuses.
Carter’s remarks come after a year in which sexual assault has been a major topic of discussion on college campuses. Earlier this year, Harvard released new standards for how reports of sexual assault will be investigated, creating a central office to look into cases. And this fall, a Columbia protest against sexual assault, which entailed an alleged victim carrying a bed around campus, spread to Harvard.
“We tend to distort the truth in order to benefit ourselves,” he said. “And that doesn’t just include people who are persecuting others, but also people who sit quiet while others are persecuted.”
The talk was part of his publicity tour for “A Call to Action: Women, Religion, Violence, and Power,” a book which addresses the discrimination facing women across the world today.
“It’s amazing to see this issue brought to the forefront by one as influential as President Carter,” said Kathryn M. Barker, a student at the School of Public Health who was in attendance. “I was very impressed with [his discussion] about the ways in which women are negatively affected across the world, not just in the United States.”
Farah Qureshi, another student at the School of Public Health, agreed but also stressed the value of Carter’s remarks for discrimination in the U.S. as well.
“In the United States we need to face the reality of what’s going on here and not turn a blind eye to it,” she said. “It’s especially relevant to universities [in terms of sexual assault.]”
The ceremony featured Jonathan L. Walton, Pusey Minister of the Memorial Church, and David N. Hempton, dean of the Divinity School, both of whom gave introductions. The program concluded by recognizing the first recipient of the Jimmy Carter Scholarship for the Divinity School, Karlene Griffiths Sekou.
“I am deeply humbled and honored to receive the award,” she said. In terms of her work with human rights, she said, “I firmly believe we are one human family, and we are only as good as the least of us.”
He left attendees with a call to action.
“[Ask yourself] what can I do personally to alleviate the horrendous persecution and discrimination and punishment and murder of my fellow human beings who happen to be female?” he said. “I don’t know of a...single human rights cause more important than this.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following corrections:
CORRECTIONS: November 20, 2014
An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of the first-ever Jimmy Carter Scholarship recipient, Karlene Griffiths Sekou. The article also incorrectly stated the school in which attendee Farah Qureshi is enrolled. In fact, he is a student at the School of Public Health.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When most people hear the word “tourism,” they immediately think of flocking to the sandy beaches of the Caribbean or exploring museums in a European city. For Harvard Law School graduate I. Glenn Cohen, the word has a different implication: travelling to another country for medical treatment.
The now-Law School professor discussed this phenomenon, called medical tourism, and his new book, “Patients with Passports: Medical Tourism, Law, and Ethics,” on Wednesday afternoon. Cohen was joined by three other panelists—Kennedy School of Government professor Amitabh Chandra, School of Public Health professor Alicia Ely Yamin, and Medical School professor Nir Eyal—for a discussion of medical tourism and its implications.
Cohen started the conversation by defining medical tourism as the process of people travelling from less developed countries to more developed countries like the United States in pursuit of higher-level medical treatment.
According to Cohen, another reason why a patient might travel to a country for medical purposes, besides seeking higher quality care, may deal with issues of legality—a phenomenon sometimes called “circumvention tourism.” Procedures that are illegal in certain countries include abortion, assisted suicide, reproductive technologies, and stem cell therapies.
According to Chandra, because the majority of patients seeking medical procedures abroad seek the lowest costs possible, medical tourism might force medical institutions and countries to better evaluate their cost structures, which would lead to increased price competition. He mentioned, however, that although medical tourism can be used to measure cost, the travel of patients will not translate into quality of care.
Yamin commented on ethical and legal implications of medical tourism, especially as they relate to the concept of the right to health.
“To define [health] as a right implies one, that it is of special moral importance; and two, that it is subject to social influence,” said Yamin, quoting from Cohen’s book.
Eyal noted that costs affiliated with medical tourism may negatively impact destination countries and mentioned that locals would have to compete with tourists for the same services they currently receive.
Cohen’s book is divided into discussion of legal scenarios and illegal scenarios. It considers client questions of where one would travel, instances of suing for malpractice and other liabilities, how medical tourism would affect the destination country’s healthcare, and policy regulation.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A recently created online marketplace that sells artwork created by homeless or disadvantaged artists will be selling select pieces at the Harvard-Yale football game this weekend. The marketplace, Artlifting.com, has already helped individuals earn several thousand dollars.
“I have been working with homeless individuals in the Cambridge area for the past eight years,” Elizabeth Powers ’10, who founded the marketplace with her brother Spencer, wrote in an email to The Crimson. The two had been running community art groups and an annual one-day art show called City Heart for the past four years.
The pair said they wanted to extend the reach of City Heart.
“We wanted to help customers empower artists every single day of the year,” Powers wrote. After much deliberation, the siblings decided to create ArtLifting last December. According to Powers, ArtLifting has made it possible for her to “expand beyond Boston and connect with the thousands of existing art groups in homeless shelters and disability centers.”
ArtLifting’s art curator, Stephanie Wright, commented on the curation process. “In deciding which pieces of art to accept onto the ArtLifting platform, I rigorously evaluate each piece based on my perception of its technical intricacy and saleability,” Wright wrote in an email to The Crimson.
In this process, Wright said she uses the exhibition curation skills she learned in her graduate studies and tries to obtain a large variety of art styles.
Powers mentioned the unique nature of each piece of artwork in the program, which sets them apart from the kinds of art that one might find in an art store.
“ArtLifting artwork is unique because each piece comes with an inspiring story,” Powers wrote. “Our artists have faced countless challenges, but they continue to uplift themselves. Each piece of work is a symbol of hope.”
The majority of the profits from each sale goes directly back to the artist who created the piece. “55 percent of the proceeds from every sale goes directly back to the artist, whether we are talking about an original piece or an iPhone case,” Wright wrote. The price of each print can range from $35 to $1000.
This weekend, students will have the opportunity to see and purchase some of the artwork in the ArtLifting program. The ArtLifting booth will be located on Winthrop Street this Saturday. According to Wright, they will also have a book with pictures of sample pieces of artwork to showcase the kind of work ArtLifting does.
“The thousands of Harvard and Yale fans will get a chance to see our iPhone cases, cards, and artwork in person,” Powers wrote.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A group of seven Harvard student activists filed a lawsuit on Wednesday alleging that the University is violating its original charter through continued investment in fossil fuels and asked a court to force Harvard to “immediately withdraw” its holdings in the industry.
The 11-page complaint claims that investment in fossil fuel companies is “a breach of [the University’s] fiduciary and charitable duties as a public charity and nonprofit corporation.” The group of students, who call themselves the Harvard Climate Justice Coalition, alleges that Harvard is mismanaging its funds by investing in the fossil fuel industry and “abnormally dangerous activities.”
All the plaintiffs are members of climate change activist group Divest Harvard, according to the campaign’s co-director, Canyon S. Woodward ’15, who is not affiliated with the case. Divest Harvard has continually battled with University officials on the issue of divestment from fossil fuel companies since its founding in 2012. Some faculty members have also called for divestment, most notably through an open letter to administrators on the subject this past spring.
The suit, which the complainants filed in the Suffolk County Superior Court, names the Harvard Corporation, the Harvard Management Company, and Massachusetts Attorney General Martha M. Coakley as defendants in the case. HMC oversees Harvard’s more than $36 billion endowment.
The complainants will not be represented by a lawyer, according to their website. The New York Times first reported the pending lawsuit Wednesday.
Plaintiff Kelsey C. Skaggs, a student at the Law School, said in an interview Wednesday evening that the group first considered suing the University to divest in January and anticipates that, if heard, the suit could last for months. She said the coalition began to research and ultimately filed the complaint “because the University has failed to respond to students’ request to speak about divestment publicly.”
University President Drew G. Faust has repeatedly rejected activists’ calls for divestment. In an open letter on the subject, she wrote that divestment is not “warranted or wise.” In an Oct. 2013 letter, Faust critiqued the use of a university endowment as “a lever to exert economic pressure for social purposes” as a risk to “academic enterprise.”
“We should, moreover, be very wary of steps intended to instrumentalize our endowment in ways that would appear to position the University as a political actor rather than an academic institution,” she wrote. “The endowment is a resource, not an instrument to impel social or political change.”
On Wednesday, the University did not specify how it plans to respond to the lawsuit. In a statement, University spokesperson Jeff Neal wrote that officials agree that the “threat” of climate change “must be confronted, but sometimes differ on the means.”
The Harvard Climate Justice Coalition's lawsuit is hardly the first public call for divestment from Harvard affiliates. Last spring, members of Divest Harvard blockaded Massachusetts Hall, which prompted the arrest of one protester, Brett A. Roche ’15.
Skaggs, for her part, said Wednesday that the group sees the lawsuit as another means to put pressure on Harvard to divest from fossil fuels.
“I think the bottom line is when you're fighting for the future of a livable planet, you have to use all the tools available,” Skaggs said. “We have an obligation to do everything that we can.”
The other complainants in the case include College students Talia K. Rothstein ’17, Olivia M. Kivel ’17, and Sidni M. Frederick ’17; Law School students Joseph E. Hamilton and Alice M. Cherry; and Graduate School of Arts and Sciences student Benjamin A. Franta.
According to The Times, the group's legal arguments are "unusual," with some lacking apparent precedent.
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at meg.bernhard@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Meg_Bernhard.
—Staff writer Theodore R. Delwiche can be reached at theodore.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @trdelwic.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“DEDICATED TO THE JOY OF MANLY CONTEST.”
This quote hangs over an entrance to the field at Harvard Stadium. Dedicated by the Class of 1879, the words serve as an apt symbol for the titanic centerpiece of Harvard’s athletic facilities. Yet the words understate the true impact that the Stadium has had on the Harvard community since its construction in 1903. Although the Stadium’s benefactors may have intended the structure to be a monument to the “manly contest” of football, the Stadium has since become much more than the sum of its contributions to the sport.
History lives within each step and each column of the horseshoe. For over a century, the concrete coliseum has served as a reflection of Harvard itself: a lasting institution, a beacon for the surrounding community, and a force for innovation and change.
Within the confines of the old stadium, 25,000 students have gathered to protest the Vietnam War in 1969. The walls have shaken as Janis Joplin took the stage for her final live performance in 1970. And on 53 occasions, 10,000 men of Harvard have stood to cheer on the Crimson as it faced off against Yale in the annual playing of The Game.
It is a proper emblem for the university. Just as Harvard has played a pioneering role in the evolution of college education, so has the Stadium in the development of football.
“Harvard Stadium is kind of like Harvard, in a way,” said Dick Friedman ’73, the author of “Crimson Autumns: When Harvard Football was Number One,” who covers the team weekly for Harvard Magazine. “It was built in the middle of so many important developments in the beginning of football. People don’t really remember that, but it was the first, and it remains very important.”
Charles W. Eliot, Class of 1853, was not only one of Harvard’s most influential presidents, but was also an icon in American academics who is widely credited with the creation of modern liberal arts education. But one of his first acts as president had nothing to do with academics, and it was something that he would come to regret.
In the mid-19th century, collegiate athletics were beginning to take off, spurred by the growing popularity of rowing and the development of new sports like baseball, rugby, and football. The Ivy League was a hub of innovation, with the first-ever intercollegiate football game occurring between Princeton and Rutgers in 1869.
That same year in his inaugural address, Eliot encouraged Harvard students to become leaders in athletics.
“There is an aristocracy,” he said. “To which sons of Harvard have belonged, and let us hope, will ever aspire to belong—the aristocracy which excels in manly sports.”
Eliot enjoyed athletic competition—as a student, he rowed in the first Harvard-Yale regatta in 1852—but his words would help set off a development that he would come to oppose.
“Eliot was a believer in sport,” Friedman said. “But he did not like football at all. He did not like any aspect of it. He didn’t like the violence and he didn’t like the big crowds.”
But the big crowds kept coming, and Harvard found itself at the forefront of the development of college sports.
“To some other institutions, [Eliot’s speech] was a war cry,” said Ronald A. Smith, a former professor of sport history at Penn State. “Yale and Princeton thought [that] if Harvard is going to achieve excellence and try to beat everybody in athletics, it gives us even more reason to beat Harvard at its own game.”
When Harvard first took on Yale in 1875—winning the first iteration of “The Game”—the sport resembled rugby more than present-day football. Yet the developing sport grew more and more popular among Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and other schools in the Northeast. By the mid-1890s, even as Eliot and other faculty members sought to ban the violent game, there was a demand for a suitable space for the football team, which at that point was played in front of spectators standing on increasingly crowded makeshift wooden stands.
“Eliot condemned these hideous wooden bleachers blemishing the campus,” Smith said. “But what he really opposed was the professionalization and commercialization of college sports…. He thought it was taking away from the intellectual aspect of Harvard, which it was.”
But Eliot realized that the sport was too important to the school, and that a more permanent solution was inevitable. By 1901, Eliot announced that the wooden bleachers would be covered with “seats built of iron covered with concrete.”
Soon after, the Class of 1879 donated $100,000 toward a new football stadium, and the deal was sealed—although Eliot made sure to note that Harvard “will not have contributed a dollar to the cost of the structure.” The total project cost $310,000, with the remainder made up through gate receipts.
Work on the structure began in the spring of 1903, and by November—just in time for the Crimson’s game against Dartmouth—a stadium stood at Soldiers Field, the first collegiate athletics stadium in the country.
The structure, a horseshoe-shaped stadium featuring Greek columns and modeled after a stadium in Athens, seated 35,000, more when temporary seating was set up in the open end—making a complete oval-shaped arena.
And just as the Stadium itself was the first of its kind, so too would it drive changes in the game of football. At the time, football was a sport in crisis.
During the 1905 season alone, 19 college players died due to injuries. That year, Eliot made a final appeal to end football through the Annual Report to the Board of Overseers, noting that “as a spectacle, football is more brutalizing than prize-fighting, cock-fighting, or bull-fighting.”
United States President Theodore Roosevelt, Class of 1880, gathered representatives from Harvard, Yale, and Princeton at the White House in 1905 to find ways to open up the game. That discussion served as the starting point for the development of the forward pass.
“One thing they talked about was widening the field,” Friedman said. “But a big problem was that Harvard Stadium was built in concrete—literally set in stone—and widening the field was not an option. So one idea they came up with was the forward pass.”
And although the forward pass did not catch on immediately—originally, the penalty for an incomplete pass was a loss of possession—the change made the game safer and ultimately helped galvanize the growth of college football on a national level. Football’s ascension reflected the United States’s increasing status globally.
“Football to Harvard, Yale, and Princeton was arguably more important in the 1890s and early 1900s than football is to Penn State and Notre Dame today,” Smith said. “Football helped make these elite schools...look like strong institutions of masculinity, which was important as America became industrialized and urbanized. Football helped create the image that America was strong.”
Princeton and Yale took after Harvard by constructing stadiums in 1914, and each of the original Big Ten schools followed with their own stadiums in the 1920s.
“[The big state universities] wanted to have football that was bigger and better than Harvard, Yale, and Princeton,” Smith said. “By the 1920s, they did.”
By the 1940s and 1950s, Ivy League schools were moving away from big-time football, after seeing how much money state schools were pouring into their programs. Following the departure of athletic director William J. Bingham ’16—whose emphasis on amateurism and distaste for heavy football recruiting characterized Harvard’s early attitude towards the game—Harvard removed the steel risers that had extended capacity to over 57,000.
“The money started to get really big, and football became show business in a way for universities,” Friedman said. “Harvard Stadium set the template for all of this. The [state schools] may have built stadiums that easily surpass Harvard Stadium, but it was Harvard, Yale, and Princeton that really paved the way and started big-time football.”
Harvard Stadium has always assumed an important position beyond the university and beyond football. Throughout the 20th century, the stadium’s relatively large seating capacity and central location has attracted national and international events.
Between 1920 and 1928, the stadium hosted the US Track and Field trials for three consecutive Summer Olympic Games. In 1984, group stage Olympic soccer matches came to Allston. The stadium’s ability to host large-scale sporting events also proved appealing to a Boston-based team that once lacked a permanent home. In 1960, the Boston Patriots needed a gridiron to call its own.
The football club had bounced around fields at Boston University, Boston College, and even Fenway Park, and began its plea to use the Stadium in in 1968—although Harvard did not budge. Despite a direct letter from Boston Mayor Kevin White requesting that the professional team be allowed to lease the stadium, President Nathan M. Pusey ’28 stood by his belief that introducing a professional sport team into a regular schedule would provide a great distraction to the students and an obstruction of the ideals of amateur athleticism that Harvard wished to uphold.
In a public letter to Patriots President William H. Sullivan, Pusey noted his concern that the “popular and colorful play” of the “super performers” would make the college kids “second-class citizens on their own campus.”
Despite Pusey’s objections, however, the Patriots held their regular season opener on Harvard’s grounds on Sept. 20, 1970, beating the Miami Dolphins, 27-14, before a crowd of 32,607. Dusty Rhodes, President of Conventures, Inc., a public relations firm located in Boston, got her start selling tickets for the Patriots.
“People were excited because the Patriots were going to play at Harvard Stadium,” Rhodes said. “All of a sudden, there was a huge demand for tickets, when before you couldn’t even give them away.”
After one full season at Harvard Stadium, the team moved to Foxborough, Mass., the eventual site of today’s Gillette Stadium, and officially became the New England Patriots. Since then, the stadium has held other top sporting events.
In addition to the 1984 Olympic teams, an assortment of elite soccer squads, in particular, have played in showcase matches on Soldiers Field. “For as long as I’ve been in Boston, the Stadium has been one of the most iconic places for sport,” Rhodes said. “It continues to be an asset to the community.”
Harvard Stadium’s contributions to the community have extended not just beyond the “manly contest” of football, but also beyond the realm of sport itself.
In 1968, like many universities across the nation, Harvard began to experience the counter-culture atmosphere that was sweeping the Yard. Donald Chiofaro ’68 was a dual varsity athlete at Harvard and captain of the football team his senior year.
“You couldn’t walk into the dining hall and not talk about Vietnam, or not talk about civil rights,” he said. “It brought all of those issues right into your lap, every night, every day, all the time.”
In 1969, Students for a Democratic Society occupied University Hall in protest of the war and Harvard’s influence in national politics, resulting in a week-long boycott of classes. Over the course of this brief yet exciting time, two large-scale meetings took place in the stadium, where more than 25,000 people met, discussed, and voted on the continuation of the strike.
In addition to its role as a center for political debate and campus unrest, the Stadium has served Harvard in other ways. The Stadium hosted a series of concerts in the 1970s, including Janis Joplin’s final performance and a Bob Marley concert in 1979. A few years later, in 1986, a grand concert within the stadium marked Harvard’s 350th anniversary.
Nearly 30,000 people attended the event, which featured the Boston Pops Orchestra, fireworks, and a number of Hollywood performers.
The stadium proved perfect for size and acoustics, but temporary lighting had to be brought in, since the lights that brighten the field today would not be not installed for another decade.
To both Harvard and the greater Boston community, Harvard Stadium has consistently meant a lot more than just a place in which people play football.
“The more usage you get out of [the stadium], the better,” Friedman said. “It used to be this great edifice to football that sat empty except for six, seven Saturdays a year. Given everything that’s going on at the school and in the community, it’s great that the stadium is being put to other good uses.”
Over the past century, tradition has outweighed change for Harvard Stadium, but the space has been adapted to meet the technological standards of a modern arena. In 1998, construction commenced on the Murr Center at the open end of the horseshoe, and in 2008, a new digital scoreboard and video board were installed atop the Murr.
Between 2006 and 2007, the Stadium underwent its most significant renovation to date. Permanent lights were installed across the roof of the colonnade, allowing night games to be played for the first time. Harvard installed FieldTurf to replace the grass field, which took a beating every year in the cold Cambridge fall.
Each winter, a large bubble is inflated over Harvard’s turf to provide field usage to varsity teams and club sports insulated from the inclement conditions outside. Despite the changes on the surface, the real heart of Harvard Stadium lies in its history and its meaning to those who have set foot on its hallowed ground.
“With Harvard Stadium, they built an institution that tied football into history and antiquity,” Smith said. “If you look at the colonnade, the columns recall classical Greece. That ties the concept of football within the institution into a historical record people can be proud of.”
The heyday of Harvard football on the national scene may well be over, but on one Saturday morning in November every other year, every row and section of Harvard Stadium quickly fills, from down on the field to up in the colonnade, and the old stadium shakes as Harvard and Yale face off once more. This Saturday, thousands of fans from Harvard and Yale, alumni from around the world, and even ESPN’s College GameDay will converge at Harvard Stadium. The concrete coliseum will once again be the center of the college football universe, if only for a day.
“When you walk into Harvard Stadium and see a great Yale team and a great Harvard team, and then you look around and you see the Harvard championships...you get to understand the tradition,” Chiofaro said. “You sit, you listen to people talk about all their experiences and how they define the different stages in their life by the Yale game…. It’s really a remarkable day.”
—Staff writer Tanner Skenderian can be reached at tanner.skenderian@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Justin C. Wong can be reached at justin.wong@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Work out. Train. Eat. Sleep. Repeat.
For many football players at Harvard, this is a typical summer regime. And for two brothers, who now both wear the Crimson jersey, it’s one that they’ve followed together—for the past 14 years.
The path to football was always clear for senior Seitu Smith II and freshman Semar Smith, but the road to Harvard wasn’t necessarily so.
From the time Seitu was eight and Semar was five, they began playing tackle football. The sport is in their blood—their dad was a wideout at Division III Lakeland College, and took them to nearby hills in their home state of Florida to begin teaching them how to run routes.
“Seitu seemed like he wanted to play football from the womb,” said Mari Smith, Seitu and Semar’s mother. “He kind of idolized my husband and always wanted to do whatever it is he was doing.”
Semar followed in his brother’s footsteps, tagging along to Seitu’s training sessions while the older brother became more serious about football. All the training paid off when Seitu, who captained the Deerfield Beach High School team, was named a Top-100 football player in South Florida.
The elder Smith brother began considering schools that were “probably higher in [football] ranking” than Harvard, schools like the University of Michigan and the University of Alabama. But Mari Smith had a different path in mind for her son.
“Coming from a third-world country—I was born and raised in the Philippines—I’m all about education, so to me, it was a no-brainer that Harvard was the school for [Seitu],” she said. “I told him [that] if you break your leg at Harvard, no one can take that degree away from you.”
Mari left the decision up to her son, and had no reason to worry. When Seitu met Tony Reno, then an assistant coach at Harvard, now head coach at Yale, his decision was made. Reno’s move to New Haven in Jan. 2012 made Semar’s college decision a little more difficult, as both Seitu and his mother’s strongest tie to Harvard during the elder Smith’s recruiting process was through Reno.
Semar and Seitu—despite growing up and training together every day—had never taken the field together. In Seitu’s final year at Deerfield, the younger brother was moved to the varsity level, but only to the practice squad. After Seitu’s graduation, Semar moved to Broward Prep to be closer to home, and the Smith brothers still had yet to play for the same offense.
And so just as with the decision to play football, Semar, heavily recruited by Harvard coach Tim Murphy, followed his brother’s path once more—this time to Cambridge, where he would have the opportunity to have his brother as a teammate, rather than a rival.
“[Reno’s move to Yale] made me look towards Yale more [than] if he hadn’t have gone there,” Semar said. “But in a way, we wanted to play together…. I knew if I was able to get into both, I’d choose Harvard over Yale or any of the other Ivy League schools.”
Semar—the Crimson’s top running back recruit of the year—did end up choosing Harvard, and now the rookie is solidly part of the running back corps for the Crimson.
Seitu scored his first collegiate touchdown during the 2011 Freshmen Parent’s Weekend matchup against Bucknell, when he returned a kickoff 91 yards, en route to a promising rookie season in which he averaged nearly 30 yards per kick return.
Three years later, during the 2014 Freshmen Parent’s Weekend game against Columbia, Seitu—now a senior—caught a 22-yard scoring pass. A few plays later, rookie Semar barreled into the end zone from three yards out to get his own first collegiate touchdown, marking the first time in the Murphy era that two brothers scored a touchdown for Harvard in the same game.
“It just gave me goosebumps again to reminisce on that,” Mari said. “My husband and I both said we couldn’t believe it. We wanted that to happen, we didn’t think that would happen during Semar’s freshman year.”
And in a season that has seen both starting running backs go down with injury for parts of the season, the freshman has enjoyed an especially productive inaugural campaign, just like his brother. Semar has had two 100-plus yard rushing games this year thus far, and has become a part of the running back corps that rotates him with junior Paul Stanton and senior Andrew Casten.
“Relative to their positions, they were great athletes when they got here,” Murphy said. “Seitu was an explosive kid that could play running back or receiver, and was a fixture in the kicking game from the beginning. In Semar’s case…[he was] just so natural. Great vision, great feet, very physical, so it’s all about recruiting.”
Much of their athleticism and football intuition can likely be attributed to their father’s dedication to their training when they were kids. Thus, the road to playing football at Harvard for both brothers was perhaps not so unlikely. The determination of the Smith family reflects the “never give up” nature of the Harvard football program, a mantra instilled from the very beginning, when Murphy writes it in his letter to players following their commitment.
Even though Seitu is a senior, he will take his fifth year of eligibility and not give on his dream of playing for the NFL. As a result, he will have an extra year of playing time with Semar. And if Seitu dons a pro jersey in the future? His little brother just might follow him there, too.
“If his brother does it, [Semar] definitely will,” Mari said.
Staff writer Samantha Lin can be reached at samantha.lin@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Linsamnity.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I’ll be the first person to admit that “Crimson” is a lousy mascot. It’s a color, it doesn’t do anything—I’m pretty ambivalent about it.
But as a future veterinarian, I have to objectively say that there is no worse mascot than a bulldog.
Sure, 100 years ago, when bulldogs were bred to fight bulls, that would be a pretty cool mascot—those dogs were fierce competitors, beasts to behold. Maybe that was even applicable to Yale’s football team back then.
But today’s bulldog? Today’s bulldog is a wrinkly, grossly out-of-proportion anatomical mess. With a nose that’s mashed up almost up to its eyes, and tiny, knobbly legs, I would bet a good amount of money that a bulldog wouldn’t be able to make it up the steps of Harvard Stadium. Indeed, the fact that some teams in the South will bring an actual bulldog to their 100+ degree games to sit outside for over three hours (even if it’s in an air-conditioned dog house like Georgia) makes the inner dog-lover in me sad.
And sure, there’s no way that The Game will be anywhere close to 100 degrees (sadly, it’ll probably be closer to zero, which makes the inner Texan in me even more sad). But to me, having a bulldog as a mascot is a fate worse than say, having a Chihuahua, or yes, even a color as your mascot. Because when I see a bulldog, I don’t see the intimidating bull-fighter it was a century ago—I just see a waddling respiratory mess prone to keeling over from overheating.
So if we’re going by mascot alone, the Harvard Crimson will always soundly thrash the Yale Bulldogs.
But as we all know, Ivy League football contests aren’t decided by mascot alone, right? If that were true, the Columbia Lions would have the championship—or, you know, at least a win.
Harvard doesn’t need to prove it’s better solely via mascot, though—it wins on almost all other football facets as well.
Coming into Saturday’s contest, the Crimson has the advantage of, well, already being Ivy League champion. Can Yale say that? No, and it hasn’t been able to say that since 2006, the last time the Bulldogs won The Game.
Harvard has now been atop the Ancient Eight eight times in the last two decades. Yale? Just twice.
But Saturday’s game isn’t about the past—it’s about the present. And the present offers yet another reason why Harvard is very explicably better than Yale. Even with an at-times depleted offense and a starting secondary that returned just one player from last year, the Crimson is undefeated thus far.
No starting quarterback Conner Hempel for effectively the first five games of the season and the previous two? No problem, in steps junior Scott Hosch, who showed he could step up and lead the Crimson on a comeback win over Penn last week to clinch a share of the Ivy title.
No starting tailback Paul Stanton for the first few games or fullback Andrew Casten for the last few games? No problem, in comes freshman Semar Smith, who had a career game against Columbia and showed flashes of Stanton’s ability to break tackles against Penn.
No starting wide receiver Ty Hamblin for the first five games? No problem, we’ve got junior Andrew Fischer, and Semar’s brother Seitu, as well as a bunch of sophomore receivers I’ve never heard of (who are you, Joseph Foster?) stepping up.
The Crimson’s injury-riddled season has shown the immense depth that coach Tim Murphy’s squad has, but I’ve got some bad news for Yale if it was hoping to face a second-string team: Hempel, Stanton, Casten, Hamblin? They’ll all be back, and hungry, Saturday.
This brings me to my final reason that Harvard will win the 131st playing of The Game: the Crimson has more to play for.
Yes, Harvard may have already clinched a share of the title, but especially for Hempel, Casten, Hamblin, and for each of the 21 seniors, this rendition of The Game is also the final time these guys will play in Harvard Stadium—the Bulldogs’ seniors already had their last hurrah in the Yale Bowl.
And the Crimson’s playing to make more history. Forget beating Yale for the eighth straight year, this squad’s fighting for its first undefeated season in a decade. Murphy’s been saying all season that this might be his best defense since the 1997 team, and Princeton coach Bob Surace tabbed Harvard’s O-line “NFL caliber” in the Harvard-Princeton postgame press conference, and this final game, The Game, is this team’s shot at adding an exclamation point to a nearly flawless chapter of the book that is Harvard football.
The New York Times published an article three years ago titled “Can the Bulldog Be Saved?” If Harvard has its way, the answer Saturday will be a resounding no.
—Staff writer Samantha Lin can be reached at samantha.lin@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Now, we all begin a new phase of our partnership,” reads a letter sent from Harvard football coach Tim Murphy to the parents of each incoming freshman player. “Over my twenty years at Harvard, our football team has functioned most effectively as a ‘school within a school.’ In this role, your son will learn many of life’s lessons that cannot be learned in the classroom. It is my goal to help him prepare for life using football as the vehicle. The next few years will present him with new opportunities to grow and our football program can be one of the cornerstones of this process.”
Football is under attack. Just last week best-selling author Malcolm Gladwell said, “Football is a moral abomination.” Days later, The New York Times published thousands of words on how the NFL has improperly dealt with cases of domestic abuse. The national newspaper of record previously wrote, “At Florida State, Football Clouds Justice.”
There has also been the Ray Rice scandal, the Adrian Peterson scandal, and before those, the Steubenville High School rape case involving high school players and Kansas City Chief Jovan Belcher’s murder-suicide.
Concerns about concussions have been raised as well. Playing football has been linked to cases of Alzheimer’s, depression, and even suicide.
LeBron James, Kurt Warner, Brett Favre, Terry Bradshaw, Troy Aikman, and even President Barack Obama have all expressed concerns about letting their sons, real or imaginary, play the violent game.Football has been compared to ill-fated Big Tobacco, and people have begun asking how much longer it will be around at all. Others have wished for a return to the simpler game of gridirons past.
There was a time when the game was hailed as a more civilized teaching ground for young men than the battlefield. Back then, it was seen as a place for proper training for life in an industrial society.
When the Ivy League presidents discussed football in 1945, they concluded, “Under proper conditions, intercollegiate competition in football offers desirable recreation for players and a healthy focus of collegiate loyalty.”
But in 2004, professors at the University of Idaho and Washington State University concluded, “The environment of athletics has not been supportive of teaching and modeling moral knowing, moral valuing, and moral action. Perhaps, because there are very limited consequences for immoral behaviors in the sport environment, but very large consequences in the real world.”
They had studied 72,000 athletes using a test of moral reasoning.
At times, the evidence can seem overwhelming—damning. And it’s mounting.
But then there is Murphy and his “school within a school.” Is it possible that he has maintained the proper conditions the Ancient Eight alluded to 69 years ago and has created a different “environment of athletics” that fosters morality rather than restrains it?
Take a tour of the Murphy School and decide.
THE ADMISSIONS PROCESS
When potential football recruits visit Harvard, they are not the only ones making evaluations. Murphy is learning, too.
Former defensive lineman Adam Riegel ’13 explained that coaches expect host players to decide whether the high schooler would be a good fit within the team’s culture.
Murphy helps make that decision, too.
“I’m not good at much, but I know how to work hard, and I have a very good feel for people,” he said. “I look for an almost palpable character.”
Murphy said he feels the importance involved in helping select more than one percent of each incoming class and that he wants to choose players that will represent Harvard well. But he admits there are selfish reasons for looking for high-character guys, too.
“I think character is where it’s at,” he said. “Those kids who have great character seem to exceed whatever their perceived athletic and academic potential is perceived to be.”
Riegel said character is even more important given that the players are not bound to the team by athletic scholarships.
If a host player recommends an athlete who then leaves the team, “he wasted a spot for someone who could have helped the team, who could have been a contributing member, and more importantly, could have become a best friend to one of the teammates,” Riegel explained.
Picking the best applicants is the first step in Murphy creating the school he wants to lead.
THE LECTURES
Murphy says the lessons he preaches in speeches given either right before kickoff or Friday before a team meal stem from those he learned growing up in football.
A 170-pound tackle at Silver Lake High School, Murphy overachieved in the eyes of his coach John Montosi, playing at Springfield College and eventually becoming an All-New England linebacker.
Murphy then became an unpaid graduate assistant at Brown University, and he worked 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. at a Pawtucket, R.I., mill.
Recounting the story at Springfield’s 2012 commencement, Murphy said, “If you want something in life, you are going to have to grind it out.”
Given that Murphy has been a constant presence on the Harvard sideline and in the football offices, outlasting two University presidents, it would be easy to see the job as his destiny. But that’s a notion he fights each time he addresses his team.
“Almost on a weekly basis we say we are not destined to win, we are not more entitled to win than our opponent, [and] we are going to have to go out and earn it,” Murphy explained.
But that’s just one part of his consistent message. Murphy also reminds his players that “at some point, you are going to have to fight through some bad stuff—fight through some adversity.”
“Fellas, if we want this one,” he tells them, “We are going to have to work, and we always have to embrace the challenge of any adversity that comes our way.”
“I know life is not that simple,” he said, “but at times it’s almost that simple.”
Murphy added that those lessons come from the coaches he learned from.
“I have been very fortunate to have [had] good role models at just about every level of every sport I played [at] and that was their message,” he said. “When things get bad, you have to embrace it, fight through it, and when you do, it’s very empowering.”
Former center Jack Holuba ’13 called Murphy a “stern man and a no B.S. kind of guy.” Both he and Riegel said the same thing when asked when they were most surprised by their coach.
“For being such a serious man and maybe not the most gregarious at times, the way he reacts when you win—he leaps into the crowd and everyone is going nuts,” Holuba said. “The passion he has for the game is really admirable…. You remember that football is fun.”
Of the celebration, Riegel said, “That caught me off-guard the first time it happened…. He just doesn’t let his emotions run wild as a head coach, [so] to see him go nuts gets everyone fired up.”
Players said the way Murphy acts in those moments and others helps back up his lessons.“[Murphy teaches in his] talk to us but also in the way he carries himself—the way he manages his program, the way he leads us, [and how he sets] that example,” captain Norman Hayes said.
THE OTHER TEACHERS
During preseason practice, Murphy invites the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention & Response to speak to his players.A representative of the office tells the players about their potential to prevent instances of sexual assault as physically larger people and recognizable members of the community.
The session made Holuba more passionate about the issue, and he said six to 12 other guys worked with OSAPR as well. Teammates got involved with Harvard Men Against Rape and the White Ribbon Campaign.
In 2006, then-captain Matthew C. Thomas ’06-’07 was charged with assault and battery against his ex-girlfriend. Holuba said he and his teammates wanted to help the program move past the incident and show the benefits he sees in football.
“I think football, especially lately with all the things you are hearing—you hear so much of the bad,” he said. “But I think for me, everything I associate with football is good values.”
Murphy decided to remove Thomas from the team following the charges. Recently, he has said the decision was difficult but necessary.
Holuba said Murphy’s decision to do so was emblematic of his constant message that “it doesn’t matter who you are or what your role is, you are held responsible for your action.”
Further than that, Holuba said Murphy reminds his players that they are not entitled to anything because they play football, just like he reminds them each week that they are not entitled to a win. You are not better than everyone else because you are on the football team, he says.
After instilling values in his players, Murphy lets them teach as well. He has set up a mentorship program to connect each freshman with an upperclassman from a similar place or who plays a similar position.
Holuba said his mentor was much more helpful than a University-assigned peer advisor, tutor, or other mentor.
“Not in a disparaging way, but the general student body has no idea what Division I athletics requires as far as a time commitment,” he explained.
Jaron Wilson ’14 was Hayes’s mentor.
“We became best friends, and that friendship will last a lifetime,” Hayes said.
Of course, all of this infrastructure could exist without having 11 guys line up against 11 guys and hit each other each Saturday.
But Hayes says the sport teaches, too.
“The game of football is unlike any other game in life,” he said. “There are so many life lessons to be learned. You learn so much by being part of a special team, overcoming so much adversity, pushing yourself for your own good but also for your teammates, your coaches, everybody who has invested so much into you being successful. You learn so much through football that you can use throughout all life.”
Director of Athletics Bob Scalise sees other benefits.
“You have to know how to compete within a framework of rules and in a way that exhibits good sportsmanship,” he said. “You also have to learn how to deal with not winning all the time, what do you do all the time.”
THE GRADUATES
Months before Harvard’s commencement ceremonies, Crimson seniors go through a graduation ceremony in Murphy’s school.
It comes this week actually, after the team’s final practice before The Game. Seniors take a final walk around Harvard Stadium, speaking personally with each player—starting with the freshmen and ending with Murphy.
“He pauses and gives you some feedback one way or another where he found value for you in the program,” Riegel remembered. “That’s pretty inspiring stuff.”
Then comes the final team meal—a steak dinner, Riegel says—and a chance for each senior to address the team at large. The dinner is scheduled to last two hours, but Riegel says it often runs long. The seniors have a lot to say.
Holuba said it took him his full four years to understand the complete value of Murphy’s system.
“Looking back at the role model he is and what he actually brings out of you when you leave Harvard football and come into the workforce, you don’t have the same kind of people around you who expect so much out of you,” he said.
Now working in New York, Holuba said he still shows up to meetings 10 minutes early—on “Murphy Time.”
“Hell, I still wake up scared thinking I was late for a Harvard football practice,” he added.
“I don’t know if I would be bold enough to say I fully understand Coach Murphy,” Riegel said.Judging the success of Murphy’s school in character education is difficult, Scalise admits.
“In a sense, we only know if we’ve done a good job 15 to 25 years from now, and we have anecdotal evidence that we’ve served a lot of people very well,” he said.
Holuba said he does not need to wait to judge Murphy’s tenure.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacob.feldman@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the lead up to The Game we had writers from The Harvard Crimson and the Yale Daily News offer their take on the age-old rivalry. Below is the YDN's take. You can find Samantha Lin of The Crimson's column here.
I have a confession: my mother went to Harvard.
I don’t really like to talk about it. She was young, and everyone makes mistakes. Well, technically she went to Radcliffe, because Harvard held onto its stuffy, old-fashioned nature and did not become a single co-ed college until 1999. That’s not a typo. Although Harvard technically overtook Radcliffe’s day-to-day operations in 1971, John Harvard in all his misogyny refused to fully merge with his sister school until 28 years later — reportedly due to concerns about cooties.
Cooties — and girls for that matter — are not the only things that worry Harvard students. Final exams, for instance, frightened one Harvard student last year into faking a bomb threat on campus.
In another well-known example, a group of more than 120 students were so terrified about the final exam for a class called “Introduction to Congress,” that they cheated in a lecture that the average American could have aced after listening to Schoolhouse Rock’s “I’m Just a Bill.”
Harvard is also apparently a little self-conscious about how it looks, as The Crimson goes to great lengths to find the 15 freshmen each year that could possibly be labeled “hot,” as if to say “See! I told you we aren’t all ugly!”
It’s not what Harvard should be scared of, however, but whom. Harvard should be scared of running back Tyler Varga ’15.
He is fourth in the Football Championship Subdivision with 144 rushing yards per game (more than four teams in the Ivy League). He is third in the FCS in rushing touchdowns with 20, despite playing two fewer games than the two players above him. He also has 23 total touchdowns by himself, which is the same number of rushing touchdowns that Harvard has … as a team.
On Sept. 27, Varga and Yale faced off against Army. Varga rushed for five touchdowns and 185 yards as Yale conquered the Cadets, the Ivy League’s first win over a Football Bowl Subdivision team since 1986.
Let me repeat that: Yale beat the U.S. Army. These are the same upstanding young men who are responsible for the defense of the greatest country on Earth. Army has not allowed an attack on American soil since Pearl Harbor, yet Yale vanquished the Cadets with a well-coordinated ground and aerial assault.
Although Varga was the battering ram for the most impressive offensive campaign since D-Day, he did not do it alone. Field general Morgan Roberts ’16 orchestrated the onslaught, distributing the ball to playmakers like wide receivers Deon Randall ’15 and Grant Wallace ’15, helping the best offense in the FCS put up 49 points against an FBS foe.
Harvard head coach Tim Murphy could tell his team that all they have to do is play Yale and then the season is over. But given Yale’s offense, Murphy would sound an awful lot like the U.S. Army when it told General George A. Custer that all he had to do was make one last stand.
So far I have focused mostly on football, but while The Game is the centerpiece of the weekend, it will itself last only a few hours, and it will leave the weekend nights wide open for celebrating (Yale) or drinking away your sorrows (take a guess).
This reminds me of what my mother once told me about the weekend scene at Harvard. She said that on Friday nights she would go to Herrell’s for ice cream on the way home from the library. When I went to Cambridge for The Game two years ago, I sincerely hoped that Harvard’s nightlife had changed since her time. I was right — Herrell’s had closed.
Momma hadn’t mentioned Finals Clubs; perhaps she was trying to spare me from the description of a place where pretentious Harvard students have to disgrace themselves in order to belong to special groups with even more pretentious names. They do all of this just to earn the privilege of drinking some low quality beer that costs about $0.67 per can.
At Yale, we know that our dignity is worth more than $0.67. We can look to the example of a Yale graduate, and national hero, Nathan Hale 1773, who gave his only life for his country. And as Hale so famously said as he stood bravely on the gallows: “Harvard sucks. Roll Dawgs!”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Want to know how many times the Harvard football team has gone undefeated in the last century? Hold up one finger. Now another. There you have it.
That’s right, the Crimson has finished its season without a loss or a tie only twice in the last 100 years. In that span, Harvard earned a total of 16 Ivy League titles. But perfection is much harder to come by.
Both of those flawless campaigns came within the last 15 years. In 2001, Crimson coach Tim Murphy guided the team to a 9-0 record and his second Ancient Eight championship. Three seasons later, current Houston Texans quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick ’05 propelled Harvard to another undefeated 10-0 mark in a record-breaking 2004 campaign.
The 2014 Crimson squad has its own rare opportunity to enter the record books. With a victory against Yale at home on Saturday, Harvard will secure an unblemished 10-0 record and its third Ivy League title in four seasons.
It certainly won’t be easy. The Crimson has defeated the Bulldogs seven straight times, but this year’s Yale squad marches into Cambridge with an 8-1 record, good for second place in the Ancient Eight. The 2014 rendition of The Game will be one of the most meaningful in recent memory—a conference championship and an undefeated season hang in the balance.
While this year’s Harvard team has marched to a sparkling 9-0 mark, the journey hasn’t been smooth at times. Sure, the Crimson rolled past Princeton, 49-7, in what was billed as the toughest game of the year. But just last Saturday, the team needed a 17-point fourth quarter to survive Penn’s upset bid and escape Philadelphia unscathed.
“[Going undefeated is] just so hard to do,” Murphy said. “If you just look at the league historically, there are just not a lot of teams that ever do it.” MODERN PERFECTION
Indeed, the Crimson’s perfect record thus far must be understood in the context of the constant grind of the Ivy League season. With no weeks off, teams must remain locked in for 10 straight Saturdays. Bye weeks give most college programs a chance to recover from injuries or take a mental break. To succeed in the Ancient Eight, you must win a war of attrition.
The undefeated 2001 team understood that fact, as Harvard surrendered just nine turnovers en route to a perfect record. Such disciplined play allowed the Crimson to prevail in several close games, most notably a 28-26 victory at home against Princeton.
When Harvard fell into an early 14-point hole in the penultimate game against Penn—which possessed an FCS-best 11-game winning streak—the team did not panic. It rattled off four consecutive touchdowns to ultimately secure the 28-21 win.
A week later, the Crimson faced the formidable task of securing an undefeated season in a Yale Bowl filled with more than 50,000 screaming fans. Led by quarterback Neil Rose ’02-’03, who threw for four touchdowns and rushed for another, Harvard outlasted its archrival, earning a 35-23 victory.Rose holds the all-time program record for both career passing yards and touchdown throws. A freshman in 2001, Fitzpatrick served as Rose’s backup and made two starts.
“I think with all sports teams there’s got to be a good camaraderie in the locker room,” Fitzpatrick said. “I know we had that. I had that all four years there. Especially in ’01, I happened to be the backup quarterback that was going in when the starter went down. There was always a good support system.”
Crimson fans found themselves biting their fingernails throughout the fall of 2001, as four of the team’s wins were decided by 10 points or less. But while the nerves certainly existed, so did the enthusiasm. The New York Times ran a Sports Saturday feature on the football fever sweeping Cambridge. Chemistry professors discussed the team in dining halls, then-President Lawrence H. Summers participated in practice drills, and the executive director of the Harvard Varsity Club found children at his doorstep demanding tickets to the Penn game instead of candy.
When all was said and done, Murphy’s squad had earned the program’s first perfect season since 1913. THREE YEARS LATER...
While the 2001 Crimson pulled out close wins and kept turnovers to a minimum, the 2004 undefeated team found success through another form of consistency—namely, a high-powered offense that could always put up big numbers.
Led by captain Fitzpatrick and then-sophomore running back Clifton Dawson ’07—who would become the leading rusher in Ivy League history—Harvard scored at least 30 points in eight of its 10 games. Fitzpatrick earned the Bushnell Cup as the Ancient Eight’s most valuable player.
The 2004 team had ample talent on both sides of the ball. While its offense was busy setting school records, the stalwart Crimson defense ensured that all but three games would be decided by at least 15 points, including a 35-3 drubbing of Yale to cap off the year.
“That team was really great offensively,” Murphy said. “We were probably almost as good as we are [now] defensively, but I think we’re [presently] a more balanced team…. But the intangibles are very similar.”
In 2004, Harvard surrendered 13.4 points per game, good enough for first in the Ivy League. This season’s Crimson defense has managed to improve on that mark.
Fueled by a strong defensive line and the leadership of captain Norman Hayes in the secondary, Harvard has allowed an FCS-best 11 points per game through nine contests—roughly half the average of the second-place Ivy team.
The current Crimson may not have a Fitzpatrick-type talent running the offense. But if the 2004 and 2014 seasons show anything, it’s that strong defensive play can give teams a chance to win every game.
Another obvious lesson is that nothing comes easy. The loss column may be empty, but that doesn’t mean that there weren’t any close calls. For instance, in 2004, the Crimson escaped with a pair of one-point victories. Perfection cannot depend on the performance of any one individual—it takes a team effort to achieve success week in and week out.
“The consistency of the Harvard football team, especially in the past 15 years…it’s been really impressive to see the consistency [Murphy] has brought to the program,” Fitzpatrick said. “To be able to build around the program rather than certain guys I think is really impressive.” EARLY SUCCESS
Nowadays, it’s clear that going undefeated means passing a series of difficult tests. But that wasn’t necessarily the case over a century ago.
For many college football programs, saying that a team has two undefeated seasons in the last century would account for the program’s entire existence. Not for Harvard, one of the nation’s oldest college football teams, which began recording results in 1873.
The seasons were far shorter back then. In 1875, Harvard managed to go undefeated—but with a 4-0 record and with rules far different than today’s.
The 1890 team was so superior to its competition that it’s unclear whether going undefeated was even much of an accomplishment. Harvard finished with an 11-0 record and outscored its opponents 555-12. Yes, you read that correctly.
The Crimson had a spurt of extraordinary success early in the 20th century. Harvard ran the table in both 1912 and 1913, shutting out its opponents in more than half of the games en route to a pair of 9-0 records.
Although the team’s strong play continued in 1914, a pair of ties prevented the Crimson from ending three straight seasons without a loss or draw.
According to Dick Friedman ’73, who covers the Crimson for Harvard Magazine and is writing a book on Harvard football in the early 20th century, much of the era’s dominance can be attributed to an athletic collection of 1912 sophomores known as the “group of seven.” Led by coach Percy Haughton, whom Friedman dubs a “football genius,” the Crimson earned national championships in 1910, 1912, and 1913.
“Harvard had more depth and more talent,” Friedman said. “They would just wear teams down, especially the smaller schools that came in…. [The seasons] are unfortunately forgotten, but they really were brilliant teams.” ONE MORE SHOT AT THE PRIZE
The Crimson had to wait 88 years for another untarnished campaign, which a Murphy-led squad finally accomplished in 2001. Perfection would occur once more in 2004. A decade has passed, and the Crimson now has another opportunity to maybe, just maybe, go undefeated one more time.
The long 20th century demonstrated just how elusive sustained success can be, but the Harvard football program has hit its stride under Murphy. Sixty minutes is all that stands between the coach and his third undefeated, untied season at the helm of the Crimson.
“It’s a remarkable accomplishment,” Murphy said. “It’s something you can never take for granted because it’s so extraordinarily rare.”
No one knows exactly what to expect on Saturday. But if you’re a Harvard football player or a member of the Crimson faithful, you’ll be hoping for one thing—that at the end of the day, the result will indeed have been historic.
—Staff writer David Steinbach can be reached at david.steinbach@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Game is always special. Screaming fans pack the stadium. Alumni flock into town donning either crimson or blue. An electric atmosphere injects extra adrenaline into the players themselves. By the end of the day, everyone’s exhausted.
But the 2014 rendition of the annual battle between the Harvard and Yale football teams will have a heightened significance.
While the Crimson enters the contest with an undefeated record, the Bulldogs lurk just one game behind in the Ivy League standings.
Saturday’s showdown at Harvard Stadium thus represents an Ancient Eight championship game. If the Crimson (9-0, 6-0 Ivy) wins, coach Tim Murphy will earn his third undefeated season and the team will claim a sole conference title. If visiting Yale (8-1, 5-1) emerges with the victory, the two teams will share the Ivy crown.
In other words, the stakes could not be higher.
“We know that we’re clearly playing the best team on our schedule, as you watch the film,” Murphy said. “But I told the kids, we’re going to play loose and fast, fast and loose. We’re playing with house money.”
Recent history is firmly on the side of the Crimson, which has defeated the Bulldogs in seven consecutive matchups. Last season’s contest at the Yale Bowl was effectively over at halftime, as Harvard cruised to a 34-7 win. But this year’s blue-and-white is an entirely different squad.
Led by coach Tony Reno—a former Harvard assistant who took over in New Haven in 2012—Yale has marched to its best record through nine games in seven years. The team’s one loss came in a 38-31 decision against Dartmouth after surrendering a late lead.
The Bulldogs’ successes this year have largely been due to a high-powered offense, which ranks first in the Ivy League with 43 points per game. The Yale attack was on full display last Saturday against Princeton, as the Bulldogs paced their way to a 44-30 victory at home.
No one is more important to Yale’s game plan than senior running back Tyler Varga, who transferred after his freshman season at the University of Western Ontario. The back is far and away the Ivy League’s top rusher with an average of 144 yards per contest, and he has scored at least two touchdowns in seven games this season.
When Yale finds itself leading late in the second half, Varga has repeatedly demonstrated the ability to pick up first downs and run out the clock.
Harvard cannot afford to focus exclusively on Varga, though, as junior Morgan Roberts is a threat of his own at quarterback. The Clemson transfer ranks first in the Ancient Eight with 325 passing yards per game. His two main targets are seniors Grant Wallace and Deon Randall, the conference’s top two wideouts in terms of receiving yards.
“The two transfers [Varga and Roberts] are probably by far the best two players in our league,” Murphy said. “It’s amazing. They’re both NFL prospects.”
Indeed, the Bulldogs dominate nearly all of the conference’s offensive stat categories. But if anyone has the credentials to stop the Yale attack, it’s Harvard. The Crimson’s identity revolves around its stalwart defense, which ranks first in the FCS, surrendering just 11 points per game.
Under the leadership of captain Norman Hayes in the secondary, the Harvard defense has been a model of consistency, only giving up more than 20 points once. Senior defensive end Zack Hodges leads the Ivy League with 6.5 sacks, and junior linebackers Matt Koran and Jacob Lindsey top the squad with 55 tackles each.
The result of Saturday’s Game may very well depend on which unit has a better showing—the electric Yale offense or the staunch Harvard defense.
“Our strength has been a typical Harvard football team’s strength,” Murphy said. “We’ve been very mentally tough, very resilient. This senior class, these upperclassmen have won 10 straight road games over the past couple years.”
After leading Harvard to a share of the Ivy League championship last season, senior quarterback Conner Hempel has been plagued with injuries throughout the 2014 campaign. Junior Scott Hosch has proved himself to be a capable replacement, guiding the Crimson to six victories as the starter.
But the team put on its best offensive showcase of the season—a 49-7 drubbing at Princeton—in the only game Hempel started without leaving due to injury.
According to Murphy, Hempel—who threw for three touchdowns and rushed for two more in that win over the Tigers—will be a game-time decision on Saturday.
When Harvard has struggled through the air, it has successfully turned to its ground game. After a breakout 2013 season—including a four-touchdown performance against Yale—junior running back Paul Stanton has cemented his status as one of the top backs in the conference. And he only seems to be getting stronger as the season goes on.
Assisted by a strong offensive line, Stanton set a new career high with 180 rushing yards in a win over Dartmouth on Nov. 1. The junior surpassed that mark last Saturday against Penn, rushing for 235 yards and three of the Crimson’s four touchdowns.
Stanton’s performance was critical in the tense 34-24 victory over the Quakers. Despite trailing by a touchdown in the fourth quarter, Harvard ultimately had enough in it to escape Philadelphia with its unblemished record and at least a share of the Ivy League title.
The last time the Crimson and Bulldogs met in a contest of such magnitude was 2007. Both teams entered the day unbeaten in conference play, but Harvard dominated from start to finish to secure a 37-6 victory along with the championship.
Nothing would be sweeter for the Crimson faithful than a similar result.
“When you come [to Harvard], this week seemed so far away,” Hodges said. “And now we’re finally here. All our hard work, everything we put in…it all comes to this.”
ESPN has bought into the hype, as its College GameDay crew will travel to Cambridge to broadcast live in front of Dillon Fieldhouse on Saturday morning. The program has not featured an Ivy League game since the Crimson squared off with Penn in 2002.
History is indeed on the line Saturday at Harvard Stadium. A Crimson win would notch the team’s third undefeated, untied season this century. Yale will be gunning for its first Ivy League co-championship since 2006.
“We don’t really think about our accumulated record at any point,” Hosch said. “But just to know that it’s a program as historic as Harvard and we’re able to make history this year, it’s something special.”
Yet not a single player on either team needs any extra motivation. It is Harvard-Yale, after all.
“The seniors, they know what’s at stake,” Murphy said. “You don’t have to ask them to raise the intensity. They’re ready to play.”
So buckle up. The 131st edition of The Game could be the most exciting one in a while.
—Staff writer David Steinbach can be reached at david.steinbach@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Four days after a 58-57 loss to Holy Cross knocked the Harvard men’s basketball team (1-1) out of the Top 25, the Crimson will retake the court against the Florida Atlantic Owls Thursday night (8:00 P.M., Lavietes Pavilion). Below, The Back Page takes a look at the three main things to keep your eye on as Harvard aims to regain its footing.
An Awkward Homecoming: Florida Atlantic coach Mike Jarvis interviewed for the Crimson job in 2007, which was later awarded to current Harvard coach Tommy Amaker. Jarvis got payback last January, when the Owls handed Harvard its only blowout loss of the year in a 68-53 drubbing. After the game, a fiery Amaker laid into the team for its lackadaisical performance—lighting a spark in a team that finished the year on a 14-2 tear. Undoubtedly Amaker, who has proven time and time again to be the right man for the job, will hope for a better performance this time out.
Back on Track: The Holy Cross press bothered no Harvard player more than junior co-captain Siyani Chambers. A member of the preseason Bob Cousy award watch list, Chambers had arguably his worst game in a Crimson jersey with one point and nine turnovers against the Crusaders. The 6-0 guard will have to play better against the rangy Florida Atlantic backcourt, which features two players in 6-4 junior Jackson Trapp and 6-3 freshman Justin Massey that have the length to corral the smaller Chambers.
Back To The Boards: Through two games, Harvard’s leading rebounder is senior wing Wesley Saunders. Saunders has posted a double-double in each of the team’s first two games, outrebounding the senior trio of Steve Moundou-Missi, Jonah Travis, and Kenyatta Smith by himself. Amaker stressed before the season that he would need Saunders to help out the forwards by rebounding the basketball well, but the frontcourt must step up against a large, imposing Owls front line.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The semester’s winding down, so odds are that you’re:
a) bedridden with the latest plague
b) melting into a study puddle of term papers and final p-sets
c) cursing Frozen’s romanticization of all things icy, or
d) some unholy combination of the above.
In any case, if you just can’t crawl out of bed for HUDS Beef Fajita Fettuccine (although we admire the ambition of Latin-Italian fusion), Harvard Square restaurants are here for you. Check out some of the best food delivery options for your sick/stressed/snow-dreading self.
1. Oggi Gourmet (minimum $15.00, no delivery fee, Crimson Cash accepted)Don’t dismiss this charming eatery tucked within the Smith Campus Center. Go for the classy roasted pear salad, the reliable Steve’s egg sandwich, or the photosynthetic pineapple smoothie with chlorophyll.
2. Nine Tastes (minimum $15.00, no delivery fee)If your experience with Thai cuisine is limited to a certain endangered whitefish (ahem…. swai...ahem...HUDS), expand your horizons with the ambiguously named Nine Tastes. You can’t go wrong with any of the six (!) varieties of fried rice, but the “Veggie Puff” and “Shrimp Blanket” appetizers win for creativity.
3. Sweet (minimum $15, no delivery fee, Crimson Cash accepted)Listen to Donna and treat yo’ self to a seasonally appropriate pumpkin pie, French toast, or apple cider doughnut cupcake. Sweet also stocks vegan cupcakes on Mondays, if you want a side of moral righteousness with that chocolate frosting.
4. wagamama (minimum $15.00, no delivery fee)You can only eat so much Lamont sushi ($65 worth, to be exact). Yes, wagamama is a British chain, and yes, its vendetta against capital letters is irritating, but the delivery is free and the chicken katsu is delightful.
5. Falafel Corner (mimimum $15, delivery fee 10% of order total)Feel awful? Falafel. Or, channel your favorite Avenger and go for the lamb shawarma rollup (only six months until “Age of Ultron”!)
6. Insomnia Cookies (minimum $6.00, delivery fee $1.50, Crimson Cash accepted)As if the phrase “Triple Chocolate A La Mode” doesn’t already inspire a bit of Pavlovian drool, Insomnia delivers to your dorm until 2:45 a.m. “The Sugar Rush” – 12 cookies for $16.00 – is ideal for powering through a group project or crying alone.
Sections

Good morning, Harvard! When you’re not busy ranting (or listening to the Quadlings rant) about Community Dinner restrictions, just remember that today is your last day of Thursday classes this semester! Tell that cute kid in section you like them before it’s too late.
Here are a couple of reminders just in case you’ve been living under a rock (or without Wi-Fi) for the last few weeks:
- We’re one week away from Thanksgiving, which means you can expect HUDS to try its hand at Thanksgiving dinner tonight – complete with turkey, mashed potatoes, and pumpkin pie. Time to load up on the good stuff!
- UC voting ends at noon today, so be sure to cast those last-minute ballots to support your favorite candidates!
- The Game is on Saturday! If you haven’t gotten your ticket yet, make sure you do so between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. today and tomorrow at the Murr Center Ticket Office across the Charles. Don’t miss out, because there’s no telling when Harvard-Yale will be back (probably next year, and the year after that, and…).
IN THE ATMOSPHEREPrepare yourselves for a warm up during the day! We’re expecting a high of 44 degrees, though it will drop to a low of 30 at night. Watch for a flurry or two in the a.m., with some sun peeking out in the afternoon. It’s still not pleasant enough to spend too much time outside though, so I guess we have to do our readings in our beds under our covers (bummer).
IN THE D-HALLSLunchCrispy Swai Fish SandwichRoasted Honey Lime ChickenTofu, Broccoli, and Walnut Stir Fry
DinnerCider Glazed HamRoast Turkey BreastFall Vegetable Stew
ON FLYBY1) A Guide to Hosting Guests for Harvard-Yale: If you’re feeling gracious enough to rent an air mattress for your guest from Yale...
2) A Quick and Easy Guide to the UC Election: How to be a decently informed citizen before voting!
IN THE NEWS1) Romance Languages and Literatures Endorses Smaller Sections: “Faculty, students and teaching fellows from the Romance Languages and Literatures department endorsed the Harvard Teaching Campaign, a movement urging the University to cap sections and lab groups at 12 students, on Tuesday.”
2) UC Reps Stay Outside Campaigns This Year as Final Voters Cast Ballots: "Students are turning out to vote in high numbers even as Undergraduate Council representatives withhold endorsements from a crowded council presidency race entering its final day."
3) ArtLifting To Sell Artwork by Homeless Artists at Harvard-Yale: "A recently created online marketplace that sells artwork created by homeless or disadvantaged artists will be selling select pieces at the Harvard-Yale football game this weekend. The marketplace, Artlifting.com, has already helped individuals earn several thousand dollars."
IN FM1) Playing With The Rules: On many teams across the league, players work with the system to get the most out of their four years of eligibility. Some might do it to improve their professional prospects, but most are simply looking to be more competitive, help their team, and play the game they love for a little bit longer.
EVENTSHarvard Society for Mind, Brain, and Behavior is hosting a discussion on artificial intelligence with Dr. David Duvenaud. How can AI do modeling and forecasting? Find out at 4 p.m in Barker Center Room 12.
The Department of English is sponsoring a lecture by Cornell Professor Jonathan Culler called “Lyric Evidence.” The event is free and open to the Harvard community and the public. Stop by Fong Auditorium at 5 p.m.
Ann Marimow, a legal reporter for The Washington Post, will speak at 7:00 p.m. in Harvard Hall 103. Marimow studies the law and its intersection with politics and journalism, examining conflicts between US national security interests, privacy protections, and press freedoms.
The premiere of Seneca’s Medea, translated by the Harvard Classics Club, opens tonight. Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned! Tickets can be acquired by emailing harvardmedea@gmail.com. The show starts at 7:30 p.m. in the Adams Pool Theater.
PHOTO OF THE DAYHarvard Head Football Coach Tim Murphy says he helps connect roughly two players a year with prep schools that will help them develop academically and athletically.
Sections
On Harvard Time’s annual video for The Game is up and this time they’re fighting for the greatest humanitarian cause of our generation: divesting from Yale athletics. Disguised in glasses, a beanie and a Yale scarf, Samuel B. Clark ‘15 and OHT took to New Haven, where they posed as Yale students protesting the amount of money spent on a poorly-performing football team.
“We are spending more on Yale athletics than is being spent in public works in the city of New Haven,” Clark says in the video. “And what does that even get us? Every single year we lose to Harvard.”
And the best part? Yale students actually agree. Just watch the video.
This comes of course after last year’s Fake Yale Tours video, and, more recently, Yale College Council President Michael Herbert’s cringeworthy counter-video in which, it seems, Yale challenged UC President Gus Mayopoulos ‘15 to a boxing match (?!). We’re not entirely sure what that was about, but it ranks high on the unintentional comedy scale. Though we sure learned a lot about Yale’s cinematography skills (otherwise known as iMovie). Gus put it best himself in his response video,
But apparently it wasn’t as easy this time around for OHT. According to the Yale Daily News, Yalies “found out” about OHT’s plans while they were “protesting.” President Herbert “approached the group on behalf of the Yale student body,” whatever that means.
During an interview, one vigilant Yalie even played last year’s video in an attempt to prove to Sam Clark that he was, in fact, Sam Clark. And not a Yalie.
To which Clark responded, “I get that so many times, I’ve gotten that from a lot of people.” So, here’s to OHT, and its intrepid journeys into the wastelands of New Haven.
#divestyaleathletics
