News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Monday, September 15, President Barack Obama met with delegates from countries around the world—including multiple Arab nations—to discuss the growing threat of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, and to plan a military and political response to the terrorist organization. Obama has already launched airstrikes against the group, and he is seeking military support that would include ground troops from nearby Arab nations. Concurrently, Obama has assured Americans that this fight will not be a repeat of America’s involvement in Iraq or Afghanistan, as American soldiers will not be sent to fight on the ground.
Obama is right to stress the need to combat ISIS. But his message poses several problems. Obama bases his argument on idealist principles: America’s fight against ISIS, seen as an extension of the War on Terror, is couched in demands for democracy and human rights. Both of these objectives are international values that ideally should hold the same weight across the globe. And yet Obama’s request for Arab nations to supply troops while refusing to provide them from the United States suggests that he holds other nations to a higher standard than he holds his own country. Obama seems to expect others to sacrifice more than the United States in defense of a commonly shared belief.
Obama should not underpin his speeches with ideology if he is not prepared for the United States to practice what he preaches. Instead, he should embrace an honest, political explanation. Obama should explain that Arab states should be more willing than the United States to send soldiers because they face a greater threat from ISIS. Their stakes are higher, and if they do not act now, they may face a war on their home territory. While ISIS might attack America via terrorist operations, it does not pose the same existential threat to the U.S. as it does to the countries neighboring Iraq and Syria. It is this point that Obama should stress in his speeches if he wishes to convince Arab nations to take a larger stake in the matter than he himself is willing to do.
Not only does a focus on humanitarian and idealistic goals hinder America’s diplomatic mission with potential allies in the region, but it also renders America’s own foreign policy activity less effective. Responding to humanitarian crises is by definition a reactionary foreign policy, and leaves the United States government in a position in which it consistently is responding to events as they happen rather than taking action to diminish their likelihood of occurring in the first place.
Obama and his administration consequently need to cease their focus on America as a defender of democracy and freedom, and need instead to adopt a more proactive, long-term foreign policy strategy. They should develop stronger guidelines regarding the objectives they wish to accomplish, highlighting the practical details of their endgame and focusing less on the idealism that necessarily limits the advancement of their objectives.
Idealism has also led to the delegitimization of the United States government in the past when the country has used lofty rhetoric to threaten human rights violators but not followed through on its warnings. In order to regain legitimacy, the administration should make clear that in the future it will take military action from a political and national security standpoint case by case. Other methods, including diplomacy and sanctions, can certainly be employed against countries violating human rights. But as long as the administration is unwilling to resort to military action to respond to such cases, it should not threaten to do so. Instead, the country should be careful to cultivate and retain the credibility of their warning of military threat.
While the United States should continue to stress the importance of human rights and democracy, it should not conflate its ideals with its political policies. Only then will America be treated seriously worldwide, and be recognized as a power with which to contend.
Edyt J. Dickstein ‘17 is a Crimson editorial writer in Adams House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was in the fall of 2010, as I stood in a Thayer dorm room surrounded by my twin sister’s new college friends, that I realized all my stereotypes of Harvard students had been proven vastly wrong. I had fallen into the trap, like so many others, of having a picture in my head of what a “typical” Harvard student looked like. Yet as I stood in the middle of the room, watching Kristina and her friends eat Chinese food and gossip about budding college crushes, I watched this stereotype slowly crumble. What I didn’t know, though, was that this would only be the beginning of the friendships that would come to form the incredible support system and family of Kristina’s four years at Harvard.
It wasn’t until February 2014, her senior winter, that I truly realized the depths of the friendships Kristina had gained at Harvard, and how much her life had been altered by them.
Knuckles clenched white, radio off, and holding back tears, the drive down to Cambridge on February 11, 2014, is one that I will never forget. I had received a panicked and stunned phone call from Kristina early that morning, detailing the car crash of her teammates and best friends on the Harvard Mock Trial team, while coming back from a tournament in Virginia. Kristina had taken a flight back from the tournament in order to get back for an exam and had been the only member of her team not driving throughout the night. She told me that her friend, Angela R. Mathews ’15, had not survived the crash, and that several of her best friends were in critical care in New Jersey.
I remember feeling like an outsider that first day, the first of many that I would spend with the team after the accident. I never had the privilege of meeting Angela, and was trying to juggle the intense emotions of watching my sister deal with the loss of one of her best friends. However, during one of the counseling sessions that first afternoon, with the majority of team members, I couldn’t hold back the tears.
I remember whispering to my mom that Kristina was so incredibly lucky to have this Mock family. Yes, I was crying along with everyone else about the awful situation that had unfolded. But I was also crying because I was selfishly both saddened and scared by the thought that I didn’t have a group as close as this HMT family. My heart ached at how much I loved this group of people for the support they were giving Kristina and each other, and hoped that they realized how fortunate they were to have each other in the midst of such tragedy.
Harvard Mock Trial is a family bonded by more inside stories, late night practices, humor and brain power than those any group of people I know. But in the weeks following the accident, it was their dedication to each other that knew no bounds. Meals were provided around the clock from past team members, and alums flew into Boston to comfort. Team members, old and new, were always at each others’ sides.
It has been eight months since the accident, but I know it is still on all of our minds, at various moments throughout our daily lives. And while I may never know the feeling of loss they do, I think about the team every day and how fortunate I am to have gotten to know them all over the past four years.
Kristina and I currently live with two former Harvard “Mockers,” including one who was severely injured in the crash. We frequently have former and current team members over, and as I write this, peels of laughter are floating up the stairs as three of them watch an old Mock Trial tape in the kitchen. HMT is an interwoven web of friendship that cannot be broken by anything.
After the memorial service for Angela, I easily could have filled this article describing the beautiful memories of her by friends and family. There were moments when one couldn’t tell whether it was tears of sadness or laughter rippling through the audience as pictures and memories of Angela from all stages of life were shared. The overall message was as clear as the September sky today: Angela will always be a part of Harvard Mock Trial, Harvard Mock Trial will never be the same, and Harvard Mock Trial is stronger than ever. (In fact, it is currently ranked first in the nation.)
So, from an outsider looking in, thank you, Harvard. Thank you to the faculty, counselors, and professors for unwavering support and help through academic and non-academic times. Thank you to the Harvard Mock Trial team: You all have shown me the compassion, unaltered honesty, and immense trust that it takes to be such a close knit group; qualities I have now started to strive for in my own friendships.
While my vision of Harvard may have been slightly off kilter at first, I can now say for certain that I will forever be indebted to the institution that gave my sister the relationships that will support and carry her into the real world.
Annalisa Tester lives in Cambridge, Mass.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Today, the Scottish people will decide once and for all whether their homeland and the rest of the United Kingdom will be sundered. At stake is the future of one of the world’s most iconic states; without Scotland, the U.K. would be left much diminished and not particularly united. A victory for the Scottish Nationalist Party would also raise further questions about the viability of other composite nations, and threaten to trigger a cascade of independence referendums everywhere from Belgium to Spain.
We feel that independence would represent an impractical and economically imprudent step for Scotland. Serious questions remain unanswered: Just how much oil remains beneath Scotland’s territorial waters in the North Sea? What currency would an independent Scotland use? How realistic are aspirations to join the European Union? In light of this uncertainty, retaining membership in the U.K. on the condition that additional powers be devolved to the Scottish parliament seems like a far wiser course of action.
At the same time, however, there is something undeniably seductive about forging a brand-new country with a social contract tailored to the sentiments of its people. Scots as a whole are more liberal and more pro-EU than their countrymen to the south, and independence would grant them a far greater say in everything from the design of the welfare state to oil and gas revenues.
Indeed, the Scottish independence referendum poses deep questions about something most take for granted: the modern nation-state. England and Scotland were only united under one monarch in 1603 and as one state by the Acts of Union in 1707. Many supposedly “established” European nations were formed still more recently: Italy was unified in the mid-19th century, as were Switzerland’s cantons. That nation-states should form a bloc as tightly integrated as the European Union is an even more recent notion; the Maastricht Treaty was not signed until 1992, 47 years after the conclusion of the Second World War. While it is easy to dismiss the possibility of independence as foolhardy, we must remember Europe was once far more atomized than it is today.
That being said, independence for Scotland would mean a step in the opposite direction and the ebbing of a tide of unification that has crept across Europe for the past several centuries. A completely new borderline would be added to maps of Western Europe for the first time in nearly seventy years; what this would mean for the current European project is anyone’s guess.
The philosophical underpinnings of Scotland’s desire for autonomy, however, are compelling and thought-provoking. Self-determination is an understandable rallying cry, and it is only proper that Scots be given the opportunity to shape their own national destiny. It seems a shame, however, to embark on an ill-considered effort to achieve full independence when much the same end could be achieved while leaving the United Kingdom intact.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The following is a cover letter I wrote to a finance firm this past spring, while applying for a summer internship.
Dear Mr. Money-Smith,
I am a sophomore at Harvard College, and I am applying for your internship this summer.
I hope my previous work experience will shine through in my attached CV and recommendations. But in this letter, rather than listing my qualifications, I want to take the opportunity to discuss a more subtle subject: how my education adequately prepares me for anything you would expect from me in this internship.
At Harvard, I am a social studies concentrator. Now, I know what you’re thinking. Despite the name, my concentration doesn’t mean I only take eighth-grade history classes. Actually, I get to participate in a wide-range of courses in a variety of subjects, all of which relate to the social world in which we inhabit. And all of which, as I will show here, will assist me greatly in the world of finance.
For instance, all social studies concentrators take introductory economics, which students here lovingly refer to with the pet name “Ec 10.” In Ec 10, I was able to get a direct introduction to the world of finance, as we studied the bond and stock markets for several weeks. Of course, that’s not all we studied: We got to talk about topics like globalization, economic inequality, and environmental policy. In fact, the professors repeatedly stressed that we studied financial markets only to understand their role in the economy as a whole. And they taught us that a monkey randomly trading stocks would do basically about as well as a professional trader in a mutual fund.
But, Mr. Money-Smith, I don’t think you’re a money … I mean, monkey. Crises are not really my thing. And at the end of the day, when the Euro crashes, economic inequality spurs revolutions and millions look towards the great economic thinkers of our time for solutions to their buckling livelihoods, I’ll be glad I chose to apply those critical thinking skills instead to trading shares of corporations for money.
Another pillar of our education as social studies concentrators is our sophomore tutorial, referred to with a similar pet name—Soc Stud 10. The course gives us the pleasure of reading some of the greatest philosophy produced in the West, touching on social and moral theory that spans from Kant to Marx.
Sure, these philosophers didn’t do work that directly related to finance. Rather, they tried to apply their logical aptitude to study human morality, shedding light on the mysteries of our interactions. But studying their philosophies has taught something very important—it taught me what not to think about.  Knowing these moral codes, I can pin-point which ones to ignore and which ones to accept when trading in the marketplace. That way, whether leasing sub-prime loans that could start another recession or just making fun of that one janitor on the night shift to make me feel better at night, I can justify any action you’d like me to take. In other words, when I trade shares of corporations for money, there is nothing I “Kant” do. (You can expect more clever quips like that around the water cooler, again largely because of my education, if you hire me)
I could go on about how my South American history coursework prepares me to analyze the formation of cultures, which in turn prepares me to make money by trading shares of corporations for money. Or I could tell you about how my study of contemporary Middle Eastern literature has shaped my understanding of global politics, and in turn shaped my understanding of how to make money by trading shares of corporations for money. Or I could tell you about my Mom, whom I love very much. But I think I’ve covered enough in this cover letter, and hopefully the rest will come through in a follow-up interview.
So in summary, when many look at a liberal arts education, they may think a student would need to “buckle down” to get a job in the real world, shedding her impractical and idealistic notions in the process. But I think of my education more as “buckling up,” readying to take the ride of my life on the ups and downs of the marketplace. In other words, school taught me to think. And now I’m ready to “think about the money.” (another quip!) Even at the “cost” (and another!) of everything else.
Thank you for your consideration. I look forward to hearing from you soon, Mr. Money-Smith.
Sincerely,
Dashiell Young-Saver
In the end, I was offered the internship. It was unpaid.

Dashiell F. Young-Saver ’16, a Crimson editorial writer, is a an English concentrator in Winthrop House. His column runs on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“What we have once enjoyedwe can never lose;All that we love deeply,becomes a part of us.”
It is with a heavy heart and a reluctantly eupeptic gullet that this gourmand must report the untimely, unjust, and wholly understandable demise of a HUDS staple: the Chickwich.
The Chickwich—cherished circle, beloved pseudo-meat—is just one more victim of the rapid gentrification of the servery, of what the HUDS website smugly deems “new, healthier choices.” As though the comparative were really necessary.
The Chickwich, as dedicated readers and casual telepathists will recall, is very near to FM’s heart—many of our writers have major pieces lodged in minor arteries.
Who could forget, for example, the sometimes-annual FM-run “Chickwich Challenge,” (copyright pending) which has resulted, over the years, in no less than four—count ’em: four—hospitalizations, two FDA sanctions, and three recurring cases of crippling anomie?
And who could forget all the subsequent, surprisingly evocative nutgrafs, like the following: “This Wednesday, two men partook in a true test of heart and stomach when they set out to consume thirteen Chickwiches in all thirteen dining halls over the course of one lunch period?”
When I myself heard the terrible news, I knew—instantly, instinctually—that I needed to be alone. I smashed my phone, snapped my laptop in two, and did the same to my roommate’s belongings for good measure—I was going off the grid.
For weeks, I wandered the streets of Allston, ducking in and out of various seedy cafes and eateries of ill repute, searching for the phantom patty. The locals came to know me; they called me cruel names, like “Chicken-Licken,” and “Mr. Trela.”
But the Chickwich was nowhere to be found—at least nowhere corporeal. In my mind, I was beginning to taste anew the Chickwich’s myriad subtle constituents: the unplaceable, playful aftertaste; the delightful, cured-rubber core; and the patina of sun-dried gravel—à la franchaise—that lovingly girt the whole.
It began to dawn on me that the Chickwich was really gone, that it had been carried off by that cruel arbitress, Time, to the gilded space where all world-weary processed foods will someday find a measure of peace.
I couldn’t even cry. There was too much sodium in my body. I saw that our campus had been fractured, ramified, bifurcated—what other food, after all, could bring together the hedonists and the hurried, the Shakers and the Quakers, the iron-jawed and the steel-coloned, the crapulous and the cool?
Who’s the real monster? It is we—we, and our insatiable desire for progress. Each beet-and-kale burger ordered—every single turkey-and-avocado burger that slithers down our gullible throats—is a nail in the sesame-seeded coffin of the Chickwich.
Sections
Confused by all the tech jargon STEM concentrators are always bandying about? Us too, but we’ve managed to figure out Wikipedia, so here are some simple, plain English definitions for some common tech terms that you might see on the Internet, hear on the street, or have to explain to your grandmother.
Meme – A term coined by Richard Dawkins to describe the imitable structures people use to spread ideas throughout a culture. Modern Internet memes generally take the form of pictures with humorous captions, some of which include such apparently “hilarious” things as Doge, the Forever Alone guy, and rage comics.See also: Meme culture, a way to justify the fact that you still live in your parent’s basement.
The Cloud – Some kind of resource-sharing method that allows a user to store and access data through the Internet rather than from a hard drive. How it works is still completely unknown, but scientists agree that its appearance is linked with climate change.
Linux – An operating system used by people who want you to know they’re smarter than you.
Net Neutrality – It’s hard to explain this one. Maybe just Google it.
Dongle – A small piece of hardware that allows a user to access additional software; mostly important because it is the one avenue through which CS majors can giggle and make wiener jokes.
Java – A programming language/computing platform designed specifically to never be up-to-date; considered by many to be the pinnacle of annoying, useless software. Also an island in Indonesia!
If you have questions about tech terms, technology in general, or funny dongle jokes, feel free to email us here at magazine@hotmail.com.
Sections
UPDATED: January 26, 2015, at 2:58 a.m.
In late August, at the start of their freshman years, Israeli students, most in their mid-20s, arrive at the gates of Harvard Yard. They are surrounded by 18-year-olds, most of whom are straight out of high school. Like their younger peers, these Harvard freshmen are eager to begin their college experience: attend classes, join clubs, and meet new people from all over the world. They’re curious about college parties, and are nervous but excited to meet their freshman roommates. But unlike most of their classmates, they have spent extensive time living in the “real world” as they completed their mandatory military service. Some served in combat, some in intelligence. All served for their required terms, sometimes longer, before ever clicking on the Common App.
Israelis are not the only students at Harvard who have to factor in mandatory service to their education and career plans. Fifteen Minutes also spoke to students from South Korea—who typically take time off in the middle of college in order to complete their mandatory two years—and from Singapore about their transitions between service and scholarship.
Despite the differences in their background in service, all share a deliberate and conscientious approach to their time in Cambridge. For these foreign students, who have served or know they must serve in their country’s military, college was not the obvious next step nor is it simply a segue into the adult world. Rather, they have made the conscious decision to take time away from that world and immerse themselves for four years in campus life, even as they acknowledge the challenges that immersion can bring.
ARRIVING SIDEWAYSGiora A. Ashkenazi ’17 took part in a volunteer program in Nepal following his military service in the Israeli Defense Forces. Eventually, as he explains, “something about being outside of Israel and having this experience led me to think about another adventure, a different new place: the United States.”
Israeli students Dor Baruch ’18 and Michael, whose name has been changed because he does not have clearance to talk about his IMF service, said they wanted to experience something different than what Israeli universities had to offer.
Michael describes most Israeli universities as “purely academic,” explaining that you “come for classes, then you leave and you don’t socialize too much.” He notes that while he sees Israel’s school system as one-dimensional, colleges are “multidimensional” in the United States. Harvard, he observes, is about extracurriculars and meeting new people just as much as it is about academics. “I came here for the full experience,” he said.
In Israel, many students enter a university knowing exactly what they will study and what kind of job they will have when they graduate, Baruch says. Though he knows he’s interested in science, he notes, “I wanted to escape that and experience others things before taking that path.”
But taking the less straightforward route means allowing time for adjustment. “It was very overwhelming at first,” Ashkenazi notes. While most of the freshmen had been looking forward to Harvard all their lives, he explains, “I was coming to a new place, not knowing what I got into.” And while for most American students college was the natural next step after high school, “I sort of got here sideways,” Ashkenazi says.
A FUNCTION OF EXPERIENCE
One of the most striking elements of the first few weeks for the Israeli students was being around mostly 18-year-olds.
Baruch notes that the culture of the Israeli military has more of an age-based hierarchy than exists at Harvard. “When you’re 22, you treat the 18-year-olds like babies, they’re much younger than you, inexperienced,” he says of the IDF. “People of that age are not treated the same in the army.”But many also note that Harvard students did seem to be more mature than what they would have expected of 18-year-olds.
“I found people here a lot more mature than what I perceived as the average American college student,” Moriya Blumenfeld ’16 says, explaining that many students seem to come to Harvard with a lot of life experience. “I find myself learning a lot from my peers every day and it never feels like I’m older.”
Blumenfeld articulates a conscious approach to friendships and interactions with younger peers. “From the beginning,” she says, “I had a contract with myself that despite the fact that I’m older than the people who are going to school with me, I’m going to do my best to not let it get in the way of my experience.”
Like Blumenfeld, Michael says he has found that maturity does not always correlate with age. “I think that maturity is not a function of time but of experience,” he says. Michael says that he has made an effort to immerse himself socially “as much as possible” despite the fact that he is much older than his fellow classmates. “I think it all depends on the mindset,” Michael explains. “I think you can take the age out and just be a person, have a conversation.”
Tai Boon Ding ’15, who served in the Singapore Civil Defense Force before coming to Harvard, writes in an email to FM, because he is abroad, that every year the social scene gets a little more “awkward” for him. “After junior year I stopped going to most parties on campus, unless I’m going with a close group of friends, because you’ll never know what might happen otherwise,” he added. “Half plus seven, they say, half plus seven.”
ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE
Beyond just the age difference, the students’ past or future service gives them a different outlook than most Harvard students on the ins and outs of everyday life.
Peter G. Chang ’18, who has yet to complete his service in South Korea, says that though he accepts the military service as part of his future, he is ambivalent about the idea of leaving campus for two years to do something “less intellectually stimulating.” But, he adds, military service can be a helpful break from the academic and social rigors of college. “You have the opportunity to step away from chaos and college life and think about your own future,” Chang says.
If the experiences of Israeli students are any indication, campus “problems” seem much less significant after military service. “It gives you another perspective—maybe being in a double is not so bad,” Ashkenazi says.
Koplewitz also speaks to the effects of his new perspective on some of the typical Harvard student’s favorite complaints. “I think [military service] has the most bearing on things you find consequential and inconsequential,” he says, “like being quadded.”
And it works in the opposite direction, too: Topics of political conversation that may be purely academic for some Harvard students hit much closer to home for those who have served in the military.
Baruch says that his background in the IDF has given him a greater insight into the Israeli-Palestine conflict as it has played out on the ground than the average person on the street or, for that matter, in Annenberg would have.“It’s especially hard to hear things that you know aren’t true because of what you know from your army experience,” he explains. “The best thing you can do is just know you know.”
A POLITICAL MELTING POT
Despite the disparity in experience, most Israeli students agree that they have not encountered hostility from their classmates during political discussions about Israel’s actions. They say instead that Harvard students tend to be open-minded and eager to learn. In fact, Harvard’s diversity ensures that Israeli students aren’t just the teachers, but can also learn from the range of viewpoints they encounter.
Blumenfeld, who attended Santa Monica College in Los Angeles for two years while she worked at the Israeli Consulate there, says she encountered much more antagonism towards Israel and the IDF in LA than she has at Harvard. In Cambridge, though she has engaged in what she called “very intense” conversations with fellow students, she has never felt as though she was being attacked. “The beauty of this place is people are very open-minded and respectful,” she says. “I always felt like people actually listened to me.”
Ashkenazi explains that he does not mind when people challenge him about Israel’s policies. “I much more enjoy people questioning and talking to me rather than assuming or posting statements that are lacking knowledge and not knowing the facts,” he says.
It’s not just students curious about Israel who benefit from this exchange. Israeli students at Harvard also get the opportunity, often for the first time, to take part in dialogue with other students for whom the conflict is local.
Michael explains that before Harvard, he had never met anyone from Israel’s neighboring countries of Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, and Iran. But a few weeks into his freshman year, he has met and in some cases befriended students from all of those countries. “That’s something really exciting for me. This is a unique melting pot where people from all these conflicting countries can meet and make friendships,” he says. “If that can start here and then go back home, I think that can be a big change.”
Sections
There are a lot of bars in Harvard Square that serve decent glasses of prosecco and interesting cocktails for around ten bucks a pop, which is cute, considering I’ll have to start repaying student loans in a year if I don’t get into grad school. For this reason, FM is giving the people what they want: the best cheap wines of Harvard Square, reviewed by a seasoned early twenty-something casual drinker with no specialty knowledge of alcohol whatsoever. Have at me.
1. Trader Joe’s Block White
($10.99 for 3 liters; that’s $3.66 a liter!)
The convenient thing about Trader Joe’s Block White is that it’s in a box. The inconvenient thing is that—once poured out of the box and into your mouth—it tastes a bit like sipping watered-down white grape juice while someone in an adjacent room removes the chipping red polish off their toenails: sweet, some acetone, a veneer of fading glamour. It is a Thursday, and I down three glasses of the weak elixir in the chasm of anxiety between sending and receiving a booty text. I then read Lacan. The wine has a bouquet of honey cough drops and sexual anxiety; the box has a bouquet of cardboard.
2. Gaetano D’Aquino Pinot Grigio
($3.99/bottle. Trader Joe’s.)
It is Saturday. When I go to Trader Joe’s to get this bottle, I am greeted by the staff personally, indicating that I should be doing substantially more thesis reading. Gaetano D’Aquino is supposedly “light, crisp, and refreshing,” and I am 85-percent sure we have run into each other at a family reunion. Gaetano’s wine is full-bodied, like my high school drama teacher told me I was. Gaetano D’Aquino’s aftertaste is sort of lemony, and maybe a little peppery—or, then again, maybe not.
3. R.G.M.V. White Blend
($3.99/bottle. Trader Joe’s.)
At this point I can’t taste with much accuracy, but I’d say that this is a fruity wine, which is great because I am uncomfortable around heterosexual people. It’s from 2011, when I was approximately 30 pounds lighter and had three times the number of sexual partners, though I don’t think these two things are strictly correlated. This wine has a bouquet reminiscent of the other two wines, and it isn’t tannic. I am, however, getting some grapefruit notes. The label categorizes R.G.M.V. as a “white blend,” which also describes the racial composition of my hometown. This gives the evening a nostalgic, casually Republican feel.
Sections
It was born with a mission. After completing its mission, worn out, it retired back to its home in the humble offices of the metaLAB, on the top floor of 42 Kirkland Street.
A white round creature with four arms and four legs, the Phantom drone II is differentiated from its cousins by the stabilized GoPro camera dangling from its belly. Its job is to help the metaLAB get their fancy aerial footage.
The Phantom drone was acquired by the metaLAB for their documentary project, “Cold Storage,” which tells the story of the cold stacks of the Harvard Depository. It’s been modified to land itself back at its point of departure–a useful feature for a robotic cameraman set loose in a collection of over ten million books.
Its owner, Cristoforo Magliozzi ’11, after graduating from Harvard as a literature concentrator, returned to campus by way of Ghana, New York City, and the White House, in order to work with professor of Romance Languages and Literature Jeffrey Schnapp on the video components of the metaLAB projects. He says what brought him back is the multitude of resources that allow for experimenting with modes of filmmaking, and with nonlinear narratives, which was once his thesis subject.
Cris found out very soon that the journey of a student’s order to the depository and the book’s retrieval was a story that couldn’t be told with a regular camera. To capture the geography of the storage, the Phantom drone was attached to the moving shelves, and to the staff’s chests, in order to capture the motion of the many minor processes that bring a book out of the depository and into a student’s hands.
The drone flew along pipes and aisles. It hung above the staff on cherry pickers as they pulled out books from rectangular boxes, where the books are sorted according to their sizes on shelves that run from the floor to the ceiling. The metallic storage and the overly mechanical workings of the process stand in stark contrast to the mahogany-marble constitution of the showcases of its sister collections across the campus. The Depository operates on the primary principle of space preservation; the contents of the book, its writer, and even the date of publication become irrelevant details.
The Harvard Depository appears like a xylophone amidst trees. The black and white shots recorded by the Phantom drone reveal the modular architecture of the storage. It was built in sections, as the collection kept growing and growing. Magliozzi says that Harvard is coming to terms with the fact that they cannot be the collectors of everything. Today new books acquired by the library cannot find a home in circulation, and are directly shipped to the Depository.
Cris lists Alain Resnais’s 1956 film Toute la mémoire du monde, and, especially, the conception of the library as a cathedral, as points of reference and allusion that inspired him. The grandeur of the Depository seems to match that of a Gothic cathedral in scale, but the books rise independently in a sky that doesn’t claim to reach for the heavens.
This is a remarkably different approach than the one employed by a 1993 documentary of the Depository, produced by Harvard, which was scripted around the service that the Depository provides to the intellectual community. Come 2014, the service aspect has become less interesting than the narratives and stories that a cold storage system holds inside its walls. It’s clear that despite the digitization of books, metal still decays, and hard-drives are not going to replace the Depository in the near future.
“Cold Storage,” now in the post-production phase, will run less than half an hour, and will be available with an online interface component. Last spring Schnapp taught the first Humanities Studio course under the same name, which created material for the documentary. Some videos generated by the students in the class are integrated into the online interface component of the film. The viewers will be able to enter the 3D space of the Depository, click on different items to explore the virtual space, and hear the diegetic noise of the Depository.
The experience of accessing material by wandering around in the storage will thus recreate the experience of actually being there. This kind of engagement with a work of art–in this case a documentary–and the relationship between the viewer and the work is one of the realms that the metaLAB investigates with their projects.
The metaLAB doesn’t get much attention from the Harvard student body unless they fly a drone over the Harvard stadium. But very soon, with the opening of the Fogg Museum, another project that they’ve developed, The Lighbox, will be on view. The Lighbox, which will be located on the top floor of the Museum, will house all the artwork that is currently on view in a digital form. The visitors will be able to collect works on their tray, and send them up to an LCD screen array, or to the several drop-down screens in the room. By manipulating the sizes, colors, and the orientations of the artworks, The Lighbox will give the visitors a chance to interact with the works to make connections between them.
Technology and humanities seem to inhabit different plots on the Harvard Campus, even though nobody will refute the opportunities that leveraging technology to study the humanities will unlock. But the metaLAB is one of the few places that will get a drone to fly over the Arnold Arboretum or the Harvard Depository, or create an online animated online using crowdsourcing (“Curarium”). The metaLAB continues to experiment with new forms of scholarship.
Sections
Afternoon sunshine twinkles off the Charles River’s tiny blue waves and warms the grass on its shores. Beneath the nearby trees, students lay out on towels with their laptops and textbooks. Some people on the walking path seem hurried, others are enjoying a leisurely jog or stroll. Several, however, have stopped to read the mysterious string of poems stapled to a nearby tree.
The Poetry Tree is a recent addition to the Charles River path. Though it wasn’t started by an undergraduate artist, its creator and caretaker, Michael F. Epstein ’67, says he was inspired by a student project. Epstein has retired from his position of associate professor of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School and is a proud grandfather. He recalls, “My wife and I moved to Cambridge ten years ago, and that first year, there were poems in laminated sheets of plastic posted on little that were placed along the river, labeled ‘The Leverett House Poetry Society.’”
“I thought that was a great idea, great fun, but they never reappeared. My guess was that it was a senior who had a project, graduated, and no one ever picked it back up,” he states.
Epstein didn’t think much of the poems until two years ago. He says, “I put a poem on the tree, but it disappeared in a day or two.” Epstein posted another poem a few days later, but that sheet also disappeared, so he “just sort of forgot about it.”
Just this past spring, Epstein posted another poem as a fresh attempt. “The first thing that happened was that nobody took it down, and the second thing that happened was that other people started posting poetry next to it,” he says.
Epstein curates the tree’s poems with methodical care. He posts a few starter poems at the beginning of each season, makes sure each sheet is tucked safely in a plastic sleeve, and takes down the poems at the end of the season to make room for a fresh batch. Epstein even learned some web design so he could make a website with background information about the tree and an archive of every poem that had been posted. He references the website as an assurance that anyone interested can find and enjoy the small poetry collection no matter what happens to the tree’s sheets.
In his frequent visits, Epstein maintains a good knowledge of the poems on the tree. He has found most of them to be fairly modern, a page or less in length, and generally taking on a seasonal or natural theme. “In the spring, someone put up a poem by e.e. cummings,” he says. “There was also a wonderful Philip Larkin poem about trees. The Frank O’Hara one about having a Coke with someone wasn’t particularly seasonal or natural, but it’s a great little poem.”
The Poetry Tree also has become a venue for local budding poets to share their work. “A couple people put up poems that they evidently wrote themselves, because I can’t find the poem or its author in my research.,” Epstein says. While it may not be the best way to get feedback, a wide and varied audience is a definite plus to posting poetry by the Charles.
Most poems arrive on the tree in-person, but Epstein does give an email link on the website for submitting poems and comments online. Only a single piece of tree-mail has come online so far. “It was a man visiting from Ireland,” Epstein remembers, “who emailed to say how much he enjoyed it, and asking what kind of tree it was.” The Poetry Tree is a cherry tree, with wide and low boughs great for climbing as well as poem-posting. Epstein hopes to add pictures of the tree across the seasons to the site to complement its written content.
“It’s fun to see people enjoying it as I stroll along unannounced,” he claims. “We’ll see what happens. As long as people keep posting poems and visiting the website, I’ll keep doing it.”
Sections
I have a confession to make. It might, perchance, be conceivably possible that I have potentially developed a slight dependence upon the product known as Netflix. To be clear, I tell you this only because I fear for your safety and well-being. I divulge this story in the hopes that it will make you aware of the fate already befalling you; perhaps then you will be better equipped to handle the consequences.
It all started in high school, when, after obtaining my first ever debit card, I promptly purchased a monthly Netflix subscription. Slowly but surely, I began working my way through a few television programs. Back in the day when all the full-length features were either indie flicks or foreign films, my viewing time was naturally limited by the lack of programming attractive to my blockbuster-loving high school self. It was, truly, an ideal situation.
Then college started. I would like to personally thank Harvard for its “diverse student body,” which apparently is not only adept at conquering all academic and extracurricular endeavors, but has also collectively viewed and highly recommends every single feature on Netflix. My ever-growing book list gained a companion in the daunting array of movies and TV shows that I suddenly felt compelled to watch. I would like to put it on the record that the corresponding increase in my media consumption stemmed from a desire to develop more interests in common with my friends, and under no circumstances as an effective procrastination technique. That would be irresponsible, of course. I still had everything under control.
But Netflix had to go and make it even worse. They continued to add superior and addictive content. I should have known they had doomed me at that point, but exactly how much trouble I was in didn’t become clear to me until the break between last term and my internship this past summer. I won’t lie; I consumed five seasons worth of “Supernatural” in the span of two and a half weeks, and each season contains 22 42-minute-long episodes. I’ll let you do the math. All I know is that I am honestly and completely stunned that my computer didn’t combust. Did I even find time to eat or sleep, let alone actually talk to people or go outside? The memory is a bit foggy.
One day, I decided there was a non-zero percent chance I had melded minds with the showrunners, because I seemed able to predict everything that would happen on screen. I then immediately realized that I actually believed myself capable of melding minds with people, in particular ones who had come to their conclusions several months, if not years, before I had. Right then and there, I recognized Netflix for the vicious intellect-killer it is, and decided to ban myself from the streaming website for an indefinite period of time.
As the site had already destroyed any semblance of self-control I may have once had, I knew it was necessary to download a Chrome extension to block the website from my computer rather than simply trust myself to abstain on my own. I estimate this worked for five days, after which time I rediscovered my ingenuity and problem-solving skills as I hunted for a way to undo that moment of weakness and panic. Needless to say, I worked around the block and soon removed it entirely.
I know the burning question you are all asking: Have I learned my lesson and cut back on my use? Of course not. Actually, the more I think about it, the more I realize that none of what happened to me was actually my fault. Forget the warning: You who have thus far possessed the willpower to resist simply have not yet succumbed, but you, too, will fall to Netflix’s irresistible array of content.
You can tell me that I am an isolated case, that I cannot project my lack of self-control and motivation onto the human species as a whole. I may acknowledge these points, accept that I could spend my free time doing any number of other things, and even argue that I’ve made the conscious choice not to. But let’s be real. I’ll probably just continue to blame technology.
Ali M. Monfre ’16 is an applied math concentrator in Leverett House. She is available for questions and comments until Oct. 1, when “Gilmore Girls” hits Netflix and her time will be otherwise occupied.
Sections
UPDATED: September 18, 2014, at 12:33 a.m.
Half a dozen production assistants, all clad in black, scurry about the stage in the seven minutes between the end of Economics 10 and the start of Computer Science 50. Towering over the commotion and dressed simply in his signature black sweater and jeans is David J. Malan ’99, who tests his mic and toys with the many contraptions on stage. He has spent over 24 hours preparing to deliver this introductory lecture. Students file in.
The stage in Sanders Theatre is flanked by the statues of former Harvard President Josiah Quincy and early patriot leader James Otis. The two stare imposingly at Malan on the 59-ft. wide stage, and out into an auditorium that can seat over a thousand.
“This. Is. CS50,” Malan proclaims, pausing between each word.
This is the phrase he has said since he began teaching the class in the fall of 2007.
A video clip of YouTube CEO Susan D. Wojcicki ’90 promises that the class will be engaging and important even for students of the humanities like herself, a history and literature concentrator who took the class as a senior, around the same time that Malan was in middle school and most computers were still in black and white.
“CS50 changed my life,” she claims to an eager audience of shoppers ready to believe it. Over the next 53 minutes, no bell or whistle is spared in making computer science seem approachable and fun. A steel apparatus topped with lightbulbs, built by Ansel B. Duff ’15 and Dan B. Bradley ’14 over the summer, demonstrates the concept of a byte. Immediately rewarded, two students who operate it correctly are gifted with colorful lights for their rooms. In a trademark gag, Malan rips apart a phone book to show how binary search works.
If CS50 were a carnival, Malan would be its charismatic ringleader, seamlessly moving from trick to trick.
Now it’s time for the finale. In a sweeping denouement, Malan introduces LaunchPad, a music mixing device, which will be operated by course “Technologist” Colton Ogden, a slight but muscled EDM geek who wears many hats on Malan’s staff. Ogden graduated from Saddleback College in Mission Viejo, Calif. with a degree in computer science and describes himself on Twitter as a “Budding programmer/game developer, writer, gamer, musician, and person.”
The lights dim until Sanders’ Stage is pitch black. Hundreds of MacBook screens glow in the audience. A video of swirling colorful lights plays behind Ogden. Ogden, whose pale skin shimmers over the light of the controller, begins to play an original adaptation of a techno song, but no sound fills the cavernous theater.
“Quick fix, quick fix!” Malan snaps repeatedly at the production team. This hadn’t happened in the tech run-through in August.
“Quick fix, quick fix!” Aides scurry from inside the tech booth to fix the issue (a loose cord). Malan is forced to uncharacteristically pause and cede control to a question-and-answer session with the audience. There is laughter, perhaps because it is absurd that something usually so seamless has been derailed. Malan jokes about editing the technical difficulty out in post-production before the video is disseminated on the internet. Quickly fixed, Ogden is back in business while booming music closes the show, and cake will follow for all shoppers.
Three days later, minutes before the start of CS50’s annual Puzzle Day, Malan admits disappointment at the botched ending.
“I died,” Malan says. “I would have much rather gone out on a perfectly smooth note.”
Perfectionist is a word that describes Malan to a T. Having taken over the course with a middling enrollment in the low hundreds, in the past eight years Malan has brought it to a peak, with record-breaking attendance and a new energy among students for learning computer science. Despite having seemingly perfected the model for the class, each year brings new gadgets, inventions, and gimmicks.
This year’s lights and music spectacle of 889 strong (not counting the teaching staff) couldn’t feel further from private tutorials in the Barker Center or clunky lectures in dusty Sever. CS50 is exceptional for its size, its resources and the cult of personality around its charismatic leader. It is more than just a class at Harvard; it is a cultural touchstone, a lifestyle, a spectacle. This is CS50, and it’s here to stay.
This fall, 12 percent of the College is enrolled in CS50, and cutting edge technology, like 3D printers and cameras filming in 4k resolution, fills the classroom and course offices—a cushy complex at 125 Mt. Auburn Street that shares a building with the Division of Continuing Education and HarvardX.
To understand CS50 as it is today, it is important to know how much it has changed. Since the introduction of the course in 1989, attendance has varied, with enrollment in most semesters in the ’90s hovering around 200.
A revolving door of faculty members have taught the class, from current Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith to Henry H. Leitner, associate dean of DCE. Both men have played a significant role in the development of Malan’s career. Smith served as the adviser to his doctoral thesis (“Rapid Detection of Botnets through Collaborative Networks of Peers”) and Malan has called Leitner his mentor. Malan said that every request he’s had of Leitner, be it “financial, or a blessing to try something new,” has been answered with a “yes.”
When Malan himself took the course in the fall of 1996, it was taught by current Princeton computer science professor Brian W. Kernighan.
Kernighan, who at the time worked as a researcher at the Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, N.J., had never taught a course larger than a small seminar—quite a different experience from teaching the 300-odd students that enrolled along with Malan that semester.
“I volunteered to [teach] not quite realizing what I was getting into,” Kernighan says. “I’ve never worked so hard in my life as I did that semester.”
Kernighan never came to know Malan as a student. Malan was, in his own words, “one of these incredibly uptight Harvard students.” He began his time at the College set on a rigid, planned path towards concentrating in government. Able to take the class because Kernighan would allow him to enroll Pass-Fail, Malan began his education in computer science and immediately loved it. He even looked forward, he admitted, to spending Friday nights working on the newly released problem sets.
“I almost missed out, and thankfully the professor that year and the course that year was so incredibly alluring that I did it, and I stayed,” Malan says. “That was a very special thing.”
And thus, Malan’s own path was irrevocably altered by CS50. He switched his concentration to computer science, graduating with a 3.9 GPA in the field. His first Harvard teaching job came as a lecturer in the Extension School while a he was a senior at the College. After year-long stints teaching high school math and working at a wireless startup, he returned to Cambridge for his master’s and doctoral degrees.
He hasn’t left Harvard since, and now serves as the Gordon McKay Professor of the Practice of Computer Science. While Malan does not do a significant amount of research and thus is not on the tenure track, his position is one with a five-year contract that can be renewed indefinitely.
In the fall of 2006, a year before the start of Malan’s reign, the course enrolled just 132 students under the tutelage of Smith, mostly CS concentrators. In 2007, Malan’s first year, attendance more than doubled to 282 students. The numbers have since risen steadily to a course-record 889 enrollees this fall, including cross registered non-College students.
So what is it that has made this class, once a backwater for video gamers and coding addicts, the class with the highest enrollment in the College in five years? What causes hundreds to pull near-weekly all nighters? What is CS50?
HACKER EDITION
When peppy tour guides litter the Yard, coaxing high schoolers to apply to Harvard, they extol the virtues and wide availability of intimate seminars with tenured professors. When harried Harvard students search for courses to take, many often look for “gems” with as little work as possible to free up crammed schedules.
With a workload rating averaging a solid 4.0 on the Q Guide, and a difficulty at nearly that mark, CS50 is far from a cakewalk. And yet hundreds—78 percent of whom claim to have no prior computer science experience—file in twice a week for Malan’s electrifying lectures. Many more tune in from home for the open courseware version at cs50.tv while more than 150,000 registered for the first iteration of CS50x in 2012-2013.
With four producers, a manager, a handful of student photographers, and dozens of teaching fellows and course assistants, CS50 is no modest production. One would be hard pressed to think of another class in the College with its own staff of videographers and a full production team. No history class takes students to lunch at Fire + Ice weekly, as CS50 does each Friday. There’s no live feed of one of N. Gregory Mankiw’s rare Ec 10 lectures.
The course has a staff that can number more than 100. This year, the corps of teaching fellows and course assistants is led by Gabriel L. Guimaraes ’17, a Brazilian-born sophomore who translated CS50 into Portuguese while in high school to teach in his home country. He became a TF during his freshman fall.
Robert T. Bowden ’13 is one of the most visible members of Malan’s team. He is an affable recent grad who speaks with a careful and bright timbre not unlike Malan’s. For CS50, he has served as teaching fellow, assistant head teaching fellow, head teaching fellow, preceptor, and is now listed as a “Member of Technical Staff” as he completes his first year of a doctoral program in computer science at Harvard.
The course had a large impact on Bowden’s college experience. “CS50 and TF-ing in general was my big extracurricular,” Bowden asserts. “What I spent my time on outside of courses was mostly CS50. ... Some of my best friends in college and continuing on now were through CS50.”
This year, some of those 818 College students taking CS50 may never even step foot in Sanders Theatre. A recent policy change by the Administrative Board restricted simultaneous enrollment in overlapping courses, even those with videotaped lectures, yet granted an automatic dispensation for CS50.
Bowden notes that with lectures only making up a fraction of one’s time in CS50, physical attendance may no longer be necessary. “The course has gotten to a point where we have so many resources and ... it’s no longer the case that the live experience, being in Sanders Theatre, being lectured to, is superior to even sections as separate things, office hours Monday through Thursday, the videos that are online, the shorts that are online [and the] message boards that we have,” Bowden says.
Another supplement to lectures are CS50’s many events. Two weeks ago, with study cards yet to be printed and signed, recruiting was out in full force at Puzzle Day, a day of problem-solving, pizza, and prizes early in the semester designed to excite Harvard students about the class. Facebook frisbees and playing cards filled the tables and Mohammed Oosman, a New York-based university recruiter with the Zuckerberg empire, was present to open the ceremony, which Facebook has sponsored four years in a row.
With dwindling resources in the humanities and a constant worry about the constraints of the FAS budget, it may seem troubling that CS50 comes across as a bit of a spendthrift. But while the School of Engineering and Applied Science, FAS, and DCE may foot the bill for many of the course’s expenses, over a dozen tech corporations also kindly chip in.
“Over the years I sort of realized that I could reach out to our friends at Facebook and Google and college friends of mine who were in tech companies,” Malan says. “There’s a mutually beneficial relationship there, whereby we would love some support to make this course tradition possible and this undergraduate experience possible. They would love to chat up undergrads and talk about recruiting opportunities.”
A list of sponsors ranges from Amazon to Canon to Microsoft to Facebook, companies that pay for the food at events like Puzzle Day and the Hackathon, with the hopes of perhaps recruiting course alumni or teaching staff to work in the industry.
In response to a request for comment by Smith, FAS spokesperson Colin Manning wrote that Harvard will work alongside “corporations, foundations, and the government” to provide funding for “faculty...to pursue their own academic research interests and to advance the learning of our students.” Neither Manning nor Smith provided a comment to directly address the case of CS50.
There is an implication in the branding of CS50 that the class is the first step toward future employability for students, a fact highlighted by the ease of applying to work for the course immediately after completing it. There is even a perceived pipeline to a career in Silicon Valley.
And the exceptional nature of CS50 extends even further. A final note on “Academic Honesty” in the course syllabus states, “If you commit some act that is not reasonable but bring it to the attention of the course’s heads within 72 hours, the course may impose local sanctions that may include an unsatisfactory or failing grade for work submitted, but the course will not refer the matter to the Administrative Board.” Effectively, the Ad Board can be avoided by any student who admits to breaching their academic integrity within three days of committing the act. In the past, up to 5 percent of enrolled students have been involved in Ad Board cases regarding the class, according to a recent CS50 lecture.
Guidelines from the College-wide “Harvard Plagiarism Policy" state, “Students who, for whatever reason, submit work either not their own or without clear attribution to its sources will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including requirement to withdraw from the College.” There is no mention of a 72-hour window for reporting cheating. Neither Malan nor Brett Flehinger, interim secretary of the Ad Board, responded to requests for comment on this policy.
For some students, and most staff, CS50 is not just a course but a lifestyle and community. The class’ appropriation of Harvard jock culture makes it tough to walk through campus without running into a DHA-inspired “Property of CS50” t-shirt, just one example of the endless giveaways, swag, and paraphernalia the course makes available.
While many students form close bonds with members of clubs, athletic teams or social organizations, devoted CS50 TFs and CAs say they have found a niche within Harvard inside the walls of Maxwell Dworkin or the CS50 Research and Development Offices on Mt. Auburn Street.
“I would say there’s definitely a quirky sense of humor that the course has tried to maintain,” Malan says. “We’ve increasingly been trying to instill a sense of community and culture even within the CS50 staff alone, and this comes in the form of having staff-only T-shirts and sweatshirts and things that really make you feel part of this intimate community.”
Bowden, whose twin brother Paul was also a CS50 TF, serves as a freshman proctor on the first floor of Thayer Hall. With an air of a boyish charm and often clad in his CS50 course gear, he looks like he could be a student in the class rather than one of its longest tenured staff members. He describes CS50 as continuingly integral to his social experience at Harvard.
“It was sort of a thing that I would go somewhere and people would be like, ‘He’s the CS50 head TF,” Bowden says. “From a social aspect, it was definitely a large factor in my undergraduate and even now graduate life. People talk to my freshmen; I heard someone walking by and be like, ‘You have Rob Bowden as a proctor? Oh my god, he’s the CS50 guy.’”
Jason C. Hirschhorn ’14-’15, a former teaching fellow whose sections are available on the web as part of CS50x, also says that his CS50 involvement has led to a degree of celebrity.
“Many students around the world know my name,” Hirschhorn says. “I don’t think they know many personal details about me…[but] I’ve told personal anecdotes in my sections which I’m happy for students to hear, like funny personal anecdotes to break it up and make it more personalized.”
And at the center of the fame that comes with the course is Malan himself, who boasts 15,760 followers on Facebook yet still finds the time to respond to the dozens of comments he receives from legions of fans. With the way his course has traveled to all ends of the globe, Malan sees CS50 as a portal for reaching more people and connecting them together.
“We have some 30,000 subscribers [to our Facebook group], who have been part of this group now for many months, and it’s fascinating to see people from the U.S., from India, from France, from literally all over the world, crossing paths because they’re sharing in this mutual experience,” Malan says.
But the stardom and spectacle certainly aren’t limited to the celebritized teaching staff and the class’s internet presence; it’s at the core of the course itself. In fact, it’s difficult to cite a CS50 event that doesn’t involve a sensory overload with mountains of food, flashing lights, and blasting Top 40 music.This festive rigmarole has made the course a viral must-see for incoming Harvard students, who stream into Puzzle Day as early as half an hour before the event starts.
Groups of four and five students pose for photos with a range of props from oversized sunglasses to plush speech bubbles, beneath their own images projected on a massive scale to the curving white wall above. Facebook posters and banners adorn the cavernous space, and a pair of sophomore TFs in cut-up purple CS50 Puzzle Day T-shirts stand at the top of the stairs to welcome the throng like party motivators.
Armed with candy and puzzle booklets created by Facebook, the entrants quietly gather in group clusters and get to work. They are excited by the possibility of prizes, but also to begin to hone their problem-solving skills.
A group of four freshmen—three of whom planned on taking CS50 this semester—describe the class as famous. They’ve heard about it from their upperclassmen friends.
“It’s like a legend,” Jessica M. Wang ’18 says of CS50. “Puzzles sound fun and there’s also free stuff involved if you’re good enough. ... It seems like an experience, you get to go through the Hackathon, you get to go to the fair—it’s a lifestyle.”
Even old school administrators echo, in a more formal sense, the general sentiment that drives the droves of students to slave over problem set after problem set, even stay up all night eating Chinese food while coding.
“We are evangelical about our subject,” says former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68, currently the director of undergraduate studies for computer science. “We want to compete for students. We want to take all the students who thought they couldn’t do computer science. We want them to understand that it’s going to going to be hard and fun. .... We’ve been doing the shenanigans for years.”
If one were to arrive at the Harvard Innovation Lab roughly 90 minutes before the kickoff of Puzzle Day, one would find David Malan perched behind the check-in table, fussing with production staff over how the shade of purple on this year’s t-shirt will appear on print-outs from the event’s photo booth. A hallmark of the class and its culture are the countless numbers of Facebook albums posted by Malan and course staff of every CS50 event, many of which have a photobooth-esque area with plentiful props. Even the lighting of these photos is under Malan’s scrutiny.
Despite the hundreds that will pour into the “hives” of the i-Lab over the course of the day, CS50 remains a very “high touch” experience, to quote Lewis. All of this is made possible through the time, energy, and sheer control that Malan exerts over the class.
After a mandatory two-day workshop for staff before the start of classes this semester, at which all participants become CPR and First Aid certified (Malan has been a trained EMT since 2003) and complete various skill-building workshops, Malan sent course staff multiple firm emails (copies of which were obtained by Fifteen Minutes) saying, “if ever contacted by the press for a quote or interview about CS50...please confer with me via email or phone beforehand” and “if caught off-guard by a reporter in person or by phone, just decline to comment at the time and offer to follow up once we’ve touched base.”
Despite a jocund manner on screen, Malan is nothing but serious about the image of the course. For his staff, this comes across through his high expectations.
“All TFs in CS50 would agree with this: that CS50 is probably more work than other courses...because there is such a high expectation of quality and [Malan] expects that out of his TFs,” Bowden says. “He has very big visions for getting things done that are hard to meet, but with everyone trying to put in the effort you can kind of get there.”
Even students not employed by Malan have described the high bar he sets for work and the demanding way his expectations materialize. Bill, a student at the College, has taken CS50 and has contributed ideas to Malan for the course. Bill was granted anonymity by Fifteen Minutes because he is working alongside Malan and fears his employment prospects would be negatively affected if his name is used.
According to Bill, who characterizes Malan as self-promotional, his grading policies were often opaque and had little rhyme or reason. Bill said that when Malan was evaluating a group project, he did not look at the content of their code, but rather based grades on the short presentations of their projects.
“To be fair [Malan has] built up CS50 from almost nothing,” Bill says. “It’s become a cornerstone of the department, and I think that the way that he makes computer science accessible and seem enjoyable—and it is enjoyable—is credit to him. ... If there were ever a cult, it’s CS50.”
Malan attributes much of his success with undergraduate education at Harvard to his background as a former student, with the ability to identify with and understand the teenagers populating his current classroom.
“I have a very personal vested interest in [Harvard] because it’s so impacted me,” Malan says. “It’s defined my life in the past few years, and I daresay CS50 has become my life in recent years.”
For all that Malan scrutinizes each minute aspect of events like Puzzle Day, his actual presence during the event is surprisingly light. Despite the amount of micromanaging before the event—the shade of purple on the photos, a request that TFs not hang and dangle from the pipes below the ceiling, the arrangement of giveaways on tables—he takes a backseat role as soon as students begin to arrive.
Relegated to a position behind the check-in table, Malan greets students as they arrive and monitors the staffers. Still, when it comes time for formal remarks, he lets Belinda L. Zeng ’17 and the duo from Facebook welcome the crowd, exalt the learning of computer science, praise CS50, and explain the schedule of the day. He does not even rise to join the speakers at the top the stairs and instead stands several feet back from the eager masses, observing the program that he’s built.
This is not to imply any degree of negligence on his part. Malan does not shy away from the microphone, though he has spent copious amounts of time working on his public speaking abilities. As an undergrad at the College, Malan was an unsuccessful UC presidential candidate—which he still reflects on nearly 20 years later and partly blames on “how badly [he] performed” in a public debate.This day has been choreographed and coded. Every move comes with forethought, both for this semester’s course and more broadly for the class’s future.
“We are hopeful that we will make some sort of dent in the model for higher education, which is a bit grand, admittedly, since we’re just one course in computer science no less,” says Malan ambitiously when questioned about his longer term goals for the course.
After spending several hours at Puzzle Day and answering my many questions, Malan’s still eager to sell me the class. He pauses to personally thank me and my multimedia partner for coming and reminds us to take a t-shirt as we leave the hives.
Sections
CS50 v. 50 Cent
Sections
Fifteen Minutes: You’re here for this question and answer event with President Faust, and she has said recently that she really wants to talk about the humanities. What can you say about your visit.
Nicholas D. Kristof '81: Well, I’m always glad to find an excuse to come up here, and I think that often the president has spoken to the students as a welcome. I remember Derek Bok did that when I was a freshman, and I have no recollection of what he said, and so I hope we can have a conversation that will get at the questions student want to ask.
FM: Did your recent columns about “why the humanities still matter” have any effect on what you’ll say today?
NDK: I’m really just asking questions. I’m not really trying to make an argument to students, but I do worry that partly because everybody is so focused on making money, that there tends to be this drift to banking and to consulting that is great if its intentional but is unfortunate if its just mindless and by default.
FM: Do you worry that the state of your industry, the journalism industry, might be scaring away some young writers?
NDK: Absolutely. In journalism, we’re in desperate need of a business model, a better business model, and the immediate people suffering are journalists, especially those at regional news organizations, but [also] in a larger sense, the public suffers if you don’t have a local news organization aggressively covering the state capitol or city government. Then it’s people in the state and in that city who are the losers.
FM: You’re doing this interview without a public relations aide, or a minder as they are sometimes called. I’m sure you’ve run into public relations officials a lot in your day-to-day reporting, and they’ve certainly become more common in interviews. What do you think about that?
NDK: I suppose it’s inevitable, because when somebody says something wrong, so to speak, then there are enormous consequences, so there tends to be a push and pull and newsmakers, especially corporate guys, tend to be more restrained and try to build in ground rules to require double checking quotes, that kind of thing, and then journalists need to push back and say ‘no, under those circumstances, we don’t want to do it.’ And that kind of push and pull has been going on for decades and it also involves Washington and the White House and so on. They always want to brief journalists off the record, and we always want to get quotes, and I think we journalists often have leverage that we don’t fully use.
FM: Okay, we want to address the small elephant in the room, which is the middle initial. You wrote a column a couple years ago about why you don’t use it anymore. Obviously it is a tenet of Crimson style. Can you tell us more about that decision?
NDK: There’s a tradeoff there between precision and kind of a colloquial tone, and there’s a real value to including middle initials, but I do think that, in journalism, we have to try a lot harder to fight for our audience, to be conversational, and since I’m unlikely to be mixed up with any other Nicholas Kristof, it seems to me that the middle initial—the New York Times already comes across as a stuffy, guy somewhere scratching his chin, and a little bit out of touch. And a middle initial, perhaps at the margin, adds slightly to that. Now, I suppose if I were to become Nick Kristof, like I am on Twitter, that would also go some way in that direction, but just taking out the middle initial seemed to be a useful compromise. I wouldn’t want to impose that on everybody, but I do think that in journalism, we probably should try to become a little more conversational, and that means more contractions, shorter sentences, less stuffy writing, and sometimes, maybe, more nicknames and fewer middle initials.
FM: What are your journalistic products outside of your columns right now?
NDK: I can’t do anything without my wife, so Sheryl [WuDunn] and I have a new book coming out September 23rd, although we actually have a signing after the talk. Normally, you can’t really do a signing until after the book is released, but we got special permission from Random House, you know, for my old college, so they released the book to the Harvard Book Store this afternoon to have a signing this afternoon, so that’s the big new project, a new book about basically how to make a difference, it’s called “A Path Appears.” We’re talking about doing a mobile game in conjunction with that as well, and there will be a documentary of that coming out on PBS beginning in January.
FM: What do you think of Reuters’ push to get stories under 500 words?
NDK: I think in general readers would like more shorter articles, and journalists like more longer articles, and that journalists have been winning the argument because they’re doing the writing. I think we’re all going to have to be a little more attuned to what readers want. It doesn’t mean we have to pander. I care deeply about covering certain kinds of articles that don’t have a natural constituency, but if you care about those kinds of stories, then it’s even more important that you figure out ways of connecting them to an audience, whether it’s with photos or video. I’ve dragged some celebrities along on trips, because I figure that maybe people will read about it if George Clooney is there... Just trying to think of any way to get people to engage in these issues. I think it’s got to be a buffet—you have to have all kinds of things—but in general I think a lot of stories can be shorter.
FM: We were with President Faust this morning, and she told us a story about how you were somewhere in the Arab Spring and came back to Cambridge by Saturday night for a Board of Overseers meeting. Can you tell us more about that?
N.D.K: That was Cairo. I was covering the Arab Spring.
FM: How did you get out?
N.D.K.: I had a flight booked to make it just in time to get to the Overseers meeting, and then they started arresting journalists, and so I moved hotel rooms and took a hotel room under a different name, an assumed name. I was sort of hiding out in that hotel room. I had to get smuggled out of Tahrir. I was in Tahrir Square—I had sneaked into Tahrir Square—and then the authorities had surrounded [the square], and some local guys inside smuggled me out. Somebody else got me a hotel room under a different name, and I was sort of hiding out in the hotel room, and then I was about to get a taxi, and I had to go over a bridge that I could see out of my window, and there were these thugs, these government-backed thugs that created this checkpoint on the bridge, and I thought, “Oh no.” But they stopped some of the cars and they didn’t stop my taxi. We got to the airport and [I] made it back. One of the ways they smuggled me out—they were looking for journalists, and as an Overseer, I have a Harvard ID. So I became a "visiting scholar," I was a scholar, and they wanted IDs, so I pulled out my Harvard ID.
FM: One last serious question before we get to the magazine-style things; we're running out of time. On that topic, a lot has been written recently with the James Foley, Steven Sotlaff situation. You're Nick Kristof, you're with The New York Times. I think it's fair to say you have a little bit more support when you go out in similar situations than freelancers. Can you talk a little bit more on that? You described a situation when you were in pretty realistic danger, but you got out, which obviously has not been the case for particularly the freelance journalists we've seen recently.
N.D.K.: First of all, there are all kinds of categories of people who face much greater risk, especially photo camera people, photo journalists. I can be a mile away listening to the gunfire. They have to be there when people are shooting each other to get the images. The people that so often I rely on are local translators or drivers. They take all of the risk and get none of the credit. There is some real safety value in having a blue passport. It becomes a higher pay grade decision to shoot you. I've seen that on a number of occasions. Certainly The New York Times helps. When I went to Syria, the Times had a security consultant, and he wouldn't let me go in as far, as deep into Syria as I liked. Thank God he didn't.
FM: Alright, it's hard to change tone, but the Magazine is relying on us. We sometimes ask freshmen what they think they'll be doing in 15 years for this rather controversial series which I think has been discontinued called "15 Hottest Freshmen." We ask them where they see themselves in 15 years. If you were a freshman, what would you have said?
N.D.K.: I think I would have said that I would go back to Oregon and maybe go into local politics. Yeah, I think that's what I would have said.
FM: Where would we find you on a Saturday night? Which might be a more difficult question for you, of all people. And remember, I think you're a freshman.
N.D.K: At a party trying desperately to be cool.
FM: Something you've always wanted to tell somebody?
N.D.K: I really don't know that I've had any great desire to tell people things. I'm really more in the asking business.
FM: Describe yourself in three words?
N.D.K: A bit nerdy.
FM: Your favorite childhood activity?
N.D.K.: Reading.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the wake of the conflict in Ferguson, Mo. this summer, police departments need to work even harder to build trust with their local communities, panelists at a John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum event said Wednesday.
The event, entitled “Reflections on Ferguson,” was moderated by Law School professor Charles J. Ogletree and featured panelists who included a former police chief, a current mayor, a reverend, and a Pulitzer-Prize winning journalist.
One panelist, Lee P. Brown, a former mayor of Houston and NYPD commissioner known as the “father of community policing,” said that the initial response from the local law enforcement reminded him of police actions during the 1960s.
“I’m convinced that if Ferguson’s police department had adopted community policing as their dominant style...the recent events would not have occurred,” Brown said. “First, the officer would have known Michael Brown.... Second, if a shooting did take place, the people would not have immediately assumed that the police were wrong.”
Speaking via Skype from her office, Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake echoed Brown’s concerns regarding both the militarization and lack of trust between the Ferguson community and police department.
“There is a time and place for military equipment and that is in response to a terrorist threat or after a natural disaster.... We don’t ever think about using the equipment we have against our own citizens, certainly not because they were exercising their first amendment rights,” Rawlings-Blake said.
The conversation also focused on the media coverage as events unfolded.
“The media of course are always well deserving of bashing for a variety of things.... There was of course sensationalism...and people reporting erroneously,” said Alex S. Jones, the director of the Shorenstein Center for Media, Politics, and Public Policy.
Jones compared the media reaction in Ferguson to that of reporters who covered the civil rights movement during the 1960s, highlighting how television was crucial in bringing shocking images of police militarization to the attention of the rest of the country.
“The media did a great service to us all by making those images something so vivid, they were vivid because that’s what was happening,” Jones said. “The media has been successful at putting that issue [of police militarization] on the national agenda and that is part of the service that media in its imperfect way, can do.”
Reverend Ray Hammond ’71 added that the incident has implications that reach far beyond Ferguson and urged everyone to take a closer look at the issue of race relations in community policing.
“Community partnerships have to be built before the crisis,” Hammond said. “This isn’t law enforcement’s job alone. I, you, all of us must be honest brokers between generations and across institutions.”
—Staff writer Ivan B. K. Levingston can be reached at Ivan.Levingston@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @IvanLevingston.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: September 18. 2014, at 2:00 p.m.
Five years ago, College students carried 800-page books listing every single course offered at Harvard. But in 2009, the College did away with printed course catalogs, lightening backpacks and permanently changing the way students pick their classes.
For most students, that meant turning to homespun browsing tools—like courses.cs50.net, a site created by students in Computer Science 50: “Introduction to Computer Science”—and away from the College’s own, less sleek browser.
But a revamped course catalog set to roll out in the fall of 2015 may change that focus. The catalog—part of a larger effort to create a student platform to centralize bill payment, course enrollment, and registration at the University—is intended to personalize a student’s browsing experience by noting which courses count toward his or her degree progress, according to Faculty of Arts and Sciences Registrar Michael P. Burke.
“This semester we’ll be ramping up with more interactions with faculty and students, to make sure that the way that students experience the catalog is a richer, more robust experience than what we offer now,” Burke said, noting that the catalog will feature keyword searches and more useful filters.
With the rollout of the course catalog next fall, University administrators hope to spur students to reflect on their educational goals when searching for courses online, even as some professors worry that more targeted search tools will limit students’ opportunities to explore.
Though the College still officially offers its own online browsing tool for searching the catalog, many students say they prefer using the CS50 tool, which filters courses by concentration and meeting time, in addition to showing data from the Q guide.
“[The CS50 tool] is without a doubt way easier to use,” Cynthia S. Meng ’15 said. “The user interface is so much more intuitive, and it’s also a good way to aggregate all the data I actually want to see in one place.”
Unlike the CS50 tool, Harvard’s current catalog browser—found at coursecatalog.harvard.edu—features only a simple search bar, making it difficult to search for courses by department or General Education requirement. Students can type the desired course title, description, and instructor into the search bar, or leave it blank, to receive a long list of courses offered by all of Harvard’s schools.
“[The catalog] is an html page, it starts by department and you drill down into it,” Burke said. “It’s just a long page…. It goes down forever.”
Anastasiya Borys ’15 said that prior to this academic year, she had primarily used the CS50 course tool as her way to find suitable classes, but this year switched to using the course catalog’s website so she could search for non-College courses not included on the CS50 site.
“The course catalog is less user-friendly and you have to almost come into it knowing what you're looking for,” Borys said.
In addition, the catalog is so decentralized that students often find themselves searching for courses and registering on multiple platforms, according to Jason Shaffner ’99, a director of student information systems for Harvard University Information and Technology.
“It’s a more fragmented experience,” said Shaffner, who is charged with overseeing the implementation of the new student information system. “Students have to use multiple course catalog interfaces today to be able to plan what they’re going to take and then to complete the study card.”
Shaffner also noted that students often use the CS50 tool in combination with the catalog, department pages, and the Courses of Instruction site. Although Shaffner said that his team has not yet reached out to CS50 course staff, he hopes that new tool will streamline the many platforms currently in use.
“Sometimes you only get part of the answer from each of those tools,” Shaffner said.
A year from now, if the new catalog is launched according to plan, students will be able to register, search for courses, and submit their study cards all on a whole new platform. Like the CS50 website, the new catalog will have filtering and keyword search tools, but according to Shaffner, the catalog will expand upon CS50’s functionalities by personalizing the browser to track degree progress.
“We plan to be able to support the web services capabilities that are used today by the CS50 application, to be able to consume the data from our system,” Shaffner said. “But our hope is that we’ll be able to make the data set better and more accurate, and have more dimensions to it.”
But even as the technical capabilities of the course catalog expand, some professors wonder if more targeted searches and filters will limit students’ academic options and mitigate serendipity in course selection. For his part, Anthropology Director of Undergraduate Studies Richard H. Meadow expressed concern about students missing opportunities to find courses they might not otherwise think to look for.
“The problem with that is that you need to know what sort of keywords you are going to look for,” Meadow said in an interview in April. “ If you haven’t ever thought about looking for [a course about] food, you’d never look for food.”
He also expressed concern that catalog browsing tools encourage students to focus solely on crossing concentration requirements off their lists, as opposed to nurturing new and more general academic interests.
“A lot of times, students think, ‘Okay, these are the courses I need to take for my concentration. And now I’m going to fit everything around it,’” Meadow said. “You get things fixed, and you fill in the slots.”
Computer Science Director of Undergraduate Studies and former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 said he also worries about students being “too directed” and “assuming an intellectual identity too early and too resolutely.”
But for Lewis, this pedagogical problem does not stem from improved browsing tools but from the changing academic priorities of Harvard undergraduates.
“Blocking the advance of technology is not the right way to address that problem,” Lewis said. “People need to take a step back in terms of thinking what their educational goals are.”
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at meg.bernhard@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Meg_Bernhard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last year they wanted thicker toilet paper and more soup. Now, they’ve swapped out the quality tissues for an infinity supply, and the soup for faster dripping water.
When it comes to Undergraduate Council elections, joke tickets are nothing new. But for a growing group of UC hopefuls—fueled by the surprise victory of UC President Gus A. Mayopoulos ’15 last year—humor has become the go-to strategy to separate themselves from this year’s sometimes crowded field.
Aisha Bhoori ’18 is one of those candidates. Her platform promises to apply Beyonce lyrics to solve campus issues ranging from “bureaucratic partition” of the College to the limited supply of toilet paper freshmen may acquire per visit to Weld Hall.
Vying for a spot in Ivy Yard, the second most competitive district in this year’s elections, Bhoori admits she is not the most serious candidate on the ballot. Others among this year’s 103 candidates across the College pledge to take on issues like recent changes to the Q Guide, the climate surrounding sexual assault on campus, and limited dining hall hours. But she says her focus is on combating the “seriousness and perfection” that she sees at Harvard and in the UC, anyway.
Though Bhoori had not even been admitted to the College when Mayopoulos and his running mate Samuel B. Clark ’15 were elected in November 2013, she points to the duo and their tomato basil ravioli soup platform as inspiration.
“It made me realize that I think the student body on campus is kind of tired of candidates who promise these very lofty goals and kind of take themselves too seriously, and that humor might be the best approach in underscoring what needs to be done,” she says.
David P. Frankle ’18, who is also running for one of three spots in Ivy Yard, likewise admits to looking to Mayopoulos and Clark’s victory as a source for his platform.
Referencing the soup again, Frankle says he has decided to focus on what he sees as a similarly small, but important concern—increasing the speed at which water is dispensed in Annenberg. The carbonated water, Frankle says, seems to flow “significantly faster” than the non-carbonated. The relative slowness causes buildups in dining hall lines, according to Frankle.
And while he says he’s serious about representing his fellow undergraduates and has dedicated a lot of time to canvassing votes, he “definitely tried to focus on the smaller things” and to promote an attitude of “approachability” around the UC.
Others have seized a different lesson from the Clark-Mayopoulos model, using humor and spectacle to separate themselves from the bureaucratic “UC establishment”—or at least the notion that there is such a thing.
Dunster House resident Sriram V. Pendyala ’15, who served on the Council last year, wrote in his platform that “although I've been in the UC  since February, you shouldn’t think of me as a UC insider mostly because I’m not cool enough to be one.”
Luke R. Heine ’17, another incumbent from Cabot House, says he openly acknowledges his work in the UC last year while campaigning, but goes farther, insisting that those who use the term “UC insider” only perpetuate a bureaucracy in the body that he does not believe to exist.
Instead, Heine says he is trying to cast the UC as what it is: a student government rather than a body with larger authority. That has also led him to campaign under seemingly non-traditional measures, in one instance sitting in a pool in the middle of Radcliffe Quadrangle to garner attention.
Voter interest, he says, hinges on “aesthetic intrigue.”
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Cambridge Police arrested two men last week who were responsible for the armed robbery of a Harvard employee on Church Street in August.
Boston resident Radeat Abate, 21, and homeless man Daishaun Lawrence, 22, reportedly pinned down the victim at gunpoint shortly after meeting him at around 2:50 a.m. on Aug. 19, according to a Cambridge Police Department report. The suspects then robbed the 30-year-old Harvard staff member, taking his wallet and other personal belongings before fleeing down Brattle Street. The victim, whose name would not be disclosed by Cambridge Police, was not injured during the incident.
“Fortunately, we were able to obtain quality surveillance footage that led to the identification of the suspects,” Cambridge Police spokesman Jeremy Warnick said in an email.
After identifying the assailants, Cambridge Police arrested one suspect in Boston and the other in Cambridge, on warrants resulting from the armed robbery, Warnick said.
Abate was arraigned and is being held on $10,000 bail, and Lawrence has also been arraigned and is being held on held on $25,000 bail. They will now go through the court process.
After the initial report of armed robbery in August, Harvard University Police Department issued a community advisory about the criminal activity, including standard instructions for those who feel that someone may be following them, such as staying in well-lit areas and contacting authorities. HUPD did not conduct the investigation because the robbery did not take place on University property.
—Staff writer Mariel A. Klein can be reached at mariel.klein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mariel_klein.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: September 18, 2014, at 10:25 p.m.
A $10 million gift from Maryellie K. Johnson '57 and her husband, Rupert, will benefit the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study as well as various other priorities set by University President Drew G. Faust.
The gift will be split evenly between Radcliffe and Faust’s chosen funds. At Radcliffe, the money will support various artistic initiatives. Some of the gift will also endow a faculty director of arts in academic ventures, a position currently held by professor Yukio Lippit.
Faust indicated in an interview on Tuesday morning that she will use her portion of the gift, which takes the form of endowment principal to be invested by the Harvard Management Company, for “endeavors” in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, but she was not more specific.
According to Jeff Neal, Faust’s spokesperson, the pledge was disclosed to Radcliffe supporters this May.
In addition, James F. Rothenberg ’68 and his wife, Anne, have pledged to support a new fund that will provide up to $200,000 annually for the next three years towards research in the humanities. A fund for humanities research run out of the office of Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 will also be increased to provide $150,000 a year for the next three years.
The money will be dispersed through an application process, and bids have already been solicited for the first awards.
Faust made it clear on Tuesday morning that the humanities will be a focus for her during the current academic year.
“We hope that will give some energy and some support to humanities faculty who need it and are excited [about] what they might do,” she said of the enhanced research support.
—Staff writer Matthew Q. Clarida can be reached at matthew.clarida@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @mattclarida.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Mathematics professor Jacob A. Lurie ’00 was named a recipient of the MacArthur Fellowship, a prize commonly referred to as the “Genius Grant,” on Wednesday.
Lurie was among the 21 fellows named by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation for 2014. Each fellow will receive a no-strings-attached stipend of $625,000 for outstanding contribution to his or her field.
According to the Foundation’s website, the MacArthur Fellows Program “recognizes 21 exceptionally creative individuals with a track record of achievement and the potential for significant contributions in the future.”
Lurie's work, a statement on the foundation's website read, "is more than just a philosophical endeavor; he includes hard theorems in his foundations, developing theory to the point that deep new results become the corollary of a general and powerful framework.”
Lurie studies derived algebraic geometry, a field of mathematics which he said explores “what happens when there is redundancy in polynomial equations."
He said the award was “completely unexpected.”
“It does seem pretty random,” Lurie said. “I had no idea that they even give it to mathematicians.”
Lurie studied mathematics at Harvard College before pursuing his doctorate studies at MIT. He then returned to Harvard as a Mathematics professor in 2008 at age 31. He has published two books, “Higher Topos Theory” and “Higher Algebra,” as well as a number of papers.
Lurie, who now teaches Math 281: “Algebraic K-theory and Manifold Topology," said that he has long been intrigued by the “beautiful questions and answers” in the field of mathematics.
He said that he thinks math professors should teach more about the history of mathematics in their undergraduate classes.
“It ought to be possible to make mathematics seem more like a living subject where a lot of conceptual advances have been made over the years,” Lurie said. “It’s interesting that sciences in general are taught with a lot of the history stripped out. I think you lose a lot [by doing so].”
Benedict H. Gross '71, another Mathematics professor, called Lurie “a real visionary” in the field.
“He laid the foundation for a whole new subject and created his own field,” Gross said.
Gross taught Lurie when he was an undergraduate at the College and also supervised his senior thesis.
“His [undergraduate] thesis was equivalent to the very best Ph.D. thesis,” Gross said, adding that it was a pleasure to work with Lurie.
The fellowship was also awarded to three other Harvard alumni: documentary filmmaker Joshua Oppenheimer ’96, social psychologist Jennifer L. Eberhardt, who graduated from the Graduate School of Education in 1993, and computer scientist Craig B. Gentry, who graduated from the Law School in 1998.
—Staff Writer Zara Zhang can be contacted at zara.zhang@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: September 18, 2014, at 9:40 p.m.
All eyes these days are fixed on Harvard’s ongoing capital campaign, but across the Charles River, construction is quietly underway on a host of long-delayed and recently gifted capital projects in North Allston. Harvard has had its sights set on expansion in Allston for decades, and in 2003, then-University President Lawrence H. Summers laid out ambitious plans for new academic and residential facilities across the Charles. The University released a master plan for Allston in 2007 but decided to halt construction in 2009 in the wake of the financial crisis.
A scaled-back plan was unveiled three years later and approved last fall; construction is now lined up for the better part of the next decade. Plans approved by the Boston Redevelopment Authority include a nine-project institutional master plan that will create 1.4 million square feet of new construction and 500,000 square feet of renovations, a retail and residential commons that will contain 325 apartment units, and a $1 billion science complex that will house the relocated parts of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Here’s an update of the handful of projects already underway and set to begin in the near future.
Harvard Business School Chao Center:
After breaking ground in April, construction on the Ruth Mulan Chu Chao Center, the future home of the Business School’s Executive Education Program, will continue through May 2016. The more than 10,000 executives who participate in the program each year will make use of the center, which was funded by a $40 million gift from the Chao family.
Baker Hall Renovation:
The renovation of Baker Hall, a residence hall to be fitted with up-to-date technology services for the Business School’s Executive Education students, began in April. The six-story building will be renamed in honor of André Esteves, a Brazilian billionaire whose donation funded the 78,000-square-foot project.
Bright-Landry Hockey Center Renovation: 
The renovation of the Bright Hockey Center, which began in 2013, is one of the first projects in Harvard’s IMP to be completed. Finished in Aug. 2014, the renovations added a new entrance to the rink and an expansion to existing locker rooms, bathrooms, coaches’ facilities, and storage.
Charlesview Apartments: 
Acquired in a 2007 land swap, the site of the old Charlesview apartments will house the “Gateway Project,” a “mixed use institutional building,” according to the IMP. Groundwork at the aged, concrete complex is ongoing in preparation for demolition later this year. Charlesview residents were relocated to a new apartment complex a half-mile down Western Ave. during the summer of 2013.
Barry’s Corner Residential and Retail Commons: 
The steel skeleton of the Barry’s Corner Residential and Retail Commons—perhaps the most noticeable of Harvard’s ongoing construction projects in North Allston—towers above any other building currently standing at Barry’s Corner. The complex, contracted to developer Samuels & Associates and slated to be completed next fall, will house 325 apartment units and 40,000 square feet of retail space.
28 Travis Street: 
After resuming construction in Allston in the summer of 2012, Harvard relocated mailroom services, HUIT, HUPD training facilities, recycling and storage, and “fleet management services” to 28 Travis Street, completed in the summer of 2013. Allston residents voiced concern that these institutional services were located too close to a residential neighborhood.
224 Western Ave.:
Earlier this month, the University unveiled plans for a new facility to open in February that will incorporate the Harvard-Allston Education Portal—the current location of which will be demolished to make way for a new basketball arena—as well as “transformative” programs promised to Allstonians in the IMP. Harvard’s plan earmarked $8.3 million for the new programming, which includes a collaboration with HarvardX.
The New SEAS: 
In Dec. 2012, Harvard presented plans for a $1 billion health and life science center in Allston; just months later University President Drew G. Faust announced that the site would include part of SEAS. Allstonians have criticized the current appearance of the site, left untouched while Harvard reevaluated its Allston plans. Work on Harvard’s largest Allston project is still in its early stages, and construction is to be completed in late 2017 or early 2018.
Basketball Venue:
Though details are scant, Harvard plans to build a new basketball venue that will hold about 3,000 seats—about 1,000 more than the current basketball arena. The development, on property that currently houses the Ed Portal, will also include more than 200,000 square feet of graduate student housing space.
Hotel and Conference Center:
The IMP also includes plans to build a hotel and conference center with about 200 hotel rooms and meeting space. The University has not officially determined whether the hotel will be Harvard-run or managed by a third-party operator.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: September 18, 2014
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that the entire School of Engineering and Applied Sciences will be moving to Allston. In fact, only parts of the school will move across the Charles River.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
They say the third time is the charm.
For running back Paul Stanton, the arrival of junior year brings many possibilities to build upon his breakout sophomore season for Harvard.
The 5’9” Louisiana native become the Crimson’s workhorse out of the backfield last season, totaling 936 rushing yards and 17 touchdowns in 10 games. His average of 93.6 yards per game landed him third among Ivy League running backs and earned him a spot on the All-Ivy second team.
Throughout the offseason and training camp, Stanton has worked on his ground game, as this year the squad will again look to the junior to take a majority of the carries for the team.
“There’s always room for improvement, and Paul Stanton is one of those people where if you tell him to do something at camp, he’s going to go out and do it,” captain Norman Hayes said. “He’s been working tremendously hard all throughout the offseason and had a tremendous camp, and we continue to look forward to see more from Pauly.”
The success of Stanton’s sophomore campaign was an improvement from his performance in his rookie year, when he played only eight games and recorded 171 total rushing yards on 28 carries. In his first season, the inexperienced back carried second-string responsibilities behind Treavor Scales ’13, who mentored Stanton en route to a 1000-plus yard rushing season.
Stanton’s time in the spotlight came last year when teammate Zach Boden went down with an injury early in the season. The then-sophomore emerged as Harvard’s leading rusher, complementing then-junior quarterback Conner Hempel’s arm to ultimately bring a piece of the  Ancient Eight championship back to Cambridge.
This year, the Stanton-Hempel connection will be just as strong, if not stronger, after the duo spent the offseason working together.
“[Stanton] and Conner Hempel are always on the same page when they’re back there, about to take a snap,” Hayes said. “[Stanton] has a much better feel of where the cuts will be based off of the offensive line blocks and...he does a really good job of setting up the blocks.”
Now in his third year on the squad, Stanton will be a key component of Harvard’s offense.
“The truth is if we’re healthy, we’re as good of a 13 [or] 14 guys we’ve ever had together,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “Offensive line, tailback, quarterback...to be perfectly honest, realizing our depth is a little precarious, it’s a really good group…. We should be a quality offensive unit, but we have to prove it. We’re not lacking for team speed or skilled athletes that can make plays in space.”
Entering the season as the go-to running back for the defending Ivy League champions is a big role to fill, for Stanton but veteran experience and a new perspective on the game will help the junior.
“He’s become a little more mature in his sense of knowing our offense,” Hayes said. “When the linemen get where they need to be, he makes some cuts off of them. He’s definitely improved in that.”
Offensively, the Crimson has a number of weapons in the backfield that can be used to achieve success this season. Hempel represents a dual threat to opposing teams, having notched 259 rushing yards last year, good for second-best on the team behind Stanton.
And when he is not using his legs to move the chains, Hempel can target fifth-year senior wide receiver Ricky Zorn, junior wide receiver Andrew Fischer, and senior wideout Seitu Smith, all of whom have amassed a wealth of experience.
According to Murphy, the strategy this year is to share the ball as much as possible, making it difficult for an opposing defense to sit on one player and eliminate him as an option.
“The nice thing is [that] one of the challenges we have, which is a really good challenge, is getting everybody their touches,” Murphy said. “We feel like we have to get Paul ‘X’ amount of touches, but…we’re going to do whatever is best for the team.”
Last season, Harvard’s offense maintained a balanced attack, scoring 23 touchdowns through the air and 21 on the ground.
This year, Stanton will play a vital role and provide many scoring opportunities for the team, just as he did last season.
“We pride ourselves on being able to run the ball, so Pauly will definitely be a key aspect of our offense, especially with our very experienced offensive line that make sure they get done whatever they need to get done,” Hayes said.
—Staff writer Ariel Smolik-Valles can be reached at asmolikvalles@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sometimes you just can’t simulate it. No matter how much a football player practices, established routines quickly become complicated when all the lights are on.
Senior kicker Andrew Flesher knows that feeling. Last season against Princeton, he took the field late in the fourth quarter to attempt a 50-yard potential game-winning field goal.
Flesher’s lengthy kick—just the second of his career—sailed wide left. Harvard lost in triple overtime. “I think the Princeton field goal was one of the field goals when I noticed it was a big moment, because it was at the end of the game,” Flesher said.
 But experience is the best teacher. The very next week, Flesher took the field late against Dartmouth in a tied game. With 48 seconds on the clock, the then-junior punched in a 23-yarder to seal the victory for his team.
Tasked with filling in for injured then-senior kicker David Mothander ’14 in the middle of last season, Flesher went from having never attempted a collegiate field goal to converting two overtime kicks and a game-winner in just three weeks.
“You just get a little bit more used to it,” Flesher said. “By the time the Dartmouth kick happened, I felt pretty confident.”
Special teams occupies a unique place in football. While defenders rely on speed and brute force, punters count on skill and accuracy. While quarterbacks adapt to a defense, a kicker’s ally is consistency and repetition.
Furthermore, punters and placekickers are only on the field for a handful of plays each game. Whereas position players can get into a rhythm and feel out their opponents, kickers and punters need to play 100 percent every time they step between the lines.
One swing of a kicker’s leg often goes the longest way in determining the outcome of a game. “We all realize that special teams is [an] equally if not even a little bit more important endeavor,” captain Norman Hayes said. “We can gain and lose a lot of momentum just by one swing on special teams.”
Players on special teams arguably face more pressure on a weekly basis than any of the other men on the roster. If the offense marches down the field and a drive stalls, the kicker is instructed—nay, expected—to convert for three points.
While a kicker’s impact on a game can be substantial, the fleeting nature of the opportunity demands that special teams players remain physically and mentally sharp at all times.
“We stay warm all game; you keep your legs loose,” senior punter David Bicknell said. “As a unit we’ve been doing this our whole lives pretty much…. You [must] be ready when you’re needed.”
As a punter, Bicknell’s role is significantly less flashy than Flesher’s. No one likes to see the punter come in on fourth down; it means the offense has failed to do its job.
Nevertheless, Bicknell embraces the opportunity to pin his opponent inside the red zone and contribute to the Crimson’s success.
“Every role on the team has its own specific job,” Bicknell said. “My job is to make sure that the opponents are pinned as far deep into their territory as possible, so I do what I’m supposed to do for the team.”
For Flesher, who must perform on an island with everything on the line, the mental approach is perhaps most important.
“If you’re a kicker, you tend to be a perfectionist of some sort,” Flesher said. “You’re used to just operating on your own, so I think that’s something that’s pretty key. But other than that, it’s really just practice.”
Indeed, Flesher, Bicknell, and Harvard coach Tim Murphy understand that practice is absolutely essential—not only for establishing muscle memory and routine, but also for imbuing confidence.
A typical training day for kickers and punters involves arriving well before the official practice start time. After a brief meeting, the players head to the field and stretch out. For about a half hour until the rest of the team arrives, Flesher practices field goals and Bicknell works on punts from a variety of distances.
The full-team practice typically begins with the field goal unit and punt team training independently, often executing drills and practicing different coverage schemes.
Many of the team’s best defensive players—including last year’s leading tackler junior Eric Medes and senior lineman Obum Obukwelu—play a significant role on special teams.
“We spend a little more [time on special teams] at the first part of practice just to emphasize that it’s just as important as any unit,” Murphy said. “From our standpoint, it’s really important. We have nothing but good athletes on special teams, so we take it seriously. The kids know we take it seriously.”
When the offense and defense take over for the remainder of practice, Flesher and Bicknell leave the field to either stretch or lift in the Palmer-Dixon Weight Room.
But the day is by no means over. For Flesher, some of the most valuable moments of training come at the end of practice when Harvard runs full-team situational drills.
At a moment’s notice, the special teams unit needs to spring onto the field, assume formation, and coolly execute a kick or a punt with a hundred players screaming in their ears.
You can never simulate the conditions of a game-winning kick, but these drills mimic Saturday afternoon pressure moments more closely than solitary practice ever could. If the preparation is there, the gameday challenge ultimately comes down to confidence and trust in your mechanics.
“When you go into a game, it happens so quickly that you’re not really thinking about anything else,” Flesher said. “So you just have to have the process down; you have to be comfortable with your snappers and holders. And when you go out there, your brain will just want to kick with your natural ability.”
On special teams, one thing is for certain: everything happens fast. Flesher learned that lesson firsthand last year. In a matter of days, he went from not even being on the travel roster to winning an Ivy League game for his team.
Quarterbacks will drop back to pass 30 times a game. But for kickers and punters, one moment often makes or breaks your performance—and dictates whether the postgame locker room is filled with shouts of “Ten Thousand Men of Harvard” or thick, dead silence.
For these players, the only choice is to embrace the pressure.
“Yours is a thankless job,” Murphy tells his special teams players. “When you do a great job everybody loves you. But they’ll jump off the bandwagon just as quickly.”
—Staff writer David Steinbach can be reached at david.steinbach@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Defensive end Zach Hodges shifts his foot slightly.
No fan would notice it. Hodges’ unique blend of size and speed is easier to focus on. His team-record numbers are far more noticeable too, as is the pile of awards he has already racked up heading into his senior season.
But junior tackle Cole Toner notices. He has to.
For the last month, the two have re-engaged in their raw competition. Theirs is the type of battle at the soul of football, but also the kind you might easily miss.
Hodges’ job is to get to the quarterback. Toner’s job is to stop him. Want to know what happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object? Watch.
“That’s a tremendous matchup every time,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “It’s one guy wins one play, one guy wins the next.”
It was not always that way, though.
Toner said that coming in as a freshman, facing Hodges and then-fifth-year senior John Lyon was intimidating. The 295-pound tackle admitted he once appreciated plays in which he did not have to block the tenacious ends, but not anymore.
Now, he is upset Hodges is getting more snaps at linebacker because it means fewer battles. Each snap he now gets against Hodges is that much more intense.
Typical is thrown out of the picture when the two line up against each other. Normally, defensive linemen do not attempt to shed their blocks—grabbing the offensive linemen and pulling them into the defender’s ‘hip pocket’—during preseason practice, but Hodges said “to heck with that” at the beginning of this training camp.
Hodges gained an edge on Toner with the aggressive tactic, but the offensive lineman quickly adjusted, Hodges said, slightly changing his technique to regain the upper hand.
Hodges responded by shifting his feet and aligning differently, and the two have gone back and forth and back and forth, pushing and pulling, ever since.
“It gets really deep down into AP-level stuff, as me and my coach call it,” Hodges said. “It’s more mental now with me and Tone.... I flip my foot a certain way in the way I lock him out, and it may trip him up for a week and then he figures something out to do against it and then I’m figuring some other wrench to throw his way.”
“It’s become a fun mind game of just dueling,” he added.
Toner said their competition puts a lot of stress on their relationship, especially on days when the players cannot wear pads as protection. Recognizing their value to the team, Hodges and Toner now remind each other each day that they need to stay healthy—that they don’t want to hurt each other.
Close combat has fostered deep understanding.
“You can see the ethic of a man in his eyes when he has to stand up in front of you and he has to go face-to-face with you,” Hodges said.
Appreciation has come, too.
“[Toner] comes to fight,” Hodges said. “I respect anyone with that kind of work ethic.”
Coaches limit Hodges’ reps against other linemen for fear of injury and embarrassment, but letting him go against Toner benefits both.
Watching from a couple spots down the line, senior center Nick Easton has seen the two improve through competition. He himself benefitted from facing current Indianapolis Colt Nnamdi Obukwelu ’14 and is now one of the team’s most NFL-ready players, along with Hodges.
Toner has NFL ambitions too, if he is able to stay healthy and improve over the next two years. Holding his own against Hodges one-on-one while watching other teams struggle to double and triple-team the end gives Toner confidence about his future.
The pair’s struggle is made more compelling by their opposing personalities.
Hodges, raised in Charlotte, N.C., and Atlanta, Ga., “has a really fierce demeanor that obviously all the great defensive football players really have,” Murphy said.
Toner, meanwhile, from an Indiana town of 50,000 “is very laid back,” his coach said. “He’s not terribly demonstrative.”
Contradictory demands of offensive and defensive linemen make that dichotomy common, Murphy said.
“I think there’s a lot more technique involved in playing the offensive line, where you are running a set play every time,” he said. “The defensive mentality of just turning it loose doesn’t always facilitate great offensive line play. It’s a combination of culture, personalities, and just the nature of offense versus defense.”
Toner and Hodges represent that conflict. They stand in for two cultures, two styles, two sides of a football team. Yet, they stand just inches apart before the snap, and they share a common mission. They push each other, but they also push each other. Each wants to get better. Each wants to win.
Hodges is clear about his motivation.
“I believe perfection is possible,” he said. “And I think that’s really the only thing worth striving for.”
Before Hodges gets there, though, he has to get by Toner.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacob.feldman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jacobfeldman4.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A week after dropping a triple-overtime contest to Princeton, the Harvard football team faced a must-win situation at home against Dartmouth last year. Two losses in the conference would all but guarantee that the Ivy League championship would be out of reach.
Down just a field goal with 43 seconds left and a timeout remaining, the Big Green began a drive deep in its own territory. Second-string quarterback Alex Park gave the visitors a flicker of hope, driving the Big Green down to the 38 with 30 seconds to go. But on the next play, Park overthrew his receiver and then-senior safety Jaron Wilson ’14 was there to pick it off.
When Dartmouth gifted the Crimson with a share of the Ancient Eight title by toppling Princeton three weeks later, Wilson’s last-second interception to seal the game took on championship-winning importance.
This year’s Crimson squad won’t feature Wilson. Or D.J. Monroe ’14, another defensive back who had a key interception in the Big Green contest. The two graduated as part of a senior class that also included corner Brian Owusu ’14 and safeties Chris Splinter ’14 and Reynald Kirton ’14—with one notable exception, the entire starting secondary of 2013.
“There are definitely new faces at all positions, but everybody who’s had to step up into these roles has made huge gains and accepted them fully,” captain Norman Hayes said. “They’re getting to know our defense and how our schemes work. It’s been tough at times because of inexperience, but everyone’s pretty much on the same page now.”
The only experienced member of the secondary remaining has the unique challenge of leading not only the defensive backs, but also the entire team. Hayes, elected captain last December, became the first non-linebacker to receive the honor since 2010.
“He’s just such a confident, tough, high football IQ guy,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “People think he’s one of the guys with tremendous integrity and class on our team, and you put it all together and yeah, it’s hard to make that decision among thirty or so guys, but I think it was the total package.”
Beyond Hayes, the defensive backfield remains a question mark. At cornerback, the Crimson will likely rotate a group composed of juniors Sean Ahern, Jordan Becerra, and Chris Evans. Ahern and Becerra have eight tackles combined between both of them, and Evans has yet to see any game action.
Despite the relative inexperience of the new corners, Murphy remains optimistic following a promising preseason.
“Corner was a position that a year ago we were really concerned about—losing guys like Brian Owusu, DJ , and some other guys,” Murphy said. “But all of a sudden, we feel like we’ve got a bunch of good corners. Guys just growing into the position and developing…. They’re tough, physical, big cover corners, so it’s all good news at corner.”
The Crimson’s depth falls a little shorter at safety, a position which Hayes, who split time between corner and safety last year, will be playing this season. Junior Scott Peters, a former freshman walk-on, and classmate Asante Gibson will join Hayes in the safety rotation. While both Peters and Gibson have more game experience than any of the new corners, the lack of depth will likely require Hayes to take more reps while the defense is on the field.
“[Hayes is] a two-time All-Ivy player, he’s the only guy with significant experience, and he’s the captain of the football team,” Murphy said. “So you put that all together and, predictably, he’s going to be the guy back there who has to really be the quarterback, be the coach on the field, and he can do it. He’s got broad shoulders. He can do it.”
But luckily for Hayes, the inexperience in the defense is limited to the secondary. Three of the Crimson’s front four are seniors, including veteran defensive end Zach Hodges, who anchors the defensive line. With Hodges up front pressuring the quarterback, the secondary’s job should be easier—the senior, who was the only FCS player named to the watch list for the Butkus Award, an honor given to the best college linebacker, ranks fifth in Harvard history with 18.5 sacks.
Joining Hodges as veterans on the line are senior defensive tackles Obum Obukwelu, who struggled with injuries last year but still managed to notch 19 tackles on the season, and Ryan Delisle.
The linebacking crew isn’t exactly starving for experience either. Despite graduating captain Josh Boyd ’14, the squad retains a number of seasoned linebackers, led by now-healthy senior Connor Sheehan, who was sidelined for most of last year by an elbow fracture, and junior Eric Medes, who led the squad with 72 tackles in 2013.
“I’ve got a big role,” Hayes said. “It’s pretty important, but I’m not at all overwhelmed by the responsibility because of the rest of the leadership that I have on defense…. So as captain I’ve got to be looking out for the whole team, but being a leader of the defense is not as intimidating of a role.”
Though Harvard may have graduated nearly the entire secondary, there may be a silver lining in an almost-clean slate. While the Crimson was third in the league last year in points allowed against Ivy opponents, Harvard came in sixth in pass yardage allowed. The turnover in the secondary may bring with it an improved pass defense, which gave up over 270 yards per game in 2013.
The secondary will get its first real test in the Friday night home opener against Holy Cross, when it faces quarterback Peter Pujals. Pujals tore up the Crimson’s defense last year, throwing for four scores and 345 yards. If Hayes and company are able to limit Pujals in the second go-around, it should bode well for the team, which will need to defend dangerous Ancient Eight quarterbacks in Princeton’s Quinn Epperly and Dartmouth’s Dalyn Williams.
But if there’s any team in the Ivy League that’s able to withstand an entire overhaul of the secondary, it is Harvard, which features an offense that should be able to keep the defense off the field and an experienced defensive front to take the pressure off of the backfield.
Led by Hayes, whom Murphy characterizes as exhibiting “unique football charisma,” it’s not hard to imagine the young squad stepping into the championship-winning shoes left by the defense of last year.
“It’s a high intensity, very physical style of play on defense, and we all love the game, and we love the way we play the game, so it hasn’t been too rough of a ride too far,” Hayes said.
—Staff writer Samantha Lin can be reached at samantha.lin@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Spend enough time around college football and you will realize what is at the core of the game. Harvard coach Tim Murphy certainly has. Emergency triple coronary bypass surgery reminded him again last February.
Murphy had never taken a sick day in his coaching career before missing two months of offseason activities as he recovered from the surgery.
“The first time in my life having to take time off from being a coach was tremendously difficult and humbling,” said Murphy in an August teleconference. “It reinforced that I love coaching college football, I love working with kids, and I especially love working at Harvard and working with these kids. It reinforced how much this means to me.”
His return to the sidelines for a 21st campaign coincides with Penn coach Al Bagnoli’s final season. Bagnoli will retire after 23 seasons leading the Quakers at the end of this year.
Preparing for his final season has reminded Bagnoli about the central element of college football, too. Conner Hempel knows it just as well. The senior quarterback started last season by lighting up San Diego, Brown, and Holy Cross as Harvard scored more than 40 points in each of the three wins.
Then he got hurt. He missed two games. And after he returned, the Crimson never scored more than 40 points in regulation again. Hempel’s passer rating in his final five games was 25 points lower than it was after his first three.
Zach Hodges understands college football’s central challenge now that he is a senior.
This off-season, he talked with his coaches about all of the defensive talent Harvard graduated: nose tackle Nnamdi Obukwelu ’14, captain linebacker Josh Boyd ’14, and eight defensive backs, among others.
Hodges knows he cannot fill all those voids by himself, but he has relinquished his throne at defensive end to roam more as a linebacker and edge rusher in the hopes of opening up more opportunities for his teammates.
He has given up expectations of breaking records in the hopes of being a “non-statistical force.”
“It goes beyond just being able to take on more plays or move around to different spots on the field,” Hodges said, “[I am] just trying to be almost more of a quiet leader, just trying to talk to guys one-on-one, trying to make sure that I’m there to support them.”
Senior center Nick Easton has seen the positive power of what so many college coaches must curse in private moments. He went from only appearing in four games through two seasons to making the All-Ivy League first team after his third season. An injury allowed him to fill in at center last year, and Murphy now believes Easton has a chance to be an NFL center.
Then there is the captain. Norman Hayes embodies college football’s central principle. He has already earned two Ivy League championship rings, but his most precious piece of jewelry rides around his neck: a butterfly-shaped ring he wears in memory of Olivia, his sister who died at 10.
Making Olivia proud motivates Hayes, he said. Murphy was enraptured with the story when he met the recruit. Stick around his team long enough and you will see why. Hayes’ story is painfully unique, but it is also emblematic for the Crimson.
On a smaller and more trivial scale, Harvard football is guided by loss. All of college football is. Teams lose players to injuries every week and graduation every year. Then there are the lost opportunities that haunt coaches—poor choices and missed chances that would help except there is no second chance.
The cycle of life spins so fast in college football and ends so suddenly. You must grow from loss or be consumed by it.
Murphy has been able to channel the inevitable defeats and disappointments a college program endures into motivation and victories. His team has won all but four games over the last three years, but Harvard has a lot of loss on its side.
Hayes’ grief and inner strength is incomparable, but there is also the quarterback who understands the value of each start, the defensive end looking to do right by those who came before him, and the coach who sees how easily he could lose what he has built.
The whole team also has two close defeats to Princeton motivating it. Just ask senior kicker Andrew Flesher how powerful those moments are after he missed a potential game-winner last year.
Defending champions and long-time winners are sometimes wanting for hunger. Fortunately for the Crimson, Harvard players and coaches have lost plenty.
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacob.feldman@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @jacobfeldman4.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With three victories to open the season, the women’s soccer team appeared to pick up exactly where it left off last year, when the Crimson (3-2-0) went unbeaten in Ivy League play en route to the league title. However, over the weekend Harvard’s offense stalled, failing to score a goal as the Crimson dropped games against Boston College (7-1-0) and Colgate (5-1-1).
After averaging almost 12 shots per game in its first three contests, Harvard managed only four against the Eagles despite possessing the ball well throughout. The Crimson managed more scoring opportunities against the Raiders but still could not find the back of the net. Harvard had to contend with stout defenses in both matchups, as Boston College and Colgate have each recorded five shutouts already this season.
“I’m not discouraged at all because we did have...more chances than we’ve had in many of our games all put together, we’re just missing them by a little bit.” Harvard coach Ray Leone said. "If we can just work on our finishing a little bit more...we’ll get more of those opportunities on frame.
With Ancient Eight play looming, the Crimson looks to end its recent skid as it travels to Durham on Thursday night for a matchup with the University of New Hampshire (2-5-0).
Historically, Harvard has dominated the all time series between the teams, boasting a 20-3-3 record against the Wildcats.
One of those three losses came last year, when UNH surprised the Crimson with a 2-1 win despite being badly outshot, 21-2. Then-freshman goalkeeper Mimi Borkan starred for the Wildcats in that contest, stopping a season-high 11 shots to lead UNH to the victory.
“One of our biggest things is not looking too far behind us and not looking too far ahead of us,” captain Marie Margolius said. “We’re a whole new team, it’s a whole new season, so of course while we’re keeping last year’s memories in our minds, we’re not really focusing on that as we prepare.”
The Wildcats are a whole new team this season as well. In addition to the year to year roster changeover customary in the college ranks, UNH has a new head coach, Steve Welham, who replaces Sam Lopes. Amid that change, the Wildcats have struggled, surrendering nine goals in seven games while scoring just four.
If any of the Harvard players should keep last year’s game in mind, it is sophomore forward Midge Purce. She scored the lone goal for Harvard in that game and will no doubt be relied upon to do the same on Thursday, as she serves as the creator for the Crimson offensively.
On defense, Harvard has been steady, holding opponents to just one goal per game on average while consistently breaking up potentially threatening chances for opposing offenses.
The biggest question defensively for the Crimson is who will start the matchup in goal. Senior Cheta Emba and sophomore Lizzie Durack have split the goalkeeping duties so far, and the pair has posted similar statistics. In an equal number of minutes, Emba has surrendered one more goal but made three more saves, and both have recorded a shutout.
“They both are playing fantastic,” Leone said. “We’re really really happy with how they’re doing, and we couldn’t ask any more from either one of them.”
The plan has been for them to alternate games, indicating that it would be Durack’s turn to start on Thursday.
If last year is any indication, a few of early season losses will not phase the Crimson as it heads into the rest of the season and begins its Ivy League campaign on September 27 against Penn. Harvard opened the 2013 season with three straight losses before stringing together a 12-game unbeaten streak that lasted through the regular season.
If Harvard is to have similar success later this year, a win against the Wildcats would certainly be a good start.
—Staff writer Phil Delamater can be reached at philipdelamater@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The nicknames almost write themselves. Thing 1 and Thing 2. 1-2 punch.
And if you forget who junior wide receiver Andrew Fischer and senior wideout Seitu Smith II are now that the pair have switched their jersey numbers to No. 1 and No. 2, respectively, just remember they are the fast guys—the really fast guys.
Asked about the duo’s speed, quarterback Conner Hempel called the junior “Fischer Fast.’”
“Trying to keep up with him is tough,” Hempel said, “but Seitu is right there.”
Hempel targeted the pair early and often during Wednesday’s practice and said they will play a large part in this year’s offense afterwards. Smith has been practicing at running back as well as receiver since the spring. Hempel said he’s looked like a natural at the position since the spring game.
“If you look at him and Andrew Fischer, they are the prototype of the type of skill athlete you have to recruit to be successful,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “Both played running back and wide receiver in high school, and both were really good threats at both positions, and they are fast enough and physical enough to handle it.”
During practice, the two are almost always together, whether they are standing back waiting for a kick return or handing the ball off during a double reverse.
Fischer said the two are together off the field too, studying tape and teaching each other because their roles are so similar.
Yet, the simultaneous number change was “just a coincidence,” Fischer said. “It worked out though.”
“I’m very excited to showcase the No. 1,” he added. “I was given No. 32 freshman year so I wanted to get a number that I feel suited me.”
Murphy explained that once a player establishes himself on the team, they are given an opportunity to switch numbers, and that most of his skill players traditionally have wanted to move into the single digits.
An offensive player has not worn No. 1 since 2010, when then-freshman Chris Splinter ’14 played wide receiver. He switched to defensive back after that season.
Smith switched his No. 10 with junior quarterback Jimmy Meyer’s No. 2. Kicker Andrew Flesher also wears No. 2.
Fellow returner Bryce Walker has also switched his number, going from No. 80 to No. 11. To make things a little more confusing, the other Smith, Seitu’s freshman brother Semar, will now wear 32, Fischer’s old number.
In addition to playing fast, Fischer and Smith start fast, too.
Smith led the team with 89 receiving yards in last year’s season-opening 42-20 victory at the University of San Diego. He also had 28 return yards. Fischer had 20 return yards to go with 71 receiving yards and a team-high two touchdowns.
Both failed to reach those numbers again though. Fischer finished the season with 285 receiving yards and three scores. Smith had 214 yards and no touchdowns on the year.
They will look to add consistency to burst on their resume this season.
“I put a lot of emphasis on making sure I get every play call correct, run the right route, do all my conversions, and just be in sync with the entire offense,” Fischer said.
While Fischer is faster, “Seitu can bring the boom,” Hempel said.
Smith is listed at 5’10”, but his quarterback said the senior has the physical toughness to run between the tackles.
“He’s completely confident in himself and what he can do on the field,” Hempel said. “He’s not afraid to back down to anybody, no matter what size they are.”
That philosophy holds for teammates as well as opponents. During training camp, Smith was not shy about getting in a defender’s face after a play.
“It’s fair to say that he is just an extremely competitive person,” Murphy said. “He’s a tough guy…and sometimes he lets that get the best of him, but I’ve always said it’s easier to break a stallion than it is to throw a saddle on a donkey and go into battle.”
—Staff writer Jacob D. H. Feldman can be reached at jacob.feldman@thecrimson.com.Follow him on Twitter @jacobfeldman4.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Before Harvard graduates resign themselves to not making the world a better place, one must remember they were once Harvard freshmen, all unequivocally devoted to the betterment of humankind. While some Harvard freshmen aspire to improve the quality of life of millions by curing cancer, others take the more concrete approach of running to represent a group of other freshmen that they hardly know in order to make marginal improvements in the lives of students attending the world’s most affluent university. As Gandhi once said, “If you want to change the world, start by getting Nutella for the dhalls.”
Therefore we exhibit the following, a selection of the best quotes from our favorite Fall Undergraduate Council Election freshman candidate statements.
“I’ll tirelessly thrust for making condoms available in each entryway.”This estimate seems somewhat optimistic considering 62.5% of y’all are virgins.
“I consider myself an extremely friendly, approachable person.” Yes, but do other people agree?
“[I’ll get you] free snacks and napping places at Lamont.”No one’s going to argue with the free snacks. But installing napping places at Lamont seems rather superfluous.
“I'm running for a position on the UC because I want to galvanize systemic change and ensure our glorious institution actually adheres to veritas in all endeavors.”You might want to throw in some detail-oriented, out-of-the-box synergy while you’re at it.
“If you could not already tell, my platform revolves around CONNECTION and the three main pillars of ACCESSIBILITY, ACCOUNTABILITY, and ADVOCACY. After all, CONNECTION is what makes Harvard, Harvard.”Is it, though? And is this how you formatted your Common App essay?
“Outside of class, I love reading novels stretched out on the grass, listening to music and newly experimenting with ballroom dancing!”How about long walks on the beach?
“My main purpose as a Crimson Yard rep for the UC will be to FIX THE WATER PRESSURE in our showers. We shouldn’t dread taking showers because of insufficient water pressure. … I look forward to a time when we don’t need to choose which side of our bodies to wet first, a time where I don’t walk all the way to Hemingway just to shower; this is our future.”This is truly the blight of modern times, a fact of which Ernest is well aware. In addition to offering students free, firehose-pressured showers out of his Somerville home, he plans to detail a new vision of the future in his new book, “The Shower Pressure Also Rises.”
“Scott Ely hails from Grand Rapids, Michigan. He is an avid singer and tennis player, and he never misses a good debate. Scott plans to enhance the Harvard experience for the freshman of Oak Yard in three ways.”A seasoned politician, Scott learned his rhetorical skills by watching tapes of Bob Dole in the 1996 presidential campaign.
Voting for UC candidates has begun, and will end Friday at noon. Choose wisely.
Sections
Happy Thursday! We all know that today is Throwback Thursday, and is our favorite day to receive social media validation on Facebook and/ or Instagram! If you’re considering uploading a photo today with a #tbt, read below for some (self-proclaimed) sage advice on sharing that photo with all your virtual fans!
Which photo should you #tbt today?
a) That baby pic: You think you were a cute baby back in the day and you want everyone else to know it too. You also want everyone to know that you used to shamelessly rock turtlenecks, denim overalls, and just about anything else you would feel extremely self-conscious wearing today.
b) A picture with your family: This one has mixed motives—you obviously miss your family, which is really cute, but it may also be a pointed reminder to your family that you’re coming home soon and expect royal treatment (home-cooked meals and a fix to the unfortunate state of your personal finances at the moment).
c) A picture with your high school friends: You’re annoyed that your best friends from home seem to be having a blast or are busy with their lives while you’re not because they’re not replying to your late-night texts that say things like “Urgent: should I go to sleep right now and fight off my hunger or should I make the trek to CVS to buy gummy worms?” This is a really cute way of telling them that you’re thinking about them, but also a very effective passive-aggressive statement.
d) An artsy picture of somewhere foreign you visited this past summer: Posting this picture satisfies your inner desire to be a hipster and also earns you a couple of artsy points from your social media audience—I mean, you just added about ten different filters to the picture, which totally makes it hip, right?!?
e) A picture of you and your blockmates either before or at a party: Your subtle way of telling them that the weekend starts tomorrow and they need to accompany you as you plan on getting drunk, dancing to bad pop songs, going to the Kong, and passing out on your bedroom floor all in one night.
IN THE ATMOSPHEREIt’s another day of great weather today! There’s a zero percent chance of rain and it’ll be a high of 74 degrees. We could tell you again to take advantage of the sun, but we also won’t judge if you just want to sit in your bed and watch Netflix (some people appreciate the nice weather by taking a jog along the river, but you can also be equally appreciative from your windowsill, right?).
IN THE D-HALLSLunch:Chicken FingersPepperoni PizzaBlack Bean CakeCurly French Fries (why are curly fries ten times more tempting than normal fries?)
Dinner:Cajun SalmonOrange Beef Stir FryVegetable Dumplings
ON FLYBY1) Water Pressure, Nutella, and Condoms for All: Class of 2018 Runs for the UC: How proud must he have been when he when he came up with this?: “I’ll tirelessly thrust for making condoms available in each entryway.” - Samarth Gupta ‘18, Elm Yard
IN THE NEWS1) Public Figures Reflect on Policing, Media during Ferguson Unrest: In the wake of the conflict in Ferguson, Mo. this summer, police departments need to work even harder to build trust with their local communities, panelists at a John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum event said Wednesday. The event, entitled “Reflections on Ferguson,” was moderated by Law School professor Charles J. Ogletree and featured panelists who included a former police chief, a current mayor, a reverend, and a Pulitzer-Prize winning journalist.
2) Math Professor Wins "Genius Grant": Mathematics professor Jacob A. Lurie ’00 was named a recipient of the MacArthur Fellowship, a prize commonly referred to as the “Genius Grant,” Wednesday, making us feel even less smart.
3) Two Charged for Robbery of Harvard Employee: Cambridge Police arrested two men last week who were responsible for the armed robbery of a Harvard employee on Church Street in August.
EVENTSThe Harvard Cancer Society is holding a fundraiser for Alex's Lemonade Stand Foundation for Childhood Cancer today and tomorrow from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Science Center Plaza! Buy lemonade and cookies to support research for childhood cancer!
The OCS is having an Alumni Connections lunch today at 54 Dunster Street from 12 to 2 p.m., where you can talk to featured alumni about a variety of career areas! Register for this event online at Crimson Careers.
The Harvard South Asian Association is holding a Bone Marrow Registration from 2 to 5 p.m. today and tomorrow at Memorial Lawn just outside of Annenberg! All you have to do is fill out some brief paperwork and get a cheek swab– you're signing up for a great cause and you can also get free food!
PHOTO OF THE DAYFreshmen pose for a photo booth at CS50 Puzzle Day on September 6, 2014. Prof. David J. Malan later posted the photo booth pictures on Facebook.
 
Sections
Two months after handing over the reins of the College to Rakesh Khurana, former interim Dean of the College Donald H. Pfister is taking full advantage of the freedom afforded by his sabbatical this academic year.
Sitting down with Flyby in the Farlow Library—surrounded by books on algae, lichens, and, of course, fungi—just down the hall from his office, Pfister says that he has been supporting undergraduates’ work at the herbarium and working on research projects on “some of his favorite fungi.”
While his days of sending quirky emails to undergraduates is over, Pfister now has a new audience to email: international researchers. Responding to unsolicited emails has become commonplace for Pfister; people from around the world have been seeking his help in identifying specific fungi, according to the mycologist.
“They’re just people I know from around the world and when they’re working on these fungi and they get stuck, I get them,” Pfister said. “I get the hard cases.”
Pfister will not only be corresponding with people around the world, he himself will be doing some international travel. He has planned a November trip to Colombia and is expected to attend a symposium in the Netherlands slated for April.
His sabbatical has not been all work, either. Pfister said he has been “catching up on some things that are easier now,” like dental appointments and other personal things.
And as for what he has been reading?
Pfister reportedly just finished “More Scenes from the Rural Life” by New York Times columnist Verlyn Klinkenborg and has moved his attention to a mystery novel.
Unfortunately, still no word on a potential book club.
Sections
UPDATED: September 19, 2014, at 15:18 p.m.
A course. A cult. A cornucopia of nerd delights. And yet, from a veritable kaleidoscope of differing levels of computer science background, one whole. Inspired by the in-depth coverage in Fifteen Minutes Magazine, this photo essay grapples with the incredible diversity that drives the worldwide cultural phenomenon. This, Too, Is CS50.
