News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
LONDON—I met a British spy on the train.
He was taking the 9:15 express in from Cambridge to do a 24-hour stint in a London hotel room, waiting. “If the government needs me, they’ll call,” he said.
I met him because the train was crowded, and it was either sit next to the man with glasses and an unbuttoned khaki coat and a bit of Bill Nighy in his face, or sit next to the toilet.
“I like to do word codes and crosswords,” he said, waving a little black notebook and a pencil.
Somehow we found ourselves discussing his youthful military service in British Guiana. He described—in stark and somewhat unsavory terms—the racial tensions the troops were sent to quell, tensions that after returning home he studied in depth. He used to travel a lot. He used to specialize in Russia.
“I’m old now,” he said. “I work part-time. I put on my pajamas, and if they don’t call me, I sleep.”
I asked him what part of the government he worked for, exactly.
He paused. “The Foreign Service. Sort of.”
A few days earlier, at a rural English bus stop, I’d met a high-school dropout spouting manically about “urban menace.” It occurred to me that I should have probably found him less frightening than the bespectacled man now leaning eagerly across the little train table, telling me that he had long advised Britain not to be too quick in confronting Assad, because who knew what would come next, and now look what had.
Later, at the hostel, I tried to find my “Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy” online. I read about shady MI6 recruitment at Cambridge University and British military support of covert political manipulation in 1960s Guiana, but the spy evaded me. Spies may be the only ones these days who wriggle free from the Internet’s invisible spider web.
I suppose I could have shaken his hand and said, “My name’s Julia Ostmann,” and perhaps he would have reciprocated with a “Charmed, my name’s ————.” But then again, he was a spy. Perhaps he would have responded just as he did: “Sorry to have bored you. Safe travels.”
I swear he disembarked the train just seconds ahead of me, but when I looked for him on the platform, he had vanished.
Julia F. P. Ostmann ’15, a Crimson FM editor, is a history and science concentrator living in Quincy House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Welcome back to Listen Up! It’s been a long summer, and we’ve missed all you readers—almost as much as you’ve missed us. Your trusted Flyby advisers—two uniquely unqualified, naïve, decidedly uninteresting juniors—are back from summer to answer your questions. To kick-off the year, we are preparing a special Back to School edition of Listen Up!, and to do that, we need your help.
For all of you incoming freshmen unfamiliar with our work, we are Harvard’s premier advice gurus consulting students on everything from their ailing love lives to troubles with their TFs (that’s teaching fellows for the uninitiated). Last spring, students submitted over 150 questions. We meticulously analyzed each and every question on their merits, consulted with experts, and wrote cogent, well-thought out, awe-inspiring, even life-saving responses to 31 of those questions. Nobody on campus can do what we do, not even your PAFs (those are the “super cool” people wearing matching T-shirts when you move in). So whether you are concerned about your roommate with a T-rex as their profile picture, nervous about sipping your first beer, or anxious about becoming too close with Professor Greg Mankiw when you take Ec 10, send us your questions here.
For everyone else, just keep doing what you’ve been doing for the past year, reaching into the depths of your soul and asking the questions that truly matter.
We’ve said it before and we’ll say it again. Harry had Dumbledore. Luke had Yoda. Bieber had Usher. The Karate Kid had Mr. Miyagi. And now, you have us.
Wax on, wax off,Dev and Stevenlistenup@thecrimson.com
Want more? Like Flyby on Facebook, follow us on Twitter @crimsonflyby, and now on Instagram!
