News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
UPDATED: April 25, 2014, at 3:33 p.m.
Harvard Business School aims to raise $1 billion in its portion of Harvard’s ongoing capital campaign, a total that accounts for 15 percent of the University’s $6.5 billion goal, the school announced at its campaign launch on Friday.
The school has already raised $600 million in gifts and pledges, putting it well on its way to fulfilling its share of the University-wide goal, the most ambitious in Harvard’s history, according to a press release.


The School’s priorities, articulated broadly, include investments in innovation and financial aid.
The day-long launch, which brought together top-level administrators, faculty, students, and alumni for panels, discussions, and announcements, comes nearly eight months after the University-wide launch last September, which concluded the campaign’s three-year quiet phase and kicked off its public phase. The campaign is expected to last until 2018.
According to the School’s campaign website, priorities include developing innovative approaches to education such as field-based learning, bolstering financial aid, and supporting efforts to recruit faculty and cultivate faculty research endeavors. The School has also stated commitments to enriching the global perspective of its student body and educational programs, as well as better integrating with other schools at Harvard.
The Business School, which offers MBA, Doctoral, and executive education programs, has recently expanded in online education through its new digital platform HBX, as well with global immersion programs for its students. Significant capital investments have been allocated in recent years toward the school’s publishing arm, which distributes a variety of business and management education materials, and toward the improvement and expansion of its executive education program, according to the school’s 2013 annual report.
Speakers at the launch events included University President Drew G. Faust, Business School Dean Nitin Nohria, and Business School campaign chair John B. Hess ’75.
In her remarks, Faust highlighted the role of the school in the Harvard community as a whole, particularly within of the context of the University’s expansion into Allston, just north of the Business School’s campus.
“Harvard Business School will be physically at the center of Harvard’s campus,” she said. “But this is just a first step as we plan for a future research enterprise zone that will have partnerships that reach beyond the University to the broader for-profit and not-for-profit world, and as we plan other academic endeavors in the extraordinary spaces that Allston makes available to us.”
Faust also spoke of the Business School as a driving force for societal good, a theme that was emphasized throughout the night’s event.
“The public has lost trust in business. Business and society have never been more divided,” said Hess, who earned his MBA at Harvard in 1977. “In an era of budget austerity and political gridlock, business is called upon to play a larger role in providing social good. And we need the public to understand how important Harvard Business School is to this effort.”
Hess is joined by 18 honorary co-chairs, including former Business School Jay O. Light and prominent University donor Hansjörg Wyss, as well as dozens of regional chairs and committee members.
Another prominent theme of the launch was the importance of innovation in the school’s future.
Nohria, who has set forth priorities for the school similar to the ones articulated Friday since his appointment in 2010, said that novel and innovative endeavors brought forth from the campaign will help to bring security to the school’s future.
“In the end, I believe that the most important goal of this campaign, and its most important accomplishment, will be to give Harvard Business School the courage and the capacity to be innovative—not just now, but to be innovative in the future,” he said. “This is a time when we must invest in innovation. The world is changing very rapidly. The health of the business school sector is not secure.”
He also said that funds collected would be used to bolster financial aid, both for students to attend the Business School and for graduates to pursue careers in public service, non-profit work, and healthcare, among other fields, as well as toward faculty development and research. He added that funds would also be invested in the maintenance and improvement of the school’s facilities.
Early gifts for the campaign, which comprise 60 percent of its $1 billion goal, include donations such as funding for Tata Hall from Indian businessman Ratan N. Tata and the Ruth Mulan Chu Chao Center, on which the school broke ground on Thursday, from the Chao family.
The school’s last fundraising drive run by the school ended in 2005, having raised nearly $600 million, $100 million more than its intended goal.
“I am delighted,” concluded Faust, “to launch a campaign that will advance business education at Harvard and strengthen Harvard Business School in its commitment to bringing the leaders and the ideas that will enhance prosperity and well-being across the globe. This is a campaign about making a difference.”
The launch coincided with the announcement of a global, 18-month alumni engagement tour and a newly launched alumni website to increase interaction with and among alumni, according to the press release.
Among portions of the University that have launched their own campaigns thus far, the Business School’s goal trails only that of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Harvard’s flagship arm, which announced in October that it sought to raise $2.5 billion.
—Staff writer Alexander H. Patel can be reached at alex.patel@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter @alexhpatel.
 
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 26, 2014
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the year in which Business School Dean Nitin Nohria assumed his deanship. In fact, it was 2010.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Crimson junior co-captain Alex Steinroeder was up a set, but couldn’t close the deal. With Dartmouth’s Diego Pedraza serving up 3-2 and a break in the second set, the two players were locked in a fierce dogfight, with neither player able to claim the game.
Eleven times the score reached deuce before a Pedraza forehand clipped the top of the net cord and sailed wide, finally handing the game to Steinroeder, who punctuated the victory with a fist pump.
It was a game that was emblematic of the type of day the Harvard men’s tennis team had—the squad played consistently well throughout the match, but the Big Green (18-6, 5-2 Ivy) continued to fight back and hang around before the Crimson ultimately slipped by at the end.
Eventually, the Crimson (17-6, 6-1) was able to close out No. 42 Dartmouth, 4-1, to secure a solo second-place finish in the Ivy League and a near-certain at-large bid to the NCAA Tournament in front of a packed house on Senior Day at the Murr Center.
Although Columbia has already taken the Ancient Eight title after a perfect 7-0 conference season, Harvard’s No. 33 national ranking should be high enough for the Crimson to earn its third straight appearance in the NCAA Championships.
The Crimson and Big Green entered the matchup with identical 5-1 Ivy records, meaning that the contest would decide both second place in the conference and positioning for a national championship bid.
“Dartmouth is a good team who was fighting for their season,” Steinroeder said. “If they won, they would make NCAAs, so we knew it would be a tight match.”
Harvard came out of the gates in doubles looking like it had something to play for. Freshman Brian Yeung and sophomore Nicky Hu broke their opponents early and often en route to an 8-2 win, while freshman Sebastian Beltrame and junior Christo Schultz prevailed, 8-6, at No. 3.
Junior Denis Nguyen and co-captain Casey MacMaster took the win, 8-5, on the first court to send MacMaster out victorious in his final home match.
“It all started with a really strong doubles point,” Steinroeder said. “All three teams played really clean doubles. They had lots of energy and there was a great crowd, and all those factors helped us get off to a good start.”
With a 1-0 lead in the bag, the Crimson continued to shine in singles. At the sixth singles spot, Hu nearly blanked his opponent, 6-1, in the first set, before closing out the second set, 6-4. Dartmouth’s Dovydas Sakinis was too much for Nguyen on court one, confounding him with lefty groundstrokes and narrowing the Harvard advantage to 2-1.
But Beltrame finished off Chris Kipouras on the second court, 7-5, 6-2, as the tall freshman pounded his opponent with a powerful serve and groundstrokes to make the score 3-1.
That gave the Crimson three chances for victory: Yeung on the fifth court, Steinroeder on court four, and junior Shaun Chaudhuri on court three, all locked in tight battles in their respective second sets.
Down 4-5, Yeung broke his opponent to even the ledger, but promptly was broken back and lost the set, 7-5. Steinroeder lost his wild second set, 6-4, after nearly every game went to deuce.
“It really didn’t look like it was rolling our way for a while,” Harvard coach Dave Fish '72 said. “Each of those three matches could’ve gone against us.”
With those two matches in third sets, that left Chaudhuri as the only Harvard player with the chance to end his match in two sets and give Harvard the win.
After a long game, Chaudhuri held serve to go up 5-4 and had a chance to finish the match if he broke Dartmouth’s Cam Ghorbani. The Big Green senior jumped out to a 40-15 lead, but Chaudhuri pushed it to deuce.
The Crimson baseline specialist then earned two match points, but Ghorbani ended each chance with a winner down the sideline. Finally, on the third match point, Ghorbani sent an overhead wide, and Chaudhuri celebrated the win by throwing his hat.
Despite falling short in its bid to repeat as Ivy champions, the team has had a very successful conference slate, according to Fish.
“If the only team we lose to [Columbia] is ranked 18th in the country, we’ve had a great season,” Fish said. “Dartmouth could still get into the NCAA tournament. I don’t think there’s ever been three Ivy teams in it, which shows how strong the league is…. To make NCAAs three years in a row is huge for us.”
Steinroeder commended the team for its improvement over the course of the Ancient Eight season.
“I think the team has come very far from the beginning of Ivies,” he said. “It was tough having our first match at Columbia, but we showed great resilience to come back and win the rest of our matches.”
Now, the only suspense remaining is what draw the Crimson will receive when tournament selections are announced on Tuesday. Saturday’s win may have improved Harvard’s ranking such that it will be a No. 2 rather than No. 3 seed in a region.
“I’m really proud of everyone for how we stepped up towards the end of the year,” Steinroeder said. “Everyone is getting better every week, and now we will head into NCAAs playing our best tennis of the year.”
—Staff writer Justin Wong can be reached at justin.wong@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
 Students and prefrosh enjoying late-night festivities in the Quad tonight won’t have to make the marathon trek to the Square for a post-party snack. From 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. there will be a Chicken and Rice Guys food truck in the Quad, thanks to a new Drug and Alcohol Peer Advisors pilot initiative. Who knows—if enough people stop by, maybe they’ll think about building a Felipe’s branch inside the Currier 10-man.
Want more? Like Flyby on Facebook, follow us on Twitter @crimsonflyby, and now on Instagram!
