News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
The further away the critics and film historians of Arts Blog get from Housing Day, the more significance the videos seem to garner in our eyes. The residents of Lowell, Eliot, and Cabot all receive rave reviews for their evocations of master auteurs in the second installment of this Housing Video retrospective. Look out for Parts 3 and 4 over the weekend.  
 
 
Lowell- Drunk in Lowell
Director of Inspiration: Akira Kurosawa
 

 
 
It’s a strange thing, the housing video. A medium of expression defined by the clashing motives of creativity and propaganda. The credibility of many a housing video has been lost in the smoke from the clash of these dueling callings. It takes some rare skill and deft camerawork to artfully imbue some 3 minutes of amateur work with both the craft and rhetoric demanded of that elusive good Housing Video. “Drunk in Lowell” most forcefully calls to mind the immortal work of a young Akira Kurosawa in its brazen house-patriotism. The courageous use of an overhead shot of the blue man climbing the winding steps of Lowell’s bell tower can be nothing but a deliberate evocation of Kurosawa’s preference for striking scene geometry over whatever bland spreads are being created in today’s traditional cinema. 
 
This single shot of the intermingling between tree-tops and a singing rickshaw puller from Kurosawa’s obscure 1945 “Zoku Sugata Sanshirō" reflects the stark angles in the bell tower shot of Lowell’s video:
 


 
Eliot- House of Eliot
Director of Inspiration: James Foley
 

 
The denizens of Eliot have managed the rare feat of creating a student production that is indistinguishable from that of a professional. Through every moment of high-stakes politicking runs an undercurrent of humanity that forces the viewer to question the game that the actors are being forced to play. James Foley, currently best known for directing many episodes of the TV series “House of Cards,” does much the same thing in his hugely popular TV series. When Eliot tutor Michael Hankinson picks up a red phone and demands that House master Doug Melton ad-board a student, whispers of Washington build into shouts. Even beyond the technical flourishes and dramatic flair that could be mistaken for Foley, there is something more, something intangible yet inescapable that makes comparison to “House of Cards” inevitable.
 
Frank Underwood’s conniving in “House of Cards” inexplicably resonates with the scheming of the Eliot video’s protagonist:
 

 
 
Cabot- Happy
Director of Inspiration: John Woo
 

 
 
Housing Day videos are seldom described as adrenaline-inducing or action-packed, but Housing Day videos are rarely Cabot’s 2014 Housing Day video. In fact, the Crimson Arts Board’s careful research suggests that this overlap has only occurred once. The Cabot residents twirling and flying through the air move with all the same grace and most of the lethality of the bullets in John Woo’s films. The pristine yet organic choreography of Woo’s gunmen sashaying through gunpowder smoke is still alive and well in the high kicks and twirls of these dancing Cabotois. In this video, Cabot has shown that the smooth tracking shots that seem to last for days and sweeping exterior shots are no longer solely the stuff of ambitious VES concentrators.
 
The deliberate pacing and sudden disarming violence of Woo’s “The Killer” evokes the alternately serene and frenetic pacing of Cabot’s creation:
 

 
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
 
National holidays are important. They are days to recognize important figures like Martin Luther King, Jr. presidents, veterans, and laborers. They're also important days off from school and work, and everyone loves those. Recently, Budweiser has spearheaded an effort to declare Major League Baseball’s Opening Day this coming Monday a National Holiday. In the spirit of suggesting that any day that suits our fancy ought to be a federally recognized Holiday, Flyby has a few suggestions.
 
National Football League Opening Day - Wait, NFL games count as a holiday every Sunday, right? Well, the first NFL game is on a Thursday, and we want that day off, too.
 
Mondays - All of ‘em. Have you ever thought how messed up it is that we work for five days and only get to “relax” for two. Let’s make it a 4/3 split, it would be fairer after all.
 
Any day in February or early March that is 55 degrees or above - Ok, so this will probably lead to a lot of days off in Florida and Texas, but think about us Nor’easters (the people, not the storm). We don’t want to work when it’s that warm out. We can sniff summer as soon as it breaks 50 degrees, and it’s cruel and unusual punishment to make us sit inside at that point. 
Harvard Housing Day - The American public might not get this one, but Obama went here (well, for law school at least). He can throw us a bone. Do you really want (/are you able) to go to class and function as an intelligent human being on Housing Day? This would put an end to those awful Housing Day midterms once and for all.
 
Groundhog Day - Haven’t you ever seen that Bill Murray movie? This is definitely the most underrated holiday by a long shot, and people should be given free rein to rejoice at the end of winter or to cry at its extension. Because rodents can obviously predict long term weather patterns.
 
That’s a good start. Our only other suggestion is that we go for the whole hog and just have 365 national holidays per year.
Sections
 
 
In an annual display of color, Dharma, Harvard’s Hindu students organization, is hosting the undergraduate Holi celebration this Saturday at 1 p.m. on the MAC Quad (though festivities begin at 11 a.m. in the Winthrop JCR!).
 Don’t know what Holi is? The Hindu festival of colors commemorates the beginning of spring. Festivities typically begin the night before with prayers and rituals, followed by the main celebration, when participants throw colored powders and liquids on one another, sing, dance, eat, and drink. An important holiday, Holi has spread throughout the United States and the world, celebrated in Hindu homes, college campuses, and major cities.
It’s not like you’ll be doing anything else super important at this time, so why not smear paint on your classmates and learn about the holiday and Hindu religion? And if we celebrate the beginning of spring, maybe it actually will become the beginning of spring? Seems like good logic to us.
Just remember: Don’t forget to wear clothes you wouldn’t mind getting a little dirty!
Sections
It’s been almost a week since spring break ended, and as the memories and funny stories fade away, your sunburn is probably still peeling. Some students traveled far and wide, while others went just around the corner. Either way, everyone had photos to share on the ‘gram. Here are a few of our favorites!
UPDATED: March 31, 2014, at 3:40 p.m.
Yesterday at 5 p.m., the fates of many high school seniors were altered as top U.S. colleges released their Regular Decision results. But what do the numbers tell us? First, let’s take a look at the acceptance rates of the most prestigious universities in the country for the class of 2018.
Colleges whose acceptance rates decreased:
  Brown University - 8.6%, down from 9.2% last year.
 Yale University - 6.26%, down from 6.72% last year.
 Princeton University* - 7.28%, down from 7.29% last year.
 University of Pennsylvania* - 9.9%, down from 12.1% last year.
 Cornell University -  14%, down from 15.2% last year.
 Duke University* - 9%, down from 10% last year (record low acceptance rate)
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology* - 7.7 percent, down from 8.2% last  year.
Colleges whose acceptance rates increased:
 Harvard University - 5.9%, up from 5.8% last year.
 Dartmouth College - 11.5%, up from 10% last year.
 Columbia University - 6.94%, up from 6.89% last year.
Colleges getting more applications:
 University of California, Los Angeles received 86,472 freshman applicants, up  6.9% from last year.
 University of California, San Diego received 73,356 freshman applications, up  8.8% from last year.
 Stanford University received 42,167 freshman applicants, up 8.6% from last  year,
 Cornell University received 43,041 freshman applicants, up 7.6% from last  year.
Colleges getting less applicants:
 Dartmouth College received 19,235 applications this year, down 14% from last  year.
 Harvard University received 34,295 applications this year, down 2.1% from last  year.
Other fun facts
At University of California, Berkeley last year, offers to international students  increased by 44% (from 1,137 to 1,638). As a result, the number of  international students admitted to Berkeley last year was larger than MIT’s  entire class of 2018.
MIT admitted only 1,419 students this year, a 9% less than last year. This was  partly account for by the loss of accommodation provided by an undergraduate  dorm, Bexley Hall, which was closed down last year after the building was  deemed unsafe for residents due to structural problems.
Dartmouth welcomed its first-ever admitted students from Fiji and Iran.
When answering the MIT Class of 2018 Facebook group’s poll question "How did  you feel when you got accepted?”, around 20% said that "[MIT admissions]  made a mistake."
 
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: March 31, 2014
An earlier version of this post incorrectly stated the direction in which Brown's admissions rate moved from the Class of 2017 to the Class of 2018. In fact, it decreased from to 8.6% from 9.2%.
