News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
John Wilkes Booth, Guiseppe Zangara and Charles Guiteau. These are the names from history textbooks—men who tried to assassinate American presidents. They are also the subjects of a new Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club production that will open at the Oberon on Friday, Dec. 5th.
“Assassins” is a Stephen Sondheim musical that puts the men who attempted to kill American presidents in conversation with one another and questions whether these people are truly the madmen history makes them out to be. The show violates boundaries of time and space to understand just who these assassins were and why they were driven to such extreme actions.
“It’s not like any musical [you] have seen or will see again,” Olivia R. Miller ’16, who plays Lynette “Squeaky” Fromme, says.
“Assassins” must straddle the line between accuracy in the depiction of historical figures and creative license to make the most entertaining show. During the early stages of production, actors were asked not to do any research about the characters they were playing. “Because the show doesn’t take history as the law, we decided not to either,” director Joey R. Longstreet ’16 says.
This production of “Assassins” is particularly unique given the space in which it will be performed. “The audience [is] sitting in the middle of all the action, so they really become a part of the storytelling,” Miller says, describing the Oberon. Such an unconventional space that puts audiences literally inside the show is well matched  to a production already defying traditions of musical theater.
In an age of political polarization and widespread dissatisfaction with the American government, “Assassins” also has relevance outside the theater. “[The show is] about these skewed perspectives on what the ‘American dream’ really is and if there is an ‘American dream’ at all,” Eli K. Rivas ’16, who plays Samuel Byck, says.
It’s easy to characterize assassins as villains whose actions are a result of evil or mental illness. Longstreet notes that in “Assassins,” this isn’t always the case. “In America any kid can grow up to be president, but then also any kid can grow up to be his killer.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Like Forrest Gump would’ve said if he’d gotten the chance, course selection at Harvard is like a box of chocolates. That Gen Ed could turn out to be filled with sweet, melty caramel—or funky raspberry syrup. That off-the-wall VES elective could be luscious dark chocolate right to the core, or a flavorless layer of brown barely covering a hollow center. Avoid some unpleasant surprises this spring: don’t bite into any of the duds below.
FOLKMYTH172: “Quilts and Quiltmaking”If you came to an institution of higher learning to take a class that could be taught by my grandmother, you’re doing it wrong. Seriously, how do you explain to people that you’re at Harvard to refine your shitty sewing skills? This class looks like a total snoozefest, but hey, that’s why you’re making blankets.
ENGLISH195m: “Money” Who doesn’t love money? Spending it, making it, the possibilities with this class are endless really. Well, the joke’s on you because this is an English class and if that doesn’t kill the mood I don’t know what does. If you’re the 0.01% of the population who enjoys reading “novels where a coin is the narrator,” this class is your wet dream. For the rest of you who plan on skipping out on this one: no biggie, reading about money isn’t going to make you any anyway.
E-PSCI182: “Stratigraphy and Sedimentology”I didn’t realize that people actually still had a passion for rocks and all that schist after the Stone Age, but I guess I just take geology for granite. An apology to all my aspiring stratigraphers, sedimentologists, and pun-haters out there, but this class is rock bottom.
HIST84e: How to Read a BookIn this class you’ll learn the essentials, such as: book holding, page-turning, and dog-earing. 10/10 would recommend to a Yale student or an infant.
ENG-SCI246: “Plasticity”According to the course catalog, plasticity has something to do with the “mechanisms of plastic deformation” and “physical theories for strain hardening materials.” So basically, if you’re in this class you’re either: a) a tupperware enthusiast, b) horribly, horribly lost, or c) illiterate, in which case you should refer to HIST84e.
HEB1421: “Teeth”There are only two things a person really needs to know about teeth: brush them and keep them out of your BJs. The rest is purely superfluous.
ENGLISH102h: “Introduction to Old English”Taking Old English requires the effort of learning a new language without any of the benefits of actually learning a new language. No one speaks it, no one cares about it, and you don’t even get the language credit. Hard pass. On the bright side, this class is a great way to figure out what you won’t be doing for the rest of your life! MUSIC 1: “1000 Years of Listening”Its title is ominously self-aware (even an Ec 10 lecture only drags on for about a decade or two). Its topic is a skill that we didn’t master in kindergarten and probably aren’t going to master now. Its description claims to analyze music from “the medieval period to the present day,” but makes no mention of Kanye. ’Nuff said.
CLASPHIL 208: Roman GardensDo you toss and turn at night, panicked by your inadequate knowledge of ancient European horticulture? Do you see the first daffodil of spring as a joyless reminder of your botanical ignorance? Can you imagine an alternate reality that would allow you to actually apply the knowledge taught in this class?
ECON 1745: “Corporate Finance” Capital budgeting. Dividend policy. Corporate governance. If you just fell asleep, consider taking another class.
GENETIC 343: “Zebrafish cardiovascular development and regeneration”Like the construction of the pyramids and the disappearance of the Marie Celeste, questions surrounding the cardiovascular system of zebrafish have haunted humanity for generations. Or at least mildly intrigued one bored professor for a couple of years. Take this class only if you know and care what a zebrafish is.
APPHY 225: “Introduction to Soft Matter”Most children are introduced to soft foods within the first year of their life, but if you need a refresher on the subject, head to Berryline for some fro-yo. If that doesn’t work, visit Annenberg for some chewy, chewy swai. Just don’t dedicate a semester of your life to the glamorous world of “squishy physics.”
NEUROBIO 334: “Hair Cells and Afferent Neurons of the Inner Ear”Some people live and die for adventure. They thrive on the sensation of wind in their hair. They get high on the feeling of adrenaline in their veins. They don’t take Neuriobio 334.
EC 10: “Principles of Economics”Heard this one is an absolute snore. Can’t remember who the professor is, but I heard the head TF, David Johnson, is leaving. Probably not worth the sleep lost over the p-sets.
Sections
People who hate on ugly Christmas sweater parties are the same people who hate on Kim Kardashian and Justin Bieber: people just love to hate on things that are a tiny bit tacky and enormously popular. It’s time to be honest with ourselves as to how good it feels to let go of hating on kitschy things. It’s time to say that Kim is beautiful and “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” is kind of funny, and, yes, Justin Bieber has a really good voice. Brothers and sisters, we can move beyond this pettiness.
Ugly Christmas sweaters are the epitome of normcore, which is not only totally trendy, but also actually really practical. If you didn’t know, being basic is now a thing. Ugly Christmas sweaters have joined the ranks of New Balance sneakers and mom jeans, baseball caps and T-shirts, minimal makeup, and hoop earrings as the new index of cool. And, why would you hate a trend that makes lazy cool?
Who needs those fancy Christmas parties with those sparkly Christmas dresses, champagne, and uncomfortable heels, when you can look just as festive in a lighted, Christmas sweater with reindeer, misshapen snowflakes, gingerbread men, and Santa Claus that you got for $5 at a thrift store (or from your grandma’s closet) that most importantly keeps you warm. I’m so in love with the idea of the ugly Christmas sweater party that I think this trend should branch out to other holidays. Hanukkah. Diwali. I’m not Jewish, but I would wear a menorah sweater.
Why stop there? Christmas sweaters should branch out even beyond the holiday season. I think they should be worn year round. Wear ’em to your classes, wear ’em on the T, wear ’em to Annenberg. Some people would argue that Christmas sweater parties are trivializing Christmas. These are probably the same ridiculous people who believe in the War on Christmas. What exactly is non-trivializing about a fat white man in a beard coming down your chimney to give you presents? People who have a problem with ugly Christmas sweater parties should have a problem with Santa. Ugly Christmas parties are a thing and they are here to stay—embrace the kitsch.
Sections
Hilton Als is a staff writer for the New Yorker. He wrote “The Women,” and recently published a new novel, “White Girls.”
1) Fifteen Minutes Magazine: Your last novel, “The Women,” came out in 1996. Why the long gap in between books?Hilton Als: That’s a complicated response, but I think that the response to attention was very weird for me. One of the things I liked about writing for a magazine was a kind of anonymity. When you do books, it’s different than magazine pieces because you become a “figure.” I think I was a little bit freaked out by the attention and by my family’s response. When you write [novels], you’re called upon to be an author, and I don’t think I was really ready to be an author until I was older.2) FM: And you consider your role as a magazine writer different?HA: One of the things that’s great about writing for a magazine is that every week you get to be a different person. You’re writing different things all the time, and not slogging along for years on something. And I liked things disappearing after a while. There’s a great Derek Walcott poem: he’s sitting by a pool, and wishes his words would disappear like the steam on the pool. And that’s how I often feel.3) FM: “White Girls” is written in a style somewhere between essay and fiction. Was that an attempt at a compromise?HA: I was trying to write in any way that the subject, or the idea, dictated. I didn’t want to write a book that had anything to do with my idea about the novel versus nonfiction; I was looser in my thinking.4) FM: Has your approach to writing novels changed since "The Women"?HA: For sure. Although there are similarities—things I obscured or changed in order to protect family members—certain narratives are different from what I said in the first book. But I didn’t mind that; I liked the freedom of going in and out of something that had been obscured or changed. When you work at a magazine, you have to tell the truth. When you’re not working in that format, it’s fun to see where your mind takes you when the dictates have nothing to do with anyone but yourself.5) FM: “Triste Tropique,” the first essay in the book, also seems to be the most autobiographical.HA: It was the last thing I wrote, and I wrote it relatively quickly. If you think about any great non-fiction books—Joan Didion’s “The White Album,” or James Baldwin’s “Notes of a Native Son”—there’s always one piece that’s really unifying. And “Triste Tropique,” specifically, was something I had to tell. It was the weirdest thing: when I looked back after writing it, I realized that the woman in it was a character in so many other things I’d already written. She was Louise Brooks, as well as many others. It was a very interesting way of writing about something I loved, and it would be untrue to the experience to say she was one person—she’s all those different people.6) FM: Even though the book is semi-autobiographical, it frames your narrative through several nonfictional analyses of others—Truman Capote, Michael Jackson, Eminem, etc. Was there one figure with whom you identified most?HA: I was most interested in Truman Capote’s queerness, as a very brave thing to do in Eisenhower-era America. Not the writing, but the performance of queerness was very emboldening to me. I felt deeply, weirdly excited about how out there he was at such an early age, and there’s something to be said about that sort of bravery.7) FM: Did you view Capote this way before “White Girls”?HA: During the early part of learning to write, he was a definite figure for me in that kind of honesty about your sexuality. And it all starts there: he wasn’t closeted, and his first novel was about queerness, which I think was very significant. It was a huge relief, in a way, to be different and know that he had been there first.8) FM: What about the opposite—were there any figures that emerged for you during the process of writing?HA: Eminem was someone that I discovered I liked, largely because of his relationship to language, and to his mother. Her hysteria was something that he had inherited, but he was able to do something with it.9) FM: The chapter on Eminem raises questions on the dynamic between race and privilege, which is a dialogue that’s been occurring recently on college campuses such as Harvard. Do you have any advice for how our generation should go about addressing these questions?HA: What I think is different is that you guys are even having the conversation about it and are very pointed in doing so. I was just going through some music that I listened to when I was your age, an album called “Off White” by James White and the Blacks, and a lot of it was about his appropriation of black culture. There was something so painfully awkward and beautiful about it at the same time. But you guys are way more sophisticated than we were in talking about this stuff, and the fact that the questions exist at all is really amazing.10) FM: The book’s title draws some heads. Did you intend it to be provocative?HA: Was it provocative when Richard Wright wrote “Black Boy,” or when Toni Morrison wrote “Tar Baby,” or James Weldon Johnson’s “Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man”? I don’t know. I wanted a title that didn’t say something about me, but about an “other” that was politically or economically close to who I was, but who was different, and also had a degree of visibility that none of the other characters had reached. There was a phrase that I had always heard in the fashion world, “black girls”—I never understood why a black girl was a black girl, and a white woman was a white woman. It was really about playing with those words.
Sections
Boston Ballet presents: The Nutcracker
Nov. 28 through Dec. 31
In a run-time that lasts only two hours, get swept away by dazzling costumes and arched bodies at the Boston Ballet’s production of "The Nutcracker." The show opened in 2012 to acclaimed critical reception. Since then, it has expanded its set annually, so that each year’s performance reigns more extravagant than the previous year’s. Matinee and evening performances generally run every day except Tuesday.
What to expect: Children playing reindeer, a blizzard of silver snow, and live orchestral accompaniment. Special privileges for you, the college student: with college ID, $20 rush ticket available two hours prior to performance at the Boston Opera’s box office.
Amazon presents: Your Very Own Christmas Tree
Now through the rest of your 20s
In a survival-time of only a few weeks, enjoy the faintly fragrant branches and homemade ornaments. For only $6.80, or the price of one late-night Tasty Burger mistake, Amazon will pack and ship you an 18-inch Canadian mini Christmas tree. The origin of this beauty is “China,” although the product name purports it to be from just north of the border. Decorate it with printed Instagram photos of your frenemies and try not to think of all the times “Santa” gave your siblings the better gifts.
What to expect: One review described the tree as, at best, “a tiny bit of an upgrade from a Charlie Brown tree.” Special privileges for you, the college student: It’s $6.80, what more do you want?
Winter Weather presents: Poor-Man’s Ice Cream
Now through forever
In a preparation-time of only two minutes, enjoy sweet vanilla flavoring and lightly polluted snow. Do your part in clearing the sidewalks of New England snow by eating it. In a bowl, mix freshly-fallen snow with sweetened condensed milk and vanilla extract. The quantities of each ingredient don’t matter; it will taste of desperation regardless.
What to expect: If you’re a fan of sweetened condensed milk, you will love this. If not, you will feel neutral about it. Special privileges for you, the college student: Depending on your social group, this may add “quirkiness” points to your reputation.
Sections
The turning point comes about 20 minutes into our conversation.
“I also have this weird, dorky fantasy that someday I’m going to write a hybrid between ‘Lord of the Rings’ and ‘Game of Thrones’—it’s like more erudite than ‘Game of Thrones’ and more reader-accessible than ‘Lord of the Rings’—but will assess different political and ethical viewpoints in the middle of the story.”
Sophia D. Chua-Rubenfeld’s voice trails off, and she lets out a smile. “I don’t know.”
Even for someone as multitalented as Chua-Rubenfeld, this dream represents a new dimension. Over the course of our hour-plus conversation, Chua-Rubenfeld covers an immensely diverse range of topics: her involvement with the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics as a philosophy and Sanskrit joint concentrator; her blog about college life and posts about Tyga or rejection; even topics as personal as her concerns finding a husband while serving her post-graduation commitment to the military. She speaks quickly yet thoughtfully, interrupting many of her points with the word “sidetrack” to reorganize her thoughts.
Yet, despite all her talents and extracurricular interests, she is best known to many as the “tiger cub,” a label stemming from the book “Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother,” written by her mother Amy Chua ’84. The book, which received national attention when it was published in 2011, chronicles stories from Chua-Rubenfeld’s youth as it describes a traditionally strict Chinese parenting method.
At the Visitas activities fair shortly after the book was published, Chua-Rubenfeld noticed a booth promoting Harvard’s ROTC program. Before then, Chua-Rubenfeld, whose parents are both law professors at Yale, had never considered army duty. “At the time I was having major, major angst,” she says. “Am I ever going to earn anything for myself again? Is there ever going to be merit in my life? Will everything be handed to me on a silver platter because of my parents?”
That fall, she showed up to her freshman dorm carrying army gear and camouflaged outfits. Now, she’s up at 5:30 a.m. every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday morning going through drills and classes with other ROTC members from Boston-area colleges. She plans to attend law school after graduation and wants to practice law during her three-year commitment to the army, either prosecuting for the military commission or against sexual harassment. “I know I wouldn’t be happy with myself if I don’t serve my country in some way,” says Chua-Rubenfeld, whose grandparents lived in the Philippines under Japanese occupation in World War II. “This sounds so lofty and ridiculous, but I truly feel that if not for the U.S. military, I could not have the life that I have today.”
When I tell Chua-Rubenfeld I’m not familiar with philosophy or Sanskrit—her two concentrations—her eyes light up. She begins to describe three categories of Western philosophy. There’s metaphysics (what are people?), epistemology (how do we know things?), and moral philosophy (what’s the right thing to do?). To Chua-Rubenfeld, this last category—which doesn’t exist in the Indian categorization—is the most interesting.
“I realize that these people were so brilliant that it can’t be that they just never thought about what’s the right thing to do,” Chua-Rubenfeld shares. “I feel very strongly that for them it must’ve just been so clearly derived from their concept of personal identity and all these things that they didn’t need to write separate books about it.”
Eventually, the conversation turns toward her freshman year, where she was a celebrity of sorts before she even set foot on campus. Incoming freshmen wrote threads about her in the Harvard Facebook group for admitted students. A classmate performed a comedy sketch about her family during the Freshman Talent Show. Fans and commenters of her blog once overflowed her mailbox with letters, cookies, and care packages.
“Yeah, my freshman year was weird,” Chua-Rubenfeld laughs. “Basically, approaching it with humor and just acknowledging and convincing people I wasn’t scarred—like I swear to god I’m okay—[the attention] really died down.”
No longer does Chua-Rubenfeld choose to spend her nights reading Gawker comments to see what internet trolls have to say about her—not that she has the time. Her sights are set on the future: three years in law school, three years in the military, and who knows what comes next?
“I think it would be really cool to be a judge, especially as a jaded millennial seeing so much gridlock in the political sphere,” Chua-Rubenfeld says, her eyes focused on the Barker Café afternoon crowd. She takes a moment and smiles, as she looks back toward me. “But I’ve probably published too many radical blog posts to ever make that a possibility.”
Sections
I’m what some people refer to as Jewish.
I supposedly descend from a group of runaways that wandered through the desert, following a guy who briefly ditched them for a relaxing mountaintop vacation.
The legacy of my past has caused me to have a Bar Mitzvah, to grow up not eating pork (images of my mother’s pained face still flash before me when I see bacon), and to go to Chabad for free Chinese food on Tuesdays.
It has also kept from me the most American of traditions: the ugly Christmas sweater. I love Christmas. It’s beautiful. I love the lights, and the snow, and the way that it makes capitalism and spirituality friends. But, I’ve always seen it from the outside. I’ve heard “Happy Holidays,” felt uncomfortable mixing red and green clothes (under any circumstances), and only found surprises under trees when I stepped on my dog’s carefully hidden shit in the backyard.
So, I don’t even want to say that I hate ugly Christmas sweater parties. They’re cool (I assume). They’re fun (I assume). I even think that they’re fairly poignant—the partygoers all don ugly sweaters to humble themselves on a holy day. The sweaters are like ostentatious hairshirts.
But, I do hate that I’ve never had a Christmas sweater, of any level of attractiveness. I hate that the closest I’ve come to such a sweater has been in the basement of Urban Outfitters. I love the holidays, and I hate anything that makes them less inclusive than they can possibly be.
I don’t understand why we all hang out all year, but do our own things for the month of December. Why can’t we just light the Chanukkiah with the Kinara? Or fill stockings with latkes? Or do whatever we want to do, regardless of what God we’re fans of (or totally not fans of)?
So, knit sweaters for everyone, my sequel-worshipping friends. Invite everyone to your celebrations. In the words of the Lord, whichever one that may be: “Tis the season to be jolly.”
Sections
I used to think that the best kinds of memories are the ones we invent for ourselves.
I’ve always imagined this scene of a dusky New Mexico, or maybe Arizona: I’m driving down a desert highway, headed towards an orange sun that’s falling into the horizon, and hot air’s blowing through the window. I can see mountains out of the corner of my right eye, all purple and wrinkled with the last bit of the day’s light. I’m alone, gunning towards nowhere.
I’ve never been to New Mexico. I don’t know when I constructed such a specific scene in my mind; don’t know how I can so easily feel the hot air on my neck or why the mountains are such a specific purple somewhere between eggplant and Concord grape.
Maybe I liked memories like this because it was always too easy to fuck up the real ones.
Like, how is it that I don’t remember what the surgeon told me before my first ACL surgery three years ago, but I can still taste the gas that they put me to sleep with? It was like lead paint, silver-y and thick and poisonous. I still, sometimes, feel the sting of that anesthesia filling up my lungs. But I don’t remember the particulars of the next two, three days after that, when I had to stay at home. I can’t recall the classes I missed that week, or which magazines I leafed through in bed.
And I’d always thought that high school would play like a premiere-ready film reel in my mind, but those years blur together now.Instead, they’re punctuated by a few isolated events. A dark club a friend rented out for her birthday, where the strobe lights were pink and green. The taste of crunchy pasta with Nutella on top. The faded blue color of my Converse against a grassy hill that I hiked down one golden afternoon in November.
Isn’t it a little disconcerting to think your life might just be a long, drawn out drunken night, where whole years are blacked out? What kind of past can we create with only jagged bits of action that flicker around in our minds? My life seems to be strung together with loose twine. It’s jumpy, with no cohesion.
Now that college is speeding past me, basically slipping through my fingers as I write, I’ve been thinking a lot about what these years will look like later in life. So much of my time here is already swishing together, muddled, like run-off water in a drain pipe: nondescript instances of studying in cafes, eating long dinners in bright dining halls, plucking hot laundry from white machines.
That’s why I’m trying desperately to grasp at, and hold onto, certain memories. I keep replaying one brisk night I walked through campus alone, when a clear sky hung above me, and my feet shimmied through the dead leaves on the ground. All the shadows were a little golden with remnants of the day, and I felt so safe, so at home. Or a Tuesday when my two roommates and I cuddled on one twin bed and talked for an hour and a half, and I couldn’t stop laughing, and my chest felt light and heavy all at once with love.
Those moments occurred just a month or two ago; they’re still so fresh in my mind. But I certainly, too, want to remember the first months of college last year and how much I hated them. I want to remember the mugginess and the sleepless nights and the feeling of being unbearably alone. I want to remember the bad times, along with good because it makes everything much more beautiful when I can say I’ve experienced something difficult along the way. But even those sour recollections of college are beginning to look a little bit sepia-tone. Even those feel far away.
I guess that’s why invented memories have always seemed so attractive: they’re all mine, and I can mold and fumble them all I want. I can’t fuck up a memory if it never existed in the first place. I write and photograph for the same reason. I fear that, in only a couple years from now, they’ll be the only tangible things I’ll have to look back on.
But invented memories and word documents and photographs won’t make me feel anything, necessarily. When the five-second clip of myself speeding across an infinite New Mexico horizon fades, I feel hollow inside. It’s just a pretty scene playing over and over in my mind.
There’s nothing I can say to my synapses or hippocampus to make my memories any more dependable or emotional or real. And I’m starting to realize that I shouldn’t want them to be infallible in the first place. I might forget what exactly it feels like to be 19 years old, living in Cambridge, and finally adjusting to college, but that’s also why we live in the present tense.
So for now, I’ll keep taking those walks alone through Cambridge, when everything smells fresh and sweet, and I’ll laugh until I cry with my friends. I’ll feel as much as I can, let in all the good with the bad, keep experiencing unforgettable events in real-time. That way, when the memories fade, I’ll still have the present to revel in.
Lena K. Felton ‘17 is an English concentrator in Dunster House. One of her earliest memories is trying bubblegum ice cream, then spitting out the pieces of gum into a Dixie cup. She hasn’t had the flavor since. 
Sections
Pulitzer Prize-winning New York Times reporter Eric Lichtblau visited the Law School this month for a talk on his new book, “The Nazis Next Door: How America Became a Safe Haven for Hitler’s Men.” Lichtblau sat down with me after the presentation to talk Nazi hunting, shady Cold War deals, and World War II mysteries yet to be solved.
1. Fifteen Minutes: In your book, you reveal the myriad Nazi affiliates who gamed the system or were willingly admitted into the U.S., some going on to serve in the CIA and FBI. Can you talk a little bit about the impetus for your research, and is it more possible now than in the past because of declassification of records?
Eric Lichtblau: The start of it was a story I did for the newspaper in 2010, on this internal history at the Justice Department of Nazi hunting efforts, and I just thought the material was so fascinating and there was so much in there that I hadn’t known, that I wanted to get deeper into.... So, I started examining a lot of the files and interviewing the people who were still alive and the declassified files were critical. In 1999, Congress ordered the CIA and other intelligence agencies to begin declassifying their war crimes files, not only on the Nazis, but on the Japanese and their relationship with various war criminals, and that took years and years to get that stuff forced out. The CIA really resisted for a long time. But in the end, there’s this whole treasure trove of files, literally millions of pages of it.... It really is kind of a unique window into the relationships with these guys as they were going on, and you really see all the raw, sort of reprehensible stuff in some cases with these guys, talking about “so-and-so was under the control of the Gestapo, but he’d make a good spy,” and there was another guy where they say, “we think this guy, this SS officer, was probably guilty of minor war crimes, but whatever, we’ll use him anyway.” You don’t get to see that kind of stuff that often.
2. FM: In the book, you talk a lot about the meetings and subsequent alliance between [American spy and future CIA director] Allen Dulles and [Nazi general] Karl Wolff, and obviously there were other similar alliances. It seems like there’s a kind of indifference, or turning of the other cheek with this kind of dealing. How do you explain that indifference, or these kind of imaginary classifications of “moderate” or “less ardent” Nazis?
EL: You know, I think it was all about the Cold War. It was all about thinking that these guys could help us in this new war against the Soviets. It was the feeling of a lot of the intelligence guys that no one hated the Soviets more than the Nazis. They’d been fighting them for years, they were militarily opposed, they were ideologically opposed, and we needed to somehow put that hatred to use and exploit them. I mean obviously I think it was shortsighted to put it mildly. It was sort of morally repugnant, and even as a national security matter, in many of these cases only did damage, it didn’t help us in terms of gathering intelligence. With the scientists, you can see how they brought us a benefit—I’d like to think that, you know, I’m not an engineer, but I’d like to think that American scientists could have gotten us to the moon too, maybe it would have been 1971 or ’72, but we wouldn’t have been using Nazis to do it. So we made a deal with the Devil, a Faustian bargain and compromised a lot of our ideals to do it.
3. FM: A lot of people know about Wernher von Braun and Project Paperclip, but in your book you talk about sort of a deeper, darker side of this effort. Can you explain some of that?
EL: Yeah, I think the conventional wisdom is, “Oh, these guys were Nazis in name only, they weren’t really involved in anything dark or notorious,” but in fact many of them were directly involved in the running of this horrible slave labor factory, at Mittelwerk, Dora, in the medical experimentation, like [Nazi collaborator and later Project Paperclip scientist Hubertus] Strughold. These were not just sort of guys in white lab coats who had nothing to do with what was going on.
4. FM: What do you think is the biggest new idea, piece of information, or perspective that your book adds to this story?
EL: Well, I have two answers to that. From a sort of newsworthy perspective, I think the newest stuff is a lot of the depth of this relationship these intelligence agencies had with known Nazi figures, and the lengths that they went to to cover up those relationships for years and years even into the ’80s and ’90s.… The thing that most people seem the most surprised about was the conditions of the survivors in the displaced persons camps that I talk about in the early chapters. And that was certainly eye-opening to me, the idea that history remembers the liberation of the camps, at Dachau and Bergen-Belsen and Auschwitz, and in fact many of these people lived for months, sometimes years, behind barbed wire and under armed guard, under horrible, horrible conditions, with General Patton running the camps in the early period, a raging anti-Semite; that I think has been completely lost to history. I’d like to think that the book does some good in correcting the historical record.
5. FM: It seems like there’s a huge disconnect between either publicly stated goals or at least the image that we have of that period now, and what actually happened. How do you account for that huge disconnect?
EL: That’s a great question. I think some of it was intentional. You hate to see the sinister side of our government, but unfortunately we do, and I think a lot of it was intentional, especially in those early years through the ’50s and ’60s. And I think some of it is just ignorance and apathy by the public.
6. FM: Can you talk briefly about Lileikis and the Massachusetts connection?
EL: He was the guy who worked for the CIA after being in Lithuania as a top, top Nazi collaborator. He was the guy who was signing orders rounding up thousands and thousands of Jews and turning them over to the Gestapo, and Eli Rosenbaum, a former Harvard Law student, goes to knock on [Lileikis’] door in, I think it was Norwood, outside of Boston, in the early ’80s, and says, “Were you the guy who ran the Lithuanian secret service police?” And he admits, “Yeah, I did, but you know, I don’t know what my men did, they may have done all sorts of horrible things in my name, and show me something that I signed.” It was only after the archives in the Soviet Union started to open up in the late ’80s and the early ’90s that a Justice Department historian, Mike McQueen, was able to actually find documents with his signature on it...and then they were able to go back to him and nail him. That was a case, also, where the CIA was actively really trying to cover it up. They told the Justice Department, “You can’t bring this case because he was one of ours, and it’s going to really bring out a lot of classified information.” They lied to Congress about what they knew about him, in their own files, in those declassified war crimes files I talked about. There were files saying that he was under the control of the Gestapo, that he was probably involved in mass murders of Jews at Vilnius, but we’re going to use him as a spy anyway. And you had the CIA covering that up, even in the 1990s. 50 years after the war, they were covering that up. Which seems particularly shameful. They were covering up a prior generation’s sins.
7. FM: You’ve mentioned there’s still some classified documents in this area that you’d like to see. What kind of information do you think they hold?
EL: I can only guess, but I would think that they name the names of the top intelligence officials who were aware of these kinds of things…. So far, I guess the holy grail would be if there was a policy approved for actively recruiting the Nazi spies. So far what’s in the paperwork is individual cases, okay, “Here’s this network of Nazi guys, we’ll use them; here’s this Nazi guy, we’ll use him.” There’s no single policy saying like there is with the scientists for Paperclip, to say, “Let’s go out and find a thousand Nazi spies.” Maybe, who knows, maybe that’s buried in there somewhere. With Allen Dulles’ signature on it.
8. FM: Do you think we’ll continue to prosecute surviving Nazi collaborators?
EL: You know it is unfortunately a little bit “too little, too late,” because these are the low-ranking guys who are on their deathbed.  You wish that this had happened 30, 40 years earlier, when the people who were culpable at the highest levels. Lileikis, the Boston guy, you wish that he didn’t live out his best years in the United States, in Boston, or that von Bolswhing didn’t live out his best years in New York, or many others like them. It’s some measure of justice, but not a lot.
Sections
If you were on I-95 anywhere between Providence, R.I. and Secaucus, N.J. last Wednesday evening, you knew there was a lot of traffic. What you didn’t know is that this traffic consisted entirely of my extended family, aka every second-to-fourth-generation Portuguese-Italian who can trace their roots to the Greater Newark Metropolitan Area. Including me. My accent grows steadily more Jersey the farther from Boston (sorry, “Bawstan”) I get, so by the time we hit Yonkers, N.Y. it’s like I’ve swallowed Season Four of “Mob Wives.” It’s gonna be a party. And, like any reality show set in New Jersey, there will be wine.
Yellow Tail Shiraz
(My uncle: “It’s more than four dollars; can you still review it?”
Me: “It’s still less than four dollars if I don’t pay.”)
There are 42 people at Thanksgiving, and they are all currently asking me what I plan to do when I graduate. This drives me to drink. Yellow Tail Shiraz is here for me. Its wry, dry, sophisticate-on-a-budget taste bears no resemblance to the current scene. It’s an hour into the party, and my sister and I are already Pinteresting “Santa-themed fake nails.” We are interrupted by my cousin, who is holding an enormous grocery bag of tampon samples like it’s Christmas. The tampons are packed in ornately-constructed cardboard boxes, presumably to suggest that menstruation is delicate and expensive. It is certainly the latter, which is why I hide eight boxes under my coat. On my other side, Grandma has started talking about an article she’s read on gay youth.
“It’s so sad what they do to these people. They should accept them. We accept everyone,” Grandma says.
“I know we do,” I tell her, thinking about the time my mother outed me on the family email thread. Grandma doesn’t know how to email, and I’m unsure if anyone brought it up. “I know you’ve always been.”
Prosecco, some purple liquor thing, some other purple soda thing 
(From the family coffers)
My cousins and I used to sneak drinks from Grandpa’s crystal two-buck chuck decanter. But we’re real grown-ups now, and my aunt is pushing cocktails like they’re gel pens in 1999. This cocktail is sweet and bubbly, with notes of black cherry and women talking about their feelings. Over at the kitchen table, the aunts and cousins—The Ladies—have begun debating the relative merits of various pubic grooming methods. Waxing at the salon costs 95 freaking dollars, and why would you spend that kind of money when you could get, like, 30 fake nails instead? (We are considering blinged-out snowflakes.) Waxing yourself is so effing painful, but do you ever get comfortable with a razor that close to your cooch?
“Maybe we should accept the broad diversity of lived pube experiences,” I say.
“But after I got a Brazilian I was just constantly cold,” another Lady says.
At this point, my cousin’s seven-year-old son, who has inherited the task of tampon-distribution from his mother, comes around like a petite, aggressive campus rep. “Take them,” he enjoins me, dropping six or seven boxes—this brand sans applicator!—at my feet. “Take more!”
Red wine? Unclear. It’s Thanksgiving!
(Who even fucking knows at this point?)
I am probably not the only tipsy one, since The Ladies are now considering which we’d prefer to have on a desert island: blow drier or IUD.
“IUD,” I say. “Obviously. You never know who you’ll meet.”
“I don't know,” my aunt says. “The merits of a soft curl…”
“Reina doesn’t really need an IUD though, does she?” someone else chimes in. “How’s the girlfriend?”
I blush a little, then mutter, “We’ve broken up.”
There was that one time when I wasn’t there and some relative’s boyfriend started trashing gay marriage at our house. When I heard about it later, my stomach kind of curdled, like, would they all have looked at me? Would they have spoken up? A little thing, but big enough to hurt. I heard later that my dad had gotten angry—yelled at the guy, nearly chased him out. My father, who hardly raises his voice, who looks like a minor character from “The Godfather,” who hugged me awkwardly when I came out—he had gone to bat for me.
The evening is almost over, and The Ladies are debating the minutiae of the groomed brow: Waxed, threaded, or plucked?
“But seriously,” I’m saying, “I looked like a freaking princess after I first got threaded.”
My aunt objects, “But you know how much that hurts?”
And then it’s over, and we’re carrying out the extra rice pudding, and me and my sisters and our 124 tampons pile into the warm car.
Reina A. E. Gattuso ’15, The Crimson’s Resident Lesbian Sex Icon, is a Comparative Literature and Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality concentrator in Adams House. You can follow her on Twitter @reinagattuso.
Sections
Dear readers,
This is the way FM ends. Not with a bang, but with 15. It’s also not the real end, but just the end for this year. We still have our Superboard keys. Steven S. Lee, you’re not reading this—and if you are, it’s because you Googled your own name. Touché.
It’s strange to be here, writing the last editor’s note, listening to ABBA and letting our new chairs copyedit pages. It’s been a hell of a ride, readers. Does anyone read this? Erin, do you know how many times we insulted you this year? 17, Erin. 17. But you won’t know that unless you google your own name (Erin K. Aoyama, does this help with Google results?).
This week, we chose the 15 seniors you need to meet before they graduate. If you’re someone who likes to give people jobs, ignore these seniors and focus on meeting us, Libby R. Coleman and Petey E. Menz. References available upon request. No task is too small. Many are too large and outside of our skill set.
Remember when we made fun of Michelle B. Timmerman and Kathryn C. Reed for writing editor’s notes that rambled? How young and green we were. Reminds us of this one time we published an article about the 15 least interesting classes. It really helped us through pre-term planning.
“I meant to return a book today,” Libby just said. “But I didn’t.”
Have you ever really looked at the FM office? I mean, really looked at it?
Next year is gonna be great, readers. Bailey, Cordelia, Josh, Molly, Colton, Lena, Maia, and half of Lily will produce some of the best FM issues you will ever read. But will they publish Isis v. ISIS? No. That will forever be our claim to fame, the feather in our cap, the thorn in our crown of laurels, the needle in our haystack.
“The Name of the Game” is an underrated ABBA track. Is this ed note long enough yet?
Three years, we weren’t even on The Crimson. Wonder what Mark J. Chiusano and Elyssa  A. L. Spitzer were up to. Wonder what they’re up to now. Give us a call—Libby’s number is 911 and Petey’s is 867-5309.
Wonder what happened to the “Back to the Future” poster in this office. Arts, any answers?
But in all seriousness, it’s been a great year. To seeing red, meeting the Mormons, and learning what exactly is CS50.
Cheers to the one-month weekend,LRC + PEM
Sections
People slowly filter into the Adams Junior Common Room on a sunny Saturday morning. Old Boston types clad in bow-ties and jackets and young families sporting multiple shoulder bag worth of childcare equipment all grab refreshment and settle into the plush couches to convene with their adopted first-year students. This is one of the four events thrown each year by the Freshman Dean’s Office for participants in the Host Family Program.
According to the program description, the Host Family Program matches first-years (both international and domestic) with alumni, faculty, administrators, and other Harvard affiliates in the area. It works to facilitate informal but useful relationships between students and host families that share an interest or some aspect of their respective personal backgrounds.
A Middle Ground
For Cansu Çolakoğlu ’16, Lori and Christopher Wadsworth, her host parents, were invaluable in the transition from her native Istanbul to Cambridge. The Wadsworths, in general, only take students from Turkey, where they spent several years.
“[The Wadsworths] represent a middle ground between my culture and the environment that I’m in here because they are from here and they’ve lived in this environment their whole lives, but they’ve also lived in my country, and they obviously have very strong feelings for Istanbul,” says Çolakoğlu. “At first, I didn’t always know what was acceptable to say and what wasn’t. On that scale, they provided with me with a very unique perspective that allowed me to learn way more about this culture than I would’ve without them.”
Reema M. Khan, host parent of Marija Jevtic ’18, a freshman from Serbia, is similarly eager to provide her student with a sort of cultural middle ground. Khan is hoping to introduce Jevtic to the family of her elementary school son Farooz’s classmate from Serbia.  “It’d be a great opportunity to get her involved with the Serbian-American community here,” Khan says.
Easing the transition into a new environment is also a central focus for host parent, Anne Licciardello ’80 as well. A middle school social studies teacher, Licciardello believes the program is extremely useful because “a college freshman’s not that different from that of  a seventh grader; they’re both in big moments of transition.”
Matchmaker, Matchmaker
The task of matching some 160 first-years with 115 host families falls squarely on the shoulders of Torey E. Martin, a Freshman Programs Assistant at the FDO.
“We have an application for hosts and students, and they fill it out individually; it just asks a lot of information that helps me pair: What their ideal Saturday might be, what they’re looking for in a host,  [if] they want to be paired with hosts that may have children or have animals or things like that, what their religious affiliation might be,” says Martin. “The hosts fill out a similar application. It’s all done by hand, so I read all of the applications. It’s similar to what the resident deans do with the housing application.”
According to Martin, the process of downloading the applications, printing them, reading them, matching them, and emailing the results takes upwards of 60 hours.
“It’s quite laborious, but it works,” Martin says. “And it’s been a really neat experience for me to watch when the pairing works well, and they form a bond and have stayed together.”
Moving on up
All signs seem to indicate that the process of matching might take even longer in subsequent years given the growth of the program. “When we took the program over from the OSL  [within the last 10 years] I believe it only had about 30 student participants and we’re now up to about 160,” Martin says. “So the program has grown quite a lot which is great, and we’re continuing to add more programming events.”
A central part of the growth has been an increased interest in the program from American students. “I think it’s becoming more and more common that domestic students are asking for host families,” Martin says.
In order to match the rising demand on the student side, the FDO has been eagerly recruiting new host families. “We have a lot fewer hosts than we do students, so we’re trying to get that to be a little more even, so we’re not relying so heavily on people to take on multiple students,” says Martin. “This year, we’ve tried some new recruiting tactics and have reached out via the all-College staff list that we have here to recruit from the current staff and faculty and administrators, so that we’re not just utilizing the alumni network. We’re always looking for new ways to grow the program, as you can see by the numbers.”
Khan, an administrator at Harvard, is one of these new recruits. “Being in administration, I don’t get to interact with the students as much. The Host Family Program helps me get closer to the University’s mission in that respect,” Khan says.
Mutual Benefit
Martin was quick to emphasize the benefit to the hosts as well as the students. “[The hosts] just love to be involved and be with the students. They do it all for free, so they’re volunteering their time but they learn so much from the students,” Martin says. “That’s what they love.”
In fact, Lori Wadsworth herself got the experience of being hosted when Çolakoğlu invited her to Istanbul over the winter break of her sophomore year. “One of my favorite moments was when Cansu invited me to come to Turkey,” says Wadsworth. “And I kept saying ‘Cansu, you don’t need me in your life in Turkey.’ And she says, ‘No, I really want you to come and stay with my parents.’... I went over and she was my Turkish interpreter for the whole week, and we had so much fun. It was a highlight for me and she was wonderful. You know as well as I do that she had better things to do with a month off, but it was so fun.”
Çolakoğlu was similarly enthusiastic. “Now, I literally think of [Wadsworth] as my grandma, and she keeps calling me her daughter and we just met two years ago,” Çolakoğlu says.
Although, there are stories like Wadsworth and Çolakoğlu’s, many of the host-student relationships are less involved. Wadsworth herself has had multiple students who have fallen out of touch after the first few meetings. Often, after the first year, students don’t feel the need for a host family.
“It depends on the student as to what they need or what they want,” Wadsworth says. “And we always say to them, ‘we’re here for you, you’re not here for us. You owe us nothing.’”
Sections
I run into Stephen A. Turban ’17, one half of a former UC presidential ticket, in the dark recesses of the Square. He's looking dapper in a crisp bow tie and a bright red-pink shirt. Before Ava Nasrollahzadeh ’16 and Dhruv P. Goyal ’16 have won the UC presidency, Turban and his running mate, Luke R. Heine ’17 allow me to crash their bro time in the UC office and wait for the results of the UC presidential election to come in. If the two are nervous, they aren’t showing it.
The subject of conversation quickly turns to their relatively extreme campaign spending, and the fines they incurred along the way. “If we were going to break rules we wanted to be excessively creative,” Turban muses. “You've got to break rules in style.” Heine agrees.
Turban even admits to a little bending of the truth in his campaign slogans. “I promised that I have a large endowment. Not true. Relatively small.” We imagine the headlines. “Loses election! Penis below average size.”
The cap on campaign spending limited some of the pair's more extravagant plans. They ordered custom toilet paper, bearing their faces and the slogan “Cleaning Up the UC.” Due to the apparently incredibly high cost of custom toilet paper, however, they were unable to deploy it. “I think if we lose, this would have won us the election, and I want that on record. This would have changed the UC,” Turban says.
How much exactly did they spend on toilet paper? “We are never revealing that,” Heine says, unsmiling, looking like a man who’s been to toilet paper hell and back.
Turban nods, seriously. “I'll take that to my grave. I'll be buried with it.” A pause. “Actually, I’ll take it to my bathroom.”
With the election results looming, the duo turns to the next most important step in their campaign process: preparing post-result memes. Heine has recently been robbed of his bike (“Can you put out a wanted ad for my bike? It's blue. It's a mountain bike.”), and thus settled on “Loses election, loses bike.” Turban chooses the more cheerful “Loses election, wins best friend.”
These skills, unsurprisingly, are integral to the UC process. “You get really good at making GIFs and making memes,” Turban quips.
The pair has a campaign meeting every morning, but sometimes UC work wasn't the first item on the agenda. “Some of them would be just: Dude, we gotta finish Math 21a. No campaigning today, I guess.”
Pretty soon, we’ll know the results of all that campaigning, as the clock ticks ever closer to the big reveal. Will results be posted at 10 p.m.? Or at 10:07, in line with Harvard tradition? How will we be getting the results? Turban shrugs. “We'll probably just look on Facebook.”
Speaking of Facebook, Turban gets real for a moment. “The problem with Luke and I [sic] is that we’re both Facebook sluts.”
Heine fervently disagrees. “That's not true! I post links! People think they're interesting! I'm educating the Facebook community.” Hard hitting investigation reveals that Heine often shares links from Wikipedia Cool Freaks, a group that finds nifty pages on Wikipedia to share with the world. But he has a dark secret. “Sometimes I copy-paste the links, and say that I found them.”
And then in a single text, we receive the results. Verdict: a Nasrollahzadeh-Goyal victory. Heine and Turban release a simultaneous sigh. “Bum,” declares Turban.
Heine shrugs, “Loses election, loses bike. It's on,” and posts the meme. The pair may have lost the race, but we quickly note that they at least won fourth place votes.
Despite the disappointing news, the two are in high spirits. They stare off into the metaphorical distance and wax nostalgic. “Amazing. Amazing. We had some really good stunts. Put some really good times up,” Turban says of the campaign.
“Unbelievable. Except for losing my bike,” Heine chimes in. After I learn that they biked together to the IOP, I am now convinced that the bike theft was a ploy from an opposing campaign.
All in all, it seems like much fun was had, many pranks were pulled, toilet paper was bought, and friends were brought closer together. Heine gives an ambiguously serious smile and laughs, “I'd do it again. And at least we still have the UC private jet.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: December 3, 2014, at 10: 30 p.m.
Almost 200 Harvard students and community members gathered in front of University Hall Wednesday morning to protest the death of Michael Brown, a black, unarmed Missouri teenager who was shot and killed by a white police officer in early August.
The protest came just two days after several hundred students from Harvard and Cambridge Rindge and Latin School flooded the center of Harvard Square, temporarily shutting down the streets there as they drew attention to what they called unequal treatment before the law. Both protests were spurred by a St. Louis County grand jury’s decision almost two weeks ago not to indict Darren Wilson, the white police officer who shot and killed Brown.
Protesters gathered on Wednesday listened to speeches, sang songs, and participated in a “die-in” at the feet of the famous John Harvard statue, even as a cold rain soaked the Yard. Some held signs, bearing slogans that have become well-known as protests have occurred across the country in recent weeks.
“The darkest truth of our democracy is that black lives have never mattered as much as white lives have,” Timothy P. McCarthy ’93, a lecturer at the Kennedy School, said to applause from the crowd.
McCarthy shared the story of a black student named Malcolm whom he mentored during his time as an undergraduate at Harvard and came to consider a brother.
“After school, Malcolm could either walk through his neighborhood or to visit me in Quincy House,” McCarthy said. “But either way, his walk was policed. We lost count of how many times he was stopped and questioned.”
Jonathan L. Walton, Pusey Minister of the Memorial Church, also discussed his experiences with police as a black man.
“A common police motto is to protect and to serve,” Walton said during his speech. “Unfortunately, the modern militarized police force is more concerned with containing and criminalizing, particularly for black male bodies.”
Walton said that although Harvard police officers are his “dearest colleagues who protect and serve,” he added that he nonetheless warns his children about interacting with police officers outside of the Harvard campus.
Protest organizers and attendees alike highlighted the need for responses to the Ferguson jury’s decision to move beyond mass-protests and toward effecting concrete change.
“Don't let this protest be a Facebook profile picture,” said event co-organizer Fadhal A. Moore ’15. “Let this be a conversation.”
Event organizers expressed hope that events like the protest would spark action by students who may have become disillusioned with the system.
“One of the things I really wanted to make sure we do is have an action...having events like this allows people to protest that our justice system is not protecting us,” said Amanda D. Bradley ’15, another co-organizer of the event and a former president of the Association of Black Harvard Women.
Addressing the crowd early in the rally, Anthony A. Jack, a doctoral candidate in sociology and a Mather House tutor, described his hope for political solutions to racial problems in the United States, particularly on a local level.
“Mayors are invested in local communities in ways other elected officials are not. Mayor [Thomas M.] Menino taught me that. So we must ask mayors to invest in accountability measures for police,” he said.
Bradley and Moore, who are also co-chairs of a new IOP policy group on criminal justice and police interaction with communities of color, concluded by recruiting interested attendees to contribute to a forthcoming policy paper for the Massachusetts State House.
Among other notable University figures, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana attended the protest. He declined to comment on the rally when approached by a reporter.
Late into Wednesday night, posters lining the path between the Widener and Lamont libraries remained with Bradley and Moore’s sobering message.
“Good luck with finals,” some read. “But remember black people are being killed in the streets.”
In a seperate event, more than 100 people gathered Wednesday night outside the Law School's Wasserstein Hall to hold a candle-lit vigil for Eric Garner, a black man who was killed by police officers in New York City in July. A New York grand jury declined on Wednesday to indict the police officer who put Garner in a chokehold.
—Staff writer Quynh-Nhu Le contributed to the reporting of this article.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a closer-than-expected win over MIT to start the season and an unexpected loss against Holy Cross, it is safe to say that the Harvard men’s basketball team (4-1) has righted the ship. The team is 3-0 on its current five-game homestand, closing with Northeastern (7:00 p.m., NESN) and Boston University as the semester winds down. Below, The Back Page takes a look at the three main things to keep your eye on as Harvard aims to extend its win streak against the Huskies.
Vulnerability Inside: The biggest story from Harvard’s victory over UMass was the performances of reserve big men junior Evan Cummins and sophomore Zena Edosomwan, who played solid defense on Minutemen star Cady Lalame and got key buckets on the other end. With senior Jonah Travis again questionable to play, the Crimson will need both players to step up against burly Northeastern forward Scott Eatherton. The senior, who had 17 points and 11 rebounds the last time these teams met, was named CAA Player of the Week Monday after leading the squad to the Hall of Fame Tip-Off title and a win over Florida State. The Huskies are playing historically good basketball, having won five games in November for the first time ever, and Eatherton’s play is the biggest reason why.
Beanpot Hoops: With Northeastern tonight and BU on Monday, Harvard will have completed four lengths of the five-game Boston marathon it has scheduled by this time next week. So far, the Crimson is 1-1, with a one-point loss to Holy Cross and a two-point win over UMass. Harvard hosts both upcoming opponents before traveling to Boston College in January, looking for its sixth straight win over the Eagles. Overall, Harvard is 14-2 against the five schools since the beginning of the 2010-2011 season, and a once unheard-of thought is quickly becoming a reality—Harvard may be the best college basketball team in New England.
New Year, New Role: A fascinating subplot through the first five games has been the role of junior co-captain Siyani Chambers. As backcourt mate senior wing Wesley Saunders has flourished—he was named to the Naismith Watch List earlier this afternoon—Chambers has taken on an increasingly smaller role.
The point guard is still playing huge minutes (35.4 a game) due to the lack of a true backup, but his points and field goal percentage are career lows. He is shooting a sickly 35.3 percent from the field—albeit 43.8 percent from behind the arc—and averaging single-digit points for the first time ever. While the assists are up (a career-high 5.8 a game), the point guard is averaging three turnovers a game, so calling him a caretaker feels inappropriate. Ultimately, his steady hands make the offense turn, but the Crimson can ill afford for him to continue performing at this level offensively if Saunders comes back down to Earth.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Five games into the season, nobody is playing better basketball in the Ivy League than senior wing Wesley Saunders—and it hasn’t gone unnoticed.
Wednesday, Saunders was named to the Naismith Trophy Men’s Top 50 watch list. The senior ranks seventh in the NCAA in scoring at 21.8 points a game, putting up 27—including the game-clinching three-point play—in the team’s most recent 77-75 win over UMass. The reigning Ivy League Player of the Year leads the team with 7.8 rebounds and 1.8 steals a game, ranking first in assist-to-turnover ratio as well.
The Ivy League was the first to recognize the wing’s stellar play last week with Saunders’ ninth career Ivy League Player of the Week award—tying the all-time record. Last year, the then-junior was awarded AP All-America honorable mention and was named to the Lou Henson All-American team, which takes only players from ‘mid-major’ programs.
Among the top 10 scorers in the nation, Saunders ranks third in field goal percentage behind Northwestern State’s Zikiteran Woodley and St. Mary’s forward Brad Waldow. For the season, the senior is making 57 percent of his shots, 30 percent of his threes, and 83 percent of his free throws.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With 7:44 to play and his team clinging to a nine-point lead, senior wing Wesley Saunders showed a bit of the reason why he came into Wednesday’s game seventh in the nation in scoring.
After Northeastern’s Reggie Spencer missed a short corner jumper on one end, junior co-captain Siyani Chambers brought the ball up for Harvard, sending it quickly to Saunders, who was waiting, hands up, in the right corner. Saunders put the ball on the floor just once before reaching the paint, at which point he elevated from the right box, floated across the lane, and flicked in the layup before landing on the other side of the key.
The bucket put Saunders’s team up, 49-38, and the Huskies never threatened again. After failing to separate itself for much of the second half, the Crimson outplayed and outlasted Northeastern down the stretch, ultimately pulling out the victory, 60-46, Wednesday night at Lavietes Pavilion.
While the home team eventually broke the game open, Harvard’s play in the minutes immediately proceeding and following intermission wasn’t nearly as smooth as Saunders’s acrobatic layup. After the Crimson (5-1) took a 10-0 lead to start the game, Northeastern (5-2) took advantage of a six-minute Harvard field goal drought to inch back into the contest. Led by senior forward Scott Eatherton, the Huskies made a barrage of layups to close the first period, capitalizing on Harvard’s lack of rhythm on the offensive end to tighten up the game.
The Crimson’s 13-point lead quickly evaporated as the Huskies relied on a surfeit of interior passes and points in the paint to get within five points heading to the locker room at the half.
And when Northeastern guard T. J. Williams knocked down a trey on the first play of the second period, a contest that had seemed to be turning into a blowout just a half hour prior was suddenly a one-possession game.
But then Harvard turned to Saunders, and the senior did what he has been doing all season long: score. Thirty seconds after Williams’s shot from deep, Saunders broke out in transition, and Chambers found him. Saunders drew the foul, and hit both shots from the charity stripe. On the next possession, Saunders slashed to the paint once more and put in the layup.
Back-to-back buckets by senior center Kenyatta Smith and co-captain Steve Moundou-Missi extended Harvard’s lead back to seven before Saunders grabbed a rebound and scored the put-back, giving the Crimson a nine-point advantage and marking his third basket in as many minutes.
"[We] had a sense of urgency to begin the second half,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “We talked about [being aggressive] the first four minutes of the second half, and I thought we [did] that which gave us some confidence…which was crucial for us.”
Just as they had done in the first half, however, the Huskies began to chip into the home team’s lead—one post play at a time. Three layups by Northeastern big men Spencer and Eatherton, and a short floater by the former, brought the team within six, 44-38, with 9:24 to play.
But a deep corner jumper from Moundou-Missi and a made free throw from junior wing Agunwa Okolie extended Harvard’s advantage back to nine, setting up Saunders’s floating, up-and-under layup with 7:44 remaining.
From there, the team that was supposed to win did everything it needed to in order to pull out the victory. When the final whistle blew, it was Harvard that came out on top.
“[In the second period], we got up in transition—Siyani was pushing it, and we got ahead before they could set up the defense,” Saunders explained. “So I think we did a better job attacking their defense in that second half.”
While Saunders did not score in the first period, he ended the night with a team-high 12 points, while his five takeaways matched the entire number of steals that the Huskies put up on the night.
"He is a veteran player and a tremendous player,” Amaker said. “We expect him to play [the] way [he did]…. I thought Wesley was good in his attention to detail and his awareness to defend [Northeastern’s Dvavid Walker], who is a tremendous player and a tremendous shooter."
With Harvard’s go-to scorer largely silent in the game’s opening minutes, the team relied on Saunders’s backcourt-mate, Okolie, to put points on the board. And four minutes into the game, the Crimson was up, 10-0, largely thanks to the offensive facilitation of Okolie.
The scoring was tipped off by Chambers, who received a pass near the left elbow, took two dribbles, hesitated, stepped back, and sunk a 17-foot jumper.
On the next Crimson possession, Chambers found Okolie, who was cutting to the basket. 4-0. Okolie then found senior big man Kenyatta Smith down low for a layup, and then followed that up with a jump shot of his own from the right elbow. Smith’s short hook shot from the right block moments later pushed the lead to 10-0.
While Harvard’s offensive onslaught may have been halted later in the first half, Okolie’s production continued past intermission. His highlight of the night came with 15:50 to play, when he received the ball near the left elbow. With Northeastern’s freshman Devon Begley on his back, Okolie spun quickly to his right, gliding down the left side of the paint before laying the ball into the hoop. The wing finished the evening with a season-high nine points, shooting four-of-four from the field for the game.
"He’s been banged up a little bit and I wasn't sure how much he'd be able to go, as he missed some practice this week,” Amaker said. “[But] he really gave us some offensive production, attacking the basket, using his athleticism—his production tonight, I thought, was outstanding and very much needed."
The Huskies were able to stick around largely due to their activity on the offensive glass. The visiting squad totaled 15 offensive rebounds, resulting in 19 second-chance points. Eatherton led the squad in its efforts, scoring a game-high 16 points to go along with a team-high six boards.
“I’m disappointed in our ability to [] rebound but that's a function of our defense—that people are going to try and get early shots against us and try to get it off the backboard because our defense has been able to lock in and be pretty solid,” Amaker explained. "I think we are growing and still a work in progress…. We always talk about the two ‘B’ words, our bench and our balance, and the closer we get to those two words, the more we will hit our stride."
Amaker was unable to give any timetable for the return of senior forward Jonah Travis, who has missed the last few games with an injury. Travis, he said, has been restricted from working out with the team due to lingering symptoms.
—Staff writer Juliet Spies-Gans can be reached at juliet.spies-gans@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After an up-and-down first half offensively for the Crimson that allowed the Minutewomen to stay in the game, senior guard Ali Curtis turned it on to lead a rejuvenated Harvard attack in the second half.
Curtis hit two threes in the first minute of play and registered an assist as part of a 10-3 run after the break that saw the Crimson stretch its 33-32 halftime lead to eight. After the run, UMass (3-4) never got closer than six as Harvard (4-3) was able to close the game out from the free throw line in route to a 75-62 victory over the Minutewomen.
“Coming out of the locker room [at halftime], I knew I hadn’t done everything I could do to contribute for the team,” Curtis said. “I happened to have open threes, and I took them and made them. I think our mentality as a team was to come out firing in the second half.”
After a lay-up and a made free throw brought UMass back to within six with 16 minutes to play, the Crimson turned to its frontcourt to answer, and senior forwards Temi Fagbenle and Erin McDonnell came through. A Fagbenle layup and a McDonnell three stretched the lead back to 10, as the two seniors were the most reliable players for Harvard all night.
Fagbenle finished with an efficient 13 points, hitting six of her seven shots, and added seven boards and five assists. Not to be outdone, McDonnell finished with a team-high 15 points to go along with seven rebounds and four assists.
“[Temi and Erin] are really instrumental on both the offensive and defensive end,” captain Kaitlyn Dinkins said. “Rebounding is something that we have really been focusing on, and it wins us a lot of games. Having them be so strong and consistent on the boards is definitely something we can count on, and our whole team looks to them when we really need boards and leadership.”
The Minutewomen had one last run in them down the stretch, as UMass was able to cut it to six with under five to play on a Rashida Timballa layup. But sharpshooting junior guard Kit Metoyer iced the game with a deep three, and the Crimson defense was able to hold the Minutewomen to just five points in the last five minutes of the game.
Harvard shot the ball well all night, hitting 50 percent in the first half from the field on the way to 49 percent for the game. But the hot shooting was not an indicator of great offensive play, especially during a first half that saw the Crimson turn the ball over 14 times.
“In the first half we definitely had a stretch there where we kept turning the ball over,” Dinkins said. “We kept trying to get a shot off of the first ball screen or the first pass; we were just trying to thread the needle and it wasn’t working. In the second half we tried to get a little more ball movement, throw more fakes, and make the defense work harder.”
Harvard took an early 10-6 lead out of the gates behind two layups from Fagbenle and treys from Curtis and Dinkins, but the Minutewomen were able to claw back and tie it at 12-12 with 13 minutes left in the half.
Two quick threes for the Crimson coming out of a 30-second timeout pushed the lead to 18-12, but Harvard turnovers allowed UMass to recover and pull ahead 26-22 with six minutes left in the half.
“They worked harder than us [in the first half], which is unacceptable for us,” Curtis said. “But in the second half I thought we really turned it around and played as a team, and, ultimately, that is what won us the game.”
Harvard succeeded in cleaning up its passing in the second half, only turning the ball over 8 times while assisting on 11 of its 14 made baskets. The Crimson also upped its defensive intensity, holding the Minutewomen to just 32 percent shooting in the second half and 16 percent from behind the arc.
I definitely think [this game] showed us that we can always leave more out on the floor,” Dinkins said. The first half was not our game of basketball. In the second half we really turned it around and played with more heart and more discipline. We saw how successful that was, so I think that is one of the big takeaways from this game.”
—Staff writer Ty Aderhold can be reached at michael.aderhold@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“We can't expect him to be Superman every night and to put us on his back with an offensive explosion,” said Harvard coach Tommy Amaker of senior wing Wesley Saunders. “It will find its way to him.”
Three weeks ago, with the game on the line, Saunders dribbled the ball at the top of the key in the Boston TD Garden. Down just two, Saunders was unable to save the day, as Harvard’s top-25 ranking vanished in a loss to Holy Cross.
While Saunders dropped 24 points that night, it was those last two that his team needed most. Nonetheless, the senior, who was named to the Naismith Award Top 50 Watch List earlier on Wednesday, has done just about everything for the Crimson since then.
The reigning Ivy League Player of the Year was averaging 21.8 points going into Wednesday’s contest, good for seventh in the nation. Against UMass, Saunders scored the final six points for Harvard, including two clutch free throws to win the game, 75-73.
Fast forward to Wednesday night. Saunders is 0-for-3 in the first half and has committed a charging foul. Meanwhile, Northeastern (5-2) has crawled back into the game and made it a five-point contest, silencing the home crowd.
“I wasn’t too worried…. I could have played a lot better in the first half,” said Saunders. “But I know though that there’s two halves and wanted to go back into halftime reenergized, and we came back out as a team.”
Perhaps the statistic most indicative of Saunders’ success is his field goal percentage. Many of the nations top scorers shoot in the low 40 percent range and take 14 to 18 shots per a game. Saunders is currently shooting 55 percent from the field and takes fewer than 13 shots per a game.
"One thing about Wesley is that he is an even-keeled person,” said Amaker. “The highs and the lows aren't drastic with him, which is a tremendous quality for someone to have of his ability and he takes it in stride.”
What makes Saunders so invaluable to Harvard is his ability to understand his role and his incredible feel for the game.
When his squad is rolling and scoring with ease, he is perfectly comfortable with playing hard-nosed defense and rebounding the basketball (see his five steals, the most by any Harvard player since Jeremy Lin in 2010). When it needs him to score, he has no problem stepping up and doing that either, as he dropped 12 points in the second half.
However, don’t mistake Saunders’ patience and discipline for a lack of talent. With 7:04 remaining and up just nine, Saunders caught the ball in front of the Harvard student section in the corner. With just one dribble, #23 picked up the rock, cuffed it in his right hand and floated up and under the hoop for the reverse layup.
It’s those type of plays that have earned Saunders a top-50 player ranking on ESPN. His talent and finesse are undeniable, and when Saunders flies through the lane and goes into attack mode like he did against the Huskies, he really is Harvard’s Superman.
IN DEFENSE OF STATISTICS
33.3 percent from the field, 17-for-51 shooting, and 14 turnovers. Numbers don’t lie.
On Wednesday night, Harvard’s defense shut down Northeastern. For the first four minutes of the game, Northeastern couldn’t even score, and it looked like it might not for the entire night.
With seniors Kenyatta Smith and captain Steve Moundou-Missi patrolling the lane, no shot went uncontested. Smith finished the night with four blocks.
“It’s definitely a big confidence booster when those guys are back there cleaning up shots,” said Saunders. “You can pressure the ball knowing that if you get beat, they have your back.”
While statistics might not show it, junior co-captain Siyani Chambers and sophomore Corbin Miller both played excellent help defense, sliding into the lane to either poke at the ball or force an extra pass. Harvard combined for eight steals, guarding the perimeter with excellent mobility and only allowing for two made three-pointers.
“[Coach Amaker] always preaches defense,” said Saunders. “That is always our calling card…. It was a key tonight to stop the shooters, and we did a good job of that.”
Harvard held Northeastern to just 46 points, its lowest total of the season, and sent it only its second loss.
"I thought we showed a tremendous commitment to defense,” said Amaker. “I thought we came with a resolve defensively especially against a team with [Scott] Eatherton on the inside.”
Though Northeastern’s senior Eatherton did manage to drop a game-high 16 points, only one other Husky would reach double digits on the night.
Though Harvard maintained a double-digit lead throughout the majority of the night, white jerseys were constantly on the floor and scrambling for loose balls. On two separate occasions, Chambers dove to the ground for steals that he didn’t come up with, setting the tone of the game with his constant aggressiveness.
Similarly, while Harvard allowed 15 offensive rebounds, that number can be quite deceptive. Many of Northeastern’s boards came off of errant or altered shots that were deep in the shot clock, as the Huskies all crashed the boards.
In addition, as Northeastern sent five guys to the glass, Harvard’s offensive rebounds resulted in long outlet passes and easy layups on the other end for eight fast break points.
LIGHTING UP LAVIETES
Maybe it was the pregame speech from Coach Amaker, maybe it was the result of a thrilling win just a couple days ago over UMass, or maybe it was the presence of the Harvard football team in the student section. Whatever it was, the Crimson came out Wednesday night against Northeastern a newfound energy.
With students packing Lavietes for the first game since Thanksgiving break, Coach Tommy Amaker’s squad put on a show in the opening ten minutes of the contest. After trailing to UMass (5-2) at the end of the first half just four days ago, Harvard wanted no part of that on Wednesday night.
Flawless execution, quick ball movement and smart shot selection paved the way to a 10-0 lead for the Crimson out the gate. Defensively, regardless of whom Amaker put on the floor, all five Harvard players were engaged and active.
“We talked about starting the game off and getting out to a good start, which we did,” said Amaker. “We have taken that to heart and that has been very important to us."
Harvard’s 16-4 run to open the night was highlighted by an emphatic dunk on a fast break from junior wingman Agunwa Okolie. Okolie brought heightened athleticism to the Crimson offense, as his explosiveness was a perfect complement to the already dynamic backcourt of Chambers and Saunders.
Stout defense and offensive efficiency resulted in 22 points in just 11 minutes for Harvard. Both Chambers and sophomore sharpshooter Corbin Miller found themselves wide-open for threes, as junior Evan Cummins and senior Kenyatta Smith prevented the Huskies’ defense from extending beyond the paint.
Though Harvard eventually went six minutes without a field goal in the half, it looked much more like the team that many had expected to be in Cambridge this winter, a preseason top-25.
After watching Northeastern drain a three and cut the lead to two to start the second half, the burst of energy seemed to return Harvard.
In the second half, Chambers and Saunders both began to push the pace. In transition, the two are make up one the most dynamic backcourts in the country, as Chamber’s seems to always be able to find his leading scorer.
“We got up in transition that half and Siyani was pushing it,” said Saunders. “We were getting ahead before they could set up the defense, so we did a much better job of attacking them.”
Harvard’s defense was the catalyst to many of those fast breaks, as they held Northeastern to just 30.8 percent from the field in the second half. While freshman Andre Chatfield and senior Jonah Travis have traditionally come off the bench and brought the energy for Harvard this year, Chambers and Saunders had no problem providing the spark in the second half.
—Staff writer Andrew Farber can reached at andrewfarber@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I have to admit that I was eagerly anticipating the first episode of “Absent.”
This new, angsty, Harvard-centric sci-fi web series came in the wake of the popular and well-received premiere of “IVY,” the first show to capture the intricacies of the Ivy League experience on film. With all the surrounding hype, “Absent” promised to be just as good as its predecessor—if not better.
Well, it didn’t quite live up to the hype.
At first, I was actively trying to make sense out of what was going on. But then nineteen minutes and fifty-two seconds passed, and no such luck.
The episode begins with a crescendo and a minimalist title scene. Cut to the opening scene, set in a dorm room. Athletic blockmates rattle off expletive-filled lines, brag loudly about their party-going antics, and trade pset answers for scotch. A dark-haired boy (Skip Ros ’17) broods silently in a corner before disappearing. Cut to the next scene. Two friends complain about their problem sets over sandwiches and Doritos. Next scene. A guy in black-rimmed glasses rambles to an unresponsive girl studying in the library.
Scene by scene the episode goes on, with some of these characters seemingly becoming invisible, running away, fighting over the alien-like diamond substance, eating magical life-giving saltine crackers, and looking as confused as the viewer undoubtedly feels. The scenes switch so rapidly and illogically that it is difficult to find any thread of commonality among them. If there is any semblance of plot, it’s obfuscated by layers of pretension and contrived dialogue.
Another major problem? There are too many characters to keep track of, making it impossible to become invested in any of them. Characters yell at one another for no apparent reason, treat one another with inexplicable hostility, or create drama out of nothing. Viewers are given no backstory to explain these behaviors, no context, nothing to engage with but scene after relentless scene of trivial interactions between interchangeable figures.
Some vague element of supernatural design also serves to further complicate matters. The underlying assumption is that certain people become invisible, for reasons that are never explained… not even to themselves. These invisible people can apparently no longer interact with the world. Their survival might depend upon eating saltine crackers.
To add to the confusion, the entire episode is inexplicably shot in black and white. What were the producers aiming for, metaphorical colorblindness? Actual colorblindness? The world may never know.
All in all, this is a webisode created with the underlying assumption that the audience can read minds and consisting entirely of jigsaw pieces that the viewer must piece together one by one to form a bleak picture of triumphant confusion.
The most genuine instance of relatability comes when a bewildered actor bursts into a room, demanding an explanation. “I need to know what’s going on!” he shouts in desperation.
So do we, man. So do we.
