News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
At Harvard and across the country, identifying oneself as a “pre-med” is akin to revealing that one has a terrible and infectious disease. Pre-meds are seen as cutthroat, uncaring, and lacking in curiosity. On top of their bad reputations, pre-meds face a long road of studying and education: four years of college, four years of medical school, and an extra few years of residency and fellowships. Throughout the process, they may spend huge sums of money on tuition and living expenses, all the while plagued by stress and sleep deprivation. Who, then, would ever want to be a pre-med? Apparently, 17 percent of Harvard students. And me.
 
Despite the challenges, I am driven to pursue medicine. For me, being able to truly help people and alleviate suffering makes these obstacles seem unimportant. It is this same motivation to alleviate suffering and improve quality of life that has led me to think seriously about something that may at first seem unrelated: fossil fuel divestment.
 
Efforts to encourage the University to withdraw its endowment from fossil fuels have been contentious and polarizing. Despite the efficacy of other divestment movements, Harvard administrators and trustees have argued that divesting from fossil fuels is both pointless and misleading. With so much attention on the impact divestment could or could not have, few focus on the motivation for divesting in the first place. It can be difficult to care about something like climate change when the problem itself seems so abstract and distant or when one is, say, going to pursue medicine rather than environment science. But, even as a pre-med, I do care. Climate change carries calamitous implications that should concern everyone at Harvard.
 
Through international agreements, leaders around the world have set a goal to keep Earth’s warming to less than two degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels in order to limit devastating results. However, without extensive changes, we may be looking at temperature increases of more than four degrees Celsius by the end of the century. A report by the World Bank—a rather conservative institution—stated that there is “no certainty that adaptation to a 4°C world is possible” and that even temperature rises of less than that will adversely affect hundreds of millions of people.
 
I suppose these figures can be frightening. But to me, climate change is not about numbers. It’s about people. It’s about suffering and human health, problems that have led me to pursue medicine in the first place. The implications of climate change present a major threat to public health—likely the greatest that we will face in our lifetimes. As the world warms, we can expect increased food scarcity, poorer water quality, altered disease transmission, and large-scale displacements from rising sea levels and severe weather events. Each of these will take a deadly toll on people of every nation.
While climate change will harm people all across the world, its effect on health and lives will not be shared equally. The plight of the poor of New Orleans following Hurricane Katrina and the stories of those unable to flee the path of Typhoon Haiyan illustrate a troubling truth: Those with the fewest economic resources are the first to have their health and lives destroyed when disaster strikes. Climate change may hurt populations in poverty more than others even though those poorer populations are among the least responsible for carbon emissions.
 
So what’s a pre-med to do? What’s anyone to do? Certainly, we can all cut back on our energy consumption. We can green our buildings and invest in renewable energy. But at the end of the day, we need large-scale action to avoid the kinds of public health problems that I as a pre-med am dedicated to fighting. To facilitate this type of far-reaching action, we need leadership from our government. However, the fossil fuel lobby holds substantial sway over our politicians, spending huge sums to influence legislation and extract billions in federal subsidies. To break this hold, we must stigmatize fossil fuels companies and make it morally untenable for politicians to align themselves with the fossil fuel industry. This will open the door for the creation of policy to prevent the incredible problems in human health that we otherwise face.
 
I would rather take an organic chemistry exam every single day for the next 10 years than have to tell my children that Harvard—the university that I attended and love—sponsored the fossil fuel industry with its endowment and was thus complicit in the destruction of our world and its people. Harvard, it’s time to divest.

 
Riley J. Brian ’15 is a human developmental and regenerative biology concentrator in Quincy House. He is a member of Harvard Students for a Just and Stable Future.
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
 
I am a third generation Asian-American woman at Harvard, and I despise living under the impression that I belong to the “model minority.” For a label that sounds so positive in tone, living under this stereotype has been anything but ideal.
 
In high school and at Harvard, I have encountered the consequences of living under the model minority myth constantly. My personal and academic achievements are the result of simply “being Asian.” My interests in biology and physics in high school were “typical,” and being stereotyped as “too smart” garnered unwarranted envy and competition from classmates and friends. My achievements weren’t considered the byproduct of hard work; they were simply expected and representative of the Asian-American model minority stereotype.
 
Many believe that the model minority label allows me to ride on the coattails of my ethnicity, giving me a “one-up boost” ahead of others. Yet to me, the model minority myth has done nothing but strip me of my humanity.
 
The term “model minority” was first introduced to the public by sociologist William Peterson in a 1966 New York Times article entitled “Success Story, Japanese American Style.” Peterson purported that the Japanese cultural emphasis on hard work was a mechanism for overcoming discrimination and achieving success post World War II. Perpetuating Peterson’s views, U.S. News and World Report published an article called “Success Story of One Minority Group in U.S.” in 1968, and Newsweek published “Success Story: Outwhiting the Whites” in 1971. In 1987, TIME Magazine’s cover headlined “Those Asian-American Whiz Kids” with a smiling group of young Asian-American students. The Asian-American community has for decades been presented as a homogenous group of people who 1) work hard 2) never complain and 3) live with above average success and satisfaction—a dangerous myth calcified by the media and ingrained in the minds of the public.
 
Looking closely, one can see that the Asian-American model minority myth is simply that: a myth. While Asian Americans earn higher median household incomes than whites, blacks, and Hispanics/Latinos, these statistics obscure the fact that Asian-American families include multiple earners (white vs. Asian American per capita income is close; household income is not), likely the result of the many generations living under one roof and the retirement savings of elders. Southeast Asian Americans drop out of high school at an alarming rate; nearly 40 percent of Hmong Americans, 38 percent of Laotian Americans, and 35 percent of Cambodian Americans fail to finish high school. These Asian-American subgroups, along with Vietnamese Americans, earn below the national average.
 
Believing that Asian Americans are the model minority diverts attention from past and existing discrimination. The stereotype renders racial inequity for Asian Americans invisible and unimportant. For example, the portrayal of the Asian-American woman as the servile “Lotus Blossom” or the domineering, deceitful “Dragon Lady” has been common for years. There’s the 1958 movie “China Doll” and Lucy Liu’s cunning character Ling Woo on the popular TV show “Ally McBeal". Before the cancellation of Margaret Cho’s TV series “All-American Girl” in 1995, her producer hired an Asian consultant after claiming that Cho’s acting simply wasn’t “Asian enough.” Nearly 20 years later, we still see incredibly sparse representation of Asian Americans in the media, as well as in other areas like government, journalism, and high levels of business.
 
Perhaps the most poignant repercussion of the model minority label is the assumption that being “Asian” is an automatic guarantor of success, a mark of coming from a “privileged” racial group that has “achieved more and struggled less” than other minority groups. The model minority myth has thus undermined the formation of positive relationships among minority groups by preventing the recognition of the intersection among racial histories. It is more than simple chance that the appearance of the “model minority” term coincided with the rise of the African-American Civil Rights Movement and Chicano Civil Rights Movement. Why don’t we acknowledge this? The model minority myth is a wedge that impedes solidarity, emphasizing differences in socioeconomic outcomes rather than commonality in the historic struggle for civil rights.
 
By being part of the model minority, I am expected to feel nothing less than gratitude and honor for being labeled through a “positive stereotype.” Yet focus on the upper echelons of the Asian-American population has rendered everyone else invisible. In grouping all Asian Americans as high achievers, avid students, and career climbers, society fails to acknowledge the nuance and disparity. “Asian American” encompasses a diverse range of dialects and ethnicities (and of course, a diverse umbrella of individual, personal, human experiences within those subgroups).
 
I am not a model minority and never will be. No such thing exists.

Bernadette N. Lim ’16 is a joint human evolutionary biology and women, gender and sexuality studies concentrator in Dunster House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
When students leave Harvard for the world beyond its gates, they bid goodbye to Georgian brick, the glittering Charles, nights on Mount Auburn Street, Bartley’s Burgers, and more. Thanks to the Harvard Alumni Association, however, they do not bid farewell to social—and often business—bonds with their peers. And now, with the introduction of HarvardX courses restricted to alumni, they can hold on to intellectual connections as well.
 
EdX, an online learning initiative, offers classroom lectures to a broader Internet community in an effort to increase the spread of knowledge. We have praised edX and HarvardX, the University’s branch of the platform, before. The programs are a step toward ensuring education for those who do not have the time or funds to attend expensive institutions across the country, and so we hope edX continues to grow outside the Harvard community. At the same time, we are pleased to see it grow within. HarvardX for Alumni helps foster social and intellectual connections among graduates, furthering Harvard’s mission of lifelong learning.
 
Harvard students, whether spending their formative years at the college or expanding their horizons at one of the university’s many graduate schools, surely value the chance to draw closer to their peers through discussing common experiences. Those experiences may come in the form of late nights at final clubs or at Central Square bars. But they also might be afternoons spent huddled in Café Pamplona poring over and hashing out Nietzsche readings for a philosophy class. In fact, faculty director of HarvardX Robert A. Lue has noted that former students “really miss the connection to the courses, the new coursework that is going on, the intellectual life of the university.” HarvardX is a way to unite alumni over academic material and mutual understanding once again.
 
The Harvard Alumni Association grants Harvardians the ability to reunite casually or professionally with former peers. From smaller local and larger national reunions to business networks teeming with job prospects for newer graduates, chances abound for alumni to make Harvard part of their lives for as long as they wish. HarvardX extends those opportunities beyond the working world and the social sphere.
 As we pack our bags after high school and move out of home for the first time, our parents often send us off with seemingly sage advice: “You’re only in college once.” HarvardX helps disprove that statement. We can take college—or some of it, at least—with us.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
The email arrived on a typically chill late-November morning. I was sitting on my bed, toothbrush in hand and paste pooling at the corners of my mouth, when it appeared at the top of my inbox: “University of Cambridge—Conditional Offer of Admission.” I threw my toothbrush onto the nightstand and scrolled through the message, still slightly bewildered, though thrilled, by the news. 
 I had nearly forgotten about Cambridge, having submitted my personal statement and academic proposal a month earlier in a flurry of fellowship applications. As my acceptance email quickly reminded me, though, I had applied to the university’s MPhil program in Modern South Asian Studies to research how the perceived political, social, and economic benefits of migrating to the United Kingdom have been communicated to South Asian communities, and based on that information, which factors families and individuals prioritize most in their ultimate decision to emigrate.
 My interest in the topic first arose while at the University of Oxford last spring, where I found myself eager to explore the city and equipped with a surfeit of downtime in which to do so. (In the Oxbridge tutorial system, mandatory class-time totals only one or two hours every week). Upon the advice of a friend, I began tutoring through the university’s English literacy program for local immigrant children. Hamzah, my thirteen-year-old Pakistani tutee, had only a rudimentary command of English and, thus, an intense aversion to reading and writing. Over our six months together, I helped him with his spelling, grammar, and verbal communication—though his incipient British accent made him sound already five times smarter than I. 
 Working with Hamzah opened my eyes to the hardship that young immigrants face in navigating the social landscape of a new country. At times, it was difficult to hear him talk of teasing from bullies at school and glares from strangers at the market, but from his stories of adversity I developed a newfound sense of need to investigate the issue further. Over the summer, I left Oxford for London, carrying my burgeoning interest in British immigration policy with me to its institutional progenitor: the House of Commons. While interning for a member of Parliament, I researched domestic responses to recent influxes of Punjabi and Roma immigrants to Britain that summer, uncovering an all-too-common thread in the story of immigration: the more people arrive, the stronger domestic resistance grows. The ideological polarization of the issue, I likewise discovered, mars productive political debate, and backlash from both nativist constituents and immigration advocates often produces insurmountable roadblocks to effective reform. 
 Returning to Harvard in the fall, I decided to shelve my previous senior thesis topic—pleasure-slumming in late-Victorian London—and explore instead the historical antecedents of South Asian immigration to Britain. My research in literary representations of Indian visitors to England has transported me to a world not dissimilar in its treatment of migration from modern-day debates. In the work of some British authors, Indian migrants figure alternately as either deleterious impediments to the cohesion of a singular British national identity or as comical mimics of British manners, subject to bemused contempt in their efforts to assimilate. In memoirs written by Indians residing in England during the same period, parallel anxieties of identity and cultural hybridity emerge. 
 While my observations—taken from select case studies of late-nineteenth-century literature—do not hold universally true for all Britons and Indians living in England at that time (it would be egregious to make such a reductionist claim), they nonetheless signal the historical continuity of immigration as a focal point in our conceptions of “self” and “other.” 
 In an op-ed for The Crimson earlier this semester, I noted that the emotional weight of a national issue can only be felt most fully when it personally impacts you. I now intend to discover if the same holds true for immigration. Over the course of the semester, I will interview students from across our university’s wide-reaching immigrant community, loosely defined for the purposes of this column. From American-born children of immigrant parents, to young arrivals, to undocumented students, to soon-to-be international graduates looking to permanently immigrate to the States, I hope to uncover new personal perspectives on what it means to be an immigrant at Harvard.
 
 
Matthew M. Beck ’14 is a history and literature concentrator in Quincy House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays.  
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
MS: In today’s ambiguous world of dating, Facebook owes us some certainty.
When you read enough Jane Austen novels and watch enough romantic comedies, you know how two people meet and fall in love: First, you lock eyes across a crowded room. Next, one of you walks jauntily over to the other, and you engage in witty banter until the chapter or scene fades out.
And then you go home and look up each other’s relationship statuses on Facebook.
Okay, maybe that last one doesn’t happen in Jane Austen novels. But that’s because if two people were together, they’d dance three waltzes instead of the customary two, or the man would give the woman his handkerchief, or something.
The point is: there were codes. When Mr. Bingley was single, it was “universally acknowledged.”
We need codes! Dating has become confusing enough since Jane Austen’s time. For instance, what does it mean when someone says “can I have your notes from lecture?” Maybe that’s a proposal. You really never know.
And technology hasn’t helped the matter. In the movie “He’s Just Not That Into You,” after checking her texts, e-mail, and voicemail for a message from one guy, Drew Barrymore complains that “you have to go around checking all these different portals just to get rejected by seven different technologies.” And that was 2009. Before Snapchat even existed.
So the way I look at it, Mark Zuckerberg owes the dating world a favor. If I have to spend my life waiting for various electronic messages from a man, I should, in the mean time, at least be able to stalk his online presence extensively and confirm that he’s single. If I can’t figure that out with a single click to his “about” page, and I have to scroll through a bunch of photos and ambiguous wall posts to figure it out, it’s really just a waste of my time.
Please don’t judge me.
Besides, in today’s world, nothing really happens unless it happens online. I mean, would you even consider eating a meal without Instagramming it with an attractive border? You might as well starve. So, to ask a Carrie Bradshaw-esque question, if you’re in a relationship and no one’s around to see your status update, have you really gotten together? At least give a girl your handkerchief.
DC: Throw it back to 2007. If you were one of the lucky few to have found your significant other over meaningful instant message conversations (“hey,” “what’s up,” “nmjc,” “same”) and passionate dances with only a few arms’ lengths between you, you had access to one of the most jealousy-provoking internet tools known to man: the Facebook relationship status. As soon as Jimmy sent a request to Sarah to be “In a Relationship,” all the other 8th grade girls were wiping away their tears of jealousy and“liking” the status so as to seem unaffected by the situation (even though it signified the declaration of a love similar to that of Troy and Gabriella). Back then, the relationship status tool represented a solidification of your relationship, whatever type of relationship that might have been. Whether it was a real love or a declaration of being “single and ready to mingle,” the relationship status was your way of letting the world know where you stood in matters of the heart.
Today, the status is used less sincerely, but it still maintains a crucial role in social media self-portrayal. The ironic use of relationship statuses only adds to the fun. Sure, there are some documented cases of true marriages (shout-out to the adults on “The Facebook”), but most reported “marriages” signify a strong friendship. Is there anything wittier than being in a “marriage” with your best friend? Yeah, probably. But we only have so many ways of pointing out with how popular we are (Twitter, Instagram, and Snapchat just aren’t enough).
Proclaiming “it’s complicated” with your best girl friend serves two purposes: you’re making it clear who’s at the top of your iMessage list, but also suggesting that the irony of a fake relationship status wasn’t bold enough for you two. Obviously, you had to pick the most attention-grabbing option.
And then there are the red flags that Facebook relationship statuses help point out. If you’re interested in that guy who’s publicly “in an open relationship,” run away. Not only is this an indicator of his questionable character, but it’s also strange that he’s comfortable putting this on his Facebook page. Or take the couple who started dating three minutes prior to posting the change in their relationship status. Hopefully that relationship lasts longer than the time it took them to log into Facebook Mobile and share the news with their “friends.”
Maybe Facebook relationship statuses aren’t important to our society because of their legitimacy, but people should certainly value them for showing how someone is trying to portray themselves on social media. So, keep the fake marriages coming! How else are we supposed to know who your BFF is?
Sections
All of us will be checking our e-mails tomorrow morning with hopes of finding a Valentine’s Day message from Dean Pfister. FM imagines how the dean might celebrate this day with one of his signature messages to the student body.
Dear Harvard College Students,
The first weeks of the new semester have raced by, and with the coming of February heart-shaped items in all the warm colors of the palette are appearing in shop windows. I want to use the opportunity that Valentine’s Day offers to stress the importance of interpersonal relationships. I hope you take the time to acknowledge the surfeit of inspiring people in this community and reflect on the nature of love. Or, more importantly, the love for nature.
I invite you to pay a visit to the Glass Flowers Collection at the Harvard Museum of Natural History to see more than 3,000 models of upwards of 830 plant species—a memento of paternal love created by Leopold Blaschka and his son, Rudolph. As you view the magnificent Echinocereus engelmannii, notice how the blossoming flower erupts from the intricate glass spines—this is a desert cactus. It is a riveting sight.
I and many of your peers are on the lookout for romantic corners on campus these days. I am drawn to the splendor of the river. Take a walk by the Charles with your sweetheart and show them the moss that grows under Weeks Bridge. If you don’t have a sweetheart yet, let the moss foreshadow the coming of spring and the “budding” of new relationships.
As for me, I will be spending Valentine’s Day revisiting Erasmus Darwin’s (Charles Darwin’s grandfather) “The Botanic Garden.” The second part of this wonderful masterpiece is titled “The Loves of The Plants.” It fills one’s heart with love:
BOTANIC MUSE! who in this latter age
Led by your airy hand the Swedish sage,
Bad his keen eye your secret haunts explore
On dewy dell, high wood, and winding shore;
Say on each leaf how tiny Graces dwell;
How laugh the Pleasures in a blossom’s bell;
How insect Loves arise on cobweb wings,
Aim their light shafts, and point their little stings.
If any of you are interested in holding a reading of the poem, send me a message and we can arrange a poetry night next week. Lastly, remember that the flora and fauna of the campus, as well as the Harvard community, love you just the way you are. Tell a tree or a fungus that you love them: They love you back.
Sincerely,
Your loving Dean
Sections
B.J. Novak ’01, an actor and funnyman best known for playing Ryan in “The Office,” stopped by the Brattle Theatre earlier this week to discuss his new book, “One More Thing: Stories and Other Stories.” Before going on stage, Novak sat down with FM to talk about Harvard, 20th-century poetry, and the romantic ideal of Elvis.
FM: In 1998, when you were a freshman at Harvard, a column in The Crimson called you “an aspiring filmmaker,” but it said even then that you knew you didn’t want to concentrate in Visual and Environmental Studies. What did you think you wanted to do when you got to Harvard?
B.J. Novak:  I wanted to do what I did which was study literature, get as much academic knowledge as I could out of Harvard and then use it for whatever I wanted. You know when you go to a restaurant and you’re like, “What’s best here?” I figured I went to Harvard and I was like, “What’s best here?”
FM: Did anything change for you while you were [at Harvard]?
BJN: Everything changed. It was all about the people I met.
FM: I wanted to ask you about the “B.J. Show,” which you did with B.J. Averell [’02-’03] when you were here. Is there one greatest moment from that?
BJN: There were many. It was really one of the most memorable experiences of my life. One moment that stands out to me is when Dan Mintz [Daniel A. Mintz ’02] now the voice of Tina on “Bob’s Burgers” came out as a volunteer translator who was willing to translate a man that we said was China’s greatest comedian who was doing a cultural seminar at Harvard. And people believed us, and then Dan translated the Chinese comedian and he turned out to be the filthiest, most ribald comedian you could be and everyone had thought he would be an international class act. So Dan Mintz translating this fake Chinese comedian in Sanders Theatre was my favorite memory of that.
FM: How do you think your time writing for the Lampoon [a semi-secret Sorrento Square Social Organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine] influenced your writing style or humor?
BJN: I think one benefit was being around people who took comedy so seriously always challenged me to never take the easy comedic path. But there’s a lot to learn that I didn’t learn in the Lampoon.
FM: At this point, you’ve written your senior thesis on “Hamlet,” you’ve written for The Lampoon, now you’ve written for TV, you’ve written Tweets, you’ve written a book; how are all those kinds of writing different form each other and in what ways are they similar?
BJN: Your best writing is when you’re writing in your own voice that would in theory be consistent across all those platforms. So I think my worst writing might have been, of the things you mentioned, my “Hamlet” thesis because it wasn’t in my voice necessarily, it was in a voice that I thought was smart and Hoopes prize-worthy but not necessarily the same voice that is in the rest of my writing.
FM: What are you reading and watching in between your signings and readings
BJN: [Today] I bought “The Penguin Anthology of 20th Century Poetry” because I always think that I’m about to get into poetry. I never do, but I always think, “God, I like abstract language and I have a very short attention span. Poetry’s going to be the thing for me.” I almost never connect to poetry, but I keep trying. And I also bought a young adult book by Daniel Handler about a breakup.
FM: In the trailer for your new book, Mindy Kaling tells you that people think you’re “pretentious anyway.” Do you think that’s true? Or do you think Mindy thinks that’s true?
BJN: A little bit. I think some people see Harvard, and they think that I assume I’m entitled to everything, which is the last thing I ever feel. I always feel I need to earn everything every time. But I think that coming from Harvard, it’s not the most endearing credit for a comedian to be introduced with. And often I’m very quiet and people mistake that for negative qualities when in fact it’s usually just contemplativeness or insecurity. But the more I tell that to people, the more I find almost everyone has that problem.
FM: Is being famous for being an author and doing all these book tours different from being famous from being an actor? Now that you’re both, can you ever be just one?
BJN: We’ll see. I heard someone talking about Adam Sandler recently and they called him “Adam Sandler from ‘SNL’” and I thought, “my God, he hasn’t been on ‘SNL’ for 25 years or something, and he’s done so many movies.”[But] you remember the first time you met someone. So if people met me for the first time on “The Office,” then in a way I’ll always be the guy from “The Office” no matter what I do. I think that’s endearing, I think it’s lucky. It’s lucky that it’s something I like, something I’m proud of.
FM: In a story in your book called “No One Goes to Heaven to See Dan Fogelberg,” people go to heaven and get to see free concerts by great artists who have died. Who would you want to see in heaven?
BJN: I’d love to see Elvis. I’d love to be as close as I could be to Elvis. And the strangest thing is I’m not even an Elvis fan. He just fascinates me. To me that’s a romantic ideal. There’s a story about it in the book, too. That to me is like if Coca Cola had a heartbeat. How can you be so mythical and human at the same time? I wouldn’t know how to handle being Elvis. And I would love to just stare at him and think, “Is this Elvis?” When I knew Brad Pitt, I had a little bit of that. I was like, “This man is literally a human version of Brad Pitt.” Brad Pitt just seemed like an American institution to me, an icon. On a musical level I’d want to see Kurt Cobain because that was just the person I saw at that age when you form your favorites.
10FM: Did you play any role in designing what was on [Mr. Bartley’s “B.J. Novak Long Story Short” burger]?
BJN: No. But I like it because it seems like a populist’s burger. It seems like a burger that people would actually want. And that’s what I want to do in my career, is be a guy who gives you your favorite thing. I want it to be more about the audience than me. So when I saw that burger I was like, “Oh, that’s not what I would have designed, but it is what I think people would order.” And the populist in me was really happy.
Sections
As if the threat of an impending D.T.R. after every encounter wasn’t terrifying enough, Valentine’s Day has reared its cloyingly colored head once again. V-Day is one of those tricky subjects that’s easy to brush aside and even rant about when it’s several pages away on your calendar. But when it’s finally here? Well, suffice it to say, if you’re reading this article, you probably fall into one of the following categories:
1. You recently generated expectations (unintentionally) and don’t want to risk things. After all, it’s good to have a door to knock on every few nights.
2. You have intentions that you want to be revealed in an extremely unsurprising way. It’s Valentine’s Day; they’re expecting it.
3. You have a legitimate Valentine (lucky you).
4. This is the first Valentine’s Day that you’ve been a bona fide thing. You guys are so cute.
5. Last year your beau showed symptoms of “disaffected unattachment.” Surely a hastily bought gift will solve this!
In any case, you are very late. But let’s be honest, Valentine’s Day isn’t an occasion for personalized, thoughtful gifts, so there’s no reason to freak out. In fact, Harvard Square offers a variety of last minute gifts ranging from the over-simple to the over-keen.
01
Sweet Cupcakes has nine special flavors of cupcakes sold Feb. 13-16. “XO”s and “I Heart You”s available. A little trite if your SO’s not new to the world of wooing.
02
L.A. Burdick’s has clear, velvet, and signature Valentine’s Day bonbon assortments in heart-shaped boxes. A white chocolate mouse surrounded by other confections will stare at your loved one. If it was good enough for Mark Zuckberg, then it sure is good enough for you.
03
Grolier Poetry Bookshop offers several selections of love poems. Frankly, you’re setting yourself up for failure (unless you want to play the “ignorant-but-trying-and-it-is-cute” card) if you buy a book of poetry that you don’t already know. But if you must: Grolier suggests the love poems of Rumi. Though, in my opinion, you’re much better off getting the Essential Rumi and actually making an effort to pick one or two poems. A final tip: Do. Not. Buy. Neruda.
04
The Coop, definitely the most predictable shop on this list, will help out the lover who’s still searching for the right words. The Godiva chocolate teddy bear on sale there features a ridiculous tailored collar that says “Je t’aime” for you. You can take it from there.
05
The Tealuxe team recommends the following flavors to romantic tea-lovers: Victorian Rose, Dragon Pearl Jasmine, and Londonderry. Buying tea might not sound like the best idea, but if you’ve taken a step too far and want to shift gears a little bit with a cute and unassuming present, it’s perfect. Let the warmth ease your nerves. It’s almost as good as wine, and doesn’t raise any concerns about intending cognitive impairment.
06
Cambridge Artists Cooperative is a place to look for something a little bit more substantial. The items are pricey, but this is your best chance at convincing your partner you didn’t wait until the last minute. They have artisan red pottery, wall-clocks made out of book covers, wooden cheese slicers, and light switch plates with different designs. A little different, sure, but after all, idiosyncrasy is the root of love.
07
We saved this last one, Cardullo’s, for the most patient (and desperate) readers. Guys, you won. Now run to Cardullo’s and get a hold of Peter Demarest, the sommelier of the gourmet shoppe. He knows what you need. If he’s not there, here are his top suggestions:
1. Rovero Brachetto, a red Italian wine with a sparkling raspberry taste and a hint of chocolate. Pour it in a champagne flute to best savor the bubbles.
2. Lindemans Framboise, a sweet raspberry beer, mixed with Guinness beer, known for its chocolate kick. Demarest encourages couples to experiment with the ratios: “He wants more chocolate; she wants more raspberry.”
3. Night Shift Taza Stout beer, aged on our dear Taza Chocolate from Somerville.
Demarest also shared his special Valentine’s Day recipe: Get an angel hair cake. Add a layer of strawberries, raspberries, and chocolate, and drizzle some acidic red wine from California over all of it. Top with cream.
The best you can do at this point is hope your darling doesn’t read FM.
Sections
Ah, Valentine’s Day. For some, it’s an excuse to drop the humdrum responsibilities of the semester and relish an evening on the town with the one you love. For others, it’s simply the right time to drink alone. Here are FM’s suggestions for a liquor-soaked holiday, no matter your relationship status.
Shot to the Heart
 1.5 oz. amaretto
Whipped cream
1 tsp. grenadine
Pour the amaretto into a shot glass and garnish with whipped cream. Drizzle with grenadine. This concoction is as disgustingly sweet as the sight of you and your beloved holding hands over the table at Sandrine’s.
Green with Envy
1.5 oz. Midori Melon Liqueur 
1 oz. lemon juice
2 oz. ginger ale
Add Midori, lemon juice, and ginger ale to a martini glass. Garnish with a twist of lime and your own self-loathing. As if this day weren’t bad enough, you spot your would-be paramour locked in a passionate embrace with a certain special someone in Harvard Yard. Day-time PDA is so trashy, y’all. Abscond to the darkness of your walk-through double to sip this emerald panacea. Don’t worry, your evening of shame will be our little secret.
Boozy and Broken-Hearted
 1.5 oz. rye whiskey
3 oz. club soda 
Pour whiskey and club soda into a highball glass. Or the (mostly) empty Solo cup on your desk. That works, too. So, you just got dumped. Feel your loneliness slip away on the most romantic day of the year, as whiskey wraps its warm arms around your aching consciousness.
Lonely One
1 shot vodka, neat
Rinse, repeat.
Sections
UPDATED: Feb. 20, 2014, at 7:05 p.m.
At this time of year, many Harvard students are frantically trying to plan out their summers. Applications are submitted, letters of reference are solicited, and funding is requested, all to ensure that time away is optimized. Many students will opt to spend time abroad. According to the Office of International Education, over 400 students participate in Harvard Summer School Abroad programs each year, and close to 1,000 are funded by the Office of Career Services for a significant international experience during the summer.
The number of students who take advantage of term-time study abroad opportunities, however, is significantly lower. The OIE estimates that only between 50 and 90 students choose to travel abroad per semester. This year, there were 64 during the fall term and 68 during the spring term. This obvious difference between summer and semester study abroad enrollment brings up an important question: Why do so few students choose to study abroad during term time?
 OPPORTUNITY COSTS
Many choose not to study abroad due to commitments outside the classroom. “Your classes and your professors aren’t going anywhere, but that leadership position you want [in an extracurricular] might,” says Rebecca J. Mazur ’15-’16, an inactive Crimson Arts editor, who studied abroad in Paris last fall and quit the majority of her extracurriculars before leaving so that she could start fresh upon return.
Ally M. Kiley ’15, current president of the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club, has experienced this first-hand; she came into Harvard intending to study abroad, but realized as she got more and more involved in theater and moved up the HRDC ladder that it would no longer be plausible. “I thought that I would probably want to run for president, because I really liked the organization, and I thought it would be a good fit for me, so I guess I kind of resigned myself to definitely not doing study abroad.”
For some, a semester abroad might also interfere with future planning. Juniors looking into graduate or professional school after college sometimes run into issues with standardized testing while abroad. Samantha A. Berstler ’14, who spent the entirety of her junior year studying at Oxford, needed to take two standardized tests to apply to English Ph.D. programs. “I had to end up taking one in October and one in November, right before the applications were due,” she says.
For many, studying abroad takes away opportunities to foster relationships with professors. Tuong Vi L. Nguyen ’15 was considering spending a semester in Japan, but ultimately decided against it. “I wanted to stay and build relationships with my faculty members,” she says. “I knew that I wanted to go to grad school, and I knew that professor recommendations were the most important things.”
In addition, the increase in Harvard’s summer abroad program participation has led to a decrease in term-time study abroad enrollment. According to Nicole Garcia, Assistant Director of the OIE, the office began extensive funding for summer opportunities in 2009. “Most other schools don’t have that,” says Robin Mount, director of the OCS. “So [students at other schools] don’t have the choice—especially if they’re on financial aid, they need to go abroad during term-time when their financial aid travels with them.”
MAKING THE CHOICE
For students who do consider going abroad during the term, choosing to do so can be a long process. There are a lot of factors to take into account, and the OIE says that some begin planning as early as freshman year. “We would love to see students come visit us and discuss if it’s the right thing for them,” says Garcia.
Sometimes, a program at an international university can better provide for a particular academic interest than those available at Harvard. Berstler, an English concentrator, is particularly interested in the early medieval period. “Oxford has a huge medievalist community, it’s really impressive, and I could also take really specialized courses,” she says.
Mazur and Berstler both agree that there are some measures Harvard can consider taking to increase participation in its term-time abroad offerings. For one, the University might offer some of its own programs during the semester. According to Garcia, none of the pre-approved programs listed on the OIE website are run by Harvard professors (there are a few programs run by the University that are not led by faculty members); most are offered through peer institutions, like Columbia or Brown, or the international university itself.
Berstler also suggests that the visibility of these opportunities be improved. “I sort of accidentally found out about this program through a friend who had found it on his own,” she says.
“My goal would be that students are informed about what their options are, and aren’t operating under any misconceptions,” says Garcia. Students who are thinking about studying abroad are encouraged to stop by the OIE for further information.
Though studying abroad may not be the right choice for all students for a number of reasons, based on the accounts of those who have ventured abroad during term-time, it can be a truly transformative experience. “They come back with renewed passions and direction,” says Garcia.
“Being immersed in a foreign university’s student culture for a period of time was incredibly helpful for gaining insight and perspective into the way we live here,” says Mazur.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Feb. 20, 2014
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Harvard does not offer any of its own term-time study abroad programs. In fact, there are few University programs during each term, but they are not led by Harvard faculty members.
Sections
Within the first two weeks of having met him, I learned two things:
1. He was married, and had a child.
2. He had terminal brain cancer.
For a rational person, either one of these things by itself would act as a giant red flag, screaming, “No good can come of this! Leave while you still can!” But the combination?
Pursuing a relationship with that much baggage from the outset would be purely idiotic. Admittedly, our relationship may have started out as a form of rebellion, or as a rash attempt at spontaneity. Or maybe it stemmed from the paradoxical desire to make a mistake and to create memories I’d look back upon fondly, chalking them up to the fallibility of youth. But that’s not how it
ended up.
The wife (who became his ex-wife three and a half months into our relationship) bore less and less influence over time. Once the divorce was finalized, her presence in our lives became almost negligible. But his daughter and his cancer both persisted. It seems unfair to group those two very different things together—after all, one’s a chubby, smiling 18-month old and the other is a veritable death sentence. But for me they carried similar weights. Together they determined a future that was not mine to live, and yet it had become my reality.
It should have been easy to abandon this relationship. Everyone around me pointed out the obvious: I was weeks away from attending one of the world’s most prestigious universities, while he had spent half a semester in school before dropping out so he could support his family. I had an entire lifetime ahead of me, a future free of commitment or burdens; he had less than a decade and a future bounded by past mistakes.
But for the first time in my life, I simply decided not to care about what other people thought. For the first time, I stopped thinking about life in calculations, carefully planning my “path to success.” Because, for the first time, the line between success and failure blurred. Life itself became a privilege. Nothing seemed objective anymore, as the social constructs I was once bound by were shattered in my pursuit of a man who had broken every rule I’d ever learned.
I remember one summer afternoon we went up to Canajoharie Creek, a little park an hour west of us. My mom had already forbidden me from seeing him at this point, but who’s ever listened to the word “forbidden”? It was humid as hell that day, and we changed into our swimsuits just beyond the “Private Property” sign. We’d been walking along the creek’s edge for no more than ten minutes when, as the weather station we never checked had predicted, the skies opened up.
If you’re picturing that scene from “The Notebook,” that was exactly what it was.
As we stood frozen in a beautiful moment, we realized that we’d left our bags—with our phones, dry clothes, and wallets—at the edge of the creek, unprotected from the pouring rain. We ran back, with him laughing and me terrified that my brand new iPhone had been destroyed. But we got there, the phone was fine, and he (still laughing) carried my bag as we ran back to the car. The rain was decidedly less romantic once we left the creek; we were freezing in our bathing suits, and our feet sunk quickly in the mud.
The end of the summer came quickly, as it always does. He wanted us stay together, and to be honest, despite what everyone was telling me, I did too. I had no idea what a future together might look like, but, for the first time, the future didn’t seem to matter. Yes, he had a complicated family history. Yes, he had cancer. But how could I possibly look back on that day at the creek and remember anything but happiness?
I came to accept the idea that I am no more guaranteed tomorrow than he is, that a future can be imagined and dreamed about, but never planned. By the end of that summer, I felt happy for the first time. I was no longer filling my days with preparations for the next ten years of my life, but instead with crazy adventures alongside a person who might not have that long to plan ahead for. The fact of the matter is that he, this person who almost everyone in my life so readily condemned, had shown me the difference between being alive and living—the freedom that comes from pursuing your own dreams rather than those manufactured for you.
On the surface, sure, he’s not the perfect guy. The fact that we’re still together nine months later seems improbable. The idea that we might spend another nine months together seems insane. But even if today’s the last day we spend together, knowing that we’ll spend it urgently, following wherever our whims lead us, makes the reality that we’ve all come to dread no less than a beautiful thing.
Sections
Harvard Square is a place where even the threatened passing of a Dunkin’ Donuts can prompt student outrage; passion for favorite food haunts runs deep. While both students and restaurants in the Square turn over as fast as patties at Tasty Burger, some local favorites persist.
Enter the Grafton Group, one of Harvard Square’s largest locally-owned families of restaurants, which has been around since 1996. In the nearly twenty years since the group’s founding, it has been a witness to a Square in flux. And the Grafton Group’s polished menus and tasteful decor themselves are part of a longer Square trend away from greasy-spoon diners and toward the upscale.
“The initial vision…was to have that pub atmosphere combined with a full service restaurant,” says Patrick Lee, the group’s owner, who co-founded Grafton Street Pub and Grill in 1996 with partners Peter Lee, Sean Kennedy, and Gerry Sheerin. In true Harvard Square fashion, he has a Boston accent.
“Back then there weren’t a lot of places that had that comfort factor that a neighborhood pub would give you and combine that with really great food,” Patrick Lee says.
The Group’s initial creation is Grafton Street Pub and Grill, a grown-up spot on Bow Street whose slick leather seats and sidewalk dining are a siren call to the over-21 crowd. Its drink menu and short walk from Adams House may be equally appealing.
Since the founding of Grafton Street, the Group has opened three other locations: Temple Bar in 1998, Russell House Tavern in 2010, and PARK Restaurant and Bar in 2012, which replaced Redline Food + Drink after a nine-year stint. The three newer locations make the Grafton Group a Square force to reckon with, comparable to the Crema-Flat Patties-Felipe’s trifecta (owned by daughter, father, and father-with-business-partner, respectively). According to Lee, his restaurants’ various locations cater to different markets, or micro “neighborhoods” within the Square: the Business and Kennedy School students on JFK street, the lawyers on Mass. Ave., and the tourists by the T.
The history of these micro-neighborhoods—and their respective local eateries—has much to do with the history of public transportation, according to Mo Lotman, author of “Harvard Square: An Illustrated History Since 1950.” Lotman traces the evolution of Harvard Square from a place of quotidian charm to one of relatively upscale establishments like those of the Grafton Group. The Square’s upward trajectory, he claims, is largely due to the T. While Harvard Square used to be the northernmost stop on the Red Line, the establishment of the Alewife Station extension in 1984 changed Harvard Square from a meeting ground for punks and daily commuters to the glossy scene it is today.
“There was a lot of attention given to spiffing it up, because Harvard Square was kind of a grungy place,” Lotman says about the Square pre-T. He mentions the closing of iconic joints The Wursthaus and The Tasty in the late ninteen-nineties as symbolizing the end of an era of cheap eats.
“Overall the Square has just gotten fancier over time,” says Lotman. “There’s a lot less of the neighborhood utility kind of places that there used to be.”
This shift is evident even now: The recent demise of Leo’s Place Diner after decades is one more indicator. “The thing that we can count on [in Harvard Square] is change, and we accept it, and we embrace it,” says Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association.
One perceived change that Jillson, Lotman, and Lee all disclaim is the commonly cited perception that Harvard Square’s businesses have shifted from local ownership to national chains. The reality, claims Jillson, is that the overall makeup of the Square has remained “fairly steady” since the Association began paying attention to the matter in 2002. About 75 percent of stores are locally owned and independent, according to Jillson.
Lotman himself argues that the contemporary Square is “the most upscale it’s ever been,” but that this is not due to an influx of chain stores—the number of which he believes has actually declined since the late nineties.
“I think in general, the Square has retained its identity as very fiercely local,” Lee concurs.
Lotman, for one, is nostalgic over the loss of the gritty, come-as-you-are vibe of the Harvard Square of old, even while enthusiastic about today’s offerings. He characterizes his wistfulness as one more side effect of attachment to such an iconic, yet constantly fluctuating, landscape: “That sentimental loyalty exists in Harvard Square about just about anything.”
But there’s no use crying over spilled artisanal beer. To toast the Square’s favorite haunts, both old and new, try the bartender’s whim at PARK; tell them Patrick Lee sent you.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: March 2, 2014
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated which of the Grafton Group restaurants includes the bartender's whim cocktail on its menu. In fact, the drink is served at PARK Restaurant and Bar.
Sections
I’ve never been good at endings. I’m not referring to the last words of this endpaper—fingers crossed—but rather to my track record with letting go.
When I was nine years old, I suddenly developed a phobia of losing things. I never received a diagnostic label, but I think my behavior went beyond the run-of-the-mill childhood quirks. Some kids wear Superman capes to school long past Halloween. Every kindergarten class has an aspiring nudist or two.
I gave those kids a run for their money.
Around my family’s apartment, there are film canisters filled with chenille fuzz, candy-red heart-shaped tags, and other odd artifacts. I was so distraught at the prospect of losing things that my mother—who is my saving grace to this day—would preserve these sundries in makeshift capsules to console me. The chenille fluff is from a teddy bear that shed after too many hugs. Those red tags fell off the ears of Beanie Babies.
My phobia extended beyond my toy menagerie. One time after my mother and I made a snowman in Central Park, I couldn’t leave my frozen creation behind to melt. To appease me, my mother filled a Tupperware container with the snowman’s flakes, so we could store part of him in our freezer forever.
I’m not proud of my behavior, but to give nine-year-old Hayley some credit, 2001 was a rough year for me. Or rather, it was a rough year for everyone in my hometown: New York, NY.
I didn’t know much about 9/11. A distant relative, Thelma Cuccinello, was a passenger on American Airlines Flight 11, but I never met her. My parents didn’t feel a need to make me fully comprehend the situation. I’m not sure it would have been possible; it’s still fairly incomprehensible in 2014.
But I think the tenor of that year in addition to the pressure of leaving my old school was a bit too much. It was an ending I wasn’t ready for, and I felt like I was being pushed out.
I was afraid of losing not just things but everything.
In Poe’s words, I saw sleep as “those little slices of death,” and I would tell my mother as I lay in bed, “I’m afraid to die, Mom. I’m too young to die.” She would say that of course I was too young to die and that I wouldn’t die, at least not for a very long time.
I’m not entirely sure how this stage of my life ended or when my mother finally felt comfortable emptying the Tupperware snowman coffin. But at some point, my fear of losing objects became a thing of the past.  It helped that I adjusted well to my new school. 9/11 receded into the background, though I will never really forget reading in the Twin Tower’s Borders or eating hot, fresh donuts in Krispy Kreme. I’m still not terribly keen on the idea of death, but I welcome sleep much more heartily as an undergrad than I did as a child.
But to be honest, I’m not much more fond of endings at the age of twenty-one than when I was nine. I save nearly every text message I receive from a lover. On return flights from vacations, I stare out the window until clouds obscure the tarmac. As for my impending graduation, I am not particularly eager to receive my diploma.
But my fear of endings has now evolved into the anxiety that I am not making the most of my time before it elapses. Perhaps it’s not a coincidence that my nightly worries about how I would die have been replaced by daytime anxieties about how to live. I think this is a fairly common concern at Harvard, that you are not being the most “Harvard” you can be on a daily basis, as if the name stands for every quality you think you should possess.
If I tried to preserve my college experience in a time capsule—I imagine this would require many photos, videos, and dioramas—I wouldn’t be able to enjoy what little time I have here. Saving things comes at the cost of time, which is the most perishable thing of all.
Since I cannot prepare for a perfect ending, I will prepare for the ending that will be.
So here’s my personal credo: I can’t do everything I wanted to do at Harvard, but I will do what I can with childish enthusiasm. And when I’m in the present, I will spend as little time as possible mourning the past that hasn’t even arrived yet.
So now I am on the MAC Quad. It is about 2:30 a.m., and I am making a snowman. This time it is not with my mother but with my friend Carina who had proposed the idea barely an hour before.
I had just returned from a holiday party when I heeded her call to frolic in the snow. I changed out of my little black dress but left my red lipstick and mascara untouched. Now the snowflakes have had their way with my cosmetics, and it looks like a nine-year-old did my makeup.
We are not the only ones out in the snow in the dead of night. A few yards away, a couple makes a snowman shaped like a bear. Relishing the mystery, we pretended they were our enemies and made a snow-woman; a snow creature made without the help of any man. When the middle ball of the snowman was too heavy for us to lift on our own, we asked a passerby—female, of course—to assist us. She obliged, and we succeeded. By the time we finished our snow woman, christened “Betty Boop-Friedan,” we only had strength in us to take a few photos and scurry home.
I don’t have Betty in my freezer, I promise. Betty was knocked down the next day, but I suppose that’s the nature of all good things.
Hayley C. Cuccinello is a senior in Mather House, an English concentrator, and a former Crimson Arts executive. She may knock you down, but that just means she thinks you’re a good thing.
Sections
UPDATED: Feb. 15, 2014, at 4:43 p.m.
At 2:30 p.m. every Sunday, approximately 30 Harvard undergraduates shuffle into an unassuming red brick building on the corner of Longfellow Park and Brattle St., arriving from across campus in groups of three or four. On this chilly February afternoon, the students remove their coats to reveal conservative church attire—dresses and skirts for women, slacks and button-downs for men. They gather in the foyer, chat with church members, and slowly stream into the chapel, filling in pews row by row until the entire room is packed with young adults. This is the Cambridge congregation for unmarried Latter-day Saints, known better to non-members as Mormons.
The congregation on Longfellow Park primarily consists of students—mostly undergraduates—from Harvard, MIT, and other Boston-area universities. The building houses three worship meetings on Sundays, the first of which is called the Sacrament Meeting, that together last until approximately 5:30 pm. The chapel walls are white and unadorned, disrupted only by large glass windows that allow soft, yellow sunlight to fill the room. The unobtrusive appearance of the chapel aptly reflects the Sacrament Meeting’s tone—quiet, dignified, and above all, humble.
Mormons at the College consider this building a sort of haven, a space that fosters a student-based community and provides a restful atmosphere that departs from the bustle of their everyday lives at the college. The students come from all over the country—Maryland, California, Utah—but have continued to practice their faith while attending Harvard.
“This is a very unique place to be a Mormon,” says Philip M. Ngo ’14. “If you are here, you decided not to go to [Brigham Young University], so already you have a fairly interesting cross section of Mormons.” Ngo, who grew up in Utah and has many friends who attended BYU says that living in this environment, among a diverse population of ambitious students, has tested but ultimately strengthened his faith.
Other Mormon students agree, noting that Harvard’s predominantly secular environment is sometimes at odds with their devout lifestyle. While their religious activities may constitute a significant portion of any given week, larger commitments, from missions to marriage, also have immense effects on their Harvard experiences. Yet students also noted that the challenges at Harvard provide an opportunity to develop a more intimate relationship with Mormonism, pushing them to explore and further understand their own beliefs.
MORMONISM 101
In 1830, Joseph Smith, who according to Mormon doctrine was received as a prophet by God and Christ, founded the Church of Christ, a congregation that would later evolve into the modern-day Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Members of the church believe God’s will is channeled through an earthly prophet, the President of the LDS church. In addition to the Old and New Testaments, the Doctrine and Covenants and the Book of Mormon serve as sacred scriptures in the church.
Today, there are approximately 15 million Mormons serving in nearly 30,000 congregations worldwide. Harvard’s Mormon community numbers only 30, but according to Caroline M. Trusty ’14, a Mormon student from Baltimore, the undergraduate congregation is very tight-knit.
“There’s just a structure in place, you never have to feel like, ‘Oh, I’m a Mormon, where do I go?’ There’s always some place to go,” Trusty says.
Harvard Mormons have the opportunity to spend time together during the week through church activities and group events sponsored by the Harvard Latter-day Saint Student Association. Students meet for three-hour church services on Sundays and can attend a Bible study session called Institute on Monday, Wednesday, or Friday. Additionally, students gather in the Dunster dining hall every Monday evening for Family Home Evening, which involves games and dinner. Often, Dunster House Master and Kennedy School professor Roger B. Porter, who also serves as Bishop for the students’ congregation, joins the students in this weekly gathering.
“What’s great about the church is that everywhere it’s the same,” says Trusty, noting that her family practiced Family Home Evening in Baltimore every Monday night when she was in high school.
Andrew C. Ball ’17 says that in the short time he has been a member of the undergraduate Mormon congregation, he feels like he is already well-integrated into the community.
“Everyone likes to be together,” he says.
The closeness of the community is in part tied to the community’s size. Ellen N. McCammon ’14 joked about knowing the entire Harvard Mormon population.
“This is the standard reaction when people find out I’m Mormon,” she says, laughing. “It’s, ‘Oh, do you know so-and-so?’ another Harvard Mormon and I’m like, ‘Yes,’ and then they’re like, ‘Oh, well, do you know so-and-so?’—another Harvard Mormon— and I’m like, ‘Yes.’ And they’re like, ‘Do you know all the Harvard Mormons?’ and I’m like, ‘Yes.’ Like, I’m not kidding with you.”
According to Porter, the number of Mormon undergraduates consistently remained between 25 and 50 during his tenure as Bishop. Though this number may seem small, Nikki K. Kapu ’14 says that Harvard’s current community of 30 Mormons comprises a larger Mormon community than those of other top schools.
“If they’re accepted, a lot of Mormons do choose to go to Harvard just because the community is not huge, but it’s large enough that you don’t feel alone,” Kapu says.
SECULAR SCHOOL
However, at Harvard there are more students who do not identify with a religious group than identify with any one religion. According to The Crimson Freshman Survey, 32 percent of respondents from the Class of 2017 identified themselves as atheist or agnostic, while only 24 percent consider themselves either “religious” or “very religious.”
“[Harvard is] an aggressively secular and aggressively questioning and skeptical environment,” says Kennedy School professor Lant Pritchett, a practicing Mormon. Although he speculates that the change in environment may be refreshing for some undergraduates, he himself has found that sometimes, non-Mormons can have difficulty understanding the central role that Mormonism plays in everyday life.
“In the kind of environment Harvard is, where lots of people are there because they are ambitious in a certain kind of way, some people then have a hard time grasping that other people have other priorities,” Pritchett says. He recalls the departure of former Harvard Business School Dean Kim B. Clark ’74 in 2005, who left his post to become president of BYU Idaho. Pritchett remembers that some of his colleagues could not fathom that Clark would leave his esteemed position for an institution that had transitioned from a junior college to a four-year university only four years before.
“This is a calling in the church,” Pritchett says. “The people who head the church called him and asked him to do it, and if they call and ask him to do it, he will do it.”
Aticus A. Peterson ’16, who spent the last two years on a mission in Taiwan, says that although he has never encountered prejudice at Harvard, he finds that Harvard students sometimes have trouble comprehending his devotion.
“I’ve never felt threatened,” Peterson explains. “People are all genuinely curious and respectful of what I believe, and most people want to understand why: Why did you take two years off? Why do you spend so much time going to church and doing all these things?”
Ngo agrees, saying that people do not ask him questions in an attempt to convince him that his beliefs are false, but instead because they are truly curious.
Just as students are eager to ask questions about Mormonism, Harvard’s Mormon students are in turn eager to answer them. In April 2013, the Harvard LDSSA hosted the fifth annual “Meet the Mormons” discussion forum, in which student panelists answered questions about the history, practice, and beliefs of the Mormon religion.
“If you went to an event like ‘Meet the Mormons,’ you would discover that the questions there were very respectful, very thoughtful. They came from people who seemed genuinely interested,” Porter says.
MISSION: POSSIBLE
As Peterson notes, students frequently ask about his mission, a unique feature of the Mormon church. A month after completing his freshman year, while most of his friends had already begun summer jobs and internships, Peterson flew to Taiwan to begin the first leg of a two-year expedition of service, study, and proselytism.
While in college, many Mormon students take a leave of absence and travel to various regions of the globe, donning suits and dresses as they walk door to door, street to street, searching for new recruits. Typically, these missions last two years for males and 18 months for females. According to McCammon, while the mission is officially optional, it is strongly encouraged that males partake.
“It’s definitely more expected of men, whereas [with] women it’s like ‘gold star for you!’ if you do it,’” says McCammon.
Though the minimum age for males was recently lowered from 19 to 18, the Harvard males who have gone on their missions left after completing their freshman year. After this two- year interruption, the transition back to campus life can be difficult. Both Peterson and Ngo, who completed his mission in Singapore in 2011, said it was strange to see their former classmates grown up and ready to graduate. When Ngo returned to start his sophomore year, members of his former class were seniors.
“I felt old because I was older than all of my sophomore friends. But I also felt young because all of my friends were seniors, and I was a sophomore,” says Ngo, who is 24.
Peterson also noted that the transition backto life on campus was challenging because he had a different set of priorities on his mission than he does at Harvard.
“On a mission, you spend all your time focused on other people, like trying to help other people, and serve other people,” Peterson says. “And so one of the hardest things for me was coming back and finding the trend to bal- ance between focusing on myself, and focusing on other people, because in college you have to focus on your classes, your grades, your exams.”
According to Ngo, daily life during the mission is highly regimented.
“Almost every single day was the same schedule,” he says. He remembers studying scripture in the morning, recruiting in the afternoon. Additionally, he says, mission life was very regulated, as missionaries are only allowed to call their family twice a year and are expected to follow a strict dress code while serving. The rules, according to the LDS Missionary Handbook, also require that missionaries abstain from "inappropriate" association with members of the opposite sex while serving.
“Right when I got back, I got off the plane and I hugged my sister,” says Ngo, noting that this was the first hug he gave a woman in two years. “Apparently it was a very unsatisfying hug...she told me two months later, ‘You gave me a terrible hug right when you got back.’’’
This lifestyle does not appeal to McCammon, who says it is “highly unlikely” that she will go on a mission.
“From what I know it’s very militaristic, the level of structure and scheduling,” McCammon says.
Despite the challenges posed by this lifestyle and the transition back to Harvard, both Ngo and Peterson found their missions to be exceptionally valuable experiences.
“For me, my mission is something I think about every day,” Peterson says. “Just the expe- riences that I had, the people I met, the kind of problems that you encounter trying to help someone, trying to solve these problems.”
THE SOBER LIFE
Another feature that distinguishes the experience of Mormon students at Harvard is the fact that their religion prohibits them from consuming alcohol. One of the revelations that Joseph Smith received from Christ, Peterson explains, was the Word of Wisdom, a law of health. It includes the abstention from alcohol, coffee, tea, drugs, and tobacco. The presence of alcohol consumption on campus, however, has not prevented Mormon students from being social and forming friendships with students who do drink.
“None of my roommates are Mormon, most of them drink,” McCammon says. “Honestly I don’t find anything to be particularly morally wrong with drinking, it’s just the way I was raised.” Like McCammon, Mormon students on the whole do not seem to be bothered by others’ decisions to drink. Katherine B. Ingersoll ’15 says that her abstention from drinking is “a standard I abide by in order to qualify for certain positions in the church... it’s just a tradition I want to keep.”
However, non-Mormons sometimes assume that this abstention implies judgment. Though Ingersoll tries not to appear condescending, she says that people “often perceive that since I’m not drinking, [she thinks] drinking is bad or a sin.”
This misunderstanding can sometimes hinder social interactions. Trusty describes how during her freshman year, she felt that there was “a little bit of a barrier because people were worried about what they could or could not say in front of me, or what they could or couldn’t do if I was around.” Fortunately, as her friends got to know her better, they stopped worrying so much about being judged, she says.
Students agree that they have not felt pressure to drink from their peers. Ingersoll, who is in a final club on campus, says that within this club she has still been accepted even though she doesn’t drink. Furthermore, Mormon students say that they have not been tempted to drink because of their beliefs and upbringings.
“I know why I choose not to drink. So I haven’t ever been in a situation where it’s something that I’ve wanted to do, because I firmly believe in reasons why I choose not to do it,” Kapu says.
Even though Ingersoll does not feel pressure to drink at her final club, other students prefer to avoid events and parties where people are drinking. McCammon mentions that it can be “kind of boring to go to parties and have everyone be totally plastered.”
Fortunately, many students have found non-Mormon friends who are not interested in drinking. Ngo says that he has naturally gravitated towards people who do not want to go out and drink on the weekends.
Though Trusty does have friends who drink, she explains that she often chooses to do social activities during the day, and then returns home when most are headed out. “I spend a lot of free time with my blockmates going to lunch and just hanging out,” she says.
McCammon recounts an experience she had when she lived with heavy drinkers: “I had a roommate puke on my laundry one time—but that would be disrupting to anybody.”
“A HIGH PRESSURE GAME” 
“No other success can compensate for failure in the home.”
— David O. McKay, Ninth President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Because of the focus on marriage and finding the right partner in the Mormon tradition, Mormon students might be expected to approach relationships in college differently than the rest of the student body. But while some get engaged on campus, others cannot fathom the idea of getting married anytime soon. Though the students have a variety of personal preferences with regards to whom and when to date, they all agree that marriage is an incredibly important decision as it determines the ability to successfully raise a family. “We believe that families are forever, that families are eternal, and so the relationships that we have with our family members here don’t end with death but continue on,” Peterson explains.
McCammon agrees, adding, “It’s definitely a very high pressure game when all potential dating partners could be married to you forever.”
Many Mormons tend to marry at a relatively early age. Kapu is engaged to a Mormon she met while studying abroad, and they will be married at the end of her senior year. Kapu notes that this is not uncommon, and that many Mormons get married around graduation time.
Despite the fact that Mormons do tend to marry earlier, many Mormons at Harvard do not intend on an early marriage. Trusty says that her sister’s marriage at age 21 was “mind-boggling.”
“For me, personally, if I met the right person, and it was the right time, and I felt right about it, then I would do it. But I’m not at that point in my life, so it’s not on my radar,” she says.
Others agree, saying getting married is not in their foreseeable future. Ball says that he definitely wouldn’t get married in college. “I can’t believe I’m talking about it now,” he says, blushing.
Indeed, marriage can completely change the fabric of the undergraduate experience. McCammon says that undergraduate Mormons seem to vanish once they are married. In fact, after students marry, they attend another congregation for married couples and families. “When they get married you just stop seeing them,” she says. “They don’t want to hang out with a bunch of single people.”
The law of chastity in the Mormon church requires abstinence from sexual relations before marriage, and the students say this is also a factor in the Mormons’ different approach to relationships. “We have certain standards that are important for us for dating,” Kapu says. “We don’t believe in sex before marriage, but it’s not just sex. We don’t do a lot of things before that, so people view us as pretty conservative.”
According to Kapu, this choice can make it difficult for a Mormon woman to date a non-Mormon man. She believes that the traditional dating culture of Mormons is at odds with the hookup culture present at many colleges, Harvard included. In her opinion, most college students will not be interested in a romantic relationship without the physical component. “Most boys in this school are not interested in me because I’m Mormon,” she says. “I’m not interested in the same kind of relationship as they are, or they have a perception that I would only want to date Mormons or that I wouldn’t be a good girlfriend.”
Ball considers another reason why Mormons tend to date and marry each other: “because they share the same beliefs and understand each other on a personal level.”
Other students feel differently, saying that it is not important to them to date a Mormon. “In fact, I’ve only ever dated non-Mormons,” McCammon says.
24/6
While abstinence from alcohol and serving missions are more visible features of the Mormon lifestyle, the considerable amount of time Mormons commit to their faith often goes unnoticed. “On a weekly basis I attend two church classes, church, and the Monday night activity making it four different events, so it is a substantial time commitment ” Kapu says.
According to Porter, “the single largest challenge” for Mormons at Harvard is time management.
“I think a balance between intellectual and physical, and social and spiritual is essential,” Porter says. “And if you neglect any one of them you are depriving yourself of something that is very important in your life.”
Time management becomes especially difficult when students only have six days to do what other Harvard students do in seven. According to the Ten Commandments, Latter Day Saints are required to rest on Sundays in order to keep the Sabbath holy. In order to follow this rule, many students opt out of doing school work, practicing sports, and attending non-Church related meetings on Sundays, although interpretation of the commandment is subject to the individual’s discretion. Ngo, a chemistry concentrator, says that not doing schoolwork on Sundays can be challenging, but his Sundays become leisurely and enjoyable as a result.
“Well, if I’m ever feeling a lot of pressure, I stay up really late on Saturday, or get up really early Monday morning, and I try not to break [the rule],” he says.
Still, sometimes students must reconcile their other commitments with this rule. Ball, who is on the varsity tennis team, typically does not practice on Sundays. “My coaches are totally accepting,” he says. He will, however, compete in a match if he is in the starting lineup.
Sometimes, in tandem with Harvard’s competitive and ambitious environment, the sacrifices mandated by time management can appear unrewarding. Trusty, who served as design editor for The Crimson’s Arts section in 2012, applied for the position of Design chair in November of that year. Ultimately, she was not elected to the position.
“When you don’t get to where you want to be, even after all that work, and after you’ve been doing all the right things, and you’ve been praying and going to church and keeping the commandments...that’s kind of a test of your faith,” she says.
“MORMON FIRST”
Many Mormon students say that their faith has changed while at Harvard, and, in fact, has become stronger.
Others say that being away from their families has made them take ownership of their faith and decide themselves how to practice. “At home, my whole family’s doing it, so it was just part of everyday routine. But coming out to college, you make the decision, you schedule it in,” Peterson says.
Ingersoll feels that this independence has actually strengthened her faith. “I think that distance away from home has made me more spiritual and religious, in the sense that I am no longer at home and going to church with my family, but I am doing those things on my own,” she says.
McCammon, however, has had a different experience being apart from her family. “When you have your whole family going with you, it’s a lot easier to get the energy to go,” she says.
In Harvard’s secular and questioning environment, students have been pushed to really understand where their beliefs come from and why they are worth defending.
“I think my faith is challenged every day,” Peterson says. “I think in the questions that I get from people that I meet, it helps me think about why I believe what I believe.” He recalled how on his very first night at Harvard, he and his roommates stayed up almost all night discussing their beliefs. “I’m better because of the diversity here at Harvard,” he says.
Ingersoll, too, has found that her faith has developed as a result of the Harvard com- munity. “In answering their curious ques- tions, I feel like I’ve spent more time thinking about how I can answer those questions.” Her beliefs have hence matured as she has had “more time to internally think about [her] religion.”
Other students have found that the process of growing up has caused them to rede- fine and personalize their relationship with Mormonism.
“My faith was a lot simpler when I was younger,” McCammon says. “I think a younger person doesn’t see things that make them uncomfortable, and tends to have a very rosy view of any kind of institution that you’ve been raised with.” McCammon says that though her faith in Mormon doctrine has grown over time, she has also come to question some church practices. At her congregation back home, she is frustrated that it is considered shocking for a woman to wear pants.
Ngo says that his understanding of his beliefs and the church practices are in constant flux, as he studies and reinterprets scripture. He mentions the challenge of reconciling science and faith, for example, noting that he has come to believe in both creationism and evolution. Ngo says that his nuanced interpretation of Mormon doctrine comes and changes with years of experience and study. “You recognize that not all answers will come at once,” he says.
Trusty, too, admits she does not always have the answers. But she says that questions from Harvard students about Mormonism have pushed her to learn more about her faith and search for answers to their questions. She also explains that she has invited people to church events because “sometimes it’s easier to show than tell” why her faith is so important to her.
“Being Mormon, it’s not just a religion,” she says. “I’m Mormon first. It’s just part of who I am.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following clarification:
CLARIFICATION: Feb. 14, 2014
An earlier version of this article stated that the LDS Missionary Handbook prohibits Mormon missionaries from hugging members of the opposite sex. To clarify, the handbook says that missionaries are not allowed to flirt, be alone, or otherwise associate in any “inappropriate” way with a member of the opposite sex during their mission, but does not specify hugging as a banned act.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
In response to Allston residents’ concerns, University representatives promised to maintain an unobtrusive presence as construction ramps up in the area in 2014. They also shared a more detailed development calendar for Allston projects.
About 60 Allston residents and Harvard affiliates gathered in the Honan-Allston Library Wednesday night for the first Harvard-Allston Task Force meeting in over two months.
At the meeting, Harvard representatives outlined responses to concerns of Allston residents noted in previous task force meetings and discussions, including rodent control, contractor parking, and trucking routes during the next years of construction.
Site work and construction for numerous projects included in Harvard’s ten-year, nine-project Institutional Master Plan have already begun or will begin in coming months. The IMP, approved by the Boston Redevelopment Authority in October, includes 1.4 million square feet of new construction and over 500,000 square feet of renovation.


Kevin Casey, Harvard’s associate vice president for public affairs and communications, called the IMP, along with its associated $43 million community benefits package, “transformative.”
 
“This is a downpayment on a huge future for this community,” Casey said. “We’re bringing in people with experience to make sure this is done right.”
 
Current University projects include renovations to the entrance to the Bright-Landry Hockey Center and site work at the corner of Western Ave. and North Harvard Street, the future home of the Barry’s Corner Residential and Retail Commons, a development that will contain 325 apartment units as well as 45,000 square feet of retail space.
University President Drew G. Faust, along with former Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino and Allston residents, ceremonially broke ground on the project in December.
This spring, construction teams will begin inspections and environmental testing on numerous sites to ready them for construction while beginning demolition on others, according to University representatives. They will also develop open green spaces for public use before summer.
Task Force Chairman Raymond V. Mellone pushed Harvard to do more than make promises that residents’ concerns would be addressed.
“You have to be convincing about your good intent,” he said.
Allston residents raised concerns Wednesday that rodents will spread from demolished buildings to their nearby homes and businesses.
Identifying Harvard as a “high-risk property owner,” Edward G. LeFlore, a consultant for the University responsible for construction management, said that “Harvard will have higher standards on rodent control and construction” than standard city practices.
He emphasized that no construction will take place until Boston Inspectional Services declares a site clear of rodents.
Later in the meeting, task force members voiced skepticism about both the University’s plan to prevent contractors from parking on private streets and University promises that construction vehicles will not add to the neighborhood’s traffic burden. Task force member Brent Whelan ’73 requested comprehensive solutions to these problems as Harvard’s construction moved closer to the residential neighborhood.
LeFlore reiterated the University’s commitment to low-impact construction in Allston. All vehicles associated with Harvard-run projects will be required to drive specific routes that do not enter residential areas.
“If contractors park in the neighborhood, and we find them, they don’t work with Harvard anymore,” he said. 
Despite these persisting concerns over the numerous construction projects scheduled for North Allston, some residents remained supportive of Harvard’s development plans.
“You know the neighborhood better than any developer,” Allston resident Jane McHale said to Harvard representatives. “You know what we want.”
–Staff writer Karl M. Aspelund can be reached at karl.aspelund@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kma_crimson.
—Staff writer Marco J. Barber Grossi can be reached at mbarbergrossi@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @marco_jbg.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
 
This is the first in an occasional semester-long series on homelessness in Harvard Square.
 
The winter of 2013-2014 has not been an easy one for Harvard Square’s homeless population, but most winters are not. With nearly a foot of snow last week and more in the forecast, the weather has exacerbated existing shortages in space and resources at area shelters and placed added burdens on the population that spends most of its days on the street.
For these and others, who choose not to stay in shelters but in public spaces out of safety concerns, dangerous cold and precipitation can lead to health risks from pneumonia to frostbite.
Gary Martin, a native Cantabrigian who has now been homeless for seven years, said that he and his life partner Whitney have passed most nights this winter sleeping in Winthrop Square, the small park enclosed by JFK, Winthrop, and Mt. Auburn streets.
 
Davie, who preferred not to be identified by his first name, is a European immigrant who has been living on the streets of Cambridge for two years. He said that he prefers to sleep at the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter, housed in the the basement of the University Lutheran Church on Winthrop St., which is run and staffed primarily by College students. But beds at the shelter are lotteried, and, on cold nights when more people are vying for a spot, Davie is often left to camp in a “private spot” outdoors
“I meditate—that’s how I deal with this weather,” Davie said, “I’ve sat in the Polar Vortex, every Polar Vortex we’ve had...if you meditate, you become warmer.”
Davie is not alone in remaining outdoors. According to Mary Shannon Thomas, a social service worker specializing in homelessness cases, a significant portion of the Cambridge homeless population remains outside during severe cold spells and snowstorms. 
With most homeless shelters in Cambridge are at full capacity normally, Shannon said expansion is difficult during harsh weather.
 
“Particularly in the winter, there’s always more need than there are beds,” she said.
 
David K. Tang-Quan ’15, a Harvard Square Homeless Shelter administrative co-director, explained that while the shelter stays open all day during snow storms and distributes warm clothing and food to those on the streets, it does not have the room to significantly expand in winter weather.
 
“Unfortunately, we’re always at capacity,” he said, citing fire codes that limit the number of guests. Tang-Quan said that the shelter does add five emergency beds every night the temperature drops below freezing, putting the shelter at capacity nearly every night of the winter.
 
At the Salvation Army in Central Square, space is more flexible, but other resources are stretched thin. According to Director of Operations Karen Meahan, the shelter sets up an additional 15 emergency beds and lets people sit inside to keep warm during cold weather, but the shelter is also spending almost twice as much on food.
“You can only add so much water to the soup before it’s no longer soup,” said Lieutenant Michael Harper, a Salvation Army Corps officer.
Yet, despite these available resources, Thomas said that many homeless people feel safer staying out in the cold rather than in the shelter.
“One of the guys I worked with has PTSD, a shelter for him is one of the most terrifying places you could put him,” she said. “There’s too much noise, there’s too many people, there’s too much stuff going on in the environment, and for him, being outside where it’s 15 degrees feels safer than being in a crowded shelter.”
Shannon said that she has seen cases of frostbite, but could not specify its prevalence because not all the population used shelter or health services.
Martin, 48, said that he had passed several snowstorms outdoors this year, resulting in multiple bouts of pneumonia.
“Pretty cold,” he said of this winter, rubbing his gloved hands together.
Davie said his usual winter outfit consists of two t-shirts, a sweatshirt, three coats, a pair of pants, basketball sneakers, two pairs of gloves, and two scarves.
“Hopefully, another year, and then I’ll get back to the warm country,” said Davie, referring to California, where he was residing prior to coming to Cambridge.  “I really don’t want to see another winter here in Massachusetts. This is a bad one.”
—Staff writer Sonali Y. Salgado can be reached at sonali.salgado@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @SonaliSalgado16.
 —Staff writer Caroline T. Zhang can be reached at caroline.zhang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CarolineTZhang.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While the overall size Faculty of Arts and Sciences has remained flat, the History Department has increased the number of professors specializing in Latin American history in the last two years. The expansion is part of the department’s larger effort to restore its faculty in Latin American history after several years with no professors specializing in the field.
“This has been a priority for the department for five years now,” History Department Chair David R. Armitage said. “Student interest in the region is enormous, and we want to make sure that its importance is understood in Harvard and beyond.”
Assistant professor of History Kirsten A. Weld was the first to join the department last year.
“The changing demographic realities of the United States means that there are more people who look around themselves and realize that knowing something about Latin America is necessary to living in the United States,” she said.
Weld, who specializes in 20th century Mexican and Central American history, also noted that her classes have had students from a wide range of backgrounds. Weld also explained that many more students at Harvard now are of Latino and Latin American descent compared to previous years.
“Most of my classes have been productive and interesting mixes of people who have a pre-existing interest in history as a discipline and people who have a pre-existing interest in Latin America as a region, and when you get those two groups of people together you have wonderful classroom discussions,” she added.
Besides geopolitical reasons, a driving force behind the recent hires of faculty specializing in Latin American history was the retirement of three professors, including John H. Coatsworth, who is now Provost at Columbia University. The History Department went several years without having a faculty member specifically devoted to Latin America.
In addition to Weld, Tamar Herzog and Alejandro de la Fuente, Robert Woods Bliss Professor of Latin American History and Economics, were also appointed as faculty members. The department is also planning to present an offer to Sidney Chalhoub from the University of Campinas in Brazil to join the senior faculty.
Herzog, who specializes in early modern Iberian history, says that she is excited about her move to Harvard.
“It’s a very dynamic place,” she said. “I was looking for a place where I could have interesting colleagues and students, and I’m hoping to learn from everyone here.”
After several years without faculty specializing in Latin American history, the newly appointed professors voiced their excitement about the prospects of rebuilding their program.
“We’ve sort of come out into the sunshine,” Weld said. “Being able to be a part of that is wonderful because you can see that there’s so much faculty interest and getting to be a part of that exciting new frontier, this new moment of history at Harvard, is wonderfully exciting.”
—Staff writer Michael Avi-Yonah can be reached at michael.aviyonah@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Hamna M. Nazir can be reached at hnazir@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on twitter @HamnaMNazir.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite positive efforts, the American economy has not had a satisfactory recovery, former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers told an audience at the Institute of Politics Thursday evening.
“We did the right things and we avoided a depression in 2009 and that is hugely important and satisfying,” Summers, who aided the Obama administration's response to the recession and is a former president of the University, said. “But if you look at economic growth since 2009, it’s slower than the potential of the American economy to grow given population and given technological change.”
Summers, drawing on his experiences at the Treasury and as Director of the National Economic Council and Chief Economist for the World Bank, reinforced his hypothesis of secular stagnation—the idea that economic recovery leading to full employment and financial stability might require expansionary policies.
In his speech, which was moderated by former presidential adviser and current director of the Center for Public Leadership at the Kennedy School of Government David R. Gergen, Summers stressed the importance of looking toward a positive future.
Addressing the upcoming election, Summers said in an interview that he anticipates the main economic issue of 2016 will be “jobs that provide for strong and rising standards of living for regular people.”
Additionally, Summers spoke about the potential for technological advances to be a defining aspect of economic change.


“I think that issues around technology are going to define either this generation or this century,” he said.  “The potential for technology to augment or substitute for a good deal of what we do is something that I think we have to look into.”
Summers recently made headlines for withdrawing his name from being considered as the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, a position that Gergen, in a CNN article, called the “second most powerful job in the United States.” Summers now serves as the Charles W. Eliot University Professor, but said he still thinks he can influence the fate of the U.S. economy for his post.
“Working as an economist in a University, I hope that by being part of the public discussion, by trying to suggest concepts and ways of thinking about ongoing economic events, I may be able to make a contribution by introducing or putting forth ideas,” Summers said in an interview before the event.
Gergen said that he feels strongly that, in the years to come, the American public will feel Summers’ impact on the economy.
 “I think for a long, long time, this country and the world will look to Larry Summers as the wise man of economics” Gergen said.
 —Staff writer Forrest K. Lewis can be reached at forrest.lewis@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Graduate Student Council will host a “Teaching Town Hall” on Feb. 19 for teaching fellows and other graduate students to air grievances and look for solutions to problems in the classroom and in dealing with faculty members, the council’s president, Summer A. Shafer, announced at its first monthly meeting of the semester Wednesday.
Shafer said that plans for the town hall meeting came about to address the difficulties and obstacles teaching fellows experience during shopping week and the rest of the school year, as they look for teaching positions and deal with over- or under-enrolled sections. She specifically said that the lack of standardization in section sizes causes uncertainty for teaching fellows who may or may not be needed in the course.
“We as graduate students have to make our own structures,” Shafer said.
Responding to a question from a fellow graduate student, she said that the purpose of the meeting is solely for discussion, not for advocacy.
“No administration will be present, and nothing will be filmed,” said Shafer, who is a graduate student in the History of American Civilization Program. “This will be an open space.”
Talking about the meeting, Shafer also said that there is sometimes a strained relationship between teaching fellows and the faculty members they work for. She recounted the story of one teaching fellow who was asked to retrieve dry cleaning for his advisor.
Members of the elected council encouraged everyone in attendance to attend the open forum and share any experiences they have had or heard of involving teaching fellows.
Clarisse R. Wells, a graduate student in the South Asian Studies program, said that she believes that the Teaching Town Hall will be significant shaping the future of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and the teaching fellows at Harvard.
“I’m hoping it’s a success,” said Wells, who was one of approximately 30 attendees at the meeting in Dudley House’s graduate student lounge. “Many teaching fellows have told me varying stories about their experiences. Some are great and some are bleak.”
During the meeting, Shafer also announced that various positions on the council were currently vacant and open to graduate students, including the positions for Representative of the Longwood Medical Area, Publicity Manager, Representative for Masters Students, and senator for the Harvard Graduate Council, a University-wide elected student body.
At the meeting, GSC Vice President Shelley H. Liu also discussed the upcoming Everett Mendelsohn Excellence in Mentoring Awards, which recognize outstanding faculty mentoring to graduate students and will be awarded on April 10.   Liu encouraged students to join a newly established committee to help organize the event.
“It’s an incredibly moving experience to participate in,” Shafer said of the ceremony. “I went last year and teared up. It was ridiculous.”
Other items on the agenda included a discussion on the selection of Commencement marshals on behalf of GSAS and SEAS. Shafer also raised the possibility of holding another tax filing talk for graduate students. 
—Staff writer Callie H. Gilbert can be reached at callie.gilbert@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CallieGilbert95.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: Feb. 14, 2013, at 12:55 a.m.
For John F. Nardone, Cambridge's deputy commissioner for public works, winter is a busy season.
“There’s a bunch of us here that deal with snow, and at this time of year it’s constant,” Nardone said. “We’re always thinking about what’s the next storm.”
With about 34 inches of snow so far this year, including about four inches that fell on Thursday, both Cambridge and Harvard have had their hands, and shovels, full, keeping the streets and sidewalks of Harvard Square clear.
For the city, the number of inches forecast for each storm determines the type of resources deployed,
“With something like a two-inch storm or even storms less than that, where you get a coating or you get a little bit, we’re doing that strictly in-house, and we keep that to what we call a salting operation,” Nardone said.
This mild response calls for about 30 city employees and 15 pieces of city-owned equipment, he said, which keeps costs fairly low. However, once Nardone has to rely on contractors, that price tag goes up exponentially.
“Four inches is probably borderline for us, but really four to six inches, now we’re getting into contractors,” Nardone said. “Say we had ten events over this past season, maybe five or six of those we had to bring contractors in.”
This fleet includes 60 vehicles, from pickup trucks to salters, that clear more than 400 lane miles, a measure calculated by multiplying the number of lanes with the number of miles in each lane. For each mile of lane, the fleet will drop between 300 and 500 lbs. of salt, Nardone said.
Though he would not give specific salt totals or cost for a given season, Nardone said he uses up salt in a hurry.
“If you think of it in kind of bigger numbers, that’s maybe 60-100 tons every time we do a salting application,” he said.
For its part, Harvard relies on both in-house employees and equipment, as well as contractors, to get the job done.
“We manage a fleet of more than three dozen pieces of snow removal equipment and typically deploy more than 150 employees to clear snow across campus,” Michael D. Conner, the director for communications at Harvard Campus Services, wrote in an email to The Crimson.
“Anytime, we are on call,” said Gabriel Lima, an employee of the property services company UGL Limited the University employs.
Standing on the steps of Boylston Hall in the snow on Thursday, Limas, said that clearing snow on the University’s campus requires special care.
“We can’t use another device like a  loader device simply because these are historic buildings, and they don’t want to scratch them or anything,” Limas said, pointing down to his plastic shovel. The University does employ heavy machinery on other, more durable, parts of campus, though.
Although the Harvard and the city are separately responsible for managing vast amounts of property, there is some cooperation, Conner and Nardone say, as the two entities work round-the-clock to collectively clear an overlapping network of streets, parking lots, and paths.
“Campus Services also coordinates closely with the City of Cambridge to ensure abutting walkways, roads, and bus stops are clear and passable,” Conner wrote.
Although Harvard does not plow any Cambridge public roads or sidewalks, the University does offer to help store excess snow, according to Nardone.
“Harvard has definitely offered up spots, I know you have a lot of construction that’s going to happen over in Brighton, and there’s locations over there where they’ve certainly offered for us to put snow,” Nardone said.
Connor also declined to say how much the University spends annually on snow removal.
—Staff writer Ivan B. K. Levingston can be reached at Ivan.Levingston@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @IvanLevingston.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With just two points separating first and third place in the ECAC, the No. 6/6 Harvard women’s ice hockey team will skate this weekend to control its entire conference destiny.
Clarkson (21-4-5, 12-2-4 ECAC) will come to Cambridge on Friday sitting just one game behind the league-leading Crimson (19-3-3, 14-2-2), with both teams highly aware that a Harvard loss could change conference standings with just two weeks of regular-season play to go. St. Lawrence (10-16-3, 9-6-3), ranked sixth in the conference, faces the Crimson on Saturday at the Bright-Landry Hockey Center.
“This weekend is huge for us,” junior forward Samantha Reber said. “Right now we are leading the ECAC, but not by much. Clarkson’s right there. Cornell’s right there. This weekend is huge for every team in our league.”
Reber, who spearheads the Crimson in assists with 14 on the season, scored the overtime game-winner in the consolation round of the Beanpot on Tuesday to lift Harvard over Boston University, 3-2. She has been part of a Crimson squad that has seen its roster shrink due to graduation, injury, and attrition to the Olympic team, but no lesser in strength both on and off the ice, according to Harvard interim head croach Maura Crowell.
“It’s been going on all season,” Crowell said. “When you start with 18, you can’t expect to have 18 throughout the long hockey season. The good news for us is that we are really used to it. These guys are in really good shape and they have really strong mental toughness, and they can handle it…. I’m lucky to have this group that loves to play.”
Crowell’s group has battled the notion that bigger is better with just 18 players on its roster, and plenty of young talent. In a balanced scoring effort against BU, three players—Reber, and sophomore forwards Miye D’Oench and Jessica Harvey—tallied a goal. D’Oench leads the team with 15 goals and 12 assists.
“As a team we feel very confidently about the way we play,” D’Oench said. “Personally just playing with a team like that it’s so easy to play with confidence and really know where you stand and be confident about what you do when you’re on the ice.”
Confidence will be key against No. 5/3 Clarkson. While a balanced effort by the Crimson leaves challengers guessing as to who will strike on any particular night, the Golden Knights have a clear-cut group of threats.Harvard will look to contain Clarkson, which possesses three of the ECAC’s top five players in points in senior forwards Jamie Lee Rattray and Brittany Styner as well as sophomore defender Erin Ambrose.
The Golden Knights have not lost a game since falling to North Dakota on Dec. 6, 2013.
Rattray is the second-leading scorer in the nation with 25 goals and sixth in assists with 26. Styner and Ambrose have also found their strides in lending a hand to their teammates. Ambrose has the top rank in the country with 31 assists, while Styner trails her by five with 26.
Meanwhile, Clarkson will pose a challenge at the other end of the ice with senior goaltender Erica Howe, who has proved almost as impenetrable as Harvard sophomore Emerance Maschmeyer. While Maschmeyer holds the third spot in the country for saves with a percentage of .949, Howe is hot on her heels with a save percentage of .937, and is tied for first in the nation in shutouts, with 10.
On Saturday, Harvard will face St. Lawrence in a matinée affair. The Saints have had a balanced scoring effort all season, with a vast majority of their goals coming off of assists. Junior goaltender Carmen MacDonald has started 23 of the team’s 29 games, notching a save percentage of .935, third in the conference only to Maschmeyer and Howe.
While both St. Lawrence and Clarkson present a threat to the Crimson’s dominance of the ECAC, Harvard will draw on past road wins at both schools at the beginning of the 2013-2014 campaign.
Despite clawing opponents and the challenge of having to play four games in an eight-day interval, the squad looks to remain level-headed in the final weekend of home play before March sees the Crimson contend in postseason tournaments.
“We’re going to treat it like every other game,” Reber said. “[We will] come out hard and come out with a fast start, hopefully pop a couple [goals] in quickly. We’ve got two games to play, so hopefully we play our game the entire weekend.”
—Staff writer Cordelia F. Mendez can be reached at cordelia.mendez@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s basketball team’s escape from John J. Lee Amphitheater with a one-point win over Yale on Saturday night ensured that the Crimson (15-5, 5-1 Ivy) would remain on top of the Ancient Eight for at least another week. Harvard will look to defend its position at the front of the leaderboard this weekend against the two C’s of the Ivy League: Columbia (4-16, 1-5) and Cornell (11-9, 3-3).
The contests will take place at Lavietes Pavilion, where the team has won 19 straight.
Harvard will welcome the Lions to Cambridge for a Valentine’s Day special this Friday evening. Columbia enters the game on a five-game losing streak, with each of those defeats coming in conference play.  The Lions’ record may not tell the entire story, however, as the young squad played Penn close the entire way in a 70-63 loss last weekend.
Lavietes Pavilion was not kind to the Lions in the team’s visit last season ,as the Crimson’s 71-26 win marked the fewest points allowed by a Harvard squad since 1978.
“The underdog mentality in the Ivy League is extremely dangerous,” Crimson coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said. “I have confidence in my team this year that we are not going to overlook anyone. We aren’t building up for any one opponent.”
The Lions are led by freshman forward Tori Oliver, who is averaging 10.1 points and 5.7 rebounds a game. Oliver and fellow starting forward senior Courtney Bradford, who leads the team in boards with six a game, will have their hands full down low dealing with the Crimson’s Temi Fagbenle. The junior forward is averaging 12.6 points per game to go along with team-highs in rebounds, with 9.6 per game, and blocks, with 1.5 per game.
On Saturday, Harvard will participate in its annual Play4Kay game,wearing pink warm-ups and inviting fans to “Pack the House” for its meeting with Cornell.
The Big Red enters its annual Dartmouth-Harvard road trip coming off of a disappointing home stand against the Killer P’s that dropped the team to 3-3 in league play.
The Crimson’s second weekend game will feature a frontcourt battle between Fagbenle and Cornell senior forward Allyson DiMagno, who is averaging 13.4 points and 8.4 rebounds to head the Big Red.
“The two focuses we have for this weekend are stopping drives and rebounding,” junior co-captain Kaitlyn Dinkins said. “If we do those two things, we should win both of our games.”
The Crimson has won 11-straight against Cornell and owns an overall 58-11 record against the Big Red. Last year’s matchups were much closer than these figures might suggest, however, as Harvard needed overtime at Lavietes to secure a 69-60 win before earning a 66-56 win over the Big Red in the teams’ meeting in Ithaca, N.Y.
Both Columbia and Cornell will need to contain Crimson co-captain Christine Clark if they are to succeed in pulling off an upset. The senior guard started the season on a tear, putting up six straight 20-point games before being slowed by an injury, which she has since overcome.
“Offensively, I think we have made improvements throughout the season,” Dinkins said. “In any game, we are looking to get the ball inside and also really looking for the mismatches. The goal is always to get our key players the shots they want and to get them feel-good shots within the offense.”
Clark is averaging a team-leading 16.3 points per game, and her play has served as a bellwether for the team’s performance. In each of the team’s losses this year, the Tucson, Ariz.  native scored 12 points or less and shot under 50 percent from the field.  This was the case last Saturday, when the Crimson eked out just a one-point win in New Haven. For the game, Clark notched only 10 points on 3-for-16 shooting.
While shutting down Clark may be the key to stopping the Crimson, that feat is easier said than done. The senior is now sixth all-time on the Harvard scoring list and has started the most consecutive career games in Ivy League history.
But Clark and the Harvard offense will have to work for shots against a stifling Cornell defense that comes in giving up just 62.8 points per game, good for second-best in the Ivy League.
“I think one of the things we are working on consistently is reading the defense and then executing our offenses,” Delaney-Smith said. “I think we have a lot of different ways to score and a lot of different players that can score. I believe we can become harder to play if we can read our defenses and execute our offenses a little better. That is what I feel we have to do against Columbia and against Cornell.”
—Staff writer M. Ty Aderhold can be reached at michael.aderhold@thecrimson.com.
 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This week’s Athletes of the Week runners-up prove that you don’t necessarily have to be a senior to lead by example—each of these three Harvard athletes rose to the occasion in playoff competition this past week.
Amanda Sobhy, Women’s Squash
 
Though Sobhy wasn’t this occasion’s Athlete of the Week, it’s not to downplay any of her accomplishments over the past week—or for the whole year, for that matter. The Crimson finished the year with a perfect 12-0 record, led by the Sea Cliff, NY native’s nine wins in the No. 1 position.
The top-ranked squash team won its 19th Ivy title with the weekend’s win over No. 10 Brown, and Sobhy was on top of her game per usual, defeating the Bears’ Dori Rahbar, 11-4, 11-4, 11-0, in the top position. The junior is now an astounding 39-0 in her collegiate career at Harvard, and she also competes on the international circuit.
Adrienne Jarocki, Women’s Fencing
The freshman sabre fencer finished with an 18-0 individual record for the weekend’s Ivy League Round Robins, which earned her the honors of Outstanding Performer and Outstanding Rookie Performer—a combination that had never been accomplished by a Harvard fencer before.
Jarocki, who competed for the USA Junior National Team, was the only Ivy League fencer to finish the event with an undefeated record. Her performance led the Crimson to a second place finish in the Ivy League. With the NCAA Regionals and Championships coming up in mid-March, the freshman from Middle Village, NY is an early favorite in sabre competition.
Steve Michalek, Men’s Ice Hockey
The junior goaltender swallowed up every shot swatted at him against Dartmouth last Friday and then held strong in the net for the Crimson’s 6-2 win in the Beanpot Consolation game against Boston University. The victory over the Big Green avenged Harvard’s 2-1 loss earlier in the year and saw the sixth round 2011 NHL draft pick stop 21 shots in the 3-0 shutout.
Against the Terriers, the 6’2” goaltender recorded 25 saves in the full 60 minutes between the pipes and held the Terriers scoreless in the second period. With the two wins, Michalek may have cemented his place as the starting goalie for the time being. He and senior Raphael Girard have shared time in the net throughout the season, but after Girard allowed five goals against Northeastern in the first round of the Beanpot, Michalek was asked to step up.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
You heard it in kindergarten, in high school, and even here at college: there’s no such thing as a dumb question.
But if you don’t buy that and still shy from voicing your every query in public, fear no more. The spread of online learning platform Piazza to the Harvard College classroom has brought with it the chance for students to anonymously share their concerns and confusion with entire lecture halls via the online interface. So if you have a genuine question, or you just want to know if other people are as puzzled as you are about your prof's comb over, Piazza can help.We took a look at Culture and Belief 23 (commonly known as “the Hebrew Bible”), a class that Piazza has taken by storm this semester. Piazza questions posed to the class’s students, teaching fellows, and professor range from philosophical, to practical, to just plain bizarre. In fact, some are so strange that we can’t help but wonder whether they’re sincere. We’ve put together a mix of real and fake CB23 Piazza posts below so you can start wondering too.1.CrusadesWhat Bible chapter has the Crusades?2. PaulWho is Paul and why is he an important figure?3. MosesWas Moses a saint?4. JesusWhat’s his deal?5. Protestant vs. Catholic?What’s the difference?6. Israel and JewsWhat is the distinction between Israel and Jews?7. Exogesis [sic]What does this mean? [sic]8. AbandonmentWhy did God stop talking to the Jews?9. GodDoes He exist?Answer Key: 1=real, 2=real, 3=fake, 4=fake, 5=real, 6=real, 7=real, 8=fake, 9=fake
Sections
 
It’s Thursday, which not only means it’s almost Friday, but also that Valentine’s Day is tomorrow! While some lucky people may be going on romantic dates, many are eagerly awaiting their Datamatch results. For those of you who are looking for love or just looking for plans that mean you won't spend your Friday night eating Oreos and cynically commenting your way through a rom-com movie marathon, the survey is due at 11:59 p.m. tonight.
UPDATED: Feb. 13, 2014 at 2:01 p.m.
IN THE ATMOSPHEREThere's good and bad news today. While the temperature rises to a balmy high of 38 degrees, it’s also going to be snowing and raining all day. Don’t forget your umbrella or you’ll probably give up walking to class halfway there.IN THE D-HALLSLunchGrilled Reuben SandwichRoasted Honey Lime ChickenWinter Vegetable StewDinnerBaked Salmon with DillChicken PotstickersSweet & Sour TofuIN THE NEWS1) Vigil Honors Lives of College Students and Alumnus: Members of the Harvard community came together last night at Memorial Church to hold a vigil for Angela R. Mathew ‘15 and Stephen Rose ‘06.2) LL Cool J Named 2014 Cultural Rhythms Artist of the Year: “Philanthropist, musician, actor, and author LL Cool J has been named the Harvard Foundation’s 2014 Artist of the Year.”
3) Harvard Puts Romanian Timberland Associated with Bribery Case Up for Sale: “Harvard has put a large portion of its controversial forest holdings in Romania up for sale, according to documents filed in the country at the end of January.”EVENTSInterested in pursuing a career in law? The OCS is hosting an Undergraduate Law Internship and Career Fair tomorrow from 3 to 5 p.m. at 54 Dunster Street. From 4 to 5 p.m., the OCS is also holding a workshop entitled “Ace Your Interview.”Men’s Volleyball is having a home conference game against Princeton tomorrow at 7 p.m at the Athletics Complex. Go Crimson!If you’re interested in hacking, developing, and free pizza, go to HackLab: Hack Night at the Harvard i-lab from 6:30 to 10:30 p.m!PHOTO OF THE DAYDavie, who prefers to be only referred to by his last name, is one of many homeless people in Harvard Square that remain outdoors during the recent cold weather and snowstorms. While he occasionally sleeps at the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter, a spot is not always guaranteed due to a large demand.To learn more about homelessness in Harvard Square, please read the first in a semester-long series of Crimson articles on the subject. You can also visit the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter's website to find out more about the work they do around the Square.
 
 
 
 
 
Sections
 
Those of us flying solo this Valentine's Day may be irked by the constant reminders of the lack of romance in our lives (thank you, Starbucks, for repeatedly sending buy one get one free latte offers to share with our nonexistent “significant others”). Luckily, there could be a quick fix to this problem--Datamatch! With Valentine’s Day and the deadline to complete the survey less than 12 hours away, you've got to get started if you want to find your soulmate ready for the big day tomorrow!
For those of you who have either yet to fill it out or are unsure as to which answers will lead you to your respective soulmates, here’s a guide to approaching some of the questions on the survey. Happy Datamatching!Your idea of a romantic date?a) Red spiced chicken at AnnenbergPro: You’re looking for a casual date…  one that could be fun, but doesn’t seem like you’re trying too hard.Con: You may look cheap, possibly giving off the vibe that you refuse to pay for a meal unless it’s coming out of your parents’ tuition fund.b) Drunk Tindr chatPro: You present yourself as the fun and wild type, the kind of person who loves dancing on tables at parties.Con: You may seem irresponsible since you clearly don’t listen to the age-old rule about not talking to strangers.c) Awkward eye contact during sectionPro: You’re boldly putting yourself out there because you’re willing to admit to doing something everyone else does, but never talks about.Con: You’re also admitting to being socially awkward, which people could associate with things like weird pauses during conversations and sweaty palms.d) One of adventures, action, mystery - let's go to Lamont!Pro: Not only are you studious and responsible, but you actually enjoy being studious and responsible.Con: See above.e) You. Me. Bed. Now.Pro: You leave no room for guessing or hesitation, and you like getting straight to the point.Con: You may seem too dangerous, seeing as the chances of getting a concussion after hitting your head on a bunk bed are sizeable.Best way to get someone's phone number?a) Harvard FacebookPro: You’re resourceful! You know how to make use of the opportunities that Harvard provides us, whether it be using Hollis to find a book for your research paper, or inserting information you creepily obtained from stalking your crush into an online database to get his/her number.Con: Much to your dismay, you may realize that the only number on your crush’s Harvard Facebook profile is the number of that dusty red phone in their room.b) Actually ask them!Pro: You’re letting your crush know that you’re gutsy and willing to fully embrace face-to-face contact as opposed to hiding behind a computer screen.Con: Your crush could say no, in which case you would also need to think of a way to retreat coolly.c) Brute forceDon’t do this.d) Internship at the NSAPro: Not only will you get the information you want, but you also now have something else to add to your resume. Talk about killing two birds with one stone!Con: It may be a little bit too risky asking your crush to fall in love with someone who may be entangled in a national scandal.e) I lost my phone number, can I have yours?Pro: You may be perceived as cute and flirty by throwing it back with old-school pick-up lines.Con: This only ever seems to work in movies and TV shows. Consider this brutal assessment: if Joseph Gordon Levitt said this to you, it’s cute... if that weird guy who sits next to you in lecture said this, it’s creepy.Best place to meet potential lover:a) Lamont - Lamonster in bedChoose if: You want someone who will surprise you--a studious nerd by day, party animal by night.b) A final club - Where real romance happensChoose if: You want your name on that list so you don’t have to knock on doors every weekend.c) Datamatch - Trust the systemChoose if: You want to kiss up to the Harvard Computer Society and have a leg up in the matching game.d) Annenberg - They're called "fresh"men for a reasonChoose if: You like the possibility of brushing hands with your crush at the soda machine.e) First Chance Dance - And probably your lastChoose if: You’re one of the lucky few that actually had great nights at freshman dances and didn’t end in puking in someone else’s toilet.
 
