News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
NEW YORK—When I was younger, I was required to participate in regular music recitals in the piano and cello at my lower school. I’ll never forget the nerves I was braced with the morning of each performance, imagining myself horrifically off-tune to Beethoven, and forgetting the music I had taken so much time to memorize.
The jitters continued and magnified throughout the day, until after dismissal rolled around, when they proceeded to turn into a full-blown panic. My legs would become shaky and my knees morphed to Jell-O. Palms, usually warm and dry, turned slick with a cold sweat.
I have always been an anxious person. I fall asleep at night making a list of things I should worry about the next day, and I can barely eat before I take tests—or when getting them back. But since setting aside my cello bow and classical music career, and coming to Harvard, I have rarely had to confront such situations of individual performance that make me black out with fear. Oftentimes, at 21 and a full foot taller than I was at age 10, I think I’ve matured from the days of nearly running away from my instrument.
***
The security line at 100 Centre Street is full of New Yorkers finishing up bagels, sipping iced coffee, and typing on iPhones with conviction. They are real adults, in a disruption from the routine of everyday life.
When I dress to leave for jury duty, at an hour far earlier than my college-adjusted body clock is ready for, I cover my knees with a long skirt and pull my hair back into a neat bun. I am playing pretend as an adult, reporting for civic duty on a day when I’d typically sleep in and spend my time on yoga and frozen yogurt.
In the waiting room, I fiddle with my red-and-white summons, mishearing the directions and tearing it apart incorrectly. I sit between an older woman, who continues to serve despite her eligibility for an exemption due to age (75), and a chatty younger woman who hates her job so much she actively wants to be picked. The courthouse is eons dirtier than even my unkempt and much-abused suite bathroom in Cabot, and I eat flavorless dumplings for lunch next to a table of cops.
***
I am called to voir dire for an assault and attempted murder trial. As I enter the courtroom, I realize this is the first one I’ve ever been in, and the closest I’ve come to the criminal justice system recently is binge-watching the first season of “Orange is the New Black.”
When I find out that the trial is expected to last at least two weeks, I try to reason with the judge to excuse me then. I insist to him that this won’t work since I have to start my summer internship the coming Monday, and he tells me he will call my boss.
The place occupied by Juror No. 10 is vacated three consecutive times; first, a former cop is easily dismissed, while the next candidate knows a party involved in the case, and a final juror does not speak adequate English to participate in the trial. I am called for the seat.
As I approach the juror’s box, a panic grips my entire body. My legs quake and despite the arctic temperature of the room, my face flushes and reddens. I can’t remember the last time I had to speak into a microphone, especially in front of a room of dozens of adults whom I do not know, and immediately my voice becomes shaky as I speed through the questionnaire, staring into my lap. Suddenly, I am 10 again, wearing penny loafers and a plaid jumper, near tears in the seventh floor bathroom at school.
I am excused from the trial, and absolved from jury duty for the next six years. I leave the courthouse while the sun is still high in the sky, put on my sunglasses, and skip uptown whilst finishing the bag of sour candy I had stashed away in my purse all day. Maybe being a child isn’t so bad, anxiety attacks and all.
Cordelia F. Mendez '16, a Crimson sports chair, is a history concentrator in Cabot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
