News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Like many of us here at Harvard, I’ve been keeping up with what’s going on in New Haven in anticipation of Harvard-Yale weekend. I’ve engaged with many of my peers on this subject in casual conversation, and I have to say that it’s made me unsettled. Too often, “Hey, have you heard about what’s going on at Yale?” has been followed by responses like “Yeah, sucks to be them, huh?” or “score one for Harvard!” or, even worse, “That’ll never happen here.”
My fellow students, we are missing the point. This isn’t about a school rivalry, or ratings and rankings. This is about institutions like ours continuing to fail significant portions of the populations they govern. It’s about the larger issue of our institutions trying to quell the voices that desire desperately to be heard, instead of critically and genuinely engaging with the problems that exist within our campus. To say that what is going on at Yale—and even Missouri-Columbia—would “never happen at Harvard” is to demonstrate ignorance as to the kind of institution we attend and to ignore the history of similar abuses that have occurred on our campus in the past and continue to this day.
I remember speaking with a friend about the apparent “white girls only” party held at Yale’s SAE, at which many of my friends at Yale were discriminated against on the basis of their skin color. I was met with a reply of “That’s terrible; it’s a good thing we go to Harvard.” But Harvard isn’t exempt.
In 1952, 11 black students woke up to the flames of a burning cross, a symbol of the KKK, outside their windows. Just a few years ago, students organized the “I, too, am Harvard” movement in direct response to constant rebukes of their legitimacy as Harvard students. Last year, a group of non-violent student protesters, who convened at the starting blocks of primal scream in order to demonstrate solidarity with the black lives that are discarded in our country every day, were met with hostile chants of “USA!” and, according to some bystanders, "stop ruining our fun."  According to reports from fellow students, on the same night as Yale’s SAE’s party, people paraded, with impunity, throughout Harvard’s campus wearing black face.
Given the striking evidence, I find it disheartening and unnerving that students believe Harvard is somehow immune to the issues that plague other college campuses. And as a black student on this campus, I find it disappointing that my fellow peers fail to acknowledge the past and current wrongs of this institution against people like me, and ride off our suffering as ruining their fun.
I’m not here to complain, I’m not here to play “woe is me.” I simply want us to keep in mind that we must always be critical of our environments, especially in times where similar environments are experiencing unrest. We should see what’s happening at Yale as a reminder, as well as foreshadowing, of what can occur here if we do not engage in this kind of reflection; be it on issues of race, mental health, sexual assault, or anything of the like.
After all, to ignore the history and potential of continuation of bigotry and racism on our campus would be to further the inevitability of the level of unrest at our peer institutions coming into fruition here at Harvard.
Robert Rush '18 is a social studies concentrator living in Pforzheimer House. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Isaac Royall Jr., in the words of one Harvard Law professor, was “a brutal slaveholder.” He was born into a colonial-era family of wealthy Triangle Trade merchants and owned about sixty slaves by our best estimates. At one point, Royall and his father brokered the sale of 121 human beings in one day. Another time, they had 77 slaves burned alive at the stake following a failed rebellion.
In his 1779 will, Royall left land for Harvard College to establish its first professorship in law. The donation grew into the founding of Harvard Law School, whose seal to this day includes three sheaves of wheat—the Royall family’s coat of arms.
The more you read into Royall’s history, the eerier this connection becomes. In his professional pursuits, Royall was everything that Harvard—and really any modern institution—stands against. Royall was deeply bigoted. And herein lies the compelling logic behind the new “Royall Must Fall” student movement that is urging the Law School to change its seal.
But a deeper look into history shows that cleansing Harvard of slavery’s legacy would be more difficult than it seems.
In 2007, Laird Bell Professor of History Sven Beckert, along with 33 students, launched an ambitious investigation of Harvard’s past implication with slavery. The 36-page report found that “Harvard’s history entails a whole range of connections to slavery.”
The report noted that in colonial times, students ate meals and slept in beds prepared by slaves. Harvard Presidents Increase Mather, Benjamin Wadsworth, and Edward Holyoke all owned slaves, as did First Church of Cambridge Minister William Brattle. That’s one Residential House, one building in the Yard, and two streets in the Square.
When slavery was finally outlawed in Massachusetts during the American Revolution, Harvard had already been around for almost 150 years.
But Harvard’s dark past doesn’t stop there. According to Law School visiting professor Dan Coquillette, who recently published a book about the Law School’s early history, the story continues through the Civil War.
“Leaders of the school, [like Professor] Emory Washburn, told the students in 1860 not to discuss slavery,” Coquillette was recently quoted in The Harvard Law Record. “The school had so many southern alumni, partially because the school marketed aggressively in the South. There were 600 graduates of the school in the Deep south and they were all in positions of leadership after the war. The Mayor of Atlanta, Governor of South Carolina, founder of the University of Texas.”
These examples point to the impossibility of erasing history. Should the Royall Must Fall campaign succeed in changing the Law School’s seal, it would only be a drop in the bucket towards an impractical goal of changing every namesake with a connection to a past filled with different moral standards than those we have today.
As far as I know, there are no pro-slavery individuals on campus using the Law School’s crest as a rallying cry. One would be hard-pressed to find an individual at Harvard who did not object to Royall’s slaveholding. Thus, getting rid of the seal would serve no real political good. This is what differentiates the Law School’s seal from the South Carolina capitol’s Confederate battle flag, which was taken down because it was a source of pride for many.
Yale is now having a similar discussion with regards to Calhoun College, a residential dorm whose namesake (after one of American history’s foremost slavery advocates) is inappropriate in the eyes of some students.
Yale Dean Jonathan Holloway weighed in, saying that instead of renaming Calhoun, it should remain “as an open sore, frankly, for the very purpose of having conversations about this.”
Holloway continued, “I’ve seen too many instances where Americans have very happily allowed themselves to be amnesiac and changed the name of something and walked away.”
If the Law School changed its crest, it would simply generate a “so what?” question. It would serve no political or symbolic good, while effectively exempting the need for any conversation on the subject. Rather than the Royall coat of arms falling from the Law School seal, it should remain as a reminder of Harvard’s darker past and the drastically different moral code we embrace today.
Aaron J. Miller ’18, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Currier House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: November 12, 2015, at 1:57 p.m.
Last month, the University released a “Frequently Asked Questions” document that sought to explain and clarify various aspects of the new sexual harassment policy; the document also announced the designation of the Bureau of Study Counsel and the College Office of BGLTQ Student Life, in addition to student peer counseling groups, as confidential resources that will not disclose reports of sexual harassment to a Title IX coordinator without the student’s permission, unless legally compelled. It is still possible that staff members of either of these two organizations may be required to share information in certain circumstances.
The announcement comes as a victory for those who have criticized Harvard for a lack of confidential counseling services for survivors of sexual assault. Before the change in policy, the Bureau of Study Counsel could pass on reports of sexual assault to Harvard’s Title IX coordinator. In many cases, students who are sexually assaulted are fearful or hesitant to turn to such resources; it is our hope that the added confidential resources will help increase the likelihood that the victims of harassment or assault seek help and support.
In the seven weeks since the publication of the alarming results of the sexual conduct climate survey in September, Harvard has taken several important steps to reorganize its prevention and counseling resources. And rightly so: The survey uncovered a series of deeply distressing numbers. The statistics are particularly alarming for female undergraduate students identifying as lesbian, gay, asexual, questioning, or not listed, 17.9 percent of whom reported experiencing nonconsensual contact involving physical force or incapacitation, compared to 12 percent of their straight female undergraduate peers. It is thus particularly commendable that the BGLTQ office can now guarantee confidentiality. Experience shows that many BGLTQ students are less likely to seek needed help when they lack access to staff specifically trained to advise on BGLTQ issues.
However, we still have reservations about the Bureau of Study Counsel—a key mental health resource—being beholden to the College’s jurisdiction. It was announced last spring that the BSC would move under the purview of the College from the control of University Health Services; correspondingly, the BSC is now governed by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, rather than the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. Under the latter, student information cannot be passed to faculty or administrators without the student’s written permission; on the other hand FERPA allows for this information can be shared under a “strict need-to-know basis.” Though an FAS spokesperson has declared that the College would not use this information for disciplinary purposes, the BSC’s move continues to pose problems of confidentiality for conversations between students and BSC advisers, especially for topics as sensitive as sexual assault.
It is clear in viewing the “Frequently Asked Question” document that the University is making a concerted effort to improve its sexual assault policies; moreover, the changes delineated represent a willingness to listen to student feedback that is admirable. We hope that this particular set of changes marks a step toward a situation where students recovering from sexual assault feel comfortable turning to Harvard as a source of counsel and support.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: November 12, 2015
An earlier version of this editorial incorrectly stated the legal status of the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response. In fact, OSAPR is a legally privileged resource.    
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It’s 5 p.m. on a Thursday, and Fong Auditorium is packed. Some attendees sport horn-rimmed glasses, and we spot a Bernie Sanders t-shirt a few rows back. Professors, TFs, and students alike postpone dinner and meetings for what promises to be a worthwhile hour.
Amidst the chatter, two men slip into the auditorium. The Stratis Haviaras Reading, co-sponsored by the English Department and the Woodberry Poetry Room, is about to start. The first reader, Geoffrey G. O’Brien, dons a medium-blue dress shirt, a little too tight, and rolled up past his elbows. The second reader dresses the way one might imagine a thirty-something professor and MacArthur Fellow would: He wears a collared shirt peeking out of a charcoal sweater, with black jeans tucked into boots. Unmistakably arched eyebrows confirm that this is Ben Lerner.
O’Brien reads first, opening with his poem “Quick Trip,” a reflection on the tragedy in Ferguson two years ago. He tells us it’s about “the pain of remote witness.” Social activism and movement are themes throughout the work that O’Brien shares with the audience. O’Brien has a firm presence in front of a crowd: good projection, eye contact, everything your mother taught you about posture. His delivery is measured and consistent—often the pause between two poems is indistinguishable from his pause between stanzas or even lines.
While he reads, we look to the audience. Some listen intently, chins in hands. Some fidget in their seats, and some sleep. One line gets everyone laughing: “Life is horrible, but pleasant to recall.”
Lerner then takes the stage, and after some fiddling with the mic launches into his reading of “Dilation”: “We need to harness the vaguely erotic disappointment that attends the realization you aren’t being followed.”
He reads with a kind of personal intensity, hands anchored to the podium, chest leaning towards his book, forcing him to push his glasses up every few seconds as they slip down his nose. His poems pour out like waterfalls, words strung together to create a ceaseless yet purposeful movement. It’s easy to fall into his poetry, to be absorbed by it.
Lerner himself is engrossed, emerging only to check the clock when people exit noisily, perhaps fleeing for 6 p.m. commitments. “Have I been reading for a really long time?” he asks, “I just started right? I didn’t have a temporal lobe problem?”
After the poets conclude their readings, the room is opened up for a Q and A. Some questions seem like caricatures of a highbrow poetry reading at Harvard—deciphering the question is a serious task itself. Others are more accessible. When asked what he likes to read, Lerner tells us he’s “interested in what the people he loves love to read. Even if I don’t like it, I am interested in why I don’t like it.” We get the chance to ask about the writing process, trying to get a snapshot of a day in the life of a poet.
“It’s pretty ugly,” Lerner jokes. O’Brien agrees, adding, “I don’t write very often. I think poets get upset at how much their labor looks like leisure.”
The last few questions asked have to do with audience: Whom do they imagine reading their work? Lerner describes what he calls an author’s “shifting fantasy of reception.” Some have “imagined displacements of readerships in the future,” but he likes to think he’s writing for some current readers, as well. Lerner also mentions one unique readership: his in-laws.
“It’s distressing. I’m definitely aware of it. It’s a new compositional pressure.”
As to how to handle the audience at a live reading, O’Brien offers the best advice: “Focus on the person who is emphatically nodding.” Both poets agree today’s crowd is ideal. Lerner describes his nightmare audience: “The worst thing you can have is a giant, captive audience, like 2,000 freshman, all [taking videos] on their phones.” Luckily, tonight, there are no phones in sight.
Sections
Remember that feeling of uncontrollable excitement you had when your fourth-grade teacher announced the class field trip to the city zoo? Now take that emotion and multiply it by approximately six billion. Why, you ask? Because FM has news for you: Your field-tripping days have only just begun. As long as you take the right classes and/or choose the right concentrations, you can travel the globe on Harvard’s dime. FM is prepared to share the inside scoop and make your wildest dreams of adventure possible. There’s no time to waste—concentration deadlines are right around the corner. So get those study cards signed, and then get packing!
First Stop: the Caribbean with the Integrative Biology Department
Are you interested in sponges, mollusks, and arthropods? (Follow-up question: Do you even know what they are?) If yes, join OEB 51 and prepare to learn a LOT more about invertebrates—while enjoying the glowing sun, crystal blue waters, and soft white sand of the Caribbean for a week over spring break. In the interest of full disclosure, FM can confirm that there might be snorkeling. If snakes are more up your alley, opt instead for OEB 167 (Herpetology) and cozy up to some reptiles in Costa Rica.
Next Stop: An "Ocean Cruise" with the Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences
Geology doesn’t sound so boring after all! EPS concentrators take their travels seriously. Many concentrators are given the opportunity to sail the seas and investigate Atlantic currents. Feel seasick just thinking about it? No worries: EPS also offers sponsored travels to Hawaii and the Canadian Rockies. Just one heads up—the Hawaii trip does include a visit to an active volcano. So there’s that. 
Third Stop: The South and Southwest
Instead of spending your J-Term with Netflix, spend it with fellow ESPP concentrators on the trip of a lifetime. Politics? Mother Earth? What’s not to love here? Plot twist: The department’s January 2016 destination has thus far been kept under wraps. Still, checking out some of their past excursions will definitely get you excited. Most recently, ESPP students have journeyed to Florida’s Key West, sailed across the Gulfstream, and explored the Rio Grande corridor as well as the Colorado Plateau. 
Last Stop: literally the entire world thanks to History of Art and Architecture
Are you just not the science type? Has all this talk of rocks and lizards got you down? Never fear—Harvard will still take you on vacation. Even better, you can go ANYWHERE ON THE PLANET. OK, maybe not anywhere. But various HAA classes have ventured to everywhere from Teotihuacan, Mexico, to Dunhuang, China. Amsterdam, the Netherlands! Florence, Italy! Istanbul, Turkey! South Africa! Switzerland! If you’re feeling some international love, HAA is the thing for you.
With that, FM wishes you bon voyage and happy declaring! And when all the new Ec and CS concentrators (a.k.a. everyone else you know) ask why you’re smiling smugly, whip out that travel itinerary and watch their jaws drop. 
Sections
Thanksgiving is fast approaching, but you don’t have time to dilly-dally about. You have no family, no friends, and nothing to give thanks for, but that won’t stop you from having the best holiday of your life. You see, this year you’ve decided to invest in the greatest of all Turkey Day traditions, the cornucopia. Only one question remains.
What are you gonna stuff in it?
You could follow the tried and tested route (or root, you should say), stuffing all manners of squash and corn and fruit and stuff in there. It must be done that way for a reason, you think. Maybe the cornucopias like it that way. And you do want your cornucopia to be happy. Maybe if your cornucopia was happy, it would make you happy, and you could be happy together. Or perhaps, inspired by the turducken, you wonder whether you might triple the fun. Why stick with one cornucopia, when you could have more? Just jam a second one in there, and then maybe a third for good measure, like little Russian nesting dolls.
Oh hey, Bill, you could call, addressing your neighbor who definitely does not have his life more together than you do. What’s in your cornucopia? Sour grapes? Hahaha. Oh Bill, one cornucopia is such a you thing to do. You may notice that I have six cornucopias, Bill, and they’re all inside of each other.
But wow, you start to think. It took you all these years to work up the nerve to stuff just one cornucopia. Even two seems like too much to handle. The logistics alone... You decide to shelve this plan until you become more adventurous and carefree.
OK, get it together, you shout, slapping your own face to get your damn head in the damn game. Stick to what you know. You take a handful of New England produce and ready yourself at the entrance of your cornucopia. You’re a little nervous. This is your first time stuffing, after all.
Ding, dong.
What was that? Someone at the door? You go through your mental list of people who would stop by to see you right before Thanksgiving. Then you remember that no one’s on that list. That didn’t help. Curious, you put down the fistful of produce, a little relieved that the act has been delayed, and open the door.
Standing on the doorstep is a trio of squash. The one in the back smokes a cigarette with that kind of devil-may-care attitude you’ve always coveted. The front two are bulky, thickly roped, curvy gourds wearing dark sunglasses.
Uh, hello. What do you want?
You find yourself stammering. The muscly squash don’t reply, but they advance menacingly toward you. You panic and try to shut the door, but one throws a vine past the threshold, keeping the door open, and follows you into the house.
Oh god, you should have never tried to mess with squash! Everyone knows they’re fiercely possessive of their own kind. You run back toward the kitchen. You had left a knife on the table, and wonder whether you could fight them off. But before you can reach it you feel them overtake you. It’s too late.
No, no! I was going to stuff some other cornucopias in there! I promise it wasn’t going to be you!
It’s no use, and you’re dragged to the yawning mouth of your precious cornucopia.
The musclesquash pause, and look back at their leader. He’s leaning against your kitchen door, smoking indoors and, dammit, you wonder whether, if you were half the kind of squash he was, you might never have gotten into this mess. He nods, somehow, and they push you into the gaping abyss.
What’s stuffed in your cornucopia?
It’s you.
Sections

The crowd is roaring, the score is tied, and spectators wait with bated breath on the edge of their seats.
Just kidding.
This is intramural inner tube water pool at Blodgett Pool, which involves a bunch of students perched on inner tubes, frantically paddling with legs and arms akimbo to reach the goals on either side. We sit by the side of the pool, observing the spectacle. Justin Bieber’s new hit single “Sorry” plays over the speakers. A lone girl sits on the bleachers, staring into the pool.
Six boys fill one side of the pool, clad in swim trunks in Hawaiian print and fluorescent solid tones. One boy is alone in the water. He lies straight on his back across an inner tube, his eyes closed and his wet hair slicked back.
It’s 1:30 p.m. on a Saturday afternoon. Leverett is set to face Dunster in intramural inner tube water polo. The problem? There are eight people from Dunster and not a single person from Leverett. We motion one of the Dunster players over to facetiously ask him about the turn-out. His eyes scan across the pool and the empty bleachers. He stares off into the distance, or perhaps at the non-existent Leverett players. “There was never a doubt in my mind that Dunster would advance this far into the game,” he says. His serious face breaks into a huge grin, and we all laugh.
At around 1:45 p.m., just when we begin wondering if this is just a pool party for a Dunster blocking group and not an actual intramural game, two girls from Leverett walk in. The referee calls everyone together to inform the participants that they will begin playing a game for five minutes—two against eight—until at least five more Leverett members come. If they don’t, Leverett will automatically forfeit.
The whistle blows, and the bloodbath begins. Except, the bloodbath actually looks incredibly silly. The players sit on top of bright yellow inner tubes, violently paddling with their arms and legs to move about. One of the girls from Leverett is the goalie. The other is given the impossible task of playing both offense and defense. Unsurprisingly, when just two more Leverett stragglers join in after five minutes, the game is called. Leverett has forfeited.
Yet, it is only after the official match concludes that the true fun begins. Because the score no longer matters, the students abandon their House loyalty and divide themselves into two equal groups. An athletic girl eagerly jumps in—ridiculous paddling somehow looks strangely elegant on her limbs.
At one point during the game, an unassuming elderly couple wanders in. They stop, gawk a bit, and ask, “Is this inner tube water polo?” The referee nods, and the couple continues to stare at the water spraying everywhere. We’re impressed: They deserve the award for the most dedicated and supportive grandparents.
The referee finally blows the whistle to signal that five minutes are left. One tall, blonde boy yells out, “Final goal wins!” Everyone enthusiastically nods. This single goal will determine the outcome of the game.
The players begin paddling frantically, immense amounts of water splashing out of the pool. It’s the moment we’ve been waiting for. A one-on-one play. The goalie—the last line of defense—faces off against a single opposing offender. Everyone tenses. The offender lobs an arcing ball over the goalie’s head, and it sails into the back of the net.
The whistle blows, and students from the next intramural inner tube water polo team suddenly jump in. The Dunster and Leverett players laugh and high-five each other.
That’s game.
Sections
Intense bass frequencies shake the stacks. The pungent smell of beer-soaked parchment permeates the air. This is a party in Pusey Library, and the party is pumping.
In light of the current social drought on Harvard’s campus, everyone’s favorite student organization, the Undergraduate Council, has entertained a number of possible referenda, one of which includes turning an actual library into a “freshman-oriented” social space. This week, FM is imagining turning up (and turning the pages) in Pusey.
10:30 p.m.
You’re a freshman, new to the college scene, and fully dissatisfied with your social life. But there’s a light―and a library―at the end of the tunnel (specifically, the tunnel on Widener Level D). You’ve got a party to go to tonight. It’s the party in Pusey.
11:00 p.m.
After donning your sexiest pair of reading glasses, you meet your friends and head over to wait in the quickly growing line. This party is the place to be. A group of girls from BU is escorted out of the building by an incredibly disinterested HUPD officer. “We know books here,” they protest. “They’re in the stacks! Jane Eyre, we’ve read Jane Eyre!” It seems as though the whole of Boston is desperate to get in. You and your friends stake a spot in the line, which now snakes all the way from literary criticism on Floor 1 East to South Asian Studies on Floor 5 West.
11:45 p.m.
You just got in. The air is heavy with heat and the lingering stench of dissertation-induced sweat. Someone mops up the spills from a game of beer pong with former University President Charles W. Eliot’s handwritten letters. You aren’t tipsy enough for that yet, so you head further in, passing the geography section, handing now filled with unemployed librarians handing out resumes along with maps of the library’s three floors. Someone tells you that P3 is 21 and up; you know exactly where you’ll be heading.
12:00 a.m.
Here, the thumping bass becomes louder. The doors slide open to sociological texts and a smoke-filled rager. Someone from the crowd shouts something about the Dewey Decimal system. This isn’t some lame bookstore party, after all: This is Pusey.
1:00 a.m.
After a while, you spot one of the UC rep candidates for your Yard, and head over, waving. The rep beckons you over to the restricted collections, and whispers in your ear “Here’s where the really good research materials are.” A grad student from wearing a “Harvard Divinity School” t-shirt offers a hit off a joint rolled with a page from a biography of early 20th-century socialist John Reed. You inhale deeply, then proceed to do three shots of some sort of feminist theory. Some MIT students walk by, whispering about the party in the Phillips Reading Room.
THE NEXT DAY
You wake up at 1:40 p.m. to four Kong containers, all of which are empty, and a history of the Massachusetts prison system open over your face. You don’t even know the name of its author. Your head is pounding, and you can’t remember anything more than a few blurry titles from the last 12 hours. Your roommate is still asleep, so you place the book inconspicuously on your own bookshelf. That Pusey party was intense.
Sections
When Tripp E. Nichols ushers you into the cave, he tells you to watch your head, and step carefully. You must watch your head because the concrete ceiling hangs low, and step carefully because shallow puddles of water cover the floor. When you have positioned yourself between the narrow shelf-lined walls, Nichols directs your attention toward the cheese.
Above ground, it’s a busy Saturday afternoon at Formaggio Kitchen on Huron Avenue. Dozens of customers squeeze through the gourmet shop’s aisles, carrying plastic baskets and wooden toothpicks. (Today’s samples include an aged comté from the Jura mountains, a buttery, milder cheddar from the same region, and latte vecchio from the Lessini mountains outside of Verona.) A woman nudges her husband as he reaches for his fourth bite-sized cube. The air’s pungent.
The cheese on display makes up only a small fraction of Formaggio's stock. The rest is stored in a temperature -and humidity-controlled cellar beneath the shop. There, dense, giant yellow wheels line the walls. Cylindrical blocks of Montgomery Cheddar from South Somerset, England, look like tree stumps, and wheels of Italian parmesan weigh over 80 pounds. Wheels of mimolette resemble crater-filled moon rocks and feel like bowling balls in your arms. They shed orange dust.
“Cheese mites,” Nichols explains. “Kind of gross, right?” Nichols, the store’s general manager and cheese buyer, wears corduroy maroon pants and a light blue polo shirt. His round, bearded face lights up when he talks about his job—which involves traveling to Europe to meet with producers (mostly local farmers) and affineurs, or agers.
To demonstrate the work of an affineur, Nichols pulls out a small, t-shaped metal tool called a cheese iron. “It’s for listening to cheeses,” he explains. Nichols reaches for the 70-pound comté and taps it six or seven times. A skilled affineur can detect subtle variations in vibrations and thereby locate the inner cracks that indicate a cheese needs to be cut up and sold. Nichols works with a Parisian affineur named Jean-Claude, who’s been in the business for 35 years and can measure the exact depth of these cracks based on sound alone.
How does one obtain such expertise? “You just start from the bottom and have a good palette,” Nichols says. (Later, on the subject of his own ambitions, Nichols—who started as a cashier at Formaggio’s—only reveals that he’d like to stay in the industry for a long time, and maybe bring in some new cheeses from California.)
The cheese iron has another purpose. Its hollow end fits into a wheel of cheese and carves out a sample-sized cylinder. Nichols grinds the iron into the comté and offers me half of the cylinder (he plugs the other half back into the cheese, to close the air hole). The sharp, salty cheddar has a slight crunch.
“This is just unheard of in the United States,” Nichols says. He obtained the three-year old wheels only after making multiple trips to the Jura, and building trust with producers there. Comté, a French cheese made from unpasteurized milk, is considered one of the finest in the world. French ACO regulations require 20 inspectors to grade each wheel, and those that score under 12 marks must be sold as Gruyere. The FDA, however, prohibits shipping dairy products made with raw milk into the U.S.
Nichols has had cheeses confiscated and destroyed, and held at customs until they’ve become too moldy and horrible to sell. Most of the time, Nichols avoids the risk of purchasing from blacklisted producers. When it comes to certain cheeses, though, like the comté and Robiola-style blends of cow’s, sheep’s, and goat’s milk, “it’s totally worth it.”
(For the most part, the job’s not too stressful. Nichols ends days reading articles on his laptop while snacking on a thin sliver of cheese.)
One such illicit brand sits in the cave’s inner chamber, where four walls of shelves surround a humidifying machine made out of turned-over clay pots. The treasure among the soft cheeses stored here, Nichols says, is the ekiola arda gasna fermier, from a sheep farm in the Basque region of the Pyrenees. Like the comté, it’s made from raw milk prohibited by the FDA—so Formaggio has it shipped under a different name.
“But it has these,” Nichols says, holding up a wheel of ekiola under the light. He indicates a cow skull engraved on its rind. For those in the know, the skull marks the cheese’s identity.
When asked whether smuggling such cheeses is illegal, Nichols demurs: “They don’t have all the certifications that they need.”
Another illicit product hides on a shelf deep in Formaggio’s labyrinth-like stockrooms, where Nichols escapes the humidity of the cheese cave. It’s a small container of meat rub that lacks the nutrition labeling required by the FDA. Nichols purchased it from an Italian butcher named Dario Cecchini who famously sings in his shop and offers customers a taste of raw meat from a bowl behind the counter.
Perched on a short stool tucked behind the salt shelf, Nichols says that he tracks down such products because he’s determined to please his most particular customers. Though some connoisseurs ask for products Formaggio’s can’t stock—like pule, a Serbian cheese made from donkey’s milk, whose entire supply has been bought up by tennis player Novak Djokavic, or casu marzu, an Italian cheese that contains live insect larvae—he can usually meet demands. (Formaggio’s stocks, among its rarest products, a sheep’s milk cheese coated in sheep’s wool.)
According to Nichols, Formaggio’s success depends on care to both cheese and customers. To the former end, Nichols and his staff arrive at the shop two hours before opening to gently scrape off the light layer of fat that forms over cheese rinds overnight. To the latter end, Nichols claims that he has a special knack.
“I have a good sense of reading people and reading what [cheeses] people want,” he says. “I can tell off the bat whether they love it or like it or if it’s just fine.”
At this point, a woman enters the cellar and calls for Nichols.
“You have an Adam.”
Nichols stares at her blankly.
“A tall guy?”
“Oh!” Nichols exclaims in recognition. “Knifemaker Adam!”
Upstairs, while Nichols meets with knifemaker Adam, there are samples to taste and baked goods to browse. After the meeting ends, Nichols steps behind the counter to demonstrate his cheese-choosing abilities. He offers a goat cheese, a blue cheese, and a soft Swiss to taste. When it comes time for the final purchase, he can tell which has made the strongest impression.
“The comté?”
Indeed.
Smuggled cheeses go for high prices, so just a small sliver has to do. Later, at a small gathering in Quincy House, it’s devoured to the rind. A pleased guest calls it “the meat of the gods.”
Sections
On Oct. 30 in Memorial Church, Alicia Garza—the special projects director for the National Domestic Workers Alliance and the co-founder of the #BlackLivesMatter network—gave the Ninth Annual Robert Coles “Call of Service” Lecture. She discussed her thoughts on #BlackLivesMatter, the transformative power of resistance, and how the call of service must be redefined. Afterward, there was a brief press period for reporters. When I entered the anteroom, Garza was lounged on the couch, exhausted from the lecture. She was in the middle of fielding questions from an unsettled daughter of Haitian immigrants.
Student: “They have a lot more to lose because they see the conditions where they came from—and this is as good as it gets.”
AG: “Do you think that they love their life?”
Student: “I think they’re just extra cautious.”
AG: “Scared, maybe?”
Student: “Terrified.”
AG: “That’s what keeps most people from being a part of the movement. It’s not for everybody, but for some people. When you study history, there were so many people who were watching and it actually took them years to get over their fear. It got to a point where they didn’t have a choice, and it got to a point where they were so inspired by the people around them.”
With that, the student thanked Alicia Garza and left. A reporter from The Boston Globe began her line of questioning.
Boston Globe Reporter: “It seems like we reached so far, and then now people are asking did we backslide from the ’60s and ’70s? Was something left undone? Was there some sort of backlash that undid it?”
AG: “Both. There’s lots that I think we left undone. And one is that a lot of our movement and movement infrastructure got absorbed into the state and then we became responsible for doing the work of the state and that was a result of a backlash.”
BGR: “Some people would say that is systemic change. Systemic change is being absorbed into the state, getting your agenda on the budget, and that’s how change is affected.”
AG: “Well no, because you can make lots of changes if you have some degree of power, but changing isn’t governance, and whoever governs wins. Part of what we left undone was actually that transformative assessment of what does it mean to actually seize power. Power isn’t being at the table. I think we’ve learned that. We have a black president. We have more black legislators than we have ever had, and to be quite honest we can’t move stuff, and what we can move is largely a corporate agenda. So there was stuff that was both left undone and that we didn’t learn the full lesson of...I think the fight got re-conceptualized to being, well, if we have people at the table, that in and of itself is power. But if you don’t have a movement to hold those people accountable or a movement that those folks feel accountable to, then you’ve just got a seat at the table.”
BGR: “So much of the agenda that really needs to be out there is about class. In the ’60s and ’70s there was a huge leap forward for some people of color. Is there a possibility of a transformational partnership with the white underclass?”
AG: “You can’t have a transformational partnership with the white underclass without combating white supremacy in order to see that there’s common interest. What’s happening in Appalachia is not at all that different from what is happening in Compton, except Appalachia isn’t being gentrified. The barrier that we can’t get over is race.”
The reporter thanked Alicia, and I was able to begin my own line of questioning.
FM: “So, there’s a tendency as black students, especially at Harvard, to think that some of the things that are happening cannot happen to us, or that because we made it out, we think like, ‘Why didn’t some of our classmates take advantage of some of the opportunities that were out there?’ And so many of us are going into policy and into positions of power. I can see that this mindset is implicitly affecting us, a little bit. What can black Harvard students and black students at an elite university do to help the movement and also make sure we’re not thinking in those ways?”
AG: “Black exceptionalism is really dangerous, and what I mean by that is, for example, I’m noticing language about black folks that doesn’t include us. Even in our narratives, we are like, ‘How do we empower them? How do we help them?’ But they are us and we are them, so that’s challenging. And I think that is part of the role in some ways of these types of institutions, that it creates an elite class that then feels that it is very separate from what’s around it. And the goal is to get out as opposed to get in.”
FM: “And also this is something that I’ve noticed. Students will get to a higher, like upper middle class, and they’ll decide to live in white neighborhoods. It’s understandable, but I mean how do we change what our goals are and what we see as success?”
AG: “I think we need to stop filtering our vision of success through the lens of white supremacy, so I get what you’re talking about, too, which is there are not a lot of resources in our communities. And maybe for some people it’s not about wanting to live in white communities, but wanting to live near amenities, like grocery stores, but we still have to deal with the fact that there are still no grocery stores in South [Washington, D.C]. That doesn’t go away and, that’s kind of what I was talking about in terms of the service bit. Do we hold ourselves responsible for each other? Not so much in the way of, ‘Once I make it, I’ll serve at a soup kitchen once a month,’ but do we see ourselves as responsible for each other. I think that is something we could kind of dig into. Caring for each other means not isolating each other and being responsible for taking care of ourselves in conditions that are dehumanizing. We need our communities to support us. That can look a bunch of different ways: places of joy, places to talk about what we’re afraid of. So much of that happens in private spaces, and I think there are ways in which we can build on that.”

Sections
As dusk descended on the Ides of March, 1980, Michael T. Hsieh ’80 distributed leaflets outside the neo-Georgian façade of the New College Theater, now known as Farkas Hall. He and other members of Harvard’s Asian-American Association gathered to protest the Hasty Pudding Theatricals’ use of a perceived racist character, Edgar Foo Yung, in their 1980 production, “A Little Knife Music.” Over 50 students from the Black Students Association and La Raza Organizacion joined them in chanting a resounding refrain: “Racism isn’t funny.”
Each leaflet the protesters handed out displayed a different caricature. One included a grotesquely exaggerated representation of Edgar Foo Yung, a stereotypical Asian poisoned by the play’s end because of his romantic interest in Mea, the white heroine. In the image, Edgar has a demonic, lustful grin on his face, complete with a thin mustache, buck teeth, arched eyebrows, narrow eyes, a flat nose, and long, pointy nails. His sketched visage looms large over a frightened Mea—daintily portrayed with shoulder-length curls tied with a bow—who gapes in horror. “The slimy Asian man mustn’t touch white lady syndrome,” the caption reads, borrowing a line from the play.
When asked about these racialized representations at the time, the musical’s script writer, Andrew W. Sellon ’81, told The Crimson that he didn’t anticipate the images affecting the audience’s reception of the play. “Basically, that’s something they’re [the AAA] reading in,” he wrote.
Hasty Pudding president David I. Levi ’80 reinforced this innocuous take on the play’s racist undertones. “In no way can any character in the show be likened to any individual living or dead,” he wrote in a letter to The Crimson, which was published hours before the play opened on March 15, 1980. “Edgar Foo Yung is such a character. He bears no resemblance to any Asian person past or present.”
Yet where the Hasty Pudding, which has been performing since 1844, saw jest, the AAA saw malice.
Led by Florence Houn ’80, the student organization’s two-month-long poster campaign against “A Little Knife Music” galvanized campus-wide discussions about the Harvard “establishment” and its treatment of minority students.
“At the founding of AAA, many of us were not previously exposed to racial and societal issues facing Asian-Americans,” recalls Hsieh, one of the major campaign organizers against the Pudding, in a recent phone interview. “But we embarked on our journey of political awakening and started to work together as a unified group.”
And indeed, this awakening produced results. Though the Pudding ultimately rejected removing Edgar’s character, the theater group agreed to include the AAA’s letter of protest in its playbill.
Members continued to dissent after the play had ended, too, writing editorial after editorial to highlight what they described as the theatrical group’s complacency as symptomatic of the campus’s underlying racist humor that tried to “elicit a nervous laugh or two.”
The Crimson itself garnered criticism for what was considered biased coverage of the play among other events, prompting 43 affinity group leaders—including members of the Harvard-Radcliffe Black Students Association, Asian-American Association, Raza, La Organizacion, Harvard African Students Association, and American Indians at Harvard—to present a set of grievances to the newspaper’s executive board. The representatives included demands that The Crimson “present greater articulation of student protests in its coverage” and “allow Third World students to cover Third World events.”
Two days after the opening night of “A Little Knife Music,” Crimson editors published an apologetic but firm response to these allegations of “unconscious racism.”
“We understand this term to mean an insensitivity to Third World perspectives in the speed and bustle of daily journalism that can reinforce stereotypes,” the staff wrote. “Because of the very meaning of ‘unconscious’ such acts will occur, here at The Crimson and everywhere else, at Harvard and in the world outside.”
Do not enter: The AAA’s Political Beginnings
For Renee Tajima-Peña ’80, the AAA’s advocacy and collaborations across affinity groups during the Pudding incident only continued to build on its highly political beginnings.
As a first-year student at Radcliffe College, Tajima-Peña’s personal experience of exclusion spurred the AAA’s formation. She, along with Florence Houn ’80, attempted to attend a Minority Freshman Banquet sponsored by the University during orientation week in 1976. The banquet, instituted by one of Harvard’s first African American administrators, Dean of Students Archie C. Epps III, admitted only Black and Latino students.
“We were denied entry,” Tajima-Peña said of the University’s reaction in a recent phone interview. “We weren’t considered a minority.”
What followed next foreshadowed the consolidated efforts among affinity groups in response to the Hasty Pudding’s play. Twenty-seven students from 12 different affinity groups submitted a letter to Epps later that month, expressing outrage at Harvard’s discrimination and social prejudice. Although he had decided to include Asian-Americans in minority programs, Epps ultimately rejected the claim that Asians were “oppressed.”
It was this rejection, says Tajima-Peña, that caused students to create the AAA. Many Asian-American students found themselves in “limbo,” she explains; they were both unable to identify with the white majority of students on campus, and separated from other minorities by the University’s definition. “Lots of Asians on campus suppressed this part of their identity,” she recollects.
It was then that the AAA grew from the Coalition of Asian-American Students, a group formed during the Vietnam War to oppose U.S. involvement.
In its early years, the AAA retained its explicitly political leanings, participating in the occupation of The Holyoke Center as part of a campus-wide protest against apartheid. “We shut it down,” Tajima-Peña recalls with a laugh.
Though Tajima-Peña acknowledges the inevitability of the cultural fractioning, she points to the enduring impact of the organization’s origins.
“Even those who were not political people became politicized in the process,” she says, echoing Hsieh’s sentiments. “They’re still involved, which wouldn’t have happened without AAA.”
Today
Today, some students report that cultural and affinity groups have not just been political rallying points, but also spaces to meet new friends.
Josh E. Stallings ’17 joined the Queer Students Association because his roommate urged him to attend an introductory meeting. He now considers himself “highly active in the queer community.”
“There are events all the time,” he says, discussing the group’s ample opportunities for involvement. “The barrier for entry into QSA is very low, just in terms of being able to participate in their events.”
Event attendance and making friends can serve as gateways to further involvement. Now, as a junior, Stallings is the social chair of the group.
Like Stallings, current AAA President Alex J. Pong ’16, first joined AAA for social reasons.
AAA has institutionalized the social aspect of their mission. The current leadership organizes groups of “sib-fams,” or “sibling-families,” which are small groups of students across class years who meet frequently to talk about the group, or more often, to just hang out.
Although ABHW, the Association for Black Harvard Women, doesn’t have a similarly institutionalized mentorship program, current President Eni O. Popoola ’17 found important guides in her older peers. “I saw it as a space to make friends and also make mentors,” she says. “As a freshman, it makes you really excited to know people on this campus.”
The Black Students Association has a “Freshman Black Table”—a mini-board for the freshman class that can serve as an important trial run for further involvement and leadership positions. Popoola didn’t run, but knew she wanted to keep ABHW at the center of her on-campus life.
“There are lots of spaces on this campus where there aren’t many black women,” she says. “If you want it to be, this can be your home base.”
Affinity groups may no longer be the primary space for radical action. Yet they continue to be a forum for heated and topical political discussion.
Vinod E. Nambudiri ’05 was the South Asian Association’s president in 2003 and 2004 during the longer-term aftermath of 9/11 and the 2003 tsunami; both headlines turned the public’s attention toward South Asia.
“There was a lot of geopolitical awareness with events that overlapped with our regional and cultural activities,” Nambudiri recalls in a recent phone interview. “As a result, we had a pretty high level of engagement [with SAA] throughout my time at the College.”
Under Nambudiri’s direction, the group consistently held lectures and panels concerning current events. SAA’s annual dance and cultural pageant, Ghungroo, benefitted the most from the accelerated pace of activity.
That increased attention hasn’t always resulted in increased political engagement. Pong speaks of the difficulty of rallying the Asian-American students currently on-campus about the affirmative action debate.
“You just can’t protest for a lot of this stuff anymore. It’s not super effective in terms of how Harvard works,” Pong says, speaking of the issue as one of law and structure rather than student perception and organization.
For Popoola, it’s an issue not of scale, but of inclusivity and solidarity within the group.
“We give people the room to engage with different levels of discussion and activism,” she says of her own affinity group. “We’re not forcing all black women on this campus to engage in a certain type of dialogue.”
AAA has responded to events seen as most pertinent to its community. In the wake of the 2014 email death threat scandal, which targeted Asian students and included racist language, the group worked with other Asian-American organizations to hold discussions about Asian-American identity; it also started a viral Facebook profile photo campaign to raise outside awareness. The BSA also participated, urging its own members to respond and “stand in solidarity with the Asian and Asian-American Women at Harvard.”
Indeed, the Asian-American community alone is now made up of a more than just AAA. Since the founding of a few initial groups in the 1960s and ’70s, there have been waves of new groups with an almost endless variety of identities.
Some of the organizations had gone defunct— the Harvard Caribbean Club was active in the ’80s, went unregistered, and is now again a functioning organization.The South Asian Women’s Collective is active again after a shuttered decade. A member of the South Asian Association has the option of being not only a part of SAA, but also affiliated groups for women, men, Pakistanis, Bangladeshis, Indians, Hindus, and students interested in an annual conference, among others. AAA works in a similar environment—there are gender groups, nationality-based groups, and ethnicity-based group that all could be seen as competing with AAA’s mission.
Nambudiri doesn’t see the diverse set of groups as competition. “I think that there’s a lot of enrichment that comes from having multiple organizations that all have a link to each other in terms of scope and focus,” he says. “You get a lot of people who are very focused on issues that inevitably overlap. It’s hard to find a women’s issue that won’t affect other parts of the community.”
Student leaders have noticed a move toward this broader engagement, and some recognize their group as a smaller part of a larger conversation.
“We’re becoming more of a group interested in collaboration,” Popoola says. She points to collaboration with Latina and Asian women’s groups as part of an emerging trend.
Stallings has made efforts towards raising awareness around what he calls “intersectionality” as a response to past perceptions of QSA. “[Other students] saw it as a space predominantly dominated by white gay male voices and advanced that perspective, either consciously or unconsciously through their programming,” Stallings says. Stallings spoke of successful partnerships with AAWA, AAA, and BSA as part of a longer trend.
“There are a lot of different efforts to seek out and amplify the voices of queer people of color,” Stallings says.
Pong acknowledges that these attempts to stretch the conversation can be seen as an overreach. Although the group may be about all Asian-Americans, at least in name, Pong isn’t so sure that the group’s mission is that flexible.
“Are we supposed to be an umbrella organization?” Pong asks of the current goals of the AAA.
“We’re not in a good position to represent all of these different groups,” he answers.
However contentious or broad many of their beginnings may have been, affinity groups on campus have continually played a flexible role according to the political and social pressures within groups and in their broader contexts.
Sections
When high school seniors open their acceptance letters to Harvard, they are invited to attend one of the world’s most exclusive institutions. But when students who decide to matriculate arrive on campus as freshmen, they find a whole new set of exclusive institutions with their own barriers to entry. Getting into Harvard doesn’t necessarily mean you’ll feel at home here.
While some students feel easily welcomed into the jargon-heavy culture, others, particularly students of color and those from lower-class backgrounds, say they feel that the College is full of stratified, closed-off organizations. This phenomenon is, according to these students, especially apparent in student groups dedicated to the performing and literary arts.
After all, entrance to many of Harvard’s most prestigious artistic institutions is granted only after a demanding, semester-long comp process. According to organization leaders, these comps are often easier—and less daunting—for students with the time, resources, and prior education relevent to the organization’s particular sphere.
Students from wealthy backgrounds and rigorous prep schools often benefit from this system, having already discussed Heidegger around Harkness tables and performed in Pericles as adolescents. Meanwhile, students from modest backgrounds, particularly those of color, say they find that the comp processes—and other aspects of the organizations themselves—perpetuate inequality and exclusivity. Tired of feeling left out of the performing and literary arts scene at Harvard, some have even forged their own communities of expression.
ADVOCATING FOR DIVERSITY
“I remember coming to the Advocate and being very intimidated, and coming to comp meetings and being terrified of everyone,” says Yen H. Pham ’16, a former Fiction Editor of The Harvard Advocate. “I didn’t connect this to issues of inclusivity until much later.”
Founded in 1866, the Advocate is the oldest continuously published college literary magazine in America, making it older than the state of Colorado, the telephone, and the Fourteenth Amendment. Naturally, as with almost any organization conceived before the promise of equal protection under the law, many of the Advocate’s historically lauded alumni are, in large part, white males—like T.S. Eliot, Class of 1909, Donald Hall ’51, and Norman Mailer ’43.
History presents a quandary for an organization attempting to come across as inclusive, welcoming, and diverse. Should they flaunt their past, or move beyond it?
“I don’t think that celebrating our very white, male history prevents us from being more inclusive,” Pham argues, “as much as the fact that we continue to focus a lot on that history, while ignoring the ways in which the Advocate has improved recently.”
“We have many alumni who aren’t Norman Mailer,” she jokes.
The question of how best to increase diversity, in spite of a whitewashed past, is not unique to the Advocate. In fact, it’s one that nearly all arts organizations at Harvard try to answer as they recruit new classes of students.
An absence of diversity, Pham argues, can be traced back to the comp process.
“You’re a freshman, you come into this dark room, late at night, and there are candles and upperclassmen, who are smoking and drinking wine, and they do these sorts of very obscure readings from the Western Canon,” recalls Pham, in reference to her experiences at the Advocate. “Our comp process…privileged the kind of literary analysis you were most likely to have been exposed to only in a New England prep school or something.”
Julian C. Lucas ’15, a former president of the Advocate, sees some of these problems as difficult to fix. “The aura of the organization…is very difficult to change,” he says. “You can’t change the look of buildings, you can’t change the roster of alumni...and no matter what is done in the present, the legacy is exclusive in a certain way that is negative.”
“The history of Harvard,” he claims, “the history of the United States, is that the further back you go, the more racially and gender-exclusive they are.”
Yet, in spite of these obstacles, Lucas suggests the organization has “improved tremendously” in recent years.
“When I joined, I was the only black person I knew on the Advocate,” Lucas explains. “But when Kevin Hong [’15] and I were elected president and publisher two years ago, inclusivity was one of the first things we talked about, and we tried to address it.”
Alongside Hong, Lucas invited other student organizations, from the African Students Association to the Harvard College Writers Workshop, to partake in collaborative events in their building, “to demonstrate that we’re not an organization that exists just to serve our members, but the whole arts community.”
Lucas did not stop there. Alongside Pham and others at the organization, he helped create an internal demographic survey to better understand how the Advocate’s own members viewed diversity on the magazine.
According to Pham, the survey revealed that the group’s membership skewed heavily toward over-representing students from New York City, while African American and Latino students proved under-represented. Over half the respondents reported that inclusivity of race and class at the organization was a “problem.”
Pham explains that the survey was troubling in that it suggested that, perhaps, the Advocate may miss out on talented prospective members who don’t think that it’s a “space for them.” This problem, however, is one she sees as more complex than just shifting policy.
“As much as I’m coming from a perspective where I’m a member of the Advocate and want it to improve,” she says, “I think it’s up to minority populations to decide whether or not they’re best served by trying to improve primarily white institutions, or whether they’re better served by creating their own outlets.”
REDISCOVERING IDENTITY
In April, a group of Harvard students launched Renegade, an arts and advocacy collective of writers, musicians, poets, activists, and thinkers for students of color on campus. Their mission: “Rediscovering our identities as people of color [at Harvard] by remembering our ancestors’ courageous stories and by dismantling the regimes of colonization and oppression still present at this university.”
Renegade is not the first organization that was founded to provide artists of color with a voice at Harvard. In 1970, a group of black students on campus created the Kuumba Singers with a similar objective: “To express the creativity and spirituality of black people.”
Organizations like BlackC.A.S.T. (a group intended to “provide students of color with a greater opportunity to be involved in theater”) and Renegade echo Kuumba’s effort to create more welcoming arts spaces at Harvard.
Renegade and BlackC.A.S.T. could not be reached for comment.
While these groups are each different in their own ways, they share a common purpose: providing minority students at Harvard with an outlet to express their creativity. After all, even though the College has significantly increased the diversity of the student body in the 45 years since Kuumba’s founding, some artists of color still feel shut out on campus. As LeShae Henderson ’16, president of Kuumba, explains, “Change is slow to come for a lot of these things, and Harvard obviously was made for a certain type of person, so even though now our student body is more diverse, it’ll take time for Harvard itself to be more accommodating to that diversity.” She doesn’t quite see this day as one that is fast approaching.
“I’m not that optimistic,” she concedes. “Because it’s 2015 and something like Renegade is still a necessity.”
STAYING IN THE BUILDING
“I think when most people say ‘I’m not going to join The Crimson,’ it is not because it represents Old Harvard, but because it represents a modern vision of a white boy institution,” says Ignacio Sabaté ’17, a Crimson news writer and blog comp director who leads the newspaper’s Diversity and Inclusivity Committee, a group formed last year to discuss staff diversity and recruiting.
Sabaté argues that The Crimson has two central problems with diversity: First, that it has trouble attracting “the most diverse group of people” to the building from the start and second, that when students of color join, they don’t necessarily “stay in the building.”
Sabaté believes that The Crimson, like the Advocate, should reform its comp process to better recruit students from various cultural groups on campus and more actively publicize its financial aid program, which provides students on financial aid up to $100 a week for their work at the paper.
Other arts organizations on campus, like the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club, face similar challenges, and attempt solutions of their own.
“We get fewer people of color auditioning,” explains Megan G. Jones ’16, the Historian for HRDC. “We have this [history] of being specifically white, upper-class, so it’s hard and scary to want to try and enter into that when the norm has already been set.”
“It can be daunting to audition for a show, so that you can be the token person of color, or the token representation of diversity,” observes Jones. “That’s not a fair onus to put on any actor.” Jones and the rest of the HRDC’s board ask that shows conduct “race-blind casting,” in an effort to “make this a better, more-inclusive, more diverse space.”
Sabaté isn’t entirely convinced that institutional procedures can create the cultural shift necessary to bring about real diversity.
“For a lot of these problems, you can’t necessarily enact a policy. It’s about talking about these issues and bringing them into people’s consciousness,” he says. “You can create a million different measures to create diversity at The Crimson, and we might still not have a representative group of people.”
Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 agrees that issues of diversity and inclusion are more complicated than they may appear. “I don’t think it’s simply enough to say we are a more diverse student body,” he says. “I think we have to constantly be working on what it genuinely means to be open and inclusive.”
While some arts institutions on campus, such as the Advocate and The Crimson, are working on reforming their comp processes to be more inclusive, other organizations rely on different methods of recruitment. The Signet, for instance, introduced an open application process this year, while the HRDC welcomes in any students who want to join; The Harvard Lampoon’s comp is “blind,” which means students submit their work anonymously.
But ultimately, as Sabaté argues in describing The Crimson’s own struggles to increase diversity, the policies these organizations enact may matter less than the day-to-day environment they foster. “I think they’re definitely making an effort to be more inclusive,” says Henderson, referring to Harvard’s arts and literary organizations. “But at the end of the day, people’s attitudes within each of these organizations is what makes them exclusive.”
“Even if you force a group to be more diverse,” she continues, “that doesn’t always necessarily mean that people of color are going to feel comfortable in those types of spaces.”
Sections
When was the last time you danced?
Like, really danced—none of that timid head-bobbing or casual side-stepping that people do these days. That shit reeks of non-commitment. I know it can be hard to put yourself out there when everyone’s playing it cool, trying to look composed in front of the cute girl with the done-up hair. But there’s something electric about a humming dance floor packed just tightly enough with bodies, human limbs let fully loose, motions dictated purely by the pulsating vibrations of the music.
If DJing means curating remixes and matching beats with sophisticated equipment meant to look archaic, then I’ve never truly done the deed. At its core, jockeying discs is rooted in something much more simple. It’s about curating an experience that’s both memorable and immersive; raising eyebrows and eliciting sighs in equal measure; making people truly dance. And in my limited experience, you don’t need more than an iPhone and an aux cable for that.
The winter of my freshman year, I began crafting the perfect playlist. Back then, the hot songs on the party circuit included gems like Flo Rida’s “Whistle” and the freshly pop-y singles off T-Swift’s “Red.” The bar was, in one DJ’s humble opinion, relatively low. But I still swung for Platonic perfection. My sometimes esoteric tastes meant that most current Top 40 tunes were out; in their place came a host of throwbacks to the disco era—think “Disco Inferno,” “Kung Fu Fighting,” the obligatory “YMCA”— alongside upbeat indie acts like Spoon and St. Vincent. My handcrafted playlist made its debut at an overcrowded dorm party during reading week. The speakers were blown out by the end, but a late-night singalong to the Beatles’ “Hold Me Tight” made it all worthwhile.
The playlist remains a work in progress. But many parties are more group-led affairs: Some- one’s phone is hooked up to—or “paired” with— the speaker system, and a rolling Spotify queue
plays host to the tunes. Whoever has a song idea can queue it up, which means that for an awkward music nerd like me—for whom starting a conversation can sometimes feel akin to a dive off the Mass. Ave. bridge—the most comfortable spot in the room is right by the speakers, scrolling through an endless sea of potential bangers.
These are my principles of good DJing: Keep the energy consistent; wildly vary the style. If they turn their heads but don’t stop moving, you know you’re doing a good job. If they yell your name and freak the fuck out when a new track comes on (and they also don’t stop moving) you’ll feel a little bit like a God. One time, I segued smoothly from the crunchy funk of Kendrick Lamar’s “King Kunta” into the subdued string intro of “Come On Eileen.” Don’t think it’ll work? Try it sometime. Oh, and then I hit ’em with the fat claps of Lil’ Mama’s “Lip Gloss,” picking up some nostalgia points to boot. There’s an intoxicating power involved in having the room at your fingertips. You can trigger mass euphoria with a gentle tap.
Of course, you can also trap yourself in the comfortable bubble you’ve constructed. Once you’ve had a successful five-song run, people will want more, and soon, you’re stuck manning the iPod for the next 20 tunes. In all fairness, I’ve enjoyed watching the world from my cushy perch as playlist purveyor: I’ve born witness to hookups and near-misses, weary folks swiping right on the couch, circles of friends building invisible walls to leave out a poor hanger-on. But as comforting as it can be to just droop hair over my face and nod along with eyes glued to the screen, there’s a part of me that wishes I were out there, making a fool of myself like a real person.
And that’s the thing about the DJ: More often than not, he or she is less of a person, per se, than a request-filling machine. Back in the days before I downloaded Spotify, droopy-tongued partygoers
would commandeer my MacBook, find my iTunes library unsatisfactory (“Not enough EDM,” I believe they said), and pull up a 12-minute house track on YouTube. I guess a couple Deadmau5 and Daft Punk offerings weren’t enough for them. More recently, I’ve had to field requests for newer songs that I’ve sworn to never play—“Gas Pedal” comes to mind, though I’ll admit there’s a time and place. “Sure,” I’ll say. “It’s not like I’m the DJ or anything.” Then I’ll shove whoever’s iPhone it is into the hapless requester’s hands and storm off like the exacting snob I am.
I’m reminded of an old tune called “Panic,” by my favorite sad ’80s band, the Smiths. In his typically melancholy tenor, lead singer Morrissey denounces the sunny pop music on the BBC airwaves for being detached from politics, the world, anything real.“HangtheDJ,”heurges,overandover like some vitriolic mantra. On the dance floor, revelers don’t need relevance. But they’ll hang you for less if you’re not careful.
In September, my roommates and I threw a party. After a brief discussion, it was decided that I’d handle the music. For 48 hours, I carefully ordered 66 songs into a calculated sequence: Two hours would be devoted to hangout music: the likes of Springsteen, Amy Winehouse and Public Enemy. At 11:30, I’d ramp it up, and the dancing wouldn’t stop until 2 a.m.
The music was kept on a locked iPad; nobody could change the playlist. Surprisingly, I found my way into conversation and stayed there for a couple hours. Eventually, though, I paused to admire my work. The song—something by Earth Wind and Fire, maybe?—was not of this decade, but who cared? There was no DJ to complain to, no choice in the matter. Just the music. All I could see was an ocean of arms in the air, heads tilted high, exulting in the madness I’d created, the prison that keeps me whole.
Sections
“You can write yourself out of anything,” I tell myself as a sort of mantra while I struggle to type up a simple, short lab report for my graduation-requirement science class, one that’s clearly designed for humanities majors but still manages to leave me with a backpack full of returned tests covered in inky red X’s.
I use “write yourself out of anything” less as a philosophy of being conniving or tricky and more as a confirmation that my academic strong suit, literature, has value in problem-solving. If I can turn over words in my head, examining each carefully, until I craft a phrase that’s able to lead me to a solution I hadn’t thought of before, or if I’m able to connect a feeling or frustration to its root by writing it or speaking it, I’ve succeeded.
A unique phenomenon that’s part of life in the Internet age is the rapid online dissemination of people’s writing, often people’s voices you wouldn’t typically expect to hear. In accordance with this greater worldwide inclination, The Crimson has recently run ample personal pieces with nuanced descriptions of student-writers’ experiences with discrimination issues, mental health disorders, sexual assault cases, and numerous other deeply personal life aspects that I truly consider brave to discuss anywhere, particularly online.
I open my Facebook feed, and, as I scroll, red Crimson seals roll before my eyes, often with virtual tennis matches of opposing viewpoints playing out between the spectators in the stands—er, comments sections. Many personal stories I’ve read online have opened me up to different and more nuanced perspectives on phenomena I haven’t experienced myself, and a select few have made me personally feel less alone in my own life and mind, which I consider one of the greatest virtues in literature. Literature. That’s far beyond clickbait.
But what is it like to have the first Google result coming up in a search of your name the story of your experience with sexual assault, or an eating disorder, or thoughts of suicide? What is it that makes us as Internet-wielding humans so attracted to reading about the tragedies of others, often skimming and reducing them to a caption or soundbite? A moment of silence for the handful of souls with a piece published about their deepest struggle, be it in their school’s paper or a national news outlet, who just wanted to “make it” in writing. Or, perhaps even more tragic, those who sought to write themselves out of a personal struggle, but wound up as an object of tokenism or a subject of scorn or speculation or ridicule. There’s a certain monotony to the dramatic release of a “big” piece about mental health that gets shared over and over on Facebook, as if scrolling through an article creates any actual change unless people carry it forward into an actual conversation.
I’m having trouble writing my thesis, like many seniors are. I’m also having trouble writing creatively, for fun. I’m also having trouble writing about, and functioning within, being diagnosed with major (clinical) depression. This year, I’ve lightened up on the extracurriculars, including writing groups. Most of my recent non-academic writing has taken place in a small blue notepad, a few words at a time noting the changes I’ve felt as I’ve started taking an antidepressant (first week, nothing but side effects yet). I have nothing artistic or deep to write about how I’m feeling right now, contrary to the stereotype that mental illness is inherently somehow “artsy.” I can text you back and say that I’m actually just gonna go to bed early tonight— that’s about all the writing, and all the energy, I’ve got. My personal story isn’t tragic: I come from a support- ive, close-knit family, I am here studying something I love, and am on-track to graduate in the spring and pursue work I’ll find meaningful. I don’t know how long my difficult and negative feelings will last, or why they stick around.
By writing about these feelings, am I starting to write myself out of this box, or deeper in? Can we make meaning out of feelings of internal meaninglessness? I often don’t feel like it. My words fall short or become repetitive or can’t even form in my head due to my own frustration. But others give me hope. From music to literature to humor-driven web phenomena like Allie Brosh’s “Hyperbole and a Half” and Melissa Broder’s “So Sad Today” to ample voices of my peers, I’ve found a wealth of new perspectives about per- sonal disorder in the creative projects of others, each one gritty and humorous and honest and profoundly internally resourceful. It takes a different kind of guts to wrestle out the most nebulous and dark and deeply internal part of yourself and groom it into something you can show others, much less to turn it into some- thing that connects deeply with people’s innermost selves.
At the beginning of this year and the end of last, I tried to write, think, and talk without giving space to the more uncomfortable and “darker” parts of my mind in any way whatsoever, chalking them up to smaller temporary problems or flaws within myself, a containment method which almost always malfunctioned or backfired. It’s exhausting to even try to hold it all in, and I’d venture to say it’s impossible to succeed—bottling things up just leads to a pressure explosion sooner or later. Realizing this was not sustainable, I opened up. I got help. I put thoughts into words: texts and long conversations with friends and family and sometimes onto paper. I am trying to let all sides of my mind, including the dark side, into my writing, to acknowledge the dark side as a piece of a greater whole that contributes to it but in no way defines it. A demon tamed will be harmless. This is my new aim. A demon tamed can also be an asset in battle. Hopefully I’ll get there too. And I’ll be putting pen to paper as often as I can until I get there.
Sections
Cornell Belcher is the president of brilliant corners Research & Strategies, having previously served as Pollster for the Democratic National Committee under Howard Dean and on the polling team for Obama’s 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns. Fifteen Minutes sat down with him to discuss the 2016 election, the future of polling, and more. 
Fifteen Minutes: FiveThirtyEight’s Nate Silver—who has himself built a reputation on keen analysis of polling data—wrote an article in August of 2014 posing the question: “Is the Polling Industry in Stasis or in Crisis?” In it, he mentions a class of challenges facing polling today: poor response rates, fewer high-quality polls, herding and methodological shortcuts. What’s your take on that question—is the polling industry in stasis or in crisis?
Cornell Belcher: Well, you know, you have more than one industry. What a lot of you all see on the outside is public polling. The polling that I do for campaigns and for clients in the campaign or issue advocacy space you never see. And they’re different animals, to a certain degree. Public polling is usually done by your newspaper outlets or your television stations, and what I think is true in a lot of public polling is you have a client that is trying to do something as quick as possible, with as little expense as possible. And you also don’t have—in many of those instances—the wonderful resource that is a voter file. Especially if it’s a well-kept voter file that’s overlaid with a lot of different information on it, which the parties do keep and spend a lot of money on—it makes a big difference. And especially when you look at the tremendous resources that both parties have put into voter contact, and creating these platforms for voter contact, that’s different than what you have in the outside in public polling.
If you go back to 2008 and 2012, internally on the Obama campaign, our polling was fairly spot-on and our models were fairly spot-on. In fact, if you go back to the election night in 2012, when I was on CNN arguing with my Republican friends on the other side who were telling me in fact why we weren’t going to win, and I told them that we were in fact going to win every state that we won in 2008 except for maybe two.
They attacked me vigorously, but it is about having the resources of a voter file and then being able to build the modeling off the voter file. Nate is right in some ways, and in some ways it’s misleading, because good polling isn’t just about methodology, good polling is also about the art. You can know the methodology, you can know the science of polling, [but] that doesn’t make you a good pollster. Making a good pollster is understanding the art and the nuance that’s going on, it’s understanding that, for example, if you have a young and energetic candidate who can bring new people into the process, perhaps you shouldn’t have such a tight model on your likely voter screen. But that’s not something that the science is ever going to tell you—that’s something that the art of doing it and having experience at it tells you.
I push back a lot on some of these ideas now that polling is getting harder. Polling to me is getting better because of this—go back to 2004, for example, in 2004 someone your age, a young man walking around a campus anywhere in America, take that young man walking around the campus of the University of New Mexico, who may or may not vote. In 2004 my ability to connect to him, and understand where he is on issues, or understand his interest in participating, and understanding what he’s doing and how he’s using his time, is incredibly limited. I have very little ability to connect to that person. In 2008, 2012, we had an enormous amount of opportunity to reach that young man walking around that university, because of the technology, and because of the social media space, and because of this remarkable device called the smartphone. It’s not easy, but it’s not impossible—I can now reach a whole swathe of the electorate, particularly younger voters, particularly minority voters, particularly more transient voters, that a decade ago I had very little chance of reaching, which enriches my sample, enriches my poll.
In that way, I go the opposite direction. Is it easy? No. But now I think there are so many more opportunities to connect and reach transient voters and reach younger voters that a decade ago we just didn’t have.
FM: Let’s talk a little bit about that, about reaching out to millennials and bringing them into the electorate. One of the achievements of the Obama campaign in 2008 and 2012 was building a coalition of minority, millennial, and female voters—do you think that you can reassemble that coalition for 2016? And looking beyond 2016, how does the Democratic Party solve its voter turnout problem?
CB: Well that’s a really big question. And this ‘we’—I’m neutral, I’m not working for any of the presidential candidates this time around. But, look, campaigns are problem-solving vehicles. I mean, at its best—in my opinion—campaigns are vehicles for solving problems. If you have a problem, you build a campaign for solving that problem.
Part of what we knew we had to do in 2008 if Barack Obama was going to—not even talking about winning the general election, but if he was going to win the nomination, early on we had a conversation about how we had to expand the electorate. We had to change the face of the electorate, we had to bring more diversity into the electorate in order to change the face of the electorate. So you build a campaign to help solve for that, which means a lot of the traditional, conventional things that campaigns have been doing over and over again, we’re going to have to go in a different direction, we’re going to have to sound different, and we’re going to have to look different. This ideal that the president (then the senator) talked about was building a movement. Movement is not about a policy, movement is not about an issue, movement’s not even about politics. Movement is about something a lot larger than that. Movements are cultural, they’re about our values, they’re in some instances spiritual. So we had to build something larger in order to solve for that problem and we had target and look in different ways than other campaigns had.
For years I fought this fight about spending resources trying to communicate to young voters. And for years the conversation always went like this: “Cornell, we’re not going to spend resources on younger voters, because younger voters don’t work, alright?” And of course my comeback, my retort would be, “Well, of course they’re not voting, we’re not paying any attention to them, we’re not trying to target them, we’re not trying to move messaging that’s specifically aimed at them. So it became a self-fulfilling prophecy. We didn’t spend money going after younger people, so they didn’t turn out.
Well, something crazy happened in the Obama campaign. Guess what we started doing? We started doing research around younger voters and we started putting campaign resources behind we found in the research on how to target, how to reach, and how to narrowcast for younger voters. And the difference between 2008 and ’12 and 2010 and ’14 is this: in 2008 and 2012, younger voters made up a larger swathe of the electorate than did seniors; in 2010 and 2014, seniors made up a larger swathe of the electorate than did younger voters, which means in 2012 and 2008, Democrats do really well, both at the national level, but they also picked up House seats, picked up Senate seats. In 2010 and 2014, when seniors made up a large swathe of the electorate, Democrats got their asses kicked. So building campaigns to solve for that problem is important.
Now, did we have lightning in a bottle in 2008 and 2012 for Barack Obama? Some would make the argument that we did have lightning in a bottle. But some will also make the argument—because they made it to me—that I heard a lot in 2012 from a lot of my friends on the Republican side that, “Cornell, what you all did in 2008 was extraordinary, but there’s no way you can do that again. That energy and the history just isn’t there, so you’ll never see that turnout among young voters, you’ll never see that sort of turnout among millennial and minority voters again in 2012. You just won’t do it.” But you know what we did? We understood the ideal that you’ll never recapture the energy of 2008, so you build a campaign to solve for that. And while we didn’t have the energy of 2008—we probably will never see the energy of 2008 again in my lifetime—we replaced that with a determination among certain segments of the electorate that was different than it was in 2008. And we got the same sort of performance from that. So you build campaigns to solve for that. You know, whether or not whoever the Democratic nominee is, whether it be Bernie, or Hillary, or O’Malley, they’ll have to solve for that. Now, every candidate has to build their own coalition. Is there a pathway to victory for Democrats without large swathes of the Obama coalition? No, I don’t think there is. However, do they need to exactly replicate the Obama coalition? No, I don’t think they have to, because, for instance, Obama lost white women by 14 points. Will Hillary lose white women by 14 points? Well, first of all, she won’t win white women—if she wins white women it’s going to be a landslide of epic proportion, because no Democrat at the national level has won white voters—period—since LBJ signed the Civil Rights Act. So Democrats do really well when they get historically 45, 46 percent, although Obama didn’t get that but he over-indexed with minorities.
But will Hillary Clinton lose white women by 14 points? If she loses white women by just 12 points she doesn’t need the full Obama coalition, right? So it becomes a math game—she won’t win white women, but will she lose it by the same margin that Obama lost it by? I think most conventional wisdom would say that she won’t lose it by the same margin that Obama lost it by, so will she need all the exact elements of the Obama campaign? No, she probably won’t. But can she get there without large swathes of that coalition? No, she can’t.
But on the other side of that coin is what Republicans are missing. I think you see it in this primary season, with the Trumps and what have you, who are making very difficult to make inroads with minority voters. When you go on attack and push xenophobia and push these dog-whistle politics that you see—which, by the way, has historically been very successful. I mean, the Southern strategy as a strategy is probably the most successful strategy in the history of American politics, right? Perhaps in the history of all politics. But that’s debatable—that’d be a fun debate.
But I think Barack Obama showed that the country was at a tipping point—that coalition, that Southern strategy of winning by being divisive, doesn’t work anymore because of the tremendous changes in the demographics. If you look at Reagan’s winning map and his coalition then and look at the 2012 map, what you find is that Mitt Romney did a couple of points better among that segment of the white electorate than Ronald Reagan did. Ronald Reagan won a landslide—I think he won every state but three or four in ’80. But move ahead to 2012, Mitt Romney basically duplicated that coalition; in fact, bested it by a couple of points in the white vote, and it was an electoral landslide the other way.
So at the national level, are we at the tipping point for that sort of dog-whistle, Southern strategy politics? I think perhaps we are. But more importantly, what I think Republicans are missing—and again, not my Democrat hat, not a Republican hat, but just a democrat (little ‘d’) hat on, competition is healthy for our democracy—Republicans are missing something when they allow this dog-whistle politics to be front and center and foment within their party. Because here’s, again, the math: What happens if a Republican can win 20 percent of the black vote in Ohio? What happens if a Republican can win 25 percent of the black vote in Michigan or Pennsylvania? Not even running up the score, but getting twenties, those states become very difficult for Democrats to carry at that point.
So at some point, both parties are going to have to build strategies around realizing what the ascending America is becoming. In order for them to compete in this space, both parties are going to have to solve for that problem. I think the Democrats are further along on that pathway, I think there’s some internal struggle within the Republican party that’s going to—regardless of who comes out of the Democratic side, right now you’d have to argue they have a national advantage locked in because of this Tea Party Civil War that’s in the Republican party that benefits them. Because look, a state like Florida’s gone blue in two elections, largely on the backs of a growing minority population there in Florida. There’s not a lot of maps for a Republican that get you to the White House if you’re losing Florida.
FM: Many of the candidates you see leading the presidential race at the moment—Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders immediately come to mind—were, and still are, to some extent, considered unelectable. What does that say about the state of our political process?
CB: I’m just going to push back so hard on that, because I think that’s elitist. Us sitting here in the campuses of Harvard and such saying that candidates who have, whether we understand it or not, clearly ignited something in a group of people and quenched a thirst that’s in a group of people—us calling that person unelectable seems awfully elitist to me. And I don’t mean that in a sort of attacking way, but I think that’s part of the problem with both the “Washingtons” and the “New Yorks,” and to a certain extent the “Bostons” here, is that we have these people sitting up high raining down our values on these people.
Look, I don’t agree with anything Donald Trump says. However, at the same time, I don’t think that I have the right to call him unelectable, which to a certain extent, belittles the enormous swell of Republicans right now who are rallying around him as an outsider. I think that’s problematic, not only about our media, it’s problematic about too much of our political establishment. By the way, a lot of people the political establishment, particularly on the Republican side, called crazy and unelectable, they’ve been kicking the Republican establishment’s ass.
So I never want to belittle what’s bubbling up at the grassroots in such a way as to call him unelectable—I worked for a guy in 2007, 2008 who most people thought was unelectable. So I always push back on that, because—let’s not miss the movement. Again, just stepping back as a student of it, or as a science of it, we can belittle and devalue what’s happening in the grassroots by saying that. There’s a lot of people, especially in the US Congress right now, that ten years ago most of the establishment would say. “That person is unelectable.” So there’s something going on in the grassroots, especially on the right, that I don’t want to belittle. And I think a lot of Republicans are uncomfortable with it, but it is what it is. When you get people like Ted Cruz, who every Republican senator basically can’t stand, the establishment senators can’t stand, but he does have a following, and he does have something there that is resonating with a group of people who are frustrated—I just never want to belittle that. And so I always push back when people say they’re ‘unelectable.’ Who are we to say that? I think it happens too often. They’ve been saying Donald Trump is going to implode now for six months, and he hasn’t. Maybe the establishment and the elites are missing something—maybe Donald Trump is not missing anything at all.
FM: If you look at Jeb Bush’s new poll numbers right now—
CB: Right, Jeb Bush is unelectable! [laughs] But at the same time as a student of American politics, these are interesting times. They’re scary, but they’re also interesting times. Jeb Bush is not going to be the Republican nominee—I think I can safely say that. But go back five or six months ago, smart money was on Jeb. But their world is changing. The same sort of anxiousness and want for change on the left that allowed the rise of Barack Obama over the Clinton machine, I think you’re seeing a rise on the right that’s going to allow someone to overthrow the establishment machine that is Jeb Bush.
Jeb Bush is not going to be the Republican nominee—that is an incredible statement to say, but right now I think Jeb Bush is less electable—
FM: Than Donald Trump?
CB: Than Donald Trump.
Sections
To the readers,
This week, FM presents The Diversity Issue, an attempt to examine issues of diversity at Harvard by looking at our history, both distant and recent, and comparing it to what can often seem like a turbulent present. We invite you to consider a series of features by our staff.
In “A Little Racist Knife,” Henry S.U. Shah '17 and Aisha Bhoori '18 examine the history of affinity groups at Harvard by focusing on a particular musical staged in the 1980s which featured a character based on stereotypes—and, more particularly, they report on the activist movement that sprung up in response, and the ways in which affinity groups continue to function on campus today.
In “Comping Creativity,” Samuel H. Koppelman '18 reports on race, class, and the arts at Harvard, looking at how exclusive institutions on campus have attempted to diversify their membership, and whether institutional, policy-minded approaches are enough to alter a discouraging environment.
In "A Conversation with Alicia Garza," Michelle Raji '18 sat down with the activist and writer Alicia Garza, who was a founder of the #BlackLivesMatter movement, after Garza delivered the gave the Ninth Annual Robert Coles “Call of Service” Lecture at Memorial Church.
In “Native Americans at Harvard,” Valerie B. Elefante '19 and Annie M. Goldsmith '19 speak to Native American students to learn about the reception of native students on campus, and how groups like Native Americans at Harvard College go about advocating for native issues on campus.
The issue also features an interview with Cornell Belcher, President of brilliant corners Research & Strategies and a leading strategist in American progressive politics.
Sincerely,
Cordelia F. Mendez and Bailey M. Trela
Sections
Harvard College struggled financially shortly after it was founded in 1636. To support the country’s first institution of higher learning, the English Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in New England donated money on the specified terms that the College cater not only to Englishmen, but to American Indian students as well. According to archives at the Peabody Museum, the first brick building on Harvard’s campus was known as the Harvard Indian College, and by 1655, five native students attended the school.
Dating back to its original charter, the University committed itself to the “education of the English and Indian youth of this country.” Since then, Harvard, with the help of the small yet formidable population of native students on campus today, has been working to follow through on its stated purpose and responsibility.
From the islands of Hawaii to the plains of North Dakota, indigenous students come to Harvard from all over the country. Whether or not they grew up on reservations, these students face new challenges as they experience the transition from a native community to a college campus.
Many choose to become involved in Native Americans at Harvard College, a close-knit group of about 15 members who join together to foster native culture on campus, celebrate their heritage, and advocate for native issues. For November, Native American Heritage Month, FM catches up with four members of the native community and learn about their experiences here at Harvard.
NOT THE ‘TRADITIONAL NARRATIVE’
We meet Kenard G. Dillon II ’17-’18 over coffee at the Greenhouse Cafe in the Science Center. Dillon is a member and the former political chair of NAHC. He was, at a time, responsible for facilitating dialogue within the organization and working with outlets such as the Institute of Politics. We sit down with Dillon and ask him to introduce himself; he immediately starts speaking in Navajo, the language of his tribe.
“It’s what you’re supposed to do when you meet someone or speak to someone,” Dillon says. “It’s important to tell people who you are and where you come from.”
Dillon describes himself as a mixture of Navajo, Hopi, and Apache; he grew up on the Navajo Nation reservation in northern Arizona. “It’s like your typical small town,” he explains. “It just happens to be on a reservation—and its inhabitants just happen to be Navajo.”
Dillon’s high school presented a slightly different schedule than a traditional American school’s. Having gone to a public school on his reservation, Dillon received Tribal Sovereignty Day off in April rather than Columbus Day in October. And when it comes to holidays, his family celebrates Christmas and Thanksgiving, but the meaning of these days reflects something different to him and his family.
“We don’t think about the traditional narrative. For Thanksgiving, it’s just a chance to get together to eat; Christmas, a chance to get together to give presents,” Dillon says. “Like, let’s just get together with family.”
Damon J. Clark ’17 is also a descendant of the Navajo tribe, but he grew up on a reservation in New Mexico where, he says, his community had to combat various hardships.
“Thirty to 40 percent of people don’t have water or electricity, so [it’s] a whole different idea of what success is,” he tells us. “Lots of students are facing homes where there’s a high amount of alcohol, drug abuse, domestic violence, unemployment.”
Another cause of adversity some of these communities face are traced back to deep-rooted tensions between white and native people, SaNoah LaRocque ’19 explains. Born and raised on the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa Indians reservation, LaRocque grew up in Belcourt, N.D., where she says a sharp divide exists between cultures. Even within the walls of her high school, which is located off of the reservation in the city of Grand Forks, opinions on community issues often sparked controversy.
“The community there was just racially split, I guess,” she recalls. “Grand Forks is where the University of North Dakota is, and their logo is the Fighting Sioux, which is a tribe of native people, and the NCAA told them that that was not an appropriate logo to have.” LaRocque explains that the logo was banned a few years ago. Since then, “tensions have been high in the community. There’s been a lot of negative things about native people in the community.”
HOLDING ON
Many of these students say that hometown conflicts led them to take action in order to preserve their culture. LaRocque experienced one of her greatest challenges when her high school banned any decoration of graduation caps—that meant she could not wear her eagle feather, a family heirloom, when she received her diploma.
“In my culture, an eagle feather is the highest honor a person can receive, and I always say it’s a part of who I am,” LaRocque explains. “It defines me not only as a native person, but just as a human being in general. I always say that if my house was on fire, the only thing I would grab would be my eagle feathers.”
After petitioning her high school’s administration, she convinced them to finally change the rule, allowing her to proudly wear this symbol of her culture. LaRocque was mentioned by Michelle Obama in a speech made in July at the White House Tribal Youth Gathering. The speech introduced Generation Indigenous (Gen-I), a program that look to improve the lives of native people across the country. Obama cited LaRocque’s successes as “a perfect example of what Gen-I is all about.”
Facing similar challenges in maintaining his heritage, A. Kaipo T. Matsumoto ’17, a Native Hawaiian from the island of Oahu, comments on how the loss of Hawaiian language in his hometown exacerbated natives’ struggles to revitalize their lost culture. He is the first in his family to speak Hawaiian in five generations; he grows out his long black hair as a kind of political statement in response to this problem, he explains.
While he thinks his long hair “looks good,” he says with a smile, it’s also a political statement: “I grow my hair out for all my ancestors that didn’t, or had it cut off in the name of being a civilized citizen of America.”
A ‘COMPLETELY DIFFERENT ATMOSPHERE’
Matsumoto has experienced, first hand, the struggles of coming to college from a very different world.
“The culture shock that’s associated with being at Harvard, and in New England, and being away from the communities we live in is probably the biggest hardship,” he says. “And also the way that it’s relatively invisible to other people.”
He remembers when, during an international student program, his Canadian friend approached him and said, “Kaipo, I feel like you are more international than I am, even though you’re considered the 50th state of America, and I’m from across an international border.”
LaRocque, coming from a reservation, looked forward to arriving at college, a place she hoped would foster a more inclusive environment for native people. She expresses that these wishes have, to some extent, been fulfilled.
“Since I’ve been at Harvard, it’s been a completely different atmosphere,” LaRocque says. “People here seem to be very open-minded and receptive to native people, wanting to know more and hear what kind of issues native people are facing today. Just to know more about our culture—why things are offensive, why logos and costumes are offensive—instead of turning their back and being like, ‘No, you’re wrong.’”
Many of the students note that a particularly challenging aspect of being one of the few native people on a college campus is combating the stereotypes that people tend to have about native culture. LaRocque sometimes struggles with the idea that she could represent such a vast and diverse community when it comes to advocating for native issues.
“Native people come in all different shapes and sizes, colors—blue eyes, brown eyes and all kinds of eyes. And just having to be a representative of native people—it’s challenging,” LaRocque says. “It’s scary to think that as an 18-year-old girl at Harvard College I have to represent over 500 tribes of native people across the country.”
E(NAHC)TING CHANGE
The NAHC serves as a community on campus for a group of native students.
Matsumoto, the club’s co-president, describes the purpose of the group as “a space to serve the native students here and make sure they can get through and navigate the institution.” Secondly, the club concerns itself with publicity, aiming “to actually establish a presence on campus, and say there are issues that affect native students in particular, and that there are actually native students on campus—because a lot of people can go four years without even knowing there are indigenous people at Harvard,” he says.
One of the events that NAHC is responsible for organizing is the Ivy Native Council. Clark, the vice president and former treasurer of the group, helped plan the 10th annual conference early last April. The council attracts 125 indigenous students from across many schools to get to know one another. He detailed the three-day conference as one of his favorite parts about being involved in NAHC.
“Even though we’re active with the native group on campus, there’s actually a bigger network of indigenous groups on other campuses—all eight Ivy Leagues and MIT, McGill, Notre Dame. Those are schools we get to know,” Clark says.
NAHC also organized the recent Indigenous Peoples’ Day celebration that took place on Oct. 12 in front of Matthews Hall, which is also the geographical location of the original Indian College. Dillon performed a spoken word poem in front of a crowd of about 100 people at the ceremony, and LaRocque demonstrated jingle dress dancing, a traditional dance of her tribe and an important part of her life.
And after three years of lobbying, Matsumoto and Leshae Henderson ’16 convinced the College to accept ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi, or the Hawaiian language, as fulfilling of the language requirement. Clark, and other members of NAHC, started petitioning for Navajo last spring and have yet to be successful. The College has since introduced a Navajo language seminar.
According to FAS spokesperson Rachael Dane, the College does not have an ongoing preceptor who teaches Native American languages. She wrote in an email that the Office for Undergraduate Education establishes language tutorials based on the “academic needs and requests of our students.”
Although the College has supported many of the initiatives NAHC has taken, some of the group’s members believe there is more that administrators can do to further improve their relationship with native students and uphold the Charter of 1650. Dillon gives us a few examples, including hiring more native faculty and adding classes in native studies.
“We have a bit of support, but we need some academic support,” Clark says. “We need to reinforce the idea that we do matter in the institution.”
Several student members of NAHC are passionate about educating others around them and suggest that change only comes when their peers are open to listening.
“It just goes to show, native people have voices that need to be heard, and it’s time for communities to be more embracing of those differences,” LaRocque says.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two sophomore Undergraduate Council representatives have organized an event for their peers to celebrate their new plans of study on Friday evening in Annenberg Hall.
The concentration declaration event, dubbed “Be There. Be Declared,” is the brainchild of Berkeley Brown ’18 and Madeleine H. Stern ’18, who came up with the idea at the end of their freshman year, when both were co-chairs of the First-Year Social Committee. 
“At our last event, freshman formal, people kept walking up to us and saying how sad they were that this was the last time we would be together as a class until senior year,” Stern said. “We both thought about it and we realized we also felt sad.”
To address that situation, Stern said she and Brown talked with the Office of Student Life and the Advising Programs Office over the summer.
The two planned to form a sophomore class social committee but decided that they needed to build up to it, Stern said. A Paperless Post invitation about the event sent to sophomores indicated that it was from the “Class of 2018 Social Committee,” but no such social committee has been officially recognized. Stern said the name of the account meant to encourage sophomores to think about class community, even if a formal sophomore class-wide social committee does not yet exist.
As a first step towards that goal, Stern and Brown decided to host a class-wide sophomore concentration declaration event. At a UC general meeting last month, the Council voted to allocate $1,000 to the sophomore concentration declaration event. Brown and Stern also received funding from the Advising Programs Office, the Harvard Alumni Association, and the Office of the Dean of the College.
The doors to Annenberg will open at 9 p.m. Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 will deliver a welcome speech at the event, and organizers will also screen a video featuring upperclassman and alumni perspectives on the concentration process. Stern also said it will feature guest appearances by alumni celebrities, but organizers have yet to identify them.
The event will serve waffles and desserts, and students who attend will receive a free T-shirt.
“It’s really just a chance for people to de-stress and realize that everyone has been going through what they’re going through,” Stern said. “Like the fact that you’re stressed out, you can’t get my.harvard to work, it’s not just you, it’s universal.”
Brown said the event is an opportunity for current sophomores to enter into their individual concentration communities while simultaneously remembering that they are members of a larger community—the Class of 2018.
“[Even though] you’ve accumulated all these other identities at Harvard having to do with your House, having to do with the clubs that you’re in, you remain part of your class…and that’s a huge part of who you are here,” Stern said. “I would consider this event a success if people got back in touch with their class identity and realized that that support is going to be there for them throughout the Harvard experience.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the College looks to increase its focus on teaching and learning, one professor is thinking out of this world—giving a lecture on space travel on Wednesday while one of his students sat inside a small, 1.5 cubic meter cardboard box.
Designed to look and feel like the first space capsules of the 1960s, the box—which featured interior lighting, a ventilation system, and a small window—was just part of an extra credit project organized by History of Science assistant professor Matthew H. Hersch for his class, “Humans in Space: Past, Present, Future.”
Students watched eagerly as classmate Dina M. Sinno ’16 stepped into the makeshift “space capsule” as part of the “Project Crimson” mission, where she sat for the entirety of Hersch’s lecture, which he delivered in a NASA space outfit.
“It’s not enough merely to give people books to read or have them listen to lectures,” Hersch said. “I’m very interested in … the visceral sensations associated with using all the machines human beings have been able to invent.”
Hersch used the space capsule, which he made out of materials from hardware stores and Amazon, to demonstrate what he calls the “profoundly uncomfortable” experience of spaceflight. He added that he designed the capsule to “give people the claustrophobic experience of space travel, in the classroom.”
While Sinno listened to Hersch teach about the psychology of space travel, participating in the discussion only through a walkie-talkie, other students played the roles of the simulated mission’s support crew, including a flight surgeon, radio communicator, and rescue team.
“We’re really proud for the program and for the country,” said Daniel G. Moody ’16, who served as the imaginary mission’s press officer. “We’re happy to have Dina home safely.”
Sinno found the experience uncomfortable but rewarding because the simulated mission supplemented the class’s curriculum, which began with ancient Greek astronomy and has progressed up to the ’60s space race.
“It’s a big mental challenge that a lot of people don’t understand, and that I didn’t understand before,” Sinno said. “Knowing how it affects the mind and the body would make me a little more hesitant to sign my name up.”
Crew members in Project Crimson received extra credit for Hersch’s class, plus a package of space ice cream. One-third of the class of about 30 undergraduates applied to take part in the project.
This is Hersch’s first year teaching at Harvard, but he hopes the course will be offered regularly in the future.
“I’m hoping that people recognize that the process of technological choice is often very complex,” Hersch said. “Perhaps we wouldn’t all want to be astronauts, even if we could.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: November 25, 2015, at 10:56 p.m.
The Harvard Graduate School of Design has created a new office to study urbanization, and it will approach the issue from a design perspective, rather than through standard planning, policy, or social science lenses, founding director and Design School professor Charles Waldheim said. 
“Design is actually a mode of thinking or a way of understanding the world that doesn’t simply come after policy and planning, but can equally become quite central to framing a response to urban challenges,” Waldheim said.
According to Waldheim, one of the new office’s goals is to study global urban challenges in a small-scale setting where the problem is extreme, such as analyzing the city of Miami Beach as a case study for rising sea levels around the world.
“We like Miami beach because of the fact that it’s probably the most extreme condition in North America, and there’s been very little published about it in the design disciplines,” Waldheim said.
The new office has also partnered with AECOM, a large engineering and planning firm, to study urban development in Chinese cities, specifically satellite cities or new towns. It will also collaborate with the Exumas, a district of islands in the Bahamas, where researchers will study “territories of urbanization,” Waldheim said. In these territories, the office will focus on finding “ways in which the Exumas could be more sustainable primarily from a public health and sustainable food initiative,” he said.
These three specific projects are the start of the new office’s work on these topics, according to Waldheim. “There are enormous challenges out there, and I think that we can help advance knowledge around those questions, but at the same time ... we’re careful to not make claims beyond what we’re already doing,” he said.
In addition to outside firms and companies, faculty and students within the GSD are involved in various research projects, including Design School faculty members Rosetta S. Elkin, Christopher C. Lee, and Gareth G. Doherty.
In a press release, Design School Dean Mohsen Mostafavi described the office as “a continuation of the GSD’s historic leadership in applied project-based design research...The Office will work to shorten the distance between innovation in design research and impact in the world.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: November 25, 2015
An earlier version of this article misspelled Rosetta S. Elkin’s last name.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ta-Nehisi Coates, a national correspondent for The Atlantic and the author of the New York Times bestselling book “Between the World and Me,” discussed African American heritage and contemporary race issues such as mass incarceration before a packed John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum on Wednesday night.
Coates is the recipient of several awards for his work on the social, economic, and political issues facing African Americans today. This year, he was a recipient of the 2015 MacArthur Genius Award, and “Between the World and Me” is a finalist for the National Book Award in nonfiction.
Coates joined moderator Bruce Western, a sociology professor, and panelists Kathryn J. Edin, a professor of sociology at Johns Hopkins University, and Harvard University professor William Julius Wilson.
Coates focused his talk on the systematic issues that African Americans face, which he said are rooted in the different heritages of black and white people.
In particular, Coates addressed the issue of mass incarceration in the United States, noting that while the U.S. comprises just 5 percent of the world’s population, it accounts for roughly 25 percent of incarcerated people worldwide.
“We are at a level of incarceration in our country that is historically different and geographically different in terms of the rest of the world,” Coates said.
Although he acknowledged that conditions have improved over the past century, Coates said he believes that the deep rooted socio-economic issues facing African Americans will not change unless major action is taken. He said he supports government reparations to African Americans to help reverse this inequality.
“It’s not enough to just stop wounding someone, but you actually have to heal someone and do something about the harm that you produced,” Coates said.
In a question-and-answer session after the discussion, a student asked Coates about his thoughts on the recent tension between students and administrators over issues of race at Yale. Hundreds of students marched around the New Haven campus earlier this week in the wake of allegations that a fraternity had held a party for “white girls only” and controversy over an email that a residential college administrator—Erika Christakis, the former co-master of Harvard’s Pforzheimer House—sent students about Halloween costumes that are considered culturally insensitive.
Coates said he did not have enough information to comment on the situation at Yale, but said he he suspects that the tensions there have been building over time and that the current reactions are not pegged to only a singular event.
Several attendees said they found the talk thought-provoking. Joseph P. Andorful, a student completing a joint program at the Wharton School of Business and the Kennedy School, said he appreciated the candidness with which Coates spoke.
“I thought it was an excellent forum. I really appreciate the way Ta-Nehisi speaks from the heart and doesn’t sugarcoat his comments,” Andorful said. “I appreciate the way he is willing to put himself out there and share a position that may not be popular.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Speaking on Wednesday at a symposium hosted by the Harvard Society for Mind, Brain, and Behavior, Harvard professors from four different departments discussed the phenomenon of rage and its implications for human behavior.
Human Evolutionary Biology professor Richard W. Wrangham, History of Science lecturer Nadine M. Weidman, Molecular and Cellular Biology professor Catherine Dulac, and Psychology professor Steven Pinker presented on topics ranging from historical debates about human nature to aggression in mice.
Wrangham discussed whether humans are “inherently violent and selfish” or “peaceful and cooperative.” He said there can be two kinds of aggression—aggression between groups and aggression within groups. Humans demonstrate high levels of between-group aggression but low levels of within-group aggression, he said.
Weidman also discussed theories of human nature, but in the context of an intellectual debate that took place during the Cold War. In the 1950s, proponents of the theory that human beings are innately loving and cooperative challenged the view that man is aggressive by nature. Weidman suggested that, despite these contrasting positions, both groups aimed to attack the Soviet Union, which they worried was striving to change human nature.
“The debate over human nature is not and never has been a simple dichotomy,” she said.
After discussing the role of pheromones in aggression among male mice, Dulac spoke about the difficulty of studying aggression in female animals.
“The literature on animal behavior has very, very little on female behavior,” Dulac said.
In presenting his 2011 book “The Better Angels of Our Nature: Why Violence Has Declined,” Pinker said he attempted to explain the “unmistakable downward trend” in human violence that has occurred despite the fact that our brain that is wired for aggression.
“Violence is universal and reliably developing in the human desires, but rates of violence vary across time and places,” he said.
Joyce C. Zhou ‘17, a member of Harvard Society for Mind, Brain and Behavior, said the organization hosts a symposium on a different topic each semester.
“We always hope to facilitate an interdisciplinary discussion,” Zhou said. “I think in general right now people are talking a lot about ideas of violence and aggression, so we wanted to have people hear an academic side.”
For Sarp Gurakan ’19, the event was instructive.
“[I learned] that violence is not necessarily peaking and it is not as simple as we think it is—it has different forms,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: November 25, 2015, at 10:59 p.m.
Looking to provide free college admissions advice for students in the Midwest, the Harvard College Midwest Club has created an online college guide and distributed it to thousands of high schools across nine states.
Midwest Club co-founder and president Luke R. Heine ’17-’18, who pioneered the initiative, said a regional “vacuum in information” surrounding the college admissions process inspired the online guide. 
Heine, who is currently taking a semester off in his hometown of  Cloquet, Minn., outside Duluth, solicited advice from a list of 200 college counselors at rural Midwestern high schools before writing the guide. It draws heavily from his own experience applying to college, he said.
After he received feedback on a first draft from the same group of counselors, Heine sent the guide out to about 6,000 principals and superintendents of public schools in Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas, Ohio, Missouri, North Dakota, Indiana, Illinois, and Nebraska, whose emails he compiled using a web-scraping script that he wrote.
Shelli Koester, counselor for Crofton High School in Crofton, Neb., said she received the email and now uses the guide regularly. In addition to publicizing the service to students and posting Heine’s guide on the school’s website, Koester said she plans to use the service in a career development class that she teaches.
“One of the things I really like about the site is that it’s written for students, from students, [but] it’s not just a student’s random experience. It’s pretty solid info,” Koester said. “I think information like that is better received from someone closer to [the students’] own age than it is from someone like me.”
Heine said making the course freely available was central to the Midwest Club’s goals.
“There are a lot of excellent resources to apply to college, but there aren’t a lot of free resources to apply to college,” said Heine, adding that the online course covers topics including types of application and financial considerations.
Parke P. Muth, a former associate dean of admissions at the University of Virginia, also emphasized the value of a free service like the Midwest Club’s, calling the guide “very useful.” Muth added that many websites offering the same sort of information charge for their services.
Koester said students from rural Midwestern schools are often less likely to consider a place like Harvard in their college search, a phenomenon the College has struggled to address.
“I think a lot of the time in rural schools, and maybe it’s a Midwestern thing, we tend to be pretty narrowly focused in the colleges that we look at,” Koster said, suggesting that the guide “encourages students to stretch and grow and consider things that they may’ve not otherwise considered.”
—Staff writer C. Ramsey Fahs can be reached at cfahs@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @ramseyfahs.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After years of planning, Harvard Medical School this fall launched a formal initiative to integrate the arts and humanities into the traditionally hard-sciences focused campus in an effort to cultivate more empathetic medical professionals.
The “Arts&Humanities@HMS” initiative— planning for which began in 2011— supports the arts in part by raising money to create fellowships for Medical School affiliates interested in the intersection of art and medicine. The initiative also looks to create more opportunities for students to explore music, visual arts, and drama by hosting events, including case narrative readings and performances by the Longwood Symphony Orchestra. 
The initiative, which the school approved in June, comes at a time when universities across the nation are reimagining medical education as a more holistic growth process. For example, increasing numbers of students are taking gap years before medical school to reflect on their goals. And this fall, the Medical School rolled out a drastic overhaul of its curriculum, which focuses on “active learning” teaching methods like flipped classrooms.
Students and faculty alike have already expressed interest in increasing the number of arts-based offerings at the school. A 2012 survey of Medical School affiliates indicated that “there are over 1,000 people who are interested in the role of arts and humanities in medicine,” according to professor David S. Jones, who has helped lead and donated to the arts initiative.
Jones said studying humanities will help aspiring doctors better relate to their patients.
“All the doctors who are involved in the arts will say [that the arts] make them better doctors,” he said.
Prior to the launch of the Medical School’s new initiative, the arts and humanities had already occupied an informal presence on campus, according to Ronald A. Arky, a professor there who has been involved with medical education for more than 20 years. For example, he said, a decade-old elective course “Training the Eye” offers first-year medical students the opportunity to critique art and apply those skills to a clinical setting.
“Even back in the 1980s, I’ve actually participated with students in visiting the Museum of Fine Arts, or museums in Cambridge, and so forth,” Arky said. “It’s been there, but needed to be brought to the fore.”
Currently, Jones said, he and others involved in the initiative are trying to gauge student interest to best tailor the arts to the Medical School. Ultimately he hopes to “foster a more artistically inclusive community” and curb the notion that, especially at Harvard, the arts and medicine are mutually exclusive.
“Students say they feel like they have to turn the humanities part of their brain off when they come to HMS,” Jones said. “One of our goals is to make sure that no one at our medical school ever says that again.”
—Staff writer Melanie Y. Fu can be reached at mfu@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @MelanieYFu.
—Staff writer Jiwon Joung can be reached at joung@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @YunaJoung.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following the historic thawing of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States, students have voiced renewed interest in traveling to Cuba, through both a Harvard-affiliated study abroad program and a spring break tour of the country.
The American government still bans unlicensed tourism to Cuba, although the U.S. embassy opened in Havana this summer for the first time in half a century. Americans may travel to Cuba only under 12 specific licenses, including ones that cover educational, professional, or familial visits. 
Recently, students have expressed more interest in the Harvard-affiliated study abroad program, according to Erin E. Goodman, associate director of programs at the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies. The Cuba study abroad program has existed for eight years, made possible by an educational license.
Following the recent changes in diplomatic relations, families may visit students in the fall semester program legally for the first time, Goodman said.
Beyond the existing study abroad opportunities, several Harvard students will travel to Cuba over spring break with the tour operator Cuba Candela, which Harvard Business School student Chad Olin founded this year.
Olin held an information session about the trip, made possible by an educational tour license, on Wednesday night in Sever Hall for a group of a few dozen people. The trip will run from March 12 to 19 and is expected to cost between $2,000 and $2,500 per student.
Hope G. Patterson ’17, who attended the event, said she hopes to travel to Cuba with the company this spring break because “Americans can’t generally travel to Cuba alone.”
“This one of the only chances I’ll get to actually see it,” she said.
“I’m an English major and Hemmingway is my favorite author ever,” Patterson added. “He wrote a ton of stuff in Cuba. We’re going to see his house and drink in places he drank. The English nerd in me is excited.”
While recent diplomatic action has opened Cuba more broadly to the United States, Goodman says she expects the country to “remain a unique destination for a while,” since students may still not use United States credit cards or open new bank accounts, so all transactions must be in cash.
“Although Cuba has been in the press and things are changing, they’re not changing as rapidly as we might expect,” Goodman said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the wake of student demonstrations against racism at Yale and the University of Missouri at Columbia, dozens of Harvard undergraduates weighed in both on social media and in person on Wednesday, with many declaring their support for the movements on those campuses.
The student protests in New Haven and Columbia, Mo., follow a series of controversies there that have sparked debate about the experiences of students of color and how administrators have responded to allegations of racism. 
At Yale, a student’s claim that a member of a fraternity said a party was for “white girls only” over Halloween prompted backlash, as did an email from Erika L. Christakis ’86, the former Harvard Pforzheimer House master who now oversees a residential college at Yale alongside her husband Nicholas. In an email to her college’s residents, Christakis challenged an earlier message from Yale administrators telling students not to wear culturally insensitive costumes for Halloween.
Shortly before they departed Harvard several years ago, in a Time op-ed about free speech, the Christakises had criticized College administrators for their response to a controversy involving a flyer that seemed to satirize final clubs and offended some students.
At Mizzou, students have similarly protested incidents involving racism and criticized top university officials for their response. After players on Mizzou’s football team said they would boycott team activities and a graduate student said he would go on a hunger strike until the Missouri system’s president resigned, president Timothy M. Wolfe stepped down from his post on Monday. The campus’s chancellor also said he would leave his position.
The series of events have put issues of race on college campuses in the national spotlight. They have also prompted debate about issues involving the freedom of speech, as some people have defended Christakis’s email at Yale and pushed for journalists’ access to the protest site at Mizzou.
Facebook posts addressing the protests flooded Harvard students’ news feeds on Wednesday. Several black students shared a message, signed by “Black Students at Harvard College” and addressed to “Our Family” at Mizzou and Yale. It read: “Your peers at Harvard College want you to know you are not alone in the constant struggle to make your voices heard… What has happened these past few weeks is only a snapshot into years of oppression that pervades this nation.”
Another popular post said: “We students of color at Harvard stand with you in solidarity. To those who would threaten their sense of safety, the world is watching. ‪#‎ConcernedStudent1950‬ ‪#‎InSolidarityWithMizzou‬.” Other students and some Harvard alumni posted variations of the same statement.
According to Cyrus M. Motanya ’17, who posted on Facebook about the demonstrations, Harvard students took to social media to show their support for students at Yale and Mizzou.
“In light of Harvard-Yale coming up, we definitely need to show this solidarity,” Motanya said.
“I think there’s a really big need for all [people of color] to come together on this issue and show solidarity,” said Jenny J. Choi ’16, who also writes a column for The Crimson’s editorial board. “I’m happy to see the amount of support from not just black students, but a whole array of diversity coming out and supporting students that are affected at this University.”
Black student groups also organized a town hall discussion in light of the demonstrations on Wednesday night in Quincy House’s Stone Hall basement. The meeting was closed to the press, but afterward students said they discussed their own experiences and plans to show support for the movements in the future.
“I’m very hopeful that the results of this meeting will come with something that’s very fruitful, not just for the Harvard community, but the Boston black community and communities of color at other colleges,” William A. Greenlaw ’17 said.
Some students plan to wear black on Thursday to show their support for the movement.
—Staff writer Ignacio Sabate can be reached at ignacio.sabate@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ignacio_sabate.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard wrestling team, veterans and rookies alike, kicked off its season at the Binghamton Open on Sunday.
Junior Nick Gajdzik led the Crimson with a second-place finish in the heavyweight bracket. Junior Jeff Ott, co-captain Todd Preston, and Senior Devon Gobbo also made it to the semifinals in their respective weight classes to round out a strong performance by the Harvard squad.
“As a team we did really well,” Preston said. “I was very proud of the way everyone fought. From the first weight class at 125 all the way up to heavyweight, everyone wrestled tough.”
Gajdzik, returning to the collegiate mat for the first time since fall 2013, proved he hadn’t missed a beat with an impressive showing to introduce his return. After a bye in the first round, Gajdzik quickly pinned Princeton’s Cole Lampman at 1:29 in the second round.
In the quarterfinals, the Rochester, Mich. Native earned a 6-2 decision over Army’s Trevor Smith. Riding on his momentum, Gajdzik pulled out a quick 3-1 victory over Ivy rival Mike Markulec of Princeton to earn him a spot in the finals. He ultimately fell to Hofstra’s Mike Hughes in a 6-0 decision.
“Three or four other guys were in the semifinals that lost close bouts to tough guys,” coach Jay Weiss said. “It gives us something to work on. I’m pleased, but I’m more excited because I know this is not where we are going to be come March. We’re going to make some strides.”
Ott had three consecutive decisions against FLWC-Prep, Rutgers, and Navy wrestlers, but fell to Cornell’s Nahshon Garret who went on to win the 133-pound weight bracket.
At 141 pounds, co-captain Todd Preston opened the tournament with three victories, setting the pace and earning another Crimson sixth place. Preston dropped the semifinal match to Navy’s Jared Prince in a close 6-5 decision.
Senior Devon Gobbo continued the trend, picking up three decisions, including a 6-2 victory over Cornell’s Dillon Artigliere, but ultimately fell in the semifinals in a close 7-6 decision against Penn State’s Geno Morelli who finished second place in the 165-pound weight bracket.
Senior Nicholas Stager also contributed to the solid Harvard showing, reaching the quarterfinals in the 157-pound division.
“Even if we were losing, if people weren’t getting up, they were still attacking, they were still fighting their opponent and never giving up, and I think there’s a lot to be said for that,” Preston said. “That’s something we have honestly been preaching in practice and to be able to go out and execute yesterday was phenomenal.”
Freshmen Samuel Goldman had a strong start to his Harvard athletic career registering his first two collegiate wins at 133. Classmate Ryan Friedman also notched his first collegiate win in the same division.
“Our freshmen really stepped up,” Preston said. “The college level is so much different from high school that it’s just a completely different level, and when you have freshmen stepping up on their first tournament that’s just awesome to see and a great indicator for where the rest of the season is going to go.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In its first two competitions of the season, the Harvard Taekwondo (HTKD) has placed first in its division, allowing it to currently stand atop Division III of the Eastern Collegiate Taekwondo Conference (ECTC).
With 18 members in its core competitor group that range from novice white belts to veteran black belts, the club participates in both poomsae and sparring events throughout New England. But HTKD’s recent success is primarily built upon the strength of its poomsae squad.
Third year law student Laurie Lai leads the Crimson in competition and instruction. Lai previously finished third at the 2014 U.S. National Collegiate Taekwondo Championships in Team Poomsae and also made it to the semifinals in the individual portion of the event. Lai’s finish was the best poomsae result posted by a member of HTKD in its history.
In its first tournament of the season at MIT, Harvard put forth a 98-point effort. While fighting in the World Taekwondo Federation (WTF) style, HTKD entrants competed in bouts against students of member schools from all classes and divisions of the ECTC. The team finished 7th in the 23 school field.
The Crimson posted consistent performances across the board en-route to scoring 51 points more than the next highest divisional finisher, Penn, and also besting three Division II schools as well.
Lai placed second in a stacked Women’s Black Belt Poomsae field, while sophomore Thomas Lively and junior co-president Kayi Okine both brought home a gold medal in their respective poomsae events. Junior Noemí Urquiza, who placed 2nd in featherweight blue/green belt sparring at Collegiate Championships last spring, earned bronze in Women’s Blue Belt Poomsae.
This past Sunday, HTKD travelled 12 members to Ithaca, N.Y. to compete in the Cornell tournament where Harvard again finished first in Division III.
Lai won gold this time around, while sophomore Aisha Suara placed second in the Women’s Yellow Belt Poomsae. Urquiza and fellow junior Jeffrey Ling both earned bronze in the blue belt poomsae category.
Based on its performances this year, HTKD has grown past its self-described lackluster performance over the last half-decade by developing a culture of commitment and accountability throughout the squad.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While the Harvard women’s hockey team has been busy getting the 2015-2016 season underway in Cambridge, one of its stars has been occupied elsewhere. For the second year in a row, standout senior goalie and co-captain Emerance Maschmeyer left campus to compete for the Canada National Women’s team at the Four Nations Cup, played this year in Sweden.
The tournament pitted Canada against the United States, Finland, and the host Swedes. Maschmeyer picked up three starts and shined between the pipes for Hockey Canada. In the team’s opening game, the Alberta native tallied 17 saves to blank Finland, 2-0. She went on to start in a group stage matchup against the USA, which the Americans took, 3-0. Despite the loss, Maschmeyer totaled a .936 save percentage and a goals against average of 1.67 to help Canada reach the final, a rematch with the United States.
In the championship game, the Crimson senior turned away 30 shots, more than she had saved in the entire group stage. Her heroics were not enough to bring Canada the cup, however. The game advanced to sudden death overtime, and the U.S. scored 36 seconds into the period on a breakaway to hand Maschmeyer and Canada the silver medal.
Maschmeyer also featured for Canada in last year’s iteration of the tournament, starting in two games en route to a gold medal victory over the USA. The netminder saved 23 of the 24 shots she faced to help Canada go undefeated in the cup in 2014.
Last year’s success was not Maschmeyer’s first at the international level. The senior has represented Canada at the under-18 level and earned a gold medal at the 2012 IIHF World Women’s U18 Championships in the Czech Republic. She also featured for Canada’s under-22 squad in a three-game series against the United States. The goaltender has since made a number of appearances for her country’s senior team, including at the IIHF Women’s World Championships earlier this year, where Canada came away with silver.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

The Harvard men’s ice hockey team has been strong out of the gates this year, winning three of its first four games and tying its other contest against archrival No. 10/8 Yale last Friday. The Crimson has also compiled a 13-goal differential in the team’s 245 minutes of action this season.
But all of that pales in comparison to the track record of the Crimson’s next opponent.
Harvard’s (3-0-1, 3-0-1 ECAC) second big test of the year will come in Hamden, Conn. as the team travels to take on No. 4/3 Quinnipiac, who has won all eight of its games so far this year.
Scoring an average just over of four goals per game, the squad also took down now-No. 9/9 St. Cloud State in the early portion of its schedule by a combined six goals.
“Quinnipiac’s a good team,” said Harvard coach Ted Donato `91. “They’re very well coached. They’re excellent on special teams, year in, year out. They beat a very talented St. Cloud team. They just keep stacking up wins.”
Each team boasts a forward who was selected to the ECAC Preseason All-League team. Junior forward Sam Anas was the youngest forward to notch this honor. The Washington, D.C. native is one of just three players in the conference who have notched a league-high 10 points at this early point in the season.
But not all attention can be drawn to Anas in stopping the Quinnipiac (8-0-0, 2-0-0) attack.
One of the other two skaters who has notched double-digit points is fellow Quinnipiac forward, senior Travis St. Denis, who also leads the conference in goals with seven through eight games.
Anas will line up against another Preseason All-League team member in co-captain forward Jimmy Vesey. The Charlestown native has averaged a goal and an assist per game through the first four games of the year and consistently demands the focus of the opposing defense.
But just as St. Denis draws attention away from Anas, so too does co-captain forward Kyle Criscuolo take some of the pressure from Vesey.
After totalling 48 points last season, the New Jersey native has not lost a step, finding the back of the net on three occasions and dishing out assists twice.
“They’re one of the most successful teams over the last handful of years,” Donato said. “So it’s a good challenge for us. It’s a great building; it should be a great environment, I’m sure our guys will be very focused on practice knowing we’re going to have to be our best this weekend.”
While Harvard’s first-line rivals the best lines in the entire conference, the depth of the team has also been one of the key drivers for the offense in the Crimson’s first four games.
The strong play of the team’s third-line has especially povided a welcomed boost. Junior forwards Tyler Moy and Luke Esposito have notched three and two goals, respectively. Moy also registered an assist in last Saturday’s game to set up freshman Ryan Donato for his second goal of his rookie season.
“Moy has been outstanding,” Donato said. “He’s been strong on the puck, he’s made big plays, he’s enabled us to maintain possessions down low. He just looks like he’s a mix of confidence and strength and talent that really is coming together.”
A big question going into the game for Harvard will be who skates out to the crease to start the game .
After sophomore Merrick Madsen saved 43 of 45 shots the first weekend of the year, Lackey got the call for the Yale and Brown games, in which the rookie saved 54 of 58 shots.
But whoever the goaltender is to start the game, Harvard will look for a good performance in net to get them past a competive, high intensity Quinnipiac offense.
“We just need a good week of practice,” Criscuolo said. “They’re similar to us, they have a lot of good forwards up front, get pucks to the net….We just need to have our legs when we go there and know it’s going to be a battle.”
The Crimson will end its weekend road trip in Princeton, N.J., where the team takes on a one-win Tigers (1-3-0, 0-2-0) squad.
Princeton sits in the cellar of the conference alongside Brown, having been defeated on the road against Colgate and Cornell last Friday and Saturday.
The Tigers have only had five goal-scorers on the year, dwarfed by the Crimson’s nine.
Three of Princeton’s forwards–junior Ben Foster, sophomore Eric Robinson, and freshman Max Veronneau–have each found the back of the net twice on the season. Additionally, none of the goal-scorers for the Tigers have tallied a single assist through four games this year.
—Staff writer Kurt Bullard can be reached at kurt.bullard@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
­As Harvard women’s ice hockey takes on Union and Rensselaer this weekend, the team looks to extend its winning streak to five games and continue to pick up more victories against fellow ECAC opponents.
In recent years, Harvard (3-1-1, 3-1-1 ECAC) has dominated the two conference foes. The Crimson recorded a pair of 4-1 victories over Rensselaer last season and handled Union with ease in the teams’ two matchups, netting 12 goals to the Dutchwomen’s three in the pair of games.
Facing a Union team that has not yet won a game this year (0-7-4, 0-2-2) and a Rensselaer squad that has more losses than victories (4-5-1, 2-1-1), Harvard has an opportunity to record back-to-back weekend sweeps. However, the Crimson is taking the classic “one game at a time” approach heading into Saturday and Sunday’s action.
“No matter who we’re playing, we’re always looking to play our best game and improve from last weekend and keep taking steps forward,” captain Michelle Picard said.
Although Rensselaer’s record shows that it has had an inconsistent start to the season, the Engineers have played better than the standings show. Rensselaer has a winning record in conference play, and just defeated then-No. 4/4 Clarkson in its last contest.
All of the Engineers’ losses have come at home as well. When Rensellaer meets the Crimson on the road at the Bright-Landry Hockey Center on Sunday, they will be playing their fifth away game. The Engineers are undefeated as the visiting team this season, having won three games and tied one on the road.
A relatively young Union team has struggled in recent years. The Dutchwomen have not won a game since Dec. 12 when they defeated the University of Maine.
Before being shut out, 6-0, at the hands of a strong Clarkson team last weekend, Union tied consecutive hard-fought games against Colgate and Cornell that would have broken the team’s winless streak.
The Dutchwomen have struggled in particular with preserving advantages.
Union held a 2-1 lead with two minutes to play against Colgate, but the Raiders managed to tie the game on a power play 19 minutes into the second period. Facing Cornell, the Dutchwomen built a 2-0 lead heading into the second period, only to see their lead completely wither away after two consecutive scores in a Big Red comeback effort.
Since Harvard’s 2-1 loss to Dartmouth on Oct. 23, the team has not lost a game. After going to overtime with Clarkson and finishing with a 0-0 result, the Crimson has earned three consecutive victories over St. Lawrence, Yale, and Brown.
As Harvard starts stringing together multiple victories in a row, it has often been the result of several different players having peak performances at the same time.
Freshman forward Grace Zarzecki was just named ECAC Hockey Rookie of the Week for her two-goal effort against Yale while sophomore forward Karly Heffernan has five assists in the team’s last three games, all wins.
“Grace is a great player,” Picard said. “She’s got a lot of energy, a lot of speed, and she works hard. She’s had a great start, and it will be exciting to see how she progresses from here.”
While co-captain Emerance Maschmeyer has been competing with the Canadian National Women’s Team in the Four Nations Cup, Harvard’s other netminders have stepped up in her place.
In two starts, junior Brianna Laing has two wins and only surrendered two goals in each game. Classmate Molly Tissenbaum earned the win and made 22 saves in the team’s most recent contest, a 5-1 win over Brown, and she also turned away 23 shots in a 0-0 draw against Clarkson.
“Brianna and Molly have done a great job. . . and they’ve been a huge part of our success these past couple of weekends,” Picard said.
Though her teammates have held down the fort while she was in Sweden, the Bruderheim, Alberta native returns to the Crimson to lead the team in this weekend’s pair of home games.
The team will certainly benefit from the 2014-2015 All-Ivy League First Team goaltender’s presence on the ice and the focus that she brings to the team.
“There’s a level of focus around Emerance that’s just unmatched by anybody else I’ve ever seen,” senior forward Miye D’Oench said on Oct. 28. “When she suits up for a game, you just know that she’s got it covered.”
With preseason rust now starting to wear off, a complete Harvard team will look to continue rolling against its conference opponents. The Crimson will attempt to continue its win streak to replicate its success from the 2014-2015 campaign by beginning its journey to the Frozen Four.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We've gathered our staff together and racked our brains for the best things to use your BoardPlus on. If you are one of the lucky, lucky few who still has BoardPlus left, you are very welcome for our sage advice coming ahead in this series. If you unfortunately have maxed out on your BoardPlus for the semester (we feel you), Crimson Cash? Flyby presents you with our fourth installment.
The LISE Center’s Heklas: You’re Welcome
I want to begin by explaining that it has taken me a long time to write this article, and that, in a dream life, I would share this secret with no one until the final day of my senior year. There are few things in life closer to my heart than warm, fresh, cinnamon rolls that are paid for by Harvard’s mysterious BoardPlus, but alas, for the love of Flyby I am revealing the greatest secret on this campus, the shining star in all of my darkest moments, a reason to smile even when wind chill is quite literally forcing me to tears. This is the LISE Center Cafe, which features a dreamlike cinnamon roll known as a Hekla.
The Hekla, despite its fancy name, is essentially a cinnamon roll but less sticky, with more layers, and closer to the texture of a slightly undercooked croissant than the traditionally heavy texture of a cinnamon roll. It’s complex, and difficult to describe, and the best way to understand is just to try it for yourself. Its name originates from a large volcano located in the south of Iceland, so you know this treat is legit. Although the rolls are delivered to the cafe daily, they are normally not warm but can be quickly heated up using the microwave in the cafe available for public use. You can choose a frosted and a non-frosted roll depending on your sugar preferences, and the roll costs about $3.95. Pair with a latte for a wonderful morning snack - the coffee here is substantially darker and richer because it is from Peet’s and not Starbucks. Greenhouse Cafe, you just can’t compare. If you choose to visit the cafe, you’re welcome. If you don’t, more for me!

Sections
Two weeks ago Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, and CNN (probably; this is pretty newsworthy) exploded with the news that after seven years Gilmore Girls will indeed reprise at some point soon.The “it’s-a-lifestyle-it’s-a-religion” show that charmed the hearts of mothers and daughters--and secretly the men in their lives--on the CW from 2000-2007 will return as a mini series on Netflix. Despite all the hype, Gilmore Girls’ return remains unconfirmed by Netflix.
The Prodigal Girls (are these Gilmorisms too obscure?) are rumored to return for a four-episode miniseries, which will include the famously concealed final four words of the show. According to TVLine, the show’s creator, Amy Sherman-Palladino, will return to write while the show’s stars Emily Bishop, Lauren Graham, Alexis Bledel, and Scott Patterson are likely to participate.
This announcement has inspired tears, excitement, and renewed debates over who Rory should have ended up with (official Flyby stance: Dean is irrelevant) and whether or not she is the new White House correspondent.
I don’t know whether the renewal will be worth the hype, but we hope so. After all, every college kid needs something to turn to when “people are being particularly stupid...and you cannot talk to any more of them.” In the meantime, and forever, if you’re looking for me or you haven’t seen the show, I’m on Season 5, Episode 15 for the fourth time. Play me out troubadour.
Even if you’ve never seen the show, the Girls can get you through the day (they’re generous like that):
If you wake up before 9:00 a.m."Hate early. Must kill early...I need coffee.” (Lorelai Gilmore, “Written in the Stars”)
If you need inspiration or motivation for adventure (disclaimer: this may not help with your p-set)“It’s your choice, Ace. People can live a hundred years without ever really living for a minute. You climb up here with me it’s one less minute you haven’t lived.” (Logan, “You Jump, I Jump, Jack”).
To validate your confusing subconscious while daydreaming in lecture“Because my brain is a wild jungle full of scary gibberish. “I’m writing a letter, I can’t write a letter, why can’t I write a letter? I’m wearing a green dress, I wish I was wearing my blue dress, my blue dress is at the cleaners. The Germans wore gray, you wore blue, ‘Casablanca’ is such a good movie. Casablanca, the White House, Bush. Why don’t I drive a hybrid car? I should really drive a hybrid car. I should really take my bicycle to work. Bicycle, unicycle, unitard. Hockey puck, rattlesnake, monkey, monkey, underpants!” (Lorelai, “Santa’s Secret Stuff”)
If you need a pick-up line for the cute person in section“This thing we’re doing here, me, you, I just want you to know that I’m in. I am all in.” (Luke Danes, “Written in the Stars”)
For trying to imagine that your unusual sleep schedule will one day be worth it“I’m going to Europe and I’m going to have a marvelous time! I’m going to get up at 10 and have two glasses of wine at lunch every single day.” (Emily Gilmore, “Say Goodbye to Daisy Miller”)
Sections
It’s that time of year again...the Harvard-Yale game! Here’s what you need to know about tickets:
You, a Harvard College student, can purchase a ticket for $20. These seats will be in the Harvard student section, because let’s be honest, who wants to sit in the Yale student section anyway? Bring your HUID to the following places at these times:
The Athletics Box Office in the Murr Center: 65 N. Harvard St, next to the Harvard Stadium from Monday-Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
But since no one is going to walk across the river, here are the places you’re really be going:
Monday, November 16th at Quincy and Kirkland dhalls 5-7 p.m.
Tuesday, November 17th at Leverett and Eliot dhalls 5-7 p.m.
Wednesday, November 18th at Annenberg and Adams dhall 5-7 p.m.
Thursday, November 19th at Cabot dhall 5-7 p.m.
You can also buy a spot on a shuttle at the Harvard Box Office (in the Smith Center) for $40-$50 (round trip). For more information, go to http://www.shuttles.hsa.net/
Sections
Hello Harvard, it’s Thursday and we are this much closer to the weekend— whew. On this day in 1933, Hugh Gray took the first known photos alleged to be of the Loch Ness Monster. If the rain keeps up, perhaps you too could spot the elusive creature lurking in a puddle in the Yard. Be sure to snap a photo and send it to Flyby.
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
Hope you’re not sick of the rain yet. With highs of 54 and lows of 45, it’ll be slightly warmer than the day before, but just as wet.
IN THE D-HALL
Lunch:
Asian BBQ Pulled Pork Sandwich
Vegetable Lo Mein with Tofu
Roasted Russet Potato Wedges
Dinner:
Cider Roasted Pork Loin
Community Night - Chicken
5 Cheese Tortellini with Spinach & Mushroom
Scalloped Potatoes
ON FLYBY
Declare Your Concentrations, Says a Paperless PostBe There. Be Declared. That's the name of the event that also came with a fancy Paperless Post.
Best Uses of BoardPlus, Part Three: Barker Cafe, A Non-Pretentious Review (I Promise)Third installment of Flyby's series on the best ways to use up your BoardPlus (aka feel guilty using Crimson Cash).
Get the coffeecoffeecoffee– Flyby on Gilmore Girls Coming BackIf you need a pick-up line for the cute person in section“This thing we’re doing here, me, you, I just want you to know that I’m in. I am all in.” (Luke Danes, “Written in the Stars”)
Friendly Reminder: Get Your Harvard-Yale TicketsWhere and when to get them, plus how much they are. You're very welcome, Harvard.
ON FM
The Diversity IssueFifteen Minutes Magazine explores the state of diversity at Harvard by examining the past and present.
Ben Lerner & Geoffrey O'BrienAmidst the chatter, two men slip into the auditorium. The Stratis Haviaras Reading, co-sponsored by the English Department and the Woodberry Poetry Room, is about to start. 
What Concentration to Declare, Based on Free TripsAre you interested in sponges, mollusks, and arthropods? (Follow-up question: Do you even know what they are?) If yes, join OEB 51 and prepare to learn a LOT more about invertebrates—while enjoying the glowing sun, crystal blue waters, and soft white sand of the Caribbean for a week over spring break.
IN THE NEWSStudents Weigh In on Protests at Yale and MizzouIn the wake of student demonstrations against racism at Yale and the University of Missouri at Columbia, dozens of Harvard undergraduates weighed in both on social media and in person on Wednesday, with many declaring their support for the movements on those campuses.
Harvard Medical School Launches Arts InitiativeThe “Arts&Humanities@HMS” initiative— planning for which began in 2011— supports the arts in part by raising money to create fellowships for Medical School affiliates interested in the intersection of art and medicine. 
Embassy Open, Student Interest in Traveling to Cuba SpikesFollowing the historic thawing of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States, students have voiced renewed interest in traveling to Cuba, through both a Harvard-affiliated study abroad program and a spring break tour of the country.
Midwest Club Creates Free Admissions Guide for High SchoolsLooking to provide free college admissions advice for students in the Midwest, the Harvard College Midwest Club has created an online college guide and distributed it to thousands of high schools across nine states.
In Out of the Box Lecture, Student Learns From a Cardboard BoxAs the College looks to increase its focus on teaching and learning, one professor is thinking out of this world—giving a lecture on space travel on Wednesday while one of his students sat inside a small, 1.5 cubic meter cardboard box.
EVENTS
Candy Crowley is holding her study group with special guest LZ Granderson, ABC News Contributor, ESPN senior writer, and a former CNN commentator. This event will be in IOP L166 from 4-5:30 p.m.
The Harvard Political Union and the Harvard Queer Students and Allies are sponsoring Pizza and Politics with Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, IN. This event will be in Lowell JCR from 5-6 p.m.
Today is the opening night of HOME in the Ex, conceived and directed by Michael Gellman ‘17. The show will be in the Loeb Drama Center at 8 p.m.


