News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At the 2009 Copenhagen Summit, major world powers reaffirmed climate change as one of the foremost challenges facing humanity and pledged to put forth efforts to limit global temperature increase to two degrees Celsius. Since then, scientists have suggested that even that cap may not be enough to prevent catastrophic impacts. Amidst this environment of growing urgency, we were disappointed to read this past February that The Crimson supports construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. They claim that political rhetoric has polarized the issue and obscured the project’s promise of energy independence. But, as the editorial points out, the broader goal here is the fight against climate change. Rejecting Keystone XL is an essential part of that fight.
Keystone poses several environmental and climatic threats. Tar sands extraction is an enormously resource-intensive process with high energy and water costs. According to a congressional report, tar sands produce 17 percent more greenhouse gas emissions than other fossil fuels—and this is still only the beginning of the story. The project is a laundry list of environmental and human injustices; construction of the pipeline alone will destroy numerous habitats and their plant and animal residents, as well as farms in the American heartland and sacred First Nations lands. After construction, there is the constant threat of leaks and spills, which, according to a University of Nebraska-Lincoln study, are much more likely than TransCanada has claimed. The study’s projected worst-case scenario of 91 spills could damage abutting homes, spoil previously pristine land, and contaminate North America’s largest freshwater aquifer.
Pipeline supporters claim the oil will be produced regardless of whether or not Keystone XL is built, but the reality is much more complex. Tar sands development remains a possibility either way, but proponents—including The Crimson—ignore a crucial fact: Successfully stopping pipelines can raise the cost of business and make plans unprofitable, de-motivating corporations from exploiting these fragile lands. Additionally, a recent letter published in Nature Climate Change suggests that the State Department’s review “overlooked the pipeline’s potentially most significant GHG impact: increasing oil consumption as the result of increasing supplies and lowering prices.” The bottom line is that exploiting the tar sands oil through any project will exacerbate climate change.
Neither is Keystone a panacea for foreign oil dependence—despite the no-export front TransCanada is putting up, American businesses may not see much of the crude oil being pumped through the pipeline. President Obama said in 2014 that the Keystone Pipeline “is providing the ability of Canada to pump their oil, send it through our land, down to the Gulf, where it will be sold everywhere else.” Last year, 37.5 percent of the product from Gulf Coast refineries was exported; the nonpartisan, University of Pennsylvania-based website factcheck.org explains that while exact figures remain unknown, refined Keystone XL crude is likely to leave the country as well. Consequently, the pipeline doesn’t promise energy independence as The Crimson seems to believe—and even though much of the oil is apparently destined for international ports, Canadian and American people will still bear heavy environmental and health costs.
For these reasons and more, many environmentalists, residents, and First Nations peoples indigenous to the tar sands regions in Canada will oppose any future proposal to develop the tar sands just as they have fought and continue to fight Keystone. In that sense, there is nothing extraordinary about Keystone. There are hundreds of current campaigns across the continent protesting new pipeline infrastructure stretch across the continent, from the Pacific Connector on the West Coast to rallies against the Kinder Morgan proposal closer to home in Massachusetts. As a symbol of our nation’s continued dependence on dirty energy, Keystone has overshadowed these other proposed pipelines and taken on great weight. That symbolic value has proven bittersweet—it has helped polarize Congressional politics, but it has also brought the question of America’s energy future to the foreground.
That future is up to us. If we are serious about securing a clean energy future, then we have to see President Obama’s veto of the Keystone bill as a crucial step. We must do better with what we have by significantly improving energy efficiency programs. We must invest in renewable energy technologies, especially as they become increasingly cost-competitive with fossil fuels. These programs, not a 1,179-mile pipeline, are what we must look to as we strive for greater energy independence and a cleaner, more sustainable world.
C. Alicia Juang ’18 lives in Thayer Hall., Terilyn Chen ’16 is an environmental science and public policy concentrator in Winthrop Housee. Sabrina G. Devereaux ’18 lives in Lionel Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I’ve been puzzling over it ever since I started college. Why is it that I find myself so often agreeing with a socially just cause, but none of its proponents?
Eventually, I arrived at an answer: the social justice warrior. That walking campus cliché dedicated to rooting out today’s noxious isms and phobias—wherever they exist, and wherever they don’t.
You might object here to the absurdity of making a nuanced argument on the basis of a simplistic trope about an entire, diverse class of people, and, of course, you would be right. But that’s exactly the error I find the social justice warrior makes.
Contra their professed credo of openness, allyship, and solidarity, the social justice warrior’s complaints often hinge on a simplistic assumption of a person’s identity from their race, gender, or sexual orientation.
Heard of a white person doing public service in Africa? Quickly diagnose a case of white savior complex. Does a student like the music, culture, and customs of another nation? Call cultural appropriation. Know of any group that doesn’t mirror America’s demographic distribution exactly? Decry the institution as systemically oppressive.
Too much of what I read and see is exactly this kind of unthinking rejection, one that emerges from a philosophy of activism for activism’s sake. On campuses, this often takes the form of student activists seeking out any evidence of real, nationally salient injustices on their own campuses, seizing on—and often misrepresenting—any shred that they may find, and presenting this as evidence of a pervasive, all-encompassing system of oppression.
Take the recent example of the black lives matter movement on Harvard’s campus. Clearly, the disproportionate rates of arrest, incarceration, and police brutality of African-Americans merit an oppositional movement.
But when a group of Harvard students sought, unknown to most, to delay Primal Scream by four-and-a-half minutes, each minute symbolizing an hour Michael Brown’s body remained on a Ferguson street this summer, the primal screamers, cold, wet, naked, and almost certainly intoxicated, refused.
Of all the reasons that the movement failed to gain five minutes from the naked mass that night, indifference to police brutality against blacks might be assumed to be low on the list. And yet, some of the protesters would later call themselves “sure of our collective anger by the extreme lack of sensitivity.”
In searching for any seeming equivalence between the conditions of their often cloistered campuses and politically salient causes, these kind of stunts abound. The allure of publicizing a negative reaction seems more the purpose than the professed aim itself.
The same can be seen from Divest Harvard, which, on May 1, 2014, parked a student who refused to move in front of Mass. Hall, requiring the Harvard University Police Department to arrest him. A gleeful press release sent out the same day, hailed the “first arrest for the growing fossil fuel divestment movement” and criticized the administration that would, in their words, “rather arrest their own students and have police force us out of the way than speak to us civilly about this important issue.”
How uncivil, indeed, for President Drew G. Faust not to engage the man blocking her door with the respect he deserved!
Nearby, Smith College forced International Monetary Fund Christine Lagarde, one of the world’s most prominent and influential women, out of delivering last year’s commencement address for promoting “imperialist and patriarchal systems that oppress and abuse women worldwide.”
To a hammer, everything looks a nail, and to the social justice warrior, every elite looks like an oppressor.
This impulse toward seeking the bad from anything good, to protesting progress for not being immediate utopia, leads to the most disturbing trend of the social justice warrior: a near-constant assumption of bad faith.
If one can’t protest a message in itself, then seek to divine its subliminal oppressions: Was the length of Faust’s 50-word endorsement of the black lives matter campaign an intended slight to black students? Did her email about the Harvard Art Museums after a threatening email was sent to Asian students represent her disregard for their safety?
When actress Patricia Arquette said at the Oscars that it’s time for “all the women in America and all the men that love women, and all the gay people, and all the people of color that we’ve all fought for to fight for us now,” did she really, actually mean that feminism was “only for white women?”
I fear that this trend will remain resilient, for this brand of activism is a philosophy set on inoculating itself from criticism. Criticism from a member of a historically privileged class or race can be dismissed out of hand for their lack of “checking their privilege,” and even a critic who isn’t is still subject to being “called out.” One can’t protest these declarations, for to do so would only further the alleged oppression—they can only admit their fault and submit their auto-de-fé for deviating from the orthodoxy.
Perhaps I’m unenlightened, and perhaps the social justice warriors are right. But if they’re losing unabashed liberals like me, how can they ever hope to win?
Idrees M. Kahloon ’16, a Crimson editorial executive, is an applied mathematics concentrator in Dunster House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Thursday represents the height of House pride and participation, as Housing Day excitement prompts students to wake up at the crack of dawn to don fish, penguin, and elephant costumes and rush the Yard. This annual custom ought to serve as a reminder—both to newly Housed freshmen and House veterans—actively to embrace the Houses.
For freshmen, Housing Day marks an opportunity to be part of a new, inherently diverse, built-in community. Though it can be easy to fall back on old friends from extracurriculars, freshman dorms, and especially from the same blocking group, House life offers an opportunity to forge friendships outside these relatively narrow confines. Branch out with the new experiences that are now available: Participate in House activities and intramural sports; consider joining the House Committee; have dinner with the House Masters. House life provides the chance to move outside the familiar, to meet and learn from others with different perspectives, interests, and worldviews.
That's why Housing Day should serve as a notice to freshmen and a reminder to upperclassmen to take advantage of the home that can exist within each House. For many, the transition to House life accompanies a loss of a close-knit entryway—a common complaint is that upperclassmen entryways lack the sense of community fostered in the Yard. But the entryway experience doesn't have to end freshman year. Students across classes can have it so long as they work to create the same communal spirit.
On the other end of the spectrum, it is just as important not to hinder others from participating fully in their Houses. Housing Day rumors are rampant enough that students often sit with a mix of dread and excitement as they await their assignments. Debates over the merits and shortcomings of each House simply prompt undue anxiety for blocking groups with no control over their eventual fate. Not only is this unproductive; but it is also absurd: In reality, many seniors say their own House is the best on campus.
The three Quad houses suffer the brunt of these misinformed stereotypes. It is unhelpful and unwarranted to put down the Quad without considering the numerous advantages of life in Cabot, Currier, or Pforzheimer—the spacious singles, the tight-knit communities, and the peaceful atmosphere. This also applies to the other houses: Discounting a House because of cockroach rumors or lamentations about how far it is from the Yard can be a barrier to enjoying a community. Crying over Mather (or inspiring a friend to do so) will only take away from a day meant for celebration.
While gearing up for Housing Day, remember that this day’s pomp represents how meaningful a House can be to a student’s identity at Harvard. Embracing House life and acknowledging that a House’s weaknesses mainly lie in people’s attitudes toward it can underscore the essential fact that a House’s most important assets are its inhabitants. Let us take to heart the spirit of Housing Day and immerse ourselves into our House communities, new and old alike.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It’s a semester and a half into your freshman year at Harvard: You’ve given up on three start-ups, stopped going to the gym, and come to the realization that this school has enough sausage to stimulate Upton Sinclair’s journalistic appetite. But Upton Sinclair hasn’t been born yet and the absence of females in your life isn’t the product of spitting bad game or being denied into the Fly.
No, it’s simply 1873, six years before Harvard created a sister institution for female students and 33 years before Upton Sinclair’s muckraking led the government to regulate the meatpacking indus- try. Harvard, at this point in time, is an unregulated sausage fest, and there’s nothing you can do about it. But that’s all about to change, or so FM likes to imagine. The administration has just decided to provide you with a new vehicle for false hope: This year, Harvard is hosting Yardfest.
In reality, Yardfest is a relatively recent tradition at Harvard, with the Wu-Tang Clan as the first performers in 1994. But FM will take you on a trip down memory lane to imagine what Yardfest would have been like, had it been around back then. So without further adieu, here are the three top theories for how Yardfest 1873 would have gone down:
Bach Party
If you think block parties are a fun way to spend your time, you’ve clearly never been to a Bach party. Yeah, that’s right: a party that exclusively plays the music of Johann Sebastian Bach. How do you promiscuously grind to the music of Bach, you might ask? You don’t; Bach doesn’t believe in foreplay. At Bach parties, it’s sex or nothing, and from what I’ve heard, it seems as though classical music serves as the ultimate lubricant.
(Ulysses S.) DAPA Grant Party
Every Harvard student knows that receiving DAPA grants is a surefire way to have a turnt party. But you know what leads to even more fun than a DAPA Grant party? A Ulysses S. (DAPA) Grant party, designed to honor then-President of the United States Ulysses S. Grant. This Yardfest had everything: Lincoln posters, Civil War reenactments, West Point students, you name it. What’s missing? Drugs and alcohol, of course. But as any veteran of a DAPA party can tell you, illegal substances are not a necessary component of a great party.
EDM
In a time when the words “electronic” and “music” had no place in the same sentence (the lightbulb hadn’t even been invented yet), EDM was already all the rage in Cambridge, Mass. By EDM, of course, I mean elegant domesticated monogamy, a practice wherein students at Harvard College dance with one person all night, talk about cohabitation, and dress in clothes far too formal and covered-up for the certified banger that was Yardfest 1873.
Ultimately, as with any great moment in history or literature, we may never know the exact details of Yardfest 1873. But just as millions continue to believe that Delonte West really slept with Lebron’s mother and Babe Ruth really called his shot, I have faith that Yardfest 1873 was the greatest party in the history of mankind. Take that, Spring Fling.
Sections
The two of us meander up West Street in Boston, looking around for any hint of building number 33. Behind us is Tremont Street and Boston Common. In front of us is Macy’s, and general signs of civilization. On this street, though, there appears to be nothing.
We’ve almost passed the building before we finally catch a glimpse of the address we’ve been searching for on a brick wall. Backtracking to the door, we see a paper sign taped to the inside. If you’re here to play the game, it says, scroll down on the intercom and type “301” to be buzzed in. We obey the instructions, typing the code and waiting for someone to answer the line on the other end. “Hello?” a man’s voice says. I say that we’re here for the 9 p.m. game. OK, he says. He’ll buzz us in; then, we should take the elevator to the third floor and wait for the game to begin. And with that, we walk into the now-unlocked building.
I muse about the lack of verification of identity as my companion vocalizes my thoughts. “We’re definitely going to get murdered in here,” he says as we head into the elevator and push the button for floor three.
We’ve come to participate in Escape the Room Boston, a live interactive version of the computer game popularized in the early 2000s. The organization began in New York City, and has since opened branches in Philadelphia, Pa., Houston, Texas, and Phoenix, Ariz., in addition to the one here in Boston. Along with up to eight other people (10 total), my friend and I will be given only an hour to solve a series of puzzles and riddles inside a locked room. The goal? To escape, of course.
The elevator doors open, and the first thing I see are walls painted with a black-and-white zebra pattern. Whether the decor is meant to be disorienting or inviting, I’m not sure. Stepping out of the elevator, we find ourselves in a brightly lit waiting area filled with other people. Are they waiting to play, too? As it turns out, they’ve just finished. “Got out with 39 seconds to spare,” one of them says.
They assure us it’s quite a fun experience, and promise that we’re going to have a great time. As a passionate lover of any kind of puzzle, this isn’t really something I ever doubted, but my companion seems to be a little relieved. We wait for around 10 minutes as other people trickle in, also waiting for the 9 p.m. game to start.
A tall blonde woman, seemingly in her late twenties, suddenly walks into the waiting area. She strolls over to the corner of the room and asks for everyone waiting to play to gather around. I count the other people who flock to her, eager to begin. It looks like we’ll have a full game of 10 people, and all of them appear as excited about the game as I am—a good sign.
The woman briefly explains the rules. Anything and everything can be a clue or lead to a key of some sort, so we should feel free to move around and manipulate every object in the room. She’ll be watching and listening the entire time via cameras set up inside the room, so if we’re about to physically break something that we’re not supposed to, a warning bell will sound. Similarly, if we get stuck, she’ll be able to send clues over a monitor in the room. Other than that, we’re completely on our own. The only other rule, because this version of the game is the same for everyone participating, is to refrain from talking about the specific puzzles with anyone once we’ve left the room.
With that, we’re ready to begin. We walk into the room, set our coats and belongings in the corner, and proceed to briefly introduce ourselves. But once the countdown begins, everyone stops trying to remember each other’s names. With 59:59 to go, the thoughts of all 10 people in the room turn towards the task at hand. Search everything, think outside the box, and most importantly, get out of the room.
All in all, we do quite well. The puzzles are certainly challenging, but I am surprised at how well our little band of strangers works together. It’s truly a collaborative effort, as everyone brings their unique skill-set to the table. Some work on solving puzzles and riddles, while others work on searching for hidden clues and keys. We rotate through the tasks; everyone gets the chance to search and solve during each part of the game. The warning bell goes off only twice, both times for my benefit. Whether I should be proud or ashamed of that fact, I haven’t yet decided.
With 11:49 left, the group begins to stress a bit. We’re close, but we’ve hit a roadblock. Desperately trying to think of new ways to approach the problems, we begin to start guessing. Suddenly, one last clue flashes up on the monitor, and within five minutes, we’re on our way again. We obtain the final key, and the teammate in the “Doctor Who” T-shirt unlocks the door to the room.
The monitor shows 3:45 when the blonde woman enters. We’ve done it, and with nearly four minutes to spare. We go through our debriefing, running through each puzzle again so those who were not directly involved with individual challenges can understand exactly what the others were up to throughout the past hour. She then gives us a surprising statistic: Only 15 to 20 percent of people who play the game actually manage to escape the room. We’re only the second group to have done it today (we had met the first earlier).
We reintroduce ourselves, now feeling a bit silly asking for the names of people we have worked so intimately with for the past hour. We take a victory group photo, and prepare to leave. Smiles light up everyone’s faces as we reminisce about the puzzle-solving process and how much fun we had working together and beating the game. I can’t think of a better way to spend an hour, and want nothing more than to turn around and do it all over again, this time with different puzzles.
Unfortunately, because this particular branch has only been around for about three months, the blonde woman says, this is currently Escape the Room Boston’s only version of the game. She assures us a new one should be launching soon, however, and if we want to write our email addresses down to receive updates about it when it comes out, we’re free to do so. Needless to say, I am among the first to provide my information.
Sections
In January, my skin turns to snow. I leave my dorm in the morning, hair shower-wet, mousse-sprayed to my neck, snowflakes crystallized in my curls. I wear black tights and salt stains bloom on my thighs; I wear black boots and white lines cross my ankles in waves. The spaces between my fingers grow cold.
Everyone talks about the weather. They count inches fallen, hours of darkness, roads closed. They dip boot-tips in muddy pile-ups and press gloved hands against red cheeks, It’s so cold. Small talk becomes How are you? I’m fine, I’m busy, has it snowed?
I start to sleep too much. My head hurts; I feel the backs of my eyeballs and the rounded edge of my skull against my neck. In bed I turn over so often that my sheets come off the mattress; I don’t fix them for a while and in the morning I wrestle with white cotton.
In February I get lost. I am on the Weeks Footbridge but I don’t know it; I only know that I have lost my earmuffs and that snow falls into the spaces between my calves and my boots like clumps of sugar. I start to cry because I am late, because I’ve missed a deadline, because I didn’t get into a class, because I wanted something and did not get it or else because I did and that was all.
They do not tell you how cold it is here. Or, they tell you, buy long underwear, Californians beware. They do not tell you how the cold feels, what it looks like. The lawn in front of Memorial Church goes from green to white to brown—liquidy, lumpy piles. You walk through it and you think of a sunny afternoon when you sat on your cardigan, head against a tree, next to a friend, centuries and centuries ago.
In March I write a paper and it feels like I’m squeezing the words out of the pores of my fingertips. I eat a bowl of dry cereal one piece at a time and go to sleep in my tangled sheets; snow falls from my windowpane and hits the ground in dull thuds.
I wake up the next day, and it’s cold; it’s cold and I am fine. I walk through Eliot courtyard and hear the clatter of forks through the frosted windows of the dining hall; I enter the Square and icicles hang in size order over white-paneled buildings; I walk down Brattle Street and the wind slices across my cheeks, and I am fine.
That night I finish my paper; the words leak out of my fingertips. I smooth my sheets. My roommates and I sit on a lint-heavy rug in the common room; we rest our elbows on the coffee table and form a jagged diamond, snowflake-like. We talk about all the times that we were late, that we missed deadlines, that we wanted something and did not get it or else got it and that was all. It feels like talking about the weather.
At some point that night, one of us decides that we all need to exercise, right then, and so we play “Girls” on Spotify and pledge to do a squat every time Beyoncé sings the title word; she repeats herself over and over in the chorus, faster and faster, and none of us can keep up. We all collapse on the ground and watch a sitcom instead, too tired to follow the plot but we laugh along with the soundtrack anyway, heels digging into the rug.
In the morning, we go out to brunch. Overnight, the temperature has risen; my coat feels hot against my skin and the sun dries my damp hair. My boots clank on the ground, no longer so padded with snow; my fingers grow warm in my pockets. It still looks like winter. The lawn still holds liquidy, lumpy piles. But we have sore thighs from squatting, and we’re getting brunch.
Everyone talks about the weather. They count inches melted, hours of sunlight, days until they can walk outside without coats. They dip boot-tips into clear melted puddles, and press gloveless hands against flushed cheeks, It’s getting warm. Small talk becomes, How are you? I’m fine, I’m busy, it’s a beautiful day.
They do not tell you how warm it is here, how it feels, what it looks like. The lawn in front of Memorial Church will go from brown to green. In April, maybe, we will sit on it; until then, the common room rug will do.
Sections
UPDATED: March 29, 2015, at 4:38 p.m.
Today, Housing Day, upperclassmen storm the Yard in a flurry of competitive spirit, welcoming freshmen to their assigned Houses. While the vast majority of those students will remain in their Houses, dozens of students each year move off campus.
According to Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven, about two percent of Harvard undergraduates, or 120 students, live off-campus.
These off-campus students have, for various reasons, elected to opt out of the Residential House system, which administrators have called a “cornerstone” of Harvard’s undergraduate experience.
Some students are older than the typical undergraduate population and have professions outside Cambridge or families to raise. Others move to escape the stresses they experience in a House or to share an apartment with friends. For a portion of these students, buoyed by the College’s financial aid system, living off-campus is financially feasible, even sometimes less expensive as a result of the reduced meal cost. Others are willing to sacrifice some extra money for what they call a better living situation.
TREKKING TO CAMPUS
Sometimes, when it’s warm, Jane H. Newbold ’15 rides her bike from her apartment in Jamaica Plain—a neighborhood in Boston—to campus. Most days this past winter, she took the T.
At times, like Anthony V. Buda ’15—another off-campus student who lives about 45 minutes away on the train in East Boston—Newbold spent three hours stuck underground while the MBTA “went haywire” struggling to establish regular service after this year’s large amount of snow.
Despite the hassles of distance, both Buda and Newbold made the conscious decision to live far off campus when they returned to Harvard after extended leaves of absence. They say their experiences pursuing professional interests during time off played into this choice.
Newbold worked a variety of jobs, including the one she currently maintains at Tuft University’s Center for Translational Science Education. Buda performed around theworld as part of the death metal band Revocation.
“I didn’t know if I wanted to be immersed in the kind of mindspace that is created by a bunch of people in their very early 20s at this time in my life,” Buda says of his decision to live off-campus.
According to Buda, the apartment in Boston was simply cheaper than living elsewhere in Cambridge. Newbold, who worked in Boston during her leave and plans to stay in the area after graduation, says she did not want to give up the apartment in which she had already been living.
Although they both say they are enjoying their return to Harvard, Buda points to challenges that come with living far from campus.
“I do feel like an outsider,” Buda says.
Living so far away, Buda says he must strictly regulate his time to minimize his commutes into Cambridge—a contrast to his prior experience living in Quincy House.
“I can remember being in Quincy and living with ease. You’re where you need to be in five minutes,” he says, adding that he also misses the social opportunities that House life provides.
Lack of private space can also be an issue, Buda says. On long days in the Yard, he is constantly in public spaces like campus libraries and cafes.
“You kind of learn where there are individual bathrooms with individual locks,“ he says.
Newbold says she is successfully re-connecting to Harvard—an experience she largely credits to the Dudley Cooperative.
Newbold is a “quarterboarder” at the Co-op. The arrangement costs “a quarter” of the typical amount of money and household responsibilities of a regular boarder, and allows Newbold to enjoy a “quarter” of the Co-op’s home-cooked meals and what she described as its tight-knit community.
“It would be really different if I didn’t have that,” she says.
While Buda lives off-campus, he recommends that students live on-campus and be “fully immersed” in Harvard’s environment. He has already had that experience, he says. Newbold, however, is more cautious.
“Moving off campus doesn’t teach you to magically integrate off-campus and oncampus life well.... There’s a learning curve,” Newbold says. “Don’t be afraid of [living offcampus]— sometimes, it’s the right thing to do.”
CLOSE BUT NOT FAR ENOUGH
Tara Raghuveer ’14 and Emma R. Lipshultz ’15 did not live or block together, but both shared similar experiences by moving out of Currier House their senior year. Although Lipshultz’s apartment sits in close proximity to the College—it is just a five minute walk from the Quad—she says that the new living space has meant a world of difference.
Like Lipshultz and her two blockmates, Raghuveer and many of her friends moved off campus during senior year after feeling that their living situation in Currier, where they say they did not have common rooms, made it difficult for their respective blocking groups to feel connected.
Lipshultz says that living in an apartment has removed her from what she said was the business characteristic of everyday life at Quincy House, where she had lived before transferring to Currier, and the broader College. She says that she is now more productive, sets her own schedule, and finally has the chance to catch up on her “cooking grind.”
“I’m kind of removed from all of that, the craziness that is on campus,” Lipshultz says.
Ingrid Y. Li ’17, who lives in an apartment off campus, says the proximity between campus and where she lives has allowed her to stay connected. She only misses study breaks and House events that offered free food.
For Raghuveer, who says she enjoyed living in Currier House for two years, living off campus allowed her to set her own pace, become closer to her friends, and even, according to her, save about a couple thousand dollars in food and living expenses.
Li says, however, that living off-campus may not be feasible for all students. In her experience, the room and board amount of Harvard’s cost of attendance—which totals $14,669 this year—would not cover her expenses. Aside from apartment costs, because Li is no longer on a meal plan, she buys groceries from Whole Foods and eats out when not cooking.
“Living off-campus is something that you need the money to do,” she says. But it’s worth it for the additional freedom and increased productivity, she adds.
SOCIAL SPACE
Jack C. Smith ’15 says that his current home, where he has lived since sophomore year, is his most permanent, consecutive residence. Smith is not referring to one of the College’s 12 residential Houses; he is talking about the Sigma Chi fraternity house on Massachusetts Avenue.
At a college of about 6,700 undergraduates, Smith openly acknowledges that he is a rare student, having never lived in the Houses. When he was a junior, he had, in fact, made a resolution to move back into Kirkland for the following academic year, worrying that he was not spending enough time with his blockmates. But when Smith says he missed a deadline for housing forms, and would have to go into the Kirkland housing lottery by himself, he decided to stay off campus.
Originally, Smith had worried that moving off campus could cost more than Harvard housing, or even worse, that the move could affect his level of financial aid.
According to Sally C. Donahue, director of financial aid, a student’s scholarship is not affected by a move off-campus, unless in the rare circumstance that they are local and live at home. Off-campus students are simply not charged Harvard’s room and board fee, which may, for students on significant financial aid, generate a credit they can withdraw through a refund.
As it turned out, Smith says he has saved money, in large part due to cooking on his own and renting a small room in the fraternity house.
“I lived in this really bad and tiny room for a while, but it’s not that much worse than most River singles,” Smith says. “That was significantly cheaper.”
On the whole, Smith says his experiences off campus are not that much unlike those of students in DeWolfe housing, except that tutors do not live in his residence.
Sure, he has to take out the trash, and Dorm Crew does not clean the house’s bathroom, but laundry is free, marking a nice bonus often not offered in the Houses, Smith says.
And while the fraternity house can be loud on Fridays and Saturdays, during the week the atmosphere is mostly docile, according to Smith. He also completes a bulk of his coursework at Lamont—his “second home.”
For Smith, blending his two houses—Kirkland and the fraternity—has been somewhat challenging, but not impossible. He says he participated in a Kirkland Drama Society play last semester, and occasionally attends Kirkland events, or goes back to see his blockmates.
“I like to think that I’m a pretty good off-campus House person,” he says. Beyond the dining hall experience, Smith doesn’t think he has missed out on much.
“Harvard likes to think that the House system matters a lot and it certainly is a cool, unique thing that we have,” Smith says. “But I don’t think it adds nearly as much as people say it does.”
“NO CHOICE”
For some students, living off campus is not a choice, but is required by personal circumstances.
When Logan E. Leslie ’16 came to Harvard from Afghanistan after eight years of active duty in the United States Army with his wife and daughter, he found out Harvard had assigned him a room in Lionel.
“The school—they thought I was going to live in the dorms,” Leslie says, laughing. “I informed them that I’m married and I have a child.”
Leslie and his family have opted instead for an apartment in West Cambridge, though he did have his proctor over for dinner freshman year, where they bonded over their young children.
When Alice Huang ’16 came back to Harvard after several leaves for health reasons, she knew that she would not be able to return to living on campus. Even the Dudley Cooperative, known for its home-cooked meals, would not have been able to accommodate the special diet she now adheres to, Huang says.
She currently lives in an apartment in Central Square, with nearby access to supermarkets.
Though Huang and Leslie speak about the undergraduate residential experience with wistfulness, they say that their current situations are better suited to their lives now.
Leslie says that though living off-campus can be “tough,” particularly freshman year when living in Harvard Yard is considered such a big part of the freshman experience, he has different obligations than the average college student.
“That part of my life is gone—when I was of college age, I was in the army, I lived in the barracks,” Leslie says. Now, when he leaves campus for his apartment, he transitions into his role as a “family man.”
But that doesn’t mean he isn’t enjoying an immersive experience at Harvard.
“It’s what you make of it. I could easily treat it like a job,” Leslie says. “I spend a great deal of time [at Harvard]. It feels like home.”
Huang is likewise content with her off-campus experience and appreciates benefits like the division between school and home, even if she does battle the occasional spell of doubt and nostalgia.
Huang, who lived for a time in Mather House, sometimes misses House life. But she says periodically eating at dining halls and attending campus events with friends is “enough” for her.
“I just feel like, so much older. I just have different considerations,” she says. “I still feel, ‘Am I missing out, am I not connecting enough with people Harvard people?’ [But] I connect with people who matter to me. It’s what’s important.”
Sections
When I meet Philosophy Professor Edward J. Hall in his charming office, he is shoeless, sitting in an armchair and chatting with one of his former students. When she leaves, he gives her a bear hug as though they are old friends. The only facts I know about Hall are that he teaches metaphysics and epistemol-ogy, and that he’s famous for bringing cookies to class.
We sit down to talk, starting from the beginning. Hall attended Reed Col- lege and graduated in 1987, studying chemistry before applying to the masters program in philosophy at Princeton. He almost applied to graduate school for chemistry, but one class on ethics changed his course completely.
“It was life-changing,” Hall tells me. Although he had read Henry David Thoreau in high school, he had never seriously studied philosophy. In his eth- ics course, Hall first read John Stuart Mill, then Immanuel Kant. “Kant was mind-blowing. I remember sitting in the library just pouring over ‘Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals,’ trying to understand it line-by-line, and [I was] just gripped.”
Hall received his Ph.D. from the Mas- sachusetts Institute of Technology. He also worked as a professor there until he was “poached” by Harvard in 2005. “I hope to stay for as long as I can remain intelligent,” he says.
Right off the bat, Hall noticed a dif- ference in the environment at Harvard. During his first semester teaching at the University, a cluster of students would follow him outside of the class- room after lectures, peppering him with questions and picking his brain. Hall says that he had more interaction with students outside of class in that first semester than he did in 11 years at MIT.
Now, Hall is known on campus as the professor who always brings cookies to class. “It’s a relatively recent innovation,” he says. The cookie tradition began the year Hall first taught Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning 17: Introductory Logic. His TA at the time, Eliza-beth Miller, suggested that he administer weekly quizzes. When Hall implemented this plan, it meant keeping students in class for an extra two hours on Fridays. The cookies, Hall explains, entered the scene as a way “to soften the blow.”
But the cookies soon became much more than that. “It’s gotten a little out of hand,” Hall acknowledges with a smile. Gradually the cookies became a fixture in his classes, and, now, he brings them to nearly every lecture. While baking for dozens of students might be time consuming, Hall bakes with his son, so it’s a chance to spend time with his family, too. Hall also firmly believes that cookies are a great way to make students happy.
When I first ask Hall what he does in his free time (besides baking), he laughs and asks, “In my what?” According to Hall, the average Harvard professor’s experience is very similar to that of students. Professors have a tough time saying no to commitments and, conse-quently, load up their plates with too much to do. It is an issue that, in Hall’s own words, professors should “join in solidarity” to fix.
The free time he does have is spent with his family. He cooks with his wife, Barbara, and plays games with his two sons. In the summer, the family spends as much time outside as possible—no surprise for a philosophy professor first exposed to the subject by Thoreau.
Sections
As the frenzied thesis season draws to a close and many seniors take a look at the sky again for the first time in weeks, FM examines offbeat thesis titles of yesteryear. Wacky, highly specific, and fraught with bad puns, these theses (thesi? theseaux?) represent some of Harvard’s strangest. We’ve thrown in a few apocryphal titles for good measure. Test your critical chops and see if you can separate the thesis gold from the “holy crap.”
1. The Decline and Fall of the Medieval Werewolf, Traced from the Origins of the Werewolf Belief through the Middle Ages
2. “Like, I Can’t Even”: Social Linguistics and Self-determined Identity of the Web-literate Adolescent across Regional Boundaries
3. Holy Crap!: The Role of Disgust in Religious Beliefs
4. Faux News and Impersonations: Political Humor in the Televisual Representation of Female Candidates in the 2008 United States Presidential Election on Saturday Night Live, The Daily Show, and The Colbert Report
5. Be Your Own Bartender: The Politics of Party Culture, an Immersive Ethnographic Approach
6. Hedgewhores, Wagtails, Cockatrices, Whipsters: John Singer Sargent and His Coterie of Nature’s Artful Dodgers
7. Learning from drunk monkeys: Expert approaches to alcohol and drug problems in modern America
8. The Final Frontier: Representations of Gender, Race, and Political Identity in 20th Century Science Fiction Television
9. Mining for Marriage: The Gold Digger as Marital Speculator, 1919-1940
10. Cuckoldly Knaves and Plague-Sores: A Deconstruction of Shakespearian Insult and Contemporary Parody Through the Lens of Elizabethan Social Norms
11. “Takin’ Back the Night!”: Buffy the Vampire Slayer and “Girl Power” Feminism
fake titles: 2, 5, 8, 10
Sections
Housing Day is right around the corner, folks, and we all know what that means. That’s right, it means it’s time for all of you freshmen to gather in your blocking groups, the formation of which has been causing you to stress eat for the past few weeks, and sacrifice some cuddly baby animals in an ancient voodoo ritual to appease the Housing Day gods.
What was that? That’s “repulsive,” “illegal,” and “not how it works,” you say? Well then, I suppose you could always take the classic, albeit less edgy route of getting absolutely shwasted. Nothing says good housing karma like puking in your roommate’s L.L. Bean boots, so here’s FM’s take on how you should get turnt in preparation for Housing Day.
PREGAME: HOUSING EVE ICED TEA
1 oz tequila 1 oz vodka 1 oz rum
1 oz gin
5 oz sweet and sour mix
1 drop of blood from each member of the blocking group
Buckle up, because this topical twist on a classic is bound to take the edge off those Housing Day nerves and prime you for a night of debauchery. Pass around this boozy brew as you pray to God, the River House deities, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, or whatever it is that you kids believe in these days. Take this time to bond with your blockmates! It’s only a couple more months until you’ll be getting on their nerves.
RIVER RUM
3 oz rum
4 oz Gatorade
Ice shavings scraped off the surface of the Charles River Sweat to taste
Hope you’ve been training because it’s time to show off your impressive athleticism by jogging in drunk circles from house to house! If you are like most students and have not seen the inside of a gym since first semester, speed walking is equally acceptable, albeit less impressive. Take a swig of this questionable concoction every time you arrive at a new house. The Gatorade provides electrolytes so you can run from the police faster.
MATHERTINI
4 oz Gin
1 oz Vermouth Olives for garnish
This is a fun one. Walk to Mather. Ask people if they think Mather is ugly. Take a shot for everyone who says “Yes.” Take two shots for everyone who says “No.” Repeat until Mather looks like the Four Seasons.
SIDECAR (TO THE QUAD)
2 oz cognac
2 oz triple sec
1/2 oz lemon juice Tears
Just start crying preemptively, because there are a whole lot of you who are doomed to get some bad news today. Just kidding, the Quad isn’t that bad. Just kidding, yeah it is. Either way, cheer up and throw one back for your Quadded comrades. At least you’ll get to go to some sick parties in the Currier Ten-Man.
Sections
We’ve all seen that desperate Facebook post. You know, the one that reads something like this: “I lost my black Canada Goose jacket, size medium, this weekend! If anyone finds it please let me know, I’m freaking out!!” Lost coat notices have been cropping up more and more recently. It’s a phenomenon that we at FM can’t quite explain—maybe we’re shedding our outer layers in a subconscious plea for warmer weather? Nevertheless, we have developed a tried-and-true method for locating said article of clothing.
01. It’s a Saturday evening. What are you and your friends doing?
a) “Talkin’ pedicures on our toes, toes / tryin’ on all our clothes, clothes /
boys blowin’ up our phones, phones” (courtesy of Ke$ha).
b) Armed with Sprite, gummy worms, and Dominos. First up: Math 55
problem sets, followed by physics and CS homework.
c) Brooding over vegan juices at Life Alive, plotting your summers on an
organic farm.
d) Slurping down protein shakes after crushing a 2-hour lifting session at
the MAC.
02. It’s turn-up-o’clock! Your cocktail of choice?
a) The Border Cafe strawberry margarita—so sweet it feels like your teeth
are melting, but at least you can’t taste the alcohol!
b) “The Giggling Yoda”—equal parts vodka and fizzy green Mountain
Dew.
c) A crisp elderflower martini, sipped by the fireplace over a well-worn
book of Hemingway short stories. d) A 30 rack of Natty Light.
03. The one song you can get down to anytime, any place is...
a) “Drunk in Love” by Beyonce.
b) “White and Nerdy” by Weird Al Yankovic.
c) The new song by Autre Ne Veut (you’ve probably never heard of them). d) The “Rocky” theme song.
04. Time to reveal yourself: What were you wearing UNDER the coat? a) Your “going out clothes,” obviously! You’re willing to brave the arctic temperatures because that strapless dress is SO worth it.
b) Your lucky CS50 T-shirt that you haven’t washed since David J. Malan ’99 handed it to you on the last day of class.
c) Your favorite, worn-to-death plaid flannel, tribal print leggings, and a t-shirt with a mustache on it.
d) Under Armour and Nikes with a Harvard Athletics hoodie—all day every day.
05. Your texts from last weekend read a little like this:
a) To the BFF: “yo baby where’d you gooooo? come to the spee we’re dancing on FABLES.” “jk TABLES.”
b) To the late night librarian (aka the BFF): “r u still serving coffee upstairs?” “wait can you also order us Insomnia?” “plz?”
c) To your blockmates throwing a party: “can you keep it down outside? i’m trying to compose a spoken word poem entitled ‘a snapchat worth 1000 words.’”
d) To your trainer: “CRUSHED leg day dude #GAINZ”
If you answered mostly:
A’s: The Owl Basement—or maybe it was the Fly? honestly, it’s bound to turn up at one of the clubs, unless, of course, it’s been kidnapped by a fellow partygoer. FM acknowledges this unfortunate possibility, but, sadly, our sleuthing powers are just not up to tracking down stolen items.
B’s: Oy. Your missing coat is also in a basement, but a rather different sort: the Lamont basement. Run and get it before the book smell and aura of despair settles into your garment permanently.
C’s: Check the Barker Center Café. You were so wrapped up in the coffee table discussion of Proust last afternoon that you forgot to bundle up again! Silly goose!
D’s: You’ve left it hanging on the pull up bar—again (sigh). You were plenty hot and sweaty after your workout, though, so who can blame you for forgetting that extra layer of insulation?
Sections
UPDATED: March 15, 2015, at 12:46 a.m.
Ryan D. Enos starts most of his days in the dark at 5 a.m., with coffee. Enos, an assistant professor of government, cherishes these sacred quiet hours before his wife and 23-month-old daughter wake up. He uses that time to send emails and do research he might otherwise not have time for during the busy day. When the weather’s better and the Charles River isn’t frozen, Enos sometimes wakes up at 4:30 a.m. to row for a couple of hours, heading back home just in time for sunrise. Either way, he’s out the front door and in his CGIS office a few blocks away by around 8:30 a.m. Once there, he shuts his door. It’s time to work.
Enos is one of 160 tenure-track faculty at Harvard’s flagship school, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. He moved to Cambridge with his wife in 2009 and accepted a position at Harvard in 2010. Several years into Harvard’s tenure track—which is infamous in the academic world for its rigor and selectivity—Enos is uncertain about his future at the University. Unlike many junior faculty, he and his wife own a home in Cambridge, but Enos does not plan to buy a larger house suitable for a family any time soon.
“It doesn’t make a lot of sense for us to go through the investment process of buying a larger home because there’s just that sort of uncertainty around it,” Enos says. He speaks quickly and energetically in his bright office, but with deep bags under his eyes; he is visibly tired. “[That uncertainty] affects decisions about whether we’re going to expand our family.”
In short, junior faculty members say, navigating the tenure track at Harvard is a family affair. Many of these faculty members are newly-minted Ph.D. recipients starting their first jobs after about a decade of pursuing their degrees. As a result, they enter the rigorous tenure track with very little savings in the bank. The next seven or so years for these faculty members are arguably the most crucial in their careers as academics: They must push out as much quality research as possible over that span of time to vie for a spot on the roster of the world’s foremost scholars. Additionally, many junior faculty will be required to teach courses for the first time, an added workload that catches many by surprise.
For many, these years on the tenure track directly coincide with the years associated with starting a family. Anxieties around the struggle to carve out time for productive academic work while taking care of young children, feelings of falling short on responsibilities in both work and life, and the uncertainty of tenure are part of the system that will simply never go away.
While University administrators make extensive efforts to ease the many burdens placed on junior faculty—such as granting financial aid for child care or extensions on the tenure clock—some say Harvard does not go far enough. Harvard-affiliated child care services remain impacted, leaving many faculty members scrambling for last-minute care, passing their children from spouse to nanny to babysitter until the situation stabilizes. Real estate costs in Cambridge are only rising, and many new faculty do not have enough savings to afford houses in the area. And despite all their best efforts, despite stretching the hours of every day to their maximums on each end to care for their children and churn out as much research as possible, faculty will never be able to make more time.
For the most part, junior faculty agree on one thing: While on the tenure track, there is no such thing as work-life balance.
A mile east of Harvard Yard, several people rush out of a condominium complex on Pleasant Street that is tucked away in a peaceful residential neighborhood near Central Square. It’s 9 a.m. on a gray Thursday morning, and some may be late for work, but others drift through the neighborhood’s streets more leisurely. A man walking his dog strolls back into the complex. A few women push strollers down the main road, heading toward the snow-covered Charles River.
The Pleasant Street condominiums are one of the most visible means by which the University accommodates its faculty, literally. Many occupants of the building, which is Harvard-owned, are junior faculty members—in accordance with its guidelines, occupants must be either University faculty or senior level administrators. Individual units are priced below market value, and the University guarantees that it will buy a unit back should a seller not find another buyer within 90 days. These policies make the housing accessible for a junior faculty member’s salary.
A number of University and school-specific offices work with Harvard faculty to find them housing—like the units on Pleasant Street—search for job opportunities for prospective faculty’s spouses and determine eligibility for maternity leave and parental teaching relief. The University’s Office for Faculty Development and Diversity, an umbrella office headed by Graduate School of Education professor Judith D. Singer, was created to offer faculty mentorship, assist faculty with balancing their work and outside lives, and ensure that the University is a comfortable and welcoming environment for all of its professors. Individual schools, too, have their own local offices focused on their respective faculties, like the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ Office for Faculty Affairs and Planning.
Administrators in these offices understand that life as a junior faculty member is, to say the least, difficult.
“I’m not going to say it’s not stressful being on a contract of fixed length knowing you have to produce a body of work...that will have you standing against the most excellent person in your field within this very short timeline,” Singer says. “That’s stressful. It’s not as if you can just do a good job and continue. You have to do an outstanding job.”
Singer rose through the ranks after she was made an assistant professor in 1984, before Harvard even had an established tenure track. At the time, few professors were hired internally, and expectations for being awarded tenure were opaque. Today, she estimates that roughly two-thirds of tenure promotions come internally from within Harvard.
To Singer, establishing the track within the last decade has made the biggest positive difference for faculty seeking tenure, because now procedures are clearer than ever before. The changes allow candidates to have a better grasp on what work they should prioritize.
Besides facilitating a tenure track, the University actively works to provide financial assistance and mentorship to faculty members to make them feel welcome and encourage them to remain at Harvard. Individual schools may offer to assist senior faculty with paying mortgages, and they often provide housing supplements to junior faculty to offset expensive housing or apartment costs. And although the University will not create new positions for faculty members’ spouses, schools will work with individual families to help find spouses jobs at Harvard or nearby as a means of trying to recruit or retain that faculty member.
For faculty with families, the University outlines “floor” policies for each school. Schools must offer at least eight weeks of maternity leave for female faculty. Schools may offer parental teaching relief, which in FAS allows faculty to spend either one semester teaching no courses or one full year teaching only half of their normal course load.  Junior faculty are also automatically granted one-year tenure clock extensions for each child they have or adopt while on the track, but only for up to two children. While faculty can turn down the offer, the intention behind the extension is to ensure that child rearing does not cut into overall work “productivity,”  according to Dean for Faculty Affairs and Planning Nina Zipser.
“Our assumption is that they can do it,” Zipser says. “We’re going to do everything we can to help them get there.”
Matthew D. Schwartz, an associate professor of physics, reclines in his seat in his sleek office on the fourth floor of the Jefferson Laboratory, appearing relaxed. But Schwartz, who is in his final year of the tenure track (the final review period), is under a lot of pressure and facing a very uncertain future. A year from now, or less, he could be packing up this office to leave his employer of seven years, completely uprooting his family—that is, if he doesn’t make the final cut.
Although in recent years Harvard has tried to clarify the expectations and procedures of the tenure track, the nature of the system still breeds stressful insecurity.
When each of Schwartz’s two children—now 1 and 3 years old, respectively—were born, he, like every other tenure-track faculty member at Harvard who becomes a parent, was automatically given the option of extending his “tenure clock” by one year. This meant that he would have an additional year on the track so his parental responsibilities would not detract from his overall time spent researching and teaching.
But unlike many of his peers, he declined.
“That’s in conflict with the desire to just get it over with so you can buy a house and just move on with your life,” Schwartz says, adding that he would have bought a house a long time ago, but the uncertainty around getting tenure has precluded his family from committing to that kind of investment. “I feel like I’m in a bit of limbo. With my family, we just want to settle down and know where we are going to live.”
“I don’t know if I’ll be here next year,” he says, shrugging. His wife has a solid career in Boston, so if denied tenure but offered a job elsewhere, like on the West Coast, Schwartz says his family will face a “tough decision.”
Enos agrees. He says junior faculty often choose to delay a number of important life decisions, like buying a house or even starting a family, until after their tenure case has been heard.
“The uncertainty around tenure is kind of the cloud that hangs around junior faculty here, and that does tend to affect the kinds of investments you want to make,” he says.
While the University has made a conscious effort to make public what it can about the tenure track and communicate its expectations, these clarifications do not guarantee a professor tenure.
Harvard’s ladder is often considered one of the most rigorous in the world. According to the 2014 FAS Dean’s report, 48 percent of all associate professors in FAS who started their typically four to five years appointments between 2003-2010 received tenure. Out of 23 candidates reviewed for tenure during the 2012-2013 academic year, 14 received appointments, according to the 2013-2014 Faculty Development and Diversity report.
Various deans at Harvard have implemented mentorship systems to mitigate the tenure track’s stress, but these cannot fully ease the burdens placed on junior faculty.
“It won’t completely get rid of the anxiety because [junior faculty] still do need to reach the bar in teaching and research and get promoted, but we want to help them,” says Zipser, referring to the formal and informal mentoring FAS provides to junior faculty. Her voice is soft and kind, but there is a resigned seriousness to it. The University only tenures the world’s most prolific scholars. No exceptions.
FAS Dean Michael D. Smith, who received tenure from Harvard after first joining the school as an instructor in 1992, recalls the anxieties he faced during his own time seeking tenure at Harvard and what he has observed among colleagues.
“Many of us cope with it in different ways,” Smith says. “It gets complicated by the fact that, do you have a spouse that works or not, do you have children you’re uprooting, or not, do have family in the area?”
The deeper the roots in the area, many faculty members say, the more difficult it is if a tenure case is denied.
The stress of moving to a new place with an unclear job future is compounded when faculty’s spouses are also looking for employment.
Faculty members say securing employment for spouses greatly affects Harvard’s ability to recruit new junior hires. Even more difficult are cases of couples composed of two academics, who both may be engaged in the same job search for positions at universities.
Smith, who says spousal hiring is a “big issue,” emphasizes that FAS hires primarily on the basis of scholarship.
“Our approach to this has always been: We’ll help to try and make sure that we can make it as easy as possible for the family to transition, but we’re hiring faculty because they are the best faculty we can hire in a particular area,” says Smith. “That’s our first and foremost thing we do.”
Zipser and Singer emphasize that FAS and the University will not create new positions to accommodate spouses. Instead, FAS and other individual schools try to help faculty spouses network and search for opportunities both in the Boston area and at Harvard.
For E. Crate Herbert, who’s married to History professor Ian J. Miller, those services proved helpful; she now works as interim assistant dean of development for the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences/FAS and previously worked at the School of Public Health. But for others, finding jobs for their spouses, especially in academia, is not as easy.
Biology professor Hopi E. Hoekstra moved to Cambridge from sunny San Diego, Calif., in 2007 to work as an associate professor at Harvard. She met her future husband, who was then a full professor at University College London, about a year after she arrived at Harvard. Hoekstra says it was difficult for her husband, James Mallet—who is now a distinguished lecturer in Organismic and Evolutionary Biology—to secure a job at the University. That difficulty was made greater by the fact that both were being recruited by Stanford at the time, which provided them with a tempting offer.
“For us it was very difficult, and I think probably the only time I have been unhappy at Harvard was dealing with that,” Hoekstra says of the choice, adding that she’s seen a number of colleagues depart from the University because their spouses were unable to secure appointments. “I don’t think Harvard does a particularly good job with this, but I think that’s in part because there’s no good solution.”
Hoekstra’s voice betrays no sign of prior frustrations, but she does pause for a moment, ruminating on her decision to remain at Harvard despite the “two body problem.”
“I think Jim and I, for a while, were seen as a target,” she says. “I got a lot of calls saying, ‘Well, Jim doesn’t have a full position. Why don’t you consider moving here?’ I think that’s actually a pretty good strategy from a lot of universities.”
Married Philosophy professors Bernhard Nickel and Susanna C. Siegel were on the academic job market together around 2005, when Nickel had just completed his Ph.D. at MIT and Siegel was up for tenure review at Harvard. Both ended up working at Harvard—Nickel as an assistant professor in 2006, and Siegel as a tenured professor starting in 2005—but being on the job market together created a lot of anxiety for his family, Nickel says.
“It was totally up in the air whether we would stay in Cambridge,” he says, adding that searching for his first job in academia was more stressful than undergoing tenure.
“After that year, I needed to go get a root canal because I was grinding my teeth so much,” Nickel says.
Passersby can usually find children playing outside of the Harvard Yard Child Care Center, housed in the lower level of Vanserg Hall near the Divinity School, a few times each day. On this gray February afternoon, however, the icy grounds surrounding the building are empty. Nancy Fredericks, director of the center, explains that if the external temperature dips below a certain threshold, state law mandates that children stay inside.
A University employee enters Fredericks’s office, which is small and littered with stuffed animals and toys, to inform her that he plans to shovel the snow on their sidewalk in a few minutes. She reaches across her desk for an electrical tool he can use to break through the hardened ice and thanks him.
The University helps the daycare center with maintenance like snow shoveling and plumbing, Fredericks explains. The center, for its part, gives child care priority first to Harvard faculty members, and then to other affiliates, like graduate students and staff members.
Even though faculty have priority for child care in each of the six Harvard-affiliated centers scattered across its campus, demand far exceeds the number of available spots. According to Fredericks, her center offers 55 spots total, for children up to kindergarten-age, but the majority of those spaces are usually filled when it comes time for enrollment. Many of those spots belong to children of professors who work in the same building, just floors above. The last Fredericks approached the Office of Work Life Resources asking for  a list of all prospective children, she received more than 500 names, just for her individual child care center. In total, the six child care centers offer about 400 spots for the entire University.
The limited amount of affordable child care in Cambridge increases stress for junior faculty members who both seek tenure and rear children, making the already challenging attempt at work-life balance even harder.
“The thing I would love to do is generate more child care facilities here,” Smith says, adding that it’s a priority for his office. “We’ve got to find a way to make that work.”
Enos says he and his wife tried to get their daughter into Harvard-affiliated child care, but could never get her off the waiting list and thus opted for private daycare instead. After all, time passes even while on a waitlist, and faculty need to find alternative care immediately.
Exorbitant child care costs add to the stress. According to data from Harvard Human Resources, some centers charge $2,700 per month for one child depending on his or her age, which can add up to a cumulalitve cost of around $20,000-25,000 a year for one child, comparable to the price tag of a year of some colleges’ tuition.
Nickel, whose daughter is now 10 years old, says academia is unique in that faculty on the tenure track cannot take significant time off in order to care for their children and try to reduce child care costs.
“I couldn’t just take, say, three or fours years off and try to get back into it. That’s basically impossible,” Nickel says. “We just accepted that in the first few years a lot of our take home pay would just go to child care.”
Though the central Office for Faculty Development and Diversity provides between $5,000 and $20,000 in financial assistance through initiatives like the Ladder Access Program to faculty members whose combined family income does not meet a certain threshold, the office only awards between 50 to 70 grants per year. Other grants, like a small fund to help faculty find child care while traveling for research or conferences, mitigate financial problems, but they never fully address them.
Fredericks says she has observed difficulties like these among faculty members in her year and a half as director of the Harvard Yard Child Care Center.
“I think it’s a struggle for them sometimes to find an opening, I believe it’s a struggle to come up with the costs, which can be on the high end,” she says.
Fredericks adds that these struggles are intensified when faculty must scramble for backup care on days when the center unexpectedly closes, especially since faculty don’t often have extended family in the area.
“It is a balancing act for them,” Fredericks says.
While most junior faculty share the anxieties of searching for affordable housing and childcare, many professors argue that the burdens of child rearing and finding time for research fall more heavily on women.
The 2013 Faculty Climate Survey, released last May, reports that about 30 percent of female respondents across the University feel like they have to work harder to be perceived as legitimate scholars and that less than half of female respondents think their working environment is “at least as good as for male faculty.”
Additionally, some faculty members—male and female alike—worry that women on the tenure track may drop the program because of unique stresses related to childbearing and rearing, which some argue are more intensive than the burdens placed on male faculty members with children.
“It’s a timing issue,” says associate professor of Environmental Science and Engineering Elsie M. Sunderland, who says she believes females must often carve out more time from research in order to care for their children than male peers must. “If you’re on a tenure track [as a woman] and you have small children, then work-life balance is fairly complicated.”
Sometimes women put off starting a family until after their case is reviewed, which is often when they are 40 years or older. Some others drop off the track midway through. According to the University’s Faculty Development and Diversity Report from last year, 24 percent of all senior faculty in the University are female, and 37 percent of all junior faculty are female. Altogether, women comprise 28 percent of faculty at Harvard. Additionally, in the 2012-2013 academic year, 66 percent of women up for review that year received tenure, compared to 74 percent of men.
Harvard does have a maternity leave policy of at least eight weeks, and its parental teaching relief policies are gender-neutral, meaning that both men and women are granted the same options for course reduction. But some professors wonder whether these policies truly offer equity to both genders.
“It would be possible to make the argument that female and male members of the faculty experience parental leave differently,” associate professor of History Kelly A. O’Neill says. “Some are able to be more productive during that time than, for example, a mother who is breastfeeding or taking care of her child.”
Smith says that although men often stay home to take care of their children, the majority of the time women bear the greater burden of rearing children and must sacrifice crucial research time to care for them.
“I unfortunately think more often than not, the woman who is getting the parental leave is using it a as parental leave, and others might be able to get some research done during it,” Smith says. “I think we’re still steps much better by recognizing that we need a parental leave.”
Walk down the cobblestone streets bordering the Quad or through residential neighborhoods near Harvard Square and the Charles River, and it’s likely that any given single-family home there costs more than a million dollars, according to real estate agent Charles P. Cherney ’89 of Hammond Residential Real Estate.
If child care costs set junior faculty back significantly, even considering purchasing a home in Cambridge seems like a far-off fantasy. When recently-hired faculty members move to the Greater Boston area, most with few savings, they often do not expect the skyrocketing housing and rental costs  in the region.
The search for affordable real estate is a challenge common to all junior faculty, whether or not they have children.
The average single-family home in Cambridge sells for nearly $1.5 million, according to Cherney, making the area “one of the hottest real estate markets” in the region. Condominium units typically sell for around $660,000, and the average monthly rent on a two-bedroom apartment is anywhere from $1,800 to $2,600.
Not only are the homes pricey—they go fast.
“It’s hard to afford something, but even if you have the coin to win the game...you may not,” Cherney says. “It’s especially difficult right now to be a buyer.”
Faculty members who want to live in Cambridge often find themselves competing in bidding wars for a place to live, and according to Cherney, the average house sells for 107 percent of its list price as of early March.
“It’s really competitive,” Sunderland says. “You have to move really fast when you find something that’s nice.” Sunderland leans forward in her chair, her face framed by the mounted photos of her two young children on the wall behind her. She recalls that when she and her husband, who is not an academic, found a home they were interested in, they had to make an offer within 24 hours.
As a result of the competitive market and sky-high costs, many faculty members, especially younger junior faculty with lower salaries, must search for homes outside of Cambridge. Enos, for his part, says that he thinks junior faculty salaries are “out of sync” with housing costs in Cambridge.
Others say they look for homes outside of Cambridge in places like Brookline or Belmont to put their children in those public school districts, which rank higher than the Massachusetts state average on metrics such as college readiness, math proficiency, and English proficiency.
Harvard offers financial assistance and real estate advising to its ladder faculty, though some junior faculty posit that the University helps senior faculty to a greater extent. Individual schools determine how they will assist their faculty; for example, in FAS, senior faculty members may receive no-interest loans, and junior faculty may receive housing supplements. The University also has a number of properties spread across the Cambridge and its surrounding region, including the condominium complexes at Pleasant Street and Concord Avenue.
Astronomy professor David Charbonneau, who received tenure in 2010 after arriving at the University in 2004, says he received little housing assistance as a junior faculty member. But now, Charbonneau, who lives in Brookline, says Harvard has helped his family pay the mortgage on their house.
“I think it would be impossible for us to think about buying a place in the Boston area without that,” Charbonneau says.
However, reflecting on his years as a junior faculty member starting out with “no savings,” Charbonneau says he thinks Harvard could do more to help junior faculty with the exorbitant housing costs.
“Harvard is very good about helping people manage costs in the Boston area. But then...I think it’s a little disproportionate,” Charbonneau says. “I think it would help if we could move some of that to help junior faculty along.”
The combination of scrambling for limited child care, searching for housing in an expensive region, and navigating the tenure track makes for a stressful lifestyle.
Most junior faculty would agree that they need more hours in the day to give adequate attention to research, teaching, and their families. Many professors wake up early in the morning, hours before their children, to squeeze out as much work as possible before getting to their offices. After children go to bed at night, they’re back at their desks until 1 or 2 a.m. Despite working long days, faculty say they will still never get everything done.
“Be a good researcher, be a good teacher, be a good parent and husband, pick two,” says Nickel, laughing. Toys and games find snug spots between philosophy texts on his bookcases—his daughter, who usually walks to his office after school ends, often has to wait for her father to get out of meetings, so he’s made the place “kid-friendly” for her.
“It’s just a constant fact about this lifestyle, that you’re going to fall short,” he says candidly.
While junior faculty say their schedules allow them a great deal of flexibility, the demands of the tenure track undermine that flexibility.  Before review, junior faculty are expected to churn out their best work—for some, that means a second book. For others, that means intensive lab research—and also teaching and leading courses. For many new faculty members, teaching is a surprising and unexpected time drain. “Service work” for the University, like sitting on committees or taking on administrative roles, and constant travel for panels and conferences also detract from the amount of time faculty are able to spend on research.
“There is fabulous flexibility—that’s one of the best things about it,” O’Neill says. “The flipside is that your work is never done, so it can and will permeate every moment of your existence if you allow it.”
In her office on a Thursday morning, Sunderland glances back at her computer, where a pile of emails await her. She woke up at 4 a.m. to read papers to prepare for a panel she’ll sit on this afternoon, and every second she can spend chipping away at a little more work is monumental.
“There aren’t clear boundaries between work and not work, because you end up in academia because you are consumed by some sort of thing that you’re very passionate [about],” she says. “That’s not a 9-to-5 job.”
Sunderland folds and unfolds her hands.
“Work-life balance, I think, is a funny term when you have two children under the age of 5,” she says. “In any occupation it would be really hard to have a balance, and in this one, it’s basically impossible.”
Scrawled drawings or photographs of children dotting the walls, mounted next to bookcases full of textbooks and manuals, are common fixtures in the offices of faculty with young children.
Charbonneau frames his four daughters’ drawings—bright flowers, colorful scribbles—and hangs them on the wall in his office at the Center for Astrophysics, next to a chalkboard that’s usually covered with equations. Hoekstra, too, hangs her son’s art on the colorful walls of her office in the Museum of Comparative Zoology. One drawing looks like a unicorn.
Their schedules may be vastly different than those of other occupations, but Harvard faculty members, like all other parents, must deal with the fact their children are always growing older.
“I want to be home,” Smith says, pausing and sighing as he remembers his own experience two decades ago navigating Harvard’s tenure system. “I don’t necessarily want to be traveling when great events happen in my kids’ lives. How do you balance that during those years as a tenure track faculty member where you’re really trying to get your scholarship pushed forward?”
He adds, staring straight ahead: “It’s a non-trivial balancing act.”
O’Neill, the associate professor in history, sleeps four and a half to five hours each night so she can spend as much time with her two young children as possible—that is, when she’s actually home.
“The biggest challenge about being a faculty member with a family is dealing with the feeling of guilt,” says O’Neill, her bright blue eyes betraying no sign of the years of sleep deprivation. “It’s either you’re going to be wracked by guilt because you’re spending more months away from your family, or you’re going to be wracked by guilt at not meeting your own expectations of your work.”
Professors and administrators acknowledge that Harvard could better mitigate these stresses, but will never be able to fully resolve them. And while children eventually grow up, the stress of balancing research, teaching, and family life still continues to some extent for senior faculty.
Though University Professor Stephen Greenblatt has had tenure for years and his youngest son is 13 years old, he says that his feelings haven’t changed since raising an infant, and that the age-old trial of parenthood remains the same.
“It’s not so much of he needs taking care of the way a 6-year old would need taking care of, it’s that he’s not going to be 13 again,” says Greenblatt, who is 71. He kicks his feet up on his desk and leans back in his chair, hands behind his head, eyes closed. He has to rush to an FAS Faculty meeting in 15 minutes, before which he must answer some emails and make final edits to a letter of recommendation he has written. Life as a junior faculty member is long over for Greenblatt, but the hectic days, the time crunch to finish research while teaching and advising students, certainly remain.
This afternoon, however, he’s taking things slow.
“It’s less that he needs me than I need him,” Greenblatt says, sighing. “I don’t want to lose that, I don’t want to let this slip away.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As students sit exams Thursday while freshmen celebrate their upperclassman housing assignments, Undergraduate Council leaders hope to reschedule Housing Day to avoid conflicting with midterms next year.
Some students complain that scheduled exams on Housing Day—which typically falls on the Thursday before spring break—take away from House spirit, but professors say they hold midterms then because it falls during a natural time in the semester to give exams.
Astronomy professor Robert P. Kirshner ’70, whose midterm for Science of the Physical Universe 19: “The Energetic Universe” is Thursday, held the midterm the week before Housing Day last year but said that he did not find the results satisfactory.
“My preference was to have it this week, because I thought we’d have covered more stuff,” Kirshner said. “I understand the high-spirited fun—I have a bunch of T-shirts to prove it—[but] there has to be some balance, and it’s a little bit tricky to know where it is."
Like Kirshner, Psychology professor Steven Pinker also planned his Science of Living Systems 20: “Psychological Science” midterm for Housing Day because the day falls mid-semester. “It was the logical time for the exam—halfway through the semester, and just before spring break,” Pinker wrote in an email.
Kirshner said Housing Day’s proximity to spring break leaves professors “caught in this scheduling bind.”
To address that scheduling conflict, Undergraduate Council President Ava Nasrollahzadeh '16 and Vice President Dhruv P. Goyal '16—who campaigned last fall on a call to end midterms on Housing Day—are in the process of creating a proposal to push Housing Day to the Friday before spring break, rather than Thursday.
“Housing Day is one of those very few days of the year...where the entire community gets together,” Goyal said. If students are not able to participate in delivering or receiving House letters, attending House lunches and welcome events, or meeting with fellow Housemates, they will not be included in that community, he said.
Nasrollahzadeh, for her part, said taking a midterm while other students celebrate is “like having an exam in the middle of a party.”
Nasrollahzadeh and Goyal said they hope to propose a solution that will satisfy both professors’ scheduling concerns and undergraduates’ desire to participate in Housing Day activities. The pair said they hope their proposal will gain administrative support and be implemented by next year’s Housing Day.
Still, Nasrollahzadeh and Goyal said the plan is not without flaws. Some students, especially athletes, leave campus earlier than Friday for spring break, Goyal said. However, he added that he still thinks this change would allow more students to participate.
After taking the proposal to administrators and soliciting faculty comment this spring, Goyal and Nasrollahzadeh will put it before the UC during the first or second general meeting after spring break.
In the meantime, midterms go on this Housing Day. Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris emphasizes that academics should come first. He added that while House communities are “vital to College life,” Housing Day is not the only opportunity to engage in House-related activities.
“Housing Day is a piece–one piece–of integrating students into that community. It’s an important piece...but, as with everything academics, come first,” he said.
Still, not all professors who scheduled their midterms for Housing Day did so knowingly. Harvard Kennedy School professor Matthew A. Baum, whose class Government 1793: “Media, Public Opinion and Foreign Policy” originally was scheduled to have a midterm on Housing Day, moved the exam to after spring break because snow days earlier in the semester interrupted his course schedule.
He said that, regardless, he did not know about Housing Day because he is used to teaching Kennedy School students, not undergraduates.
“In my eight plus years, this is the first time I’ve heard of Housing Day,” Baum said. “It wasn’t a sacred date for any particular reason.”
—Staff writer Melissa C. Rodman can be reached at melissa.rodman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @melissa_rodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This is Part III in a three-part series on the College’s residential House system. Part I ran on March 10 and Part II ran on March 11.
Two springs ago, Erika M. Veidis ’15 was the odd one out. A member of the women’s track team and a resident of Pforzheimer House in the Radcliffe Quad, Veidis had to shuffle back and forth from home to practice and back, so some days she stayed with friends on the River to avoid making the trek. Unhappy with her living arrangements, Veidis applied to transfer and live on the River.
But when her two roommates received word that they could move to Lowell House, Veidis’s application was denied. She had agreed to apply solo because undergraduates cannot transfer between Houses in groups larger than two.
Her next option was to apply again, and with the second round inter-House transfer deadline a few months away, Veidis entered the process necessary to reunite with her friends on the River. She would eventually transfer into Lowell the next fall, but only after she lobbied for her case with administrators and navigated what she said was not a completely transparent system.
“It didn’t seem like the most transparent or the easiest of processes,” said Veidis, who is now the co-captain of the women’s track team. “I definitely had to take a lot of initiative, especially once the first round didn't work out, and then I had to really take it upon myself.”
Early Thursday, with fanfare, the College will welcome freshmen into one of its 12 residential Houses. But by this time next year, some of those students, dissatisfied with their assignments, will have made attempts to relocate. Fewer than 3 percent of upperclassmen consistently attempt to transfer between Houses in any given year, according to Associate Dean of Student Life William Cooper ’94.
Harvard’s inter-House transfer system is an important escape valve for students dissatisfied with their House experience. College administrators argue that the transfer the process is as fair as it can be and maintain that they do their best under limitations to ensure that every student has the option to move.
Still, not all applicants are granted the chance to relocate from the House in which they were randomly placed freshman year. The College does not release statistics detailing the number of students who apply to transfer between Houses on an individual or aggregate year-to-year basis, but students who try and fail say the process remains confusing and opaque.
MAKING THE MOVE
Harvard administrators boast that its residential Houses are the “cornerstone” of the undergraduate experience, but not all students are immediately satisfied with their placement in the system. From location preferences to more personal motivations, students apply to transfer between Houses for a variety of reasons.
Grace E. Dhanraj ’16, for instance, said she met most of her blockmates on Housing Day when they were placed into Mather House, but she feels more connected to Leverett, where she will live next semester. Many of her friends live there, and she already eats a bulk of her meals in Leverett dining hall, and she attends open houses there, so she said the transfer fit.
Others, like Charles G. Alver ’17, who tried to transfer out of Winthrop this winter, simply feel that their House is not as welcoming or close knit as others residences are. Others have a preference between the River and Quad Houses.
Upperclassmen who wish to change their House affiliations may enter a first-round lottery—this year, the deadline was Feb. 9, only two weeks into the spring semester. Limited to groups of two, transfer applicants fill out a form designating the Houses in which they would prefer to live, and then an “impartial lottery” assigns successful applicants to new Houses, according to Cooper, who responded to questions on the process via email and refused to speak over the phone or in person.
Administrators assign students to Houses based on factors including the number of available spaces in each House and students’ preferences with the goal of maintaining proportional class sizes and gender ratios within each House, according to Cooper. If accepted, the offer is binding.
College administrators say they are working within several logistical constraints, especially space, and try their best to grant as many transfer applications as possible. “Ideally, we would be able to have everyone transfer into whatever House they wanted to and to fulfill all those requests,” Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde said.
Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, who also serves as co-master of Cabot House, said he wants “everybody to be in a place where they’re happy” as a House master. But, he added, “we also recognize that we’re working with a set of constraints.”
By and large, students who do succeed in transferring by luck of the first round draw are satisfied with the outcome. Dharanj, who successfully applied in the first round to transfer from Mather to Leverett, described the process as “pretty painless.”
But not all prospective transfers are so lucky. For students who lose the first round lottery, there is another chance: a second application round that may take more than filling out a form.
The deadline for this application round does not come until May, and it usually involves a smaller number of transfer applicants than the first, according to Cooper. While students who transfer in the first round participate in their new Houses’ fall room lotteries, second round transfers do not hear whether their requests to move are accepted until midway through the summer, according to the Office of Student Life’s website, meaning that they must live in rooms that are left over.
During the second round, students are encouraged to communicate with individual House administrators about what housing may still available, according to Cooper; for students like Veidis, this translates into trying to negotiate a move.
Adams House usually sees an in-House student turnover of fewer than five students per year, according to Adams House Co-Master Sean Palfrey ’67. Part of what makes the second round more difficult is the fact that it is hard to predict how many rooms will be available, according to Palfrey.
Palfrey said transfer applicants have approached him and co-master Judith “Judy” Palfrey ’67 to “lobby” them for a spot in Adams, but the House administrator runs the process.
AN OPAQUE PROCESS
Even though administrators maintain that the process is as fair as possible, students who apply to transfer detail several criticisms of the system, both relating to how it works and how much information about it is available.
One common critique is the rule that students may only apply to move alone or in a group of two; this forces students to leave their blockmates, some say, arguing that the College should do more to accommodate larger groups.
Serena F. Hagerty ’16, who lives in a suite with three other close friends in Pforzheimer House, applied this spring to transfer with one of her roommates, while her two other roommates also applied as a group. Only Hagerty’s group’s request to move to Lowell was granted in the first round, leaving her other roommates to navigate the second round process this spring.
In an email, Hagerty wrote that she understood the possibility of being split from her other roommates, but not the rationale. “We knew the risk going in and take responsibility for that, but the University has done nothing to clarify the process for us,” she added.
Cooper, for his part, wrote that the limit is “necessary for practical reasons; given the limited number of open spaces, we can’t approve every request, and so we focus on the smaller groups of one or two in order to provide support to those who would benefit most.”
But beyond that structural critique, students who fail to transfer after the first round of applications offer a further complaint: They say they face an unclear process in the second round that is much more difficult to navigate successfully.
Not much information on how many students apply to move each year, or how many are successful, is available; unlike the Administrative Board, which releases annual statistics on disciplinary cases, the Office of Student Life does not make public yearly statistics on inter-House transfers.
And while Cooper wrote in an email that the College has generally been able to grant the majority of requests each year and in some years nearly 90 percent of them, he denied repeated requests for statistics broken down by House detailing the number of transfer applications received and granted. Cooper wrote that the data was not "information we disclose” and did not respond to a question asking him to clarify the reasoning behind his stance.
When asked for comment on the transfer process, residential House administrators either did not respond or referred reporters to Cooper.
Students suggest that the actual process of transferring is also opaque. While some students who applied for a second-round transfer interviewed said they understood that they must talk with House administrators, they said the process overall is confusing.
Hagerty wrote that the second round is “much more complicated and far less transparent” than the first round in part because every House is relaying a slightly different message to her roommates. Veidas said she met with multiple House administrators while navigating the second round process, but overall felt the onus was on her to figure out what she needed to do to transfer.
These factors combine to create frustration from students whose requests to move are denied and still stress for those whose are eventually granted. Annie K. Winerip ’16, who successfully transferred from Cabot to Winthrop through last year’s second round, learned last summer—only a short time before the start of the fall semester—that she would be able to transfer. She said the summer-long wait was daunting.
"I was nervous, but I just didn’t really feel like there was another option," Winerip said.
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche.
—Staff writer Ivan B. K. Levingston can be reached at Ivan.Levingston@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @IvanLevingston.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s Relay For Life–an annual student-led fundraiser to support cancer survivors and disease research through the American Cancer Society–aims to raise $60,000 in its twelfth iteration this April, according to organizers.
The overnight fundraising walk, one of many nationwide, features team members walking laps around Gordon Indoor Track for up to 12 hours, as well as other activities that have included live band performance and free massages in the past.
Last year, the event raised about $45,000, and previously raised $88,000 in 2010 and $150,200 in 2006, the latter of which was the largest and most successful fundraising campaign for the American Cancer Society at the time.
Organizers said they hope to improve upon last year’s total by ramping up publicity efforts and addressing common misconceptions about Relay For Life, such as that it requires running for 12 hours.
“You don’t actually have to run,” Samantha M. Sheridan, a staff partner at the American Cancer Society, said. She added that most participants choose to walk.
Unlike in years past when the event ran from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., Preeti V. Srinivasan ’16, one of the three program directors, said that they scheduled it four hours earlier, from 2 p.m. to 2 a.m. to attract a larger participant base.
“Despite the fact that Harvard students seem to be pulling all-nighters left and right, it’s really, really hard to get students to hang out for an event until six in the morning,” Srinivasan said. “We wanted an event where students could see it from start to finish.”
Sheridan said that she has been pleased with student engagement thus far, citing the current donation total of $9,341 from the official event webpage.
In preparation for the relay, organizers recently held “Paint the Campus Purple Week” and tabled in front of the Science Center asking passing students to tie purple balloons to their backpacks to increase publicity. Last week’s campaign culminated with the “Paint the Gym Purple” men’s varsity basketball game against Yale on Friday and included a raffle basket donated by the Department of Athletics. The raffle, which included Harvard basketball gear and a restaurant gift card, raised about $250, according to Sheridan.
Relay For Life can be especially meaningful because it brings together a diverse group of people, Srinivasan said.
“[Cancer] has no lines in terms of like age, race, socioeconomic status, [or] anything you can think of. We all know somebody that’s been affected by cancer, and I think that that’s why so many people [get involved],” she said.
–Staff writer Caleb O. Shelburne can be reached at caleb.shelburne@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter @caleboshelburne.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As deadlines for thesis submissions approach and many seniors scramble to print a physical copy of their nearly year-long research effort, the Classics Department will require its thesis writers to submit only digital copies of their work.
Printing and submission guidelines for theses vary across concentrations, with the Government Department providing binders for students through the Undergraduate Program Office on a first-come, first-serve basis, and others expecting students to print and purchase materials on their own.
Following a decision made several weeks ago, seniors in the Classics Department will, for the first time, only be required to submit a PDF copy of their thesis, according to the Classics Director of Undergraduate Studies David F. Elmer.
“It was purely a logistical decision to try and make the process a bit smoother so that we could really get all the theses in by the scheduled deadline and not worry about printers running out of paper or that kind of thing,” Elmer said.
Classics thesis writer Elliot A. Wilson ’15 said he welcomed the announcement. “We already as thesis writers have a lot of stress in the days preceding the submission date,” Wilson said.
But according to Elmer, the shift away from the traditional hard copy may disappoint some Classics concentrators.
“For most students, the thesis is the longest piece of written work they have ever created, and it’s hard to appreciate the scope of what has been achieved without feeling the physical object in your hands,” Elmer said. “A PDF doesn’t have much presence.”
Prior to this decision, the Classics Department already accommodated its thesis writers, providing students with binders and allowing them to print on department printers, according to Elmer.
Leading up to thesis submission deadlines for departments that require printed copies, local printing locations like Gnomon Copy become swamped with seniors. Andrea Lane, an employee at Bob Slate Stationers on Brattle Street, said she interacts with many seniors stressed by the printing process this time of year.
“Normally we get folks in the morning, early, early, before we’re open, kind of hanging out with their noses pressed against the glass or like 15 minutes after we close, and we feel really bad,” Lane said.
Pressed for time, many students opt to print their thesis out on their own, bypassing professional printing companies. However, many students expressed anxiety towards this approach.
“I’m really bad with technology, so this has been the one thing that has scared me the most about my thesis. I know can write a thesis, but the freaky thing is printing it,” Meghan G. Laughner ’15 said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following a series of heavy winter storms, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences has spent about $700,000 in snow and ice removal from rooftops, building entryways, and walkways to date, according to FAS spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven.
She wrote in an email that snow and ice removal expenses this year have been higher than in previous years “given the volume of storms,” but added that the FAS is currently unable to share the cost of damage repairs.
As the snow begins to melt, FAS, Yard Operations, and University personnel are in the midst of calculating how much damage still needs to be repaired on campus.
Maureen McCarthy, manager of Harvard Yard and the freshman dormitories, said that despite the heavy snow this winter, the effects of snow accumulation on campus property this winter season compared to previous years do not seem to have been too severe.
“We’re fortunate as far as we know,” McCarthy said, citing a broken lantern and some brickwork along pathways as some of the only damage accounted for so far in Harvard Yard. “Overall we were fortunate with any roof damage and anything visible so far."
McCarthy added, however, that it is still too soon to estimate the cost of snow-related repairs.
“We’re still evaluating what was damaged, and a lot of it we might not know until we have some more snow melt,” she said.
Paul M. Smith, associate manager of landscape services in the Facilities Maintenance Operations department, said many repair jobs can only be done after the snow has melted. According to Smith, these potential jobs include repairs of potholes, “hardscape as far as roads…brick, other masonry stuff, the signs we may have hit.”
McCarthy said she believes Yard Operations will not need additional personnel to deal with the damage caused by the historic level of snow this past winter.
“Hopefully we’ve avoided any problems with foundations. Obviously, there is no way to anticipate that or to estimate what the repair costs would be, until it happens, and then we evaluate the situation,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In response to multiple shutdowns of services this winter, the MBTA will offer a free fare day on April 24 and a 15 percent discount on monthly passes in May.
The MBTA has come under heavy criticism for its performance in this historically snowy season. A report released Wednesday by a watchdog group is calling for an independent audit of the T.
"In short, the T has reached the end of its line," the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation wrote.
At least one of Harvard’s three snow days this year occurred following an announcement of an MBTA shutdown. Officials cited the difficulty employees would have reaching Harvard as a reason for at least one of the University’s closures.
Robin Chase, a member of the Massachusetts Department of Transportation Board of Directors, said the decision was influenced by pressure from customer feedback and media criticism but ultimately came from a mutual understanding of the stresses and difficulties the shutdown caused.
“We...empathize enormously with people who couldn’t get to work and people who had long wait times,” Chase said.
Chase said that in addition to reparations, the MBTA is taking strides to increase the preparedness of the public transportation system for future weather events.
“MBTA is doing an audit of everything that happened,” Chase said. “Do we have the right equipment, is it in good maintenance, do we have the right procedures?” Chase added that outside organizations will also examine the MBTA’s storm response.
A monthly pass for the MBTA costs $75. A 15 percent discount would make each pass $63.76, reducing the price by roughly 37.5 cents per day. The discount and free day will cost the MBTA a total of $5 million.
At a MassDOT board meeting Wednesday, board members said they hoped the gesture would help rebuild faith in the transit service. The board approved the changes unanimously, MBTA spokesperson Joe Pesaturo wrote in an email.
“I think it’s a great gesture to recognize that riders went through a lot of difficulty,” Boston City Councilor Michelle Wu ’07 said. “It’s hard to make up what people lost in terms of minutes waiting or missed connections.”
—Staff writer Forrest K. Lewis can be reached at forrest.lewis@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ForrestKLewis.
—Staff writer Samuel E. Liu can be reached at samuel.liu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @samuelliu96.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: March 19, 2015, at 4:35 a.m.
Retired soccer player Landon Donovan spoke as a guest lecturer for Romance Studies 109: “The Global Game: Soccer, Politics, and Popular Culture” about his hopes for the growth of soccer culture in the United States on Wednesday afternoon.
From Donovan’s personal account of getting caught urinating in a line of bushes outside a Mexican stadium to discussion of issues of race and mental health in international soccer culture, the question and answer session touched on several facets of Donovan’s personal and athletic life.
Romance Languages and Literatures professor Mariano Siskind, one of the course’s two instructors, said he was prompted to invite Donovan to speak when he learned that the player was retiring and considering academic pursuits.
“I said this is a marriage made in heaven. I looked up his agent, sent him an email with an invitation and proposal and explained what the course was about, and he said yes right away,” Siskind said, adding that the Department of Athletics provided funding to bring Donovan to Harvard.
He described the course as one that “looks at soccer as a privileged practice and site where social meaning is produced, where subjectivities are formed, a place that has a very interesting and intricate relationship with history and politics.”
On the topic of his absence from the 2014 United States world cup team, Donovan said he “learned an interesting lesson. At the end of the day, it’s business. All sports are emotionally charged and they give us a lot but for some people it’s business.”
However, Donovan said the experience of getting cut from the national team was valuable to him.
“I felt compassion for people who didn’t get everything they wanted all the time, and that was much more valuable for me than going to Brazil,” he said.
He also discussed the future of soccer in the U.S. He said he believes it will take time for the sport to grow in popularity. Still, he said that for now, steady growth in American interest for soccer is what the sport needs. “The soccer culture in America is better and better,” Donovan said.
After the lecture, Harvard Extension School student Olumide Alonge said he appreciated Donovan’s jokes and anecdotes from his experiences in professional soccer.
“My understanding of Landon before was that the was a really cool and honest guy, and he really showed that today,” he said.
At the close of the lecture, two students from the class gave Donovan a Harvard soccer jersey.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: March 12, 2015, at 12:34 a.m.
Boston city councilors unanimously supported a resolution urging the continuation of late-night MBTA service at a Council meeting on Wednesday. The resolution was filed by Councilors Michelle Wu ’07 and Josh Zakim.
A one-year pilot phase of late-night T service, which keeps the T open Friday and Saturday nights up until 3 a.m., is set to expire in June. After that point, the service—which is heavily used by college students and part of an effort to keep young professionals in the Greater Boston area—could stay as is, face alteration, or end altogether. Its future will be determined on April 15.
The Boston city councilors’ resolution urges the Massachusetts Department of Transportation board of directors to make the late-night T service permanent and continue to consider funding options and service alterations. According to Wu, councilors unanimously supported the resolution in a roll-call vote.
“Every major city has [ways] for people to get around the city after midnight,” Wu said in an interview. “I think this past year’s pilot showed that late-night T service cuts across all sectors of Boston's economy.”
Whether or not to extend the late-night T, which began in part to make it easier for young professionals to access Boston nightlife on weekends, may be a difficult call for officials. Robin Chase, a member of the MassDOT board of directors, said she likes the service but is worried about budget constraints.
“Budget issues are always an issue,” she said. “It’s a great service, and the City of Boston should have something like that, but we have to figure out who’s going to pay for it and what we’re substituting for it.”
MassDOT will ultimately decide the fate of the late-night T.
Some outside groups have similarly expressed budget concerns about the MBTA more generally. On Wednesday, a report by the watchdog group Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation concluded in part that the MBTA should halt expansion projects for 2015. The report painted a bleak picture for the MBTA, arguing that the state should conduct an independent audit of the T.
One reason for the system’s problem, according to the report, is "a stark mismatch between spending and revenues."
While extending late-night T service does not involve infrastructure expansion, it remains to be seen if the report could discourage any extra spending on the late night T, Wu said. An MBTA interim review reported that pilot of the late-night service was budgeted, after revisal, for $12.9 million.
The councilors’ resolution offered suggestions to offset the cost of extending the program, such as raising late-night fares, encouraging partnerships from colleges and universities, and licensing late-night food vendors in MBTA stations.
“Every penny matters right now for public transportation,” Wu said. “[But] the bang we get for [the cost] is huge.”
—Staff writer Samuel E. Liu can be reached at samuel.liu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @samuelliu96.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Obscenities rained down from Yale’s student section when Harvard visited on Feb. 7. Almost all of them were directed at one Harvard men’s basketball player: co-captain Steve Moundou-Missi. The forward had just eight points and eight rebounds in the game, but it was what he did on the other end of the floor that drew the fans’ frustration.
In a crucial 52-50 win, Moundou-Missi held Bulldog forward Justin Sears to just nine points and his lowest shooting percentage of the Ivy season. The victory in what was a must-win game came in large part due to Moundou-Missi’s defensive effort.
Today, Sears was named Ivy League Player of the Year, Yale’s second-ever winner and first since 1988, making Moundou-Missi’s achievement that night even more impressive.
And Moundou-Missi, partly because of that effort in February, was named the Ivy League’s Defensive Player of the Year in the same Wednesday announcement.
The Cameroon native anchored a Crimson defense that ranked first in the conference with 57.5 points allowed per game.
“I like to think we’ve been the best defensive team and the big reason for being the best defensive team is we have the best defensive player, and that’s a wonderful thing,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said.
Moundou-Missi finished the season with a career-high 43 blocks, good for fifth in the league. With 128 career blocks, Moundou-Missi ranks third in Harvard history. He also finished fourth in defensive rebounding this year. Moundou-Missi was honored Saturday during senior night and was introduced by the public address announcer as one of the league’s best rim protectors.
“We all applaud him for a great job this year that he did on the defensive end. He’s been a great backline defender,” junior co-captain Siyani Chambers said.
Moundou-Missi managed to remain consistent on defense despite an up-and-down year offensively. He shot just 26 percent in December before recovering to shoot 52 percent during the conference slate. In the rematch against Yale at Lavietes Pavilion last Friday, Moundou-Missi put up a season-high 21 points to go with 11 rebounds. He now sits just seven points shy of 1,000 for his career.
He was named second-team All-Ivy along with Chambers. Senior wing Wesley Saunders, last year’s Player of the Year, was named to the conference’s first team for the third straight year. The Crimson was the only team with three honored players.
Yale coach James Jones won the inaugural Coach of the Year award for getting the Bulldogs their first championship in a decade. Dartmouth’s Miles Wright took home Rookie of the Year honors.
Joining Saunders and Sears on the first team are Yale’s Javier Duren, Cornell’s Shonn Miller, and Columbia’s Maodo Lo.
—Staff writer Jacob D.H. Feldman can be reached at jacob.feldman@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
­In a Wednesday night contest against Springfield, the Harvard men’s volleyball team took little time to return to form after an 11-day break, claiming a 3-1 victory in a bit over an hour.
Despite the early appearance that the Crimson (9-5) would cruise to a straight-set victory after taking the first two frames, Springfield (14-6) responded with a convincing third-game victory.
However, the comeback effort proved futile as Harvard opened the fourth set on a 7-1 tear and soon closed out the match in the Malkin Athletic Center.
For the Pride, the third frame ended with an emphatic sound: the collective roar of the Springfield team celebrating a 25-20 set victory.
“We got a little shaky in the third,” Harvard coach Brian Baise said. “That was a turning point in the wrong direction. We lost a little bit of focus.”
Eight points later, this roar had become a whisper. On the strength of three Pride errors and two kills from co-captain Caleb Zimmick, the Crimson raced to a 7-1 advantage. Although Springfield cut the lead to one at 11-10, the gap would prove insurmountable as the Pride never regained the lead and conceded the frame, 25-21.
On the night, three Harvard players hit to double-digit kill totals. Co-captain D.J. White passed his squad with 13, and Zimmick and junior outside hitter Branden Clemens pitched in 11 and 10, respectively.
The match got off to a contested start with both teams trading blows until Harvard created some separation, taking a 20-16 advantage. The Crimson held the lead and closed out the frame, 25-20.
“We came out fast,” Zimmick said. “We haven’t played for a week and half... but we didn’t seem to be rusty at all.”
Well-practiced or not, Harvard looked overmatched for parts of the third set, when the Pride built a 20-12 lead. The Crimson’s kill percentage plummeted to .111 in the game, compared to an overall mark of .363.
“We were making more errors,” Zimmick said. “When we made one, we made a second, which you can’t really do. That opened up the gap over a couple different servers.”
Harvard found new life at the end of the frame, narrowing the nine-point margin to a 24-20 gap. However, a sloppy offensive sequence gave Springfield the opportunity to bang home the final point and secure its first set of the match.
In the teams’ only previous meeting of the season, a February matchup at the Hall of Fame Classic, the Pride had also salvaged a game victory as part of a 3-1 Crimson win.
In that game, Springfield took the second frame, but on Wednesday night, Harvard had different plans for how the game would go.
In the second game, the Crimson used a kill-heavy run to turn a 7-3 disadvantage into an 18-12 lead. The onslaught kept coming until the final point, and the 25-16 set finish marked the largest margin of the evening.
Junior right side hitter Greg Woods paced the Pride offense with with 11 kills. Although freshman outside hitter Ricardo Padilla Ayala notched 10 of his own, the team ended with a .239 hitting efficiency.
Harvard’s defense was a major explanation for Springfield’s offensive struggles. The Crimson racked up 18 blocks while the Pride compiled nine. Clemens, freshman middle blocker Brad Gretsch, and sophomore setter Nick Bendell each finished with four block assists.
In addition to contributing the defense, Bendell directed the Harvard offense throughout the night. At times his back-sets presented difficulties for Springfield, and the setter led all players with 37 assists.
The Crimson was seeking to rebound from the team’s most recent match, a 3-1 defeat against the league-leading Nittany Lions two weekends ago. That loss dropped Harvard out of the NCAA top 15, a position that the Crimson had held intermittently throughout the season.
“We put some pressure on [Springfield],” Baise said. “We served well…. That’s the kind of character test that’s important.”

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This Harvard men’s basketball season has had more downs than ups. That’s the downside of past success and high expectations. So it was only fitting that the Crimson’s biggest high came not during a game but 62 minutes after one, while the team’s seniors ate pizza and a few other players lingered in Lavietes Pavilion, glued to iPhones and laptops, hoping against hope for something else to break their way.
Those hopes cashed in when Dartmouth beat Yale with a buzzer-beater to force an Ivy League playoff between the Bulldogs and the Crimson this Saturday with a trip to the NCAA Tournament on the line.In doing so, the Big Green ensured that this Harvard season will not be forgotten, regardless of what happens at the Palestra Saturday afternoon.
Until that moment Saturday night, it seemed that coach Tommy Amaker and his Crimson program had finally run out of firsts, had finally stopped growing, had started dying.
The last four years have been magical. There was the first Ivy title, the first tournament appearance, the first tournament win, and last year, the moment of glory when Harvard took the lead against powerhouse Michigan State, seemingly on its way to the first Sweet Sixteen in program history.
This year, Harvard has missed nearly every chance it has had to make this season memorable. It lost its marquee nonconference matchup against Virginia—badly. It lost its Ivy League lead at Cornell and then lost control of its own destiny against Yale Friday. But then it got another chance.
Without that Dartmouth bucket, this season would have been forgettable. Now it’s the year of the pizza party and the season of the biggest Harvard-Yale basketball game in maybe ever. And it has a chance to be even more.
People like to brag about America as full of second chances. But it’s not really. Do-overs and re-dos are scarce outside of video games. Usually, you have to insert another quarter for another life or put down 20 dollars more to see another hand. Harvard doesn’t.
That said, while this feels like a second chance for the Crimson, it might not be a real one. It just so happened that Yale’s third Ivy loss came after Harvard’s.
If you put blue sunglasses on for a second, it actually starts looking like this is a second chance for the Elis.
Yale was seconds away from its first Tournament trip in over 50 years. The Bulldogs were getting buzz going into the weekend in national media outlets. With a Rhodes Scholar on the roster and a respected coach who has never gone Dancing with a capital D, they were sure to become a fan favorite against whoever they might have faced in the first round.
To get there, Yale just had to hold a five-point lead for 30 seconds. It didn’t.
But that’s ok. Because these Bulldogs have two lives. And now they get a chance to beat Harvard again, to do it on a bigger stage, to write an even less likely Cinderella story.
So who is it that has had life breathed back into it? Which team is getting a rare second chance? There are two answers to those questions:
Answer 1: Both teamsAnswer 2: It doesn’t matter
What matters is which team takes advantage of the chance, obviously. And that will come down to the coaches: Amaker on one side and Yale’s James Jones, the Coach of the Year, on the other.
Both guys have been in Ivy playoff games, Amaker four years ago against Princeton and Jones over a decade ago in 2002. Both lost. Amaker won outright the next year, Jones did not return.
Amaker, as he explained to the media Wednesday, has told his team to celebrate being Ivy champions. The accomplishment is not a fluke, even if that final play of the Big Green win feels like one.
When he watches film, Amaker is looking for quality rather than results, and the same is true when asked to analyze the regular season. Fortune played a role, he said, but listening to him talk, it does not sound like he thinks Harvard was lucky, per se.
I don’t know how Jones will spin the situation to his players, or how either coach’s choice will go over with their team. We’ll have to wait until Saturday to find out. And when we do find out, it will be unforgettable.
—Staff writer Jacob D.H. Feldman can be reached at jacob.feldman@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Over the past three years, the No. 18/- Harvard men’s ice hockey team has faced off against the No. 12/12 Yale squad 10 times. Home, away, or in New York City, the Crimson failed to notch a win in any of the matchups with its biggest rival.
Now, the Crimson will have to do so twice in the span of three games in order to extend its season and keep its hopes of an NCAA Tournament berth alive.
After sweeping Brown to advance past the first round of the ECAC Men’s Hockey Tournament, Harvard (17-11-3, 11-8-3 ECAC) will make its way down to New Haven on Friday for the start of a best-of-three series against the Bulldogs, who have not lost in over a month, in the quarterfinals of the ECAC Men’s Hockey Tournament.
The implications of this weekend are clear: a series loss not only ends the team’s chance of advancing further in the ECAC Tournament, but also all but guarantees that the Crimson will not earn a berth in the NCAA Tournament.
The Crimson currently stands in 17th place in the PairWise Rankings, needing to advance at least one spot further up in the rankings to increase its odds at making the tournament. A loss would leave the Crimson far below the threshold.
Yale (17-7-5, 12-6-4) is in the same boat as the Crimson—two home losses to Harvard could knock the Bulldogs, who rest at 14th in the PairWise rankings after a late-season surge that included a pair of victories over the Crimson, out of the national tournament conversation entirely just two years after the Bulldogs won the entire thing.
“It’s a huge rivalry game so it’s going to be a great series,” senior forward Colin Blackwell said. “We’re excited about it. We realize that we owe them a favor and we’re going to come out ready to go.”
Going to Ingalls for a playoff series is familiar territory for this Crimson squad. The team travelled to New Haven last year for a best-of-three series in the first round of the ECAC playoffs. But the Crimson failed to pull out a win, getting swept by the then-defending champion Bulldogs. Harvard held the lead halfway through the third period in the second game of that series, but two goals in 38 seconds ended the Crimson’s hopes.
In its three matchups against Yale this year, Harvard found itself struggling to find the back of the net. The team scored only twice—both times from the stick of Ivy League Player of the Year and junior forward Jimmy Vesey. The team will have to find other scoring options if it wants to advance to the semifinals.
“Jimmy is one of the smartest and talented players that I’ve ever had the opportunity to play with or against,” Blackwell said. “He’s one of those kids…who’s so competitive in practice and plays with a chip on his shoulder…He not only scores a lot of points but he’s an emotional player for us that gets all of the guys going.”
The Yale offense, on the other hand, has had no problems putting the puck past the Crimson defense and junior goaltender Steve Michalek. They’ve scored on Michalek eight times in the three matchups and added an empty netter in the late stages of Yale’s 3-0 shutout at Ingalls last month.
Yale’s shutout was the latest in a series of dominating defensive performances by the Elis. The Crimson has averaged less than one goal per game against Yale over the past three years as Yale has outscored its archrivals 36-9 since the Crimson last won three years ago.
“I think we need stick with our system ” Vesey said. “We have to stay with it and try to get a couple by [sophomore goaltender] Alex Lyon.”
Not helping the Crimson’s cause is the return of the injury bug. Sophomore Alexander Kerfoot—a crucial cog in the potent Harvard first line—did not play Saturday after leaving the ice Friday with an upper body injury.
But the Crimson will hope that Colin Blackwell can continue on the momentum of his resurgent return to the lineup.
The San Jose Sharks prospect returned to the ice after missing all but one game in the past two seasons. He returned to action against No. 11/10 Quinnipiac two weekends ago and made an immediate splash against Brown, collecting three goals and drawing penalties to give his team critical man-advantages over the course of the series.
“We didn’t really want [to play] anyone else,” Blackwell said. “We wanted Yale and we got them.”
—Staff writer Kurt T. Bullard can be reached at kurt.bullard@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Senior Mike Mosca continued his record-breaking senior season this week as he competed at the NCAA Zone A Diving Championships in Buffalo, NY.
The last time out, Mosca swept the one-meter and three-meter contests at the Ivy League Championship meet. Though the team came in second, Mosca became the third diver in Ivy history to sweep both boards. He also became the first ever Ivy League diver to win the one-meter title all four years of competition.
In the Zone A Championships, Mosca competed in both the three-meter and one-meter events. He placed well enough to move on to the NCAA Championships in both events.
The senior had his strongest performance of the day in the three-meter dive, placing first. His dive in the preliminary round broke a pool record with a score of 424.20. In the final round of 18 divers, the New Jersey native had a combined score of 817.45.
Like he has for much of the past season, Mosca has been rewriting his own records. This week, he broke a record he set during his sophomore season for the highest score earned by a Crimson diver in NCAA competition.
In the one-meter, Mosca took fourth place to qualify for the NCAA Championships. He finished with a combined score of 642.15.
Freshman diver David Pfeifer also competed in the event, barely missing the cutoff for the final rounds of each event. Pfeifer finished 31st on the one-meter board and 21st on the three-meter.
The NCAA Championships will take place Mar. 25-28 in Iowa City, Iowa.
—Staff writer Theresa C. Hebert can be reached at thebert@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The long-awaited day has finally arrived! Happy Housing Day, everyone! Freshmen, you’ve watched all the videos, you read about the pro’s and con’s of each house, you’ve pleased the housing gods with River Run, and now you’re finally in a house that will become your beloved home for the next three years. Congratulations! Hopefully you all got into the house of your dreams. But if not, remember that every house has its perks. Yes, that’s right, EVERY house. There are no winners or losers on Housing Day, only happy people and even happier people! Today is truly a day to be remembered (or not, depending on last night’s activities) and a day that many Harvardians look back on fondly. Oh, but for those of you with midterms or essays due today– that’s just cruel. Sorry.
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
Put your shorts away and your jackets back on– it’s going to be 30 degrees colder today than it was yesterday! But it’s still going to be lovely outside, with highs of 37 degrees, low humidity, and clear skies. But definitely wrap up! It can get as low as 16 degrees today.
IN THE D-HALL
Lunch:
Roasted Honey Lime Chicken
Turkey Rachel Sandwich
Spicy Jalapeno Jack Cheese and Macaroni
Dinner:
Breaded and Baked Pork Chops
Chicken Parmesan
Pork Sausage Pattie
Spinach & Cheese Strata
IN FLYBY
1) Definitive Ranking of the Housing Day Videos: They say you can’t judge a book by its cover. But can you judge a house by its Housing Day video?
2) Last Minute Ways to Get Ready for Housing Day: Consume lots of junk food. Practice your reactions. Blocking group hug. Repeat.
IN THE NEWS
1) Remembering Marathon Attacks, Students Grapple with Death Penalty: “On April 15, 2013, when the Tsarnaev brothers allegedly set down two backpacks loaded with explosives at the end of the Boston Marathon, some current Harvard students were on their way to Visitas, some were still in high school, and some were at the marathon itself.”
2) After Winter Storms, University Removes Threat of Falling Icicles: “While the weather has begun warming up a month after Harvard last canceled classes due to inclement weather, remnants of the historically snowy winter still remain in the form of falling icicles.”
3) In Legal Filing, Harvard Denies Allegations of Race-Based Discrimination: “Harvard has not filed a motion to dismiss a lawsuit alleging race-based discrimination in its admissions processes and will meet the plaintiffs of the complaint at a status conference on April 13.”
4) Obama Unveils ‘Student Aid Bill of Rights’: “President Barack Obama unveiled several new initiatives Tuesday which focus on making college more affordable and helping students pay back incurred debt.”
ON FM
1) Not a 9-to-5 Job: "While University administrators make extensive efforts to ease the many burdens placed on junior faculty—such as granting financial aid for child care or extensions on the tenure clock—some say Harvard does not go far enough."
2) Drinky Drink: Housing Day: River Rums and Mathertini's, enough said.
IN SPORTS
2) Athlete of the Week: Blackwell’s Return from Injury Sparks Men’s Ice Hockey: “To casual fans of No. 18/- Harvard men’s hockey team, it looked simple at the surface. Sophomore Luke Esposito flung a shot at Brown’s goaltender Tim Ernst. It ricocheted into the slot, where fourth-year forward Colin Blackwell collected the puck and whipped it past the outstretched glove of Ernst to give the Crimson a 2-0 lead—one that it would not surrender the rest of the game on Friday night.”
EVENTS
Today Jay Newton-Small will be holding her study group, “Critical Mass: What Happens When Women Rule the World,” with special guest Karen Finney, former Hillary Clinton spokeswoman and MSNBC contributor, in the FDR room of the IOP at 4 p.m.
Today Martha Coakley will be holding her study group, “How Change is Effected: Courts, Legislation, Grassroots,” with special guest Chief Justice Ralph D. Gants from the Massachusetts Supreme Court, in Room L166 of the IOP at 4 p.m.
Today there will the Summer@Highland Program Information Session in Ticknor Lounge at 6 p.m. Learn more about Summer@Highland, a program through Highland Partners that offers teams of student entrepreneurs resources and connections, including $20,000 to get the business off the ground, free office space in Palo Alto, CA, and the opportunity to connect with experienced mentors and world-class speakers. Register here!
Tonight is the opening night of the play, It Might Be a Story About a Band, in the Loeb Ex at 7:30 p.m. Email bandintheex@gmail.com to reserve free tickets!
PHOTO OF THE DAY
Local politicians are debating whether to extend late night service.
