News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Thursday, Governor Nikki Haley of South Carolina will be recognized by the Harvard Foundation as someone who has positively contributed to intercultural and race relations. Normally, I would not so much as blink an eye at the thought of a prominent political figure of color receiving such an honor (particularly when people of color make up such a small proportion of America’s elected officials). But in this case, I did blink. I blinked hard.
Governor Nimrata Nikki Randhawa Haley is, like me, an Indian American. Her family, like much of mine, immigrated from Punjab, India. But Governor Haley has simultaneously toed the line between talking about this aspect of her identity and shying away from it. Politically, race seems to be a tough issue for Haley, whose advisers defended a white supremacist campaign volunteer before eventually asking for his resignation under public pressure.
In fact, public pressure seems to be the key driver of how Governor Haley answers questions about race. After all, in 2014, Governor Haley refused to answer a question about her position on the Confederate flag flying over the South Carolina statehouse, even implying that it was an insignificant issue. This evening, Haley will receive recognition for her supposedly valiant efforts to tackle this very issue.
But if there is one thing about which Governor Haley has never wavered, it’s her policies. During her tenure as governor, she has rejected a Medicaid expansion plan that would have covered hundreds of thousands of low-income people. She has vetoed money for education that would have helped children across South Carolina, including the 39 percent of Latino kids and 43 percent of African-American kids who live in poverty in her state. She has supported voter ID laws so restrictive that the Department of Justice blocked a state voting law for the first time since 1994 on the grounds that it would create “significant racial disparities.”
The Harvard Foundation’s mandate is to "improve relations among racial and ethnic groups within the University and to enhance the quality of our common life." In the past, the Foundation has granted awards to the likes of Ban-Ki Moon, Malala Yousafzai, and Desmond Tutu.
So where does recognizing someone like Governor Haley fit in? What “relations” will it improve to have Harvard students of color sit at a table with a woman who, until recently, thought it was permissible for the Confederate flag to fly in her state? How will it “enhance our common life” to listen to a governor who used her speech after the Charleston tragedy to criticize Black Lives Matter protestors? What good will it do for the community of color at Harvard to honor a governor whose policies have hurt other communities of color?
I do not know what Governor Haley’s true views on race are, but I do know that her policies have made life tangibly worse for people of color in her state. I know that her actions have been in direct contradiction to the values that the Harvard Foundation claims to embody.
The recognition that will be given Thursday is a one-time event, created specifically for Governor Haley in honor of her recent turnabout on the issue of the Confederate flag. If the Foundation truly believes that this was a monumental moment in American race relations, why not honor activist Bree Newsome, who climbed the flagpole herself and faced arrest in order to take down that symbol of hatred? If the goal is to honor people who have contributed positively to intercultural and race relations, why not honor any number of activists and policymakers across the country working every single day to stop police brutality, reform our immigration system, or make our schools and universities more inclusive? Why honor someone who has spent most of her time doing the opposite?
At 6:00 p.m., Governor Haley will be recognized by an organization that purports to support Harvard students of color. And two hours earlier, those same students and their allies will have the opportunity to attend a discussion with Governor Haley at the Phillips Brooks House—a chance to address the embodiment of the obstacles many in our community still face. I’ll be there. I hope you’ll join me.

Aaron M. Mukerjee '16 is a Social Studies concentrator in Winthrop House. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It has become second nature among Harvard students to criticize the dominance of single-gender final clubs on Harvard’s social scene. After all, final clubs are reputed to host the most—and most popular—parties, while more inclusive and welcoming alternatives are few and far between, consisting mostly of student group-sponsored events in larger student suites. Though some students have begun to  seek refuge at bars and restaurants off campus, the most natural solution is within the College rather than outside its walls: The twelve upperclassmen Houses of the College have long been able to provide ready-made communities and necessary resources for large parties. Until recently, however, they have not done that job.
Thankfully, this is starting to change. The Houses and their House masters are taking note of students’ desires for more open party spaces in the Houses themselves. Last spring, Pforzheimer House unveiled a renovated party space open for House events and student reservations. More recently, Adams and Cabot houses have followed suit created similar common spaces that are suitable for large student parties. Though there are differences between the new spaces—Pfoho renovated the former On Harvard Time studios, while Cabot revamped its junior common room and Adams created a new space—the desire to provide more inclusive student social spaces is common among all three Houses. We applaud the Houses for taking an important step toward bringing students back to on-campus spaces for parties and social events while also fostering greater House community.
There is a tension, rarely discussed, that arises in opening House common spaces for parties: The elephant in the room is underage drinking. Off-campus or in a private student room, the College has no direct presence and underage drinking is tacitly allowed. The strength of enforcement in these new, more public spaces remains to be seen, but it is difficult for the College to do more. Both legally and in liability terms, the College cannot provide spaces in which underage students are openly allowed to consume alcohol. Placing limits on alcohol consumption in these new social spaces does not detract from their impact—this is still a laudable method to promote inclusivity within the bounds of possibility.
In creating new common spaces for all students, the House masters of Adams, Cabot, and Pforzheimer have shown a real desire to help improve the social life of undergraduates at the College. We hope that more Houses choose to follow suit and encourage similar initiatives in the future.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Square has a homelessness problem.
On the benches of Widener Gate, along Mass. Ave.’s storefronts, and at the T’s main entrance. There are the same recognizable faces, like the goateed man always in front of Qdoba or the woman with the brutally honest “Need Money for Weed” sign. It’s easy to grow desensitized but near impossible to completely tune out, each walk through the Square raising the to-give-or-not-to-give question.
In 2015, Cambridge counted 464 homeless citywide, the largest concentration of which was centered in Harvard Square. The homeless population isn’t violent or drug-ridden. But for decades, homelessness in the Square has been an asterisk marking an otherwise upscale Cambridge and an otherwise picturesque Harvard campus.
The question: Why hasn’t Harvard done anything about it? Turns out it’s complicated.
In Cambridge, street homelessness isn’t criminalized. The city’s homeless can freely roam the streets at all hours, and police only get involved if there’s trouble.
On top of that, the city’s approach has largely focused on preserving the status quo. I spoke this week with Ellen Semonoff from the city’s department of human services, who emphasized that “the Square has been fairly welcoming to individuals.” The Harvard Square Business Association, she noted, offered free eye exams and glasses to homeless one day last year, and the local faith community has been working on getting a public toilet in the Square.
Harvard has followed the city’s lead. The University helps fund initiatives like the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter and donates many of its dining hall leftovers to nearby shelters and food pantries.
However, Harvard has never taken a determined approach to actually solving the issue.
Perhaps administrators see homelessness as the city’s problem to deal with. Perhaps Harvard fears the media portraying an all-too-powerful institution pushing innocent homeless out of the city. Perhaps the university simply sees the Square’s homelessness as too daunting of an issue to tackle.
The reality, however, is that Harvard could put its $36 billion endowment to work pretty effectively.
Harvard could allocate more funding to the Square’s three homeless shelters and help develop the necessary programs to get homeless individuals on their feet. The University now supplies just around five percent of the Harvard Square Homeless Shelter’s budget and does not provide financial support to other initiatives like the Y2Y Youth Shelter for homeless young adults.
Harvard could also help in terms of housing. Property is by no secret expensive in Cambridge, and Samuel G. Greenberg ’15, a co-founder of the Y2Y Shelter, thus explained, “the most common cause of homelessness [in the Square] is simply not having a home.”
The University, which is rumored to own one third of private property in Cambridge, could offer at least temporarily subsidized apartment rentals in conjunction with shelters programs to help homeless get on their feet.
It’s hard to argue that Harvard should take a drastically different approach to the issue. The status quo has a way of keeping its wheels turning. But the fact is that homelessness in Harvard Square is a serious concern—for the university and the city, and most importantly, the homeless themselves. Whether out of selfish or humanitarian motives, Harvard can do more.

Aaron J. Miller ’18, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Currier House. His column runs on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
6:35 a.m. - You wake with the sun, in a fowl mood. The ground is rough beneath your bony feet, and you taste the regret of your previous night in bilious waves rippling up your gullet. Where were you? Or in your case is it better to ask: Where weren’t you? You open Snapchat, blinking sleep from your black eyes, and scan through the stories. It doesn’t take long to spot yourself. There you are, strutting through the Pit. And there you are again, peering out from behind a tree, offended by the audacity of the photographer. Who do they think you are, some cheap Cornish game they can truss up and put on their table? And who was that hen on your wing? To be fair, the two of you look good. Good enough to be a lock for campus story if it were still alive.
But there’s no time to reminisce. Daydreaming is not a luxury the Cambridge Turkey can afford.
7 a.m. - You pop your collar (of feathers) and make your way to the HUIT offices. You’ve held an internship there since the start of the summer. You suspect you’re somewhat of a diversity pick, but the resume boost is appreciated.
Most of your time is now spent addressing complaints regarding the new my.Harvard website, an operation which you spearheaded. Your department was pleased as peaches by the launch. After all, coding is awfully difficult when you’ve got to search and peck out each key in your Java one at a time. But what should have been lauded as an exemplary spot of work has been nitpicked to death for its minor technical failings. Come on, you want to gobble, look past all that! It’s the first website built entirely by a turkey!
9:55 a.m. - On your way to class you cross the road at Mass. Ave., flagrantly jaywalking. Why? You’re no chicken, you think to yourself, sneering at that Masshole that almost hit you with a practiced Boston disdain.
What’s the news? Farmal cancelled? Excellent! Your petition to save your favorite nesting spot from being trampled by 4,000 attempted escapees of urban monotony seems to have been a rousing success. As a respected member of the Cambridge community, you find your word carries a certain gravitas. You think smugly of the MAC Quad wildlife. If only they’d thought to ask nicely enough for your help.
10:07 a.m. - You make it to your CS50 section in the nick of time. The rambunctious students quiet when you enter, and you see the hunger in their eyes as they leer at your plump frame. As the TF, or Teaching Fowl, you hold the thing most precious to them: problem set answers. You honestly can’t tell if bringing you on as a TF was just another move on Malan’s part to up the theatrical farce of his legacy, or if they really are just taking anyone these days. Either way, you need the work.
You’re a little stunned to see the hen from last night sitting in the front row, clucking up at you. You quickly regain your cool and make plans to meet her after your office hours this afternoon.
4 p.m. - The two of you make a fine meal walking down the street. You decide to get coffee and flutter over to the nearest Starbucks establishment. The barista takes one hideously self-satisfied look at you and quips, “I’ll just get you a pair of pumpkin spice lattes then?”
Your feathers rise in anger. “How dare you profile us? We’re year round!” To spite him you order a Valencia Orange Refresher, the least Fall item on the menu that you could think of.
7:30 p.m. - Back at your patch you find a little surprise tucked underneath a sprout of kale. It’s a white letter with a waxen insignia. Curious, you crack the seal and wriggle out its contents.
You’ve been punched for Adams House Thanksgiving dinner! In some sense, you feel it’s an honor. You know for a fact only a handful of the other turkeys have received such an invite, and Adams does throw the best dinners, after all. Of course, there’s been quite a hubbub lately surrounding the whole affair. And even though one dining room made the move this year to punch all manner of fowl, there’s still a pervasive sense of inequality at the Thanksgiving table.
For this reason you decide you won’t be attending. You could care less what kind of birds would be going with you. Honestly, you just don’t want to get eaten.
Sections
Look, we get it. Socializing is hard. Being sober is hard. Competitively socializing while sober is borderline torturous. FM’s solution: pregame the hell out of your next punch event with these seasonal cocktails. They will give you both the stamina you need to make it through hours of shmoozing and the confidence you need to make conversation about something other than what House you live in/what final club your dad was in. Remember: Alcohol is the lubricant of all social situations.
SPEE-NOT GRIGIO
95% wine
5% women
First up, we have Spee-not Grigio, or wine with a sense of entitlement. Pairs nicely with the smug satisfaction you gain from getting more punches than your blockmates. A true achievement! Pour a new glass every time you see a taxidermied animal.
BEELINI
2 oz peach puree
4 oz Prosecco
If you’re already tipsy, that’s totally fine! As long as you can remember your name, concentration, and House, you’re all set. It’s time to hunker down with this next classy cocktail and practice your forced smile. Pro-tip: If you didn’t actually go to a prep school, just make one up! “Oh, you haven’t heard of Fitzwilliamsburg Academy? I’m not surprised, only a select few are allowed on our carrier-pigeon mailing list.”
MOSCOWL MULE
4 oz ginger beer
2 oz vodka
Dash of lime juice
Foxycontin for the nerves (optional)
By now, you’re starting to think that this punch thing isn’t so bad after all. Congratulations, you’re drunk! Before you go slur compliments at the punchmasters, make sure you’re holding one of these. Not only will it make you look stately, but you’ll have a discreet container to puke your drunk guts into without attracting any unwanted attention.
LONG ISLAND ISIS TEA
1 oz vodka
1 oz rum
1 oz gin
4 oz green tea
This unconventional twist on a classic is actually healthier for you, because it has real tea in it! The antioxidants will ease the crippling hangover that surely lies in your future and hopefully protect you from long lasting liver damage. In the end, it doesn’t really matter, though. Your social life is worth it.
Sections
Maybe she’s born with it. Or maybe it’s Malan. Have you ever dreamed of smelling like your CS50 professor? No, we haven’t either. But we have wondered what it would be like if professors’ essences could be captured, bottled up, and sold on the open market. Below, FM imagines the scents that a few Harvard professors might put out if they had the chance to make their own eau de parfums.
DAVID J. MALAN ’99
Malan by David Malan
For David by David Malan
In collaboration with David Malan for David by David Malan, David Malan’s introductory eau de parfum represents the dawning of a new age. It’s for the showstoppers, the dreamers, the artists, the lovers. It’s for you. Made with only the best ingredients, the scent of Malan is meant to hide those inevitable tears caused by slaving over problem sets. Disclaimer: Scent guarantees excitement during lecture but not during section. This is not CS50. This is Malan by David Malan for David by David Malan in collaboration with David Malan for David by David Malan.
Notes: Aluminum, the Widener reading room between 9 p.m. and 12 a.m. on Mondays and Tuesdays, black t-shirt and jeans, patchouli.
Style: Invigorating, intoxicating, a little dorky.

RAKESH KHURANA
RAKESH by Rakesh Khurana
RAKESH captures the fundamental essence of the best aspects of Dean Khurana. That is, all aspects of Dean Khurana. Its classic, suave, and luxurious scent is nothing but sensual. It comes in a special edition crimson bottle, big enough for the entire freshman class to come together and smell as one. Sold exclusively at the Coop.
Notes: Sicilian bergamot, white pepper, velvet gardenia, rock star.
Style: Warm, assertive, incredibly crimson.

STEVEN PINKER
L’Eau de Steven Pinker Pour Homme (Limited Edition)
Reveal the Pinker within. This ultrasensual interpretation of human nature creates a primal, animalistic scent. But it doesn’t stop there. Revel in the smooth, slimy musk of the prefrontal cortex. The additional essences of Science Center B, 50-page textbook readings, and Pinker’s luscious locks gives it a distinctive, slightly insane spin. *Only a limited supply offered in order to properly reflect the resource dilemma.
Notes: Pheromones, adrenaline, honeysuckle, endless illusions.
Style: Spontaneous, human, occasionally disturbing.

MARTIN S. FELDSTEIN ’61
Feldstein Noir Pour Homme
Feldstein Noir Pour Homme combines unexpected ingredients to express this professor’s enthusiastic excitement for economics. Explosive notes of supply and demand curves crash through a strong base of conservative tax policy, ultimately revealing a deep and layered cologne. The scent is especially fitting for the naïve male student who has just embarked on an economics concentration. With wear, the cologne fades to reveal a sleek scent reminiscent of the Reagan era. Smell like the sexiest freemarket man you can be.
Notes: Lavender, tax cuts, limited government intervention.
Style: Mass-produced, lasting.
Sections
My mother has your shotgun. One man, wide
in the mind, and tendoned like a grizzly, pried
to his trigger-digit, pal.

Kevin B. Holden ’05 quotes poetry slowly, cautiously, dredging each line from memory with a look of intense concentration. This verse, drawn from John Berryman’s “Dream Song 34,” is one of his favorites. “The ideas are really interesting and strange, but so are the sounds. There are these long vowel sounds, and the t’s and the g’s and the d’s. It’s just this really sonically interesting thing that, for some reason, has stayed in my mind for years.”
When it comes to poetry, Holden knows what he’s talking about. As an undergrad, he was deeply involved in Harvard’s poetry scene, serving on the executive board of a number of publications including the Advocate and all-poetry magazine the Gamut. He continued to write and study in the years following, publishing several books of poetry while earning an M.Phil at Cambridge, an MFA at the Iowa Writer’s Workshop, and a Ph.D. at Yale.
Now back at Harvard, Holden continues to juggle both academic and creative work. “There’s this wearing of two hats,” he explains. “One is being a scholar. Being in the Society of Fellows, working on my first book of criticism, writing literary scholarship about poetry and philosophy of poetry. The other is being here, as [Kirkland House] Poet in Residence.”
The latter is a recent development for Holden, who stepped into the role just a few weeks ago. The position itself, however, has precedent: Over the years, it has been intermittently occupied by a number of celebrated poets, including Pulitzer Prize- winning poet Elizabeth Bishop, who began working out of a second floor Kirkland suite in 1969.
As Kirkland poet in residence, Holden is charged with creating opportunities for students to engage with poetry. His first project is a biweekly poetry table, held in Kirkland’s private dining room on alternate Tuesdays.
“The idea is to be pretty open and relaxed. People can read poems by poets that they enjoy, or read poems that they like, and we can talk about them and share them. If people want to read their own work, they could,” he explains. “Mostly it will be just a space to talk about poetry and read poetry out loud.” Holden also plans to organize two or three formal readings each semester. “I’ll bring in poets to give readings and have conversations with students....We can do that in the Junior Common Room. It’s a great space for it.”
Citing his experience with Harvard’s arts community as an undergrad, Holden is confident that his events will have an audience. “There are people I’ve met here in Kirkland who write poetry, who are really enthusiastic about it and do it pretty seriously...and I think that there are also a lot of people who don’t necessarily write poetry, but really care about poetry, and want to hear it and talk about it.” Holden hosted the inaugural Poetry Table on Sept. 29 at 6 p.m. in the Kirkland private dining room and plans to continue doing so on alternating Tuesdays.
“The readings are absolutely open. And the table is too,” he invites.
Sections
“Do you ever”—I broke eye contact for a second—“Do you ever run out of breath?”
“Like”—he laughed the way we had been laughing for the past three hours, a way somewhat like thinking, when it rumbles beneath whatever else is happening with your mind and body, sometimes louder than others, sometimes triggered by things happening around you, other times by things happening in you—“Like in what sense,” another burst of laughter, “do you mean?”
“Like just now. For example. Type thing,” I offered unspecifically.
“Oh”—he paused again for his characteristic dramatic effect—“Do I ever run out of breath when I’m kissing someone?”
“Yeah.”
“Well, let me check.”
***
The summer after my sophomore year of college, I ordered a skim latte in the Brooklyn neighborhood that my family could afford only because we moved in 20 years earlier. I dropped a quarter in the “Kale” tip jar and a dime in the “Bacon” tip jar and opened my laptop to begin the list I make at the end of each semester of things I’ve learned:
Things feel better when you think you’re better at them. This isn’t new news, but through new avenues, it comes to imply new things. With ballet, you need to get better at it before you can feel better at it. With sex, perhaps you can feel better at it without actually being better at it. Like maybe that will make you better at it. Also, it isn’t as easy or as frequently good as people seem to think.
So I resolved to practice with confidence. I could turn down the volume on my unabashed self-narration once the actual lights were turned down. Hopefully I’d discover some vixen person who didn’t have to run to go pee real quick or ask questions about how and what to do with the body next to me.
The thing is, though, there’s something dangerous about deeming sex a fake-it-’til-you-make-it, or even a fake-it-’til-you-become-it, craft. Sex doesn’t have to be something you figure out on your own by pretending it’s something you know how to do without guidance. Sex is not an equation of how much you can afford to lie about your excel proficiency and then learn on your own if you get the job, because you have the job at that exact moment and you have no chance at developing proficiency in another person’s body until you explore it. Sex is a conversation you get the privilege of having with another person in which neither of you knows exactly what the other is going to say, or how you will respond to what’s said.
How will you find what you could be?
Remember the fortune cookie sex game? The one where you added “in bed” at the end of a fortune so that you and your seventh grade friends stuffed with sesame chicken and white rice could feel a little bit closer to another kind of satiation? (If you’re happy, you’re successful...in bed. Fight for it, you will come out on the top…in bed.) I think we need to play this game more often in life, outside of Chinese restaurants. We need to bridge our public selves—dedicated, diligent, frustrated with the inequalities and communities we exist in—with the private selves we find in bed. Because the chasm between our sexual selves and our socially-conscious, loving, laughing, breathing selves is at risk of expanding.
Last semester, an old man at a podium in Sever 214 suggested to 30 students that our generation drinks so much because we aren’t having sex. But I think we drink to help fling ourselves over the chasm. Sometimes, we drink because we want to have sex but don’t know how to ask for it. How to offer it. We lack models of radical consent that give people a chance to say fuck yes. We don’t quite know how to tell someone that we care for them, respect them, and would like to run out of breath kissing them please (if that’s something they’d be interested in; if not, the first two parts will continue to be true).
We wait for pregnant silence. We get obliterated because we’re not sure how else to get from where we are to where we want to be. Because we’re not sure how to be where we are.
What if we could invite our whole selves out with us at night? What if we could bring the same care and investment that we bring to things that we admit matter to us?
If you made a list of three things about yourself and how you want to exist in the world and added in bed at the end, would your actions stand up for themselves? Communication is hard work, but we must support and fuel ourselves and each other…in bed. There are some good things that one person can share and take and give without anyone else having to lose…in bed. Presence matters…in bed.
A jazz singer, with thick black hair and a stunning longing in her jaw, once told me that she fucks like she sings. With soul and joy and rigor and abandon and occasionally uncontrollable laughter. With commitment to being there. To sing can be sacred whether or not the song itself is sacred. Her respect for singing doesn’t mean she sings fewer songs, or only sings songs she’d choose if she could sing just one for the rest of her life. It need not be rare to be sacred. Some notes can be weightless and some heavy; her love of singing remains sacred. To say that she loses herself in a song is not to say that the thoughts that pound in her head normally, the insecurity, the pride, the questions, the answers, evaporate, but that they fuse into the music she makes. I worry that we no longer lose ourselves in an interaction that sweeps us up, but just lose ourselves.
So when I sat down to another skim latte and laptop seven months after my first list of learnings, my reflections held a new ambition of radical acceptance. Sex no longer was a separately serious thing for which I needed to build an appropriate version of myself. It wasn’t so much the confidence or the virtuosity of my dancing self I needed to aim for, but the quirk, the strength, the flexibility, the listening, the care:
Until I learn to fuck like I dance, the best I can do is not take myself too seriously and maybe fuck like I talk or like I be.
Perhaps more than appearing to be confident in a physical act, it’s about being confident in your skin. About trusting the person you’re with, or rather about trusting that together, you both can acknowledge what a weird and frustrating and vulnerable and wonderful thing you’re getting to try to do together is. If sex isn’t complete in the way or ways it’s supposedly supposed to be, you still did a thing. Still exchanged a thing. Still shared a thing. Maybe even not a thing like the act, but a thing like a part of yourself. Or maybe a thing like a laugh. A smile. An awkwardness.
***
It was 5 a.m., the bed was an extra long twin, and he had just switched his bus ticket back to New York from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. Five hours earlier, he had walked back with me to my room so I could switch from my heeled boots into my flat ones. Our fingertips had found each other’s as we walked through the snow on our mission. The rest of our hands nodded in a clasp, warming me with that twinge of for-now commitment, unanticipated but far from unwelcome. By 4 a.m., when we returned to my block for the third time that weekend after hours of dancing and that ever-rumbling laughter, our fingertips were familiar. He let me indulge my impulse to change into sexier underwear. I knew the skinniness of his jeans made them difficult to remove, and that he frequently needed to pee.
It happened quickly, and it happened softly, and there was nothing serious or unserious about it, and sometimes we were laughing instead of thinking. Hours before, we had been in different states, hours to come we would again be, and months later our fingertips would find each other again for some hours. We didn’t know that yet; nor did we care. In that moment, my concentration was consumed by the coordination it took to inhale and kiss at the same time.
The tenderness of his lips lingered for three blinks after they slid off of mine. I parted my lips to inhale. He parted his to answer the original question.
“I think I was breathing that whole time.”
Sections

When I walk up the chipped steps of the First Parish Church toward the balcony, a host of women greets me at the top. Some seem to be in their late 20s—grad students, perhaps, who are beginning to realize that, at this point in their lives, they should probably forego Saturday morning hangovers in favor of Friday night motivational speakers. Some seem to be older: parents who might have just sent their last child to college, grandparents who may have just put their grandson to bed. Some are donning tight-fitting black turtlenecks. Others are dressed fancier: sequin-covered dresses, pearl earrings, knee-high boots.
I squeeze into the first pew I see and, a little out of breath, ask the person to my left if I’ve missed a significant portion of the event. She shushes me and points down to the podium where a tall and wiry blonde woman in a white blouse and black pencil skirt adjusts a mic. “What a beautiful place,” breathes Elizabeth Gilbert, acclaimed author of “Eat, Pray, Love,” as she begins her speech. “This reminds me of the austere New England church I was raised in—it makes me think I should be more serious than I intended to [be].”
Since Gilbert is here to discuss her latest book, “Big Magic: Creative Living Beyond Fear,” she reads us an excerpt from it first.
“There are two people in the world, really. People who are doing and making really interesting things with their life. And people who are not doing and making really interesting things with their life because they are afraid.”
Gilbert explains how, for most of her life, she fell into the latter category. “I was an exceptionally freaked out child,” she says. She tells us that anxiety isn’t entirely genetic, though—her mom certainly didn’t seem to have it. She tells us how her family called her “Pitiful Pearl.” She tells us about her town’s sprawling blue ocean and her certainty that it would swallow every bikini-clad person in it. Why, a young Elizabeth would lament, can’t people resign to lying on their towels and reading books?
As Elizabeth turns grave—“Argue for your limitations and you keep them”—the woman to my left, the shusher, mutters under her breath. “YES! Oh my!” she softly squeals. “Oh! Oh my god. Yeeeeeeeeeee.”

There’s a performative element to Gilbert’s recitation: Her pauses are measured, her jokes prepared, her voice a mix of high and low intonations. She draws a metaphor between our world and a petri dish filled with a squirming tadpole who has “a brain the size of a punctuation mark” but still flinches under a human’s shadow. “It cannot draw or write or sing. But it still knows fear. I know fear. You know fear.”
She references her good friend Susan as an example. Once a teenage figure skater, Susan stopped the sport once she realized she wasn’t the most talented at it. “Because why on Earth would you continue doing something when you couldn’t be a champion?” Gilbert pauses, waiting for a response. Someone coughs.
Gilbert moves on, explaining that Susan is now 40 and recently began skating again. She’s energetic when she’s on the ice. She’s living creatively, “making something of herself, with herself.”
Of course, Gilbert qualifies, Susan was afraid of returning to her pastime. “But creativity is a path for the the brave, not the fearless.” There are a few solemn nods, some snaps.
“The only fearless people I know are sociopaths and a few 3-year-olds.” A woman in the audience giggles at this change in tone and claps her hands with such force that a ring flies from her finger, missing my head by inches and landing with a soft thud on the brown floorboard.
If you are fearless, Gilbert cautions, you meet men who, entirely serious, tell you this: “I do not necessarily believe we are biologically predisposed to be monogamous.”
The pews shake as the audience erupts. I watch the man below me frown, as if guilty, and pull out a lighter. The woman next to him catches me watching. She sheepishly grins, then grabs it from him.
Gilbert believes in monogamy, she assures us, just as much as she believes in having equal doses of “reverence and irreverence” for her craft. “When I write, I know that I’m serving God, answering this very ancient, very sacred call. I also know that this is a bunch of bullshit.”
“You have to think both because otherwise you start saying things like, ‘This is my baby,’” she continues, as she chucks a copy of her book on the ground. There is a gasp.
“If that were a baby I would be, like, arrested right now.”
Gilbert has arrested the crowd’s attention, and it rises to its feet. And, after most everyone returns to their seats, three people on the opposite side of the balcony are still clapping and standing. They’re holding a sign that reads “#beerwithLiz.”
The audience murmurs. We’re unsure if this is part of the act.
“Let me explain!” Gilbert shouts. “These crazy fools drove all the way from Canada tweeting ‘#beerswithLiz’ along the way. So I brought beer. Six bottles.” She hands them each one.
Gilbert then announces it’s time for audience questions, and a fiction writer asks for a beer. She doesn’t get one. A student from Boston University gives Gilbert a book she wrote about grief. One woman from Brazil announces that she’s “received a call to divorce.” Another woman says she’s already received the call and hasn’t found happiness yet. “Now what?” she asks Gilbert.
One grim-looking woman approaches the mic to speak. “In your book, you mention the idea of—”
Gilbert interrupts. “You read my book?” The questioner is confused. “Yes?”
“Dude, it’s been out, like, four hours!”
The woman smiles hesitantly and asks if Gilbert will sign her copy. She does.
Another woman rises. “I’m from Turkmenistan,” she explains. “And I’m here because, well, I’m gonna be brave and ask—will you take a selfie?”
Gilbert cringes. Somebody starts to protest. I hear the word “unfair.”
“OK, guys, I will, but this is the only one! I’m only doing this because she’s from Central freakin’ Asia!”
At this point, a gray-haired lady in front of me clicks her tongue disapprovingly. I ask if she thinks Gilbert is giving in. Yes, she says. “Does she not realize where we are? She’s cussing! In church!”
Sections
UPDATED: October 2, 2015, at 12:13 p.m.
My mother calls me every Saturday morning. She asks me how my classes are going, if I’m eating well, if I’m taking my vitamins. Right before we hang up, she often asks me if I’ve figured out what I want to do with my life. She reminds me it’s important to have a plan, and to “be on track.” I understand where she’s coming from, but I also wonder why she never asks me about getting off track. I wonder why she never asks me if I know how to rest.

I think about this as I sit at a beautifully set table: A crisp white tablecloth drapes over the round table, ruby red carnations stand tall in a gold vase, and a full plate of food invites me to stare. I’m currently at Shabbat 1000, the largest Shabbat dinner that Harvard has ever hosted, according to its organizers. There are over 70 round tables, seating a total of over 800 students, arranged within the Science Center Plaza Tent. Most of the tables are packed with people—students, children, and adults alike, in garb ranging from fresh-pressed suits to plain white t-shirts.
“We, in our own lives, often confuse movement with meaning,” says Hirschy Zarchi, the rabbi at Harvard Chabad. He stands at the podium in the middle of the tent. With the daily routine of life, Zarchi explains that we often forget to think about where we’re going and why. We forget to rest; we forget to reflect. And this is what Shabbat is about.
Following a series of short speeches by organizers of the event and representatives of Harvard’s HilleL, we begin with Shalom Aleichem, a liturgical poem that is sung every Friday night to signal the arrival of Sabbath. Every guest is provided with the words of the song—in Hebrew, in Hebrew with English romanization, and in English translation. There is even an explanation for why these songs are important to Judaism. Many sing loudly, others stumble over the words, and I try to hum along.
There is then the recitation of Kiddush, after which everyone is invited to drink the purple liquid in the small plastic cups (they’re vaguely reminiscent of medicine cups). A few eager freshmen bear disappointed faces when they realize the liquid is just grape juice.
Following the recitation, we’re all invited to the tables lined with large silver bowls. For the first time in my life, I am excited to be washing my hands. I pour a cup of water over my hands in a silver bowl, and I find that this small gesture livens the mundane act of eating. I pull apart the cute knot of challah bread and eat it with hummus, and then eagerly dig into the plate of food in front of me. There’s chicken breast coated in pesto sauce, green and white string beans, sweet quinoa with raisins, mixed-green salad, and a soy-sauce based noodle dish. The food, though understandably a little cold, is delicious.
I usually reserve dinners in the dining hall to playing the misery game with my friends—we talk about all the work we have to do and how we don’t want to do it—but this meal is remarkably different. For the first time in a long time, I feel relieved to simply enjoy the company around me, and appreciate this present moment in time.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: October 2, 2015
An earlier version of this article misattributed a quotation from Hirschy Zarchi, the rabbi at Harvard Chabad.
Sections
On a sticky September night, we sit in our dorm room swiping through the glittery new Snapchat filters. We apply the filters, which transform our grinning visages: our appearances morph into sagging old faces, our mouths vomit rainbows, and our eyes bulge out of our heads. Though the pictures we take are frivolous, we cannot shake a lingering feeling of dread. Something is rotten in the state of Snapchat, as William Shakespeare once proclaimed.
We dismiss this unsettling feeling and return to the task at hand: Making hearts pop out of our eyes. “Maybe this will be the picture that finally lands us on Campus Story,” we think to myself. What can we say? We’ve always dreamed big. We cross our fingers that our googly-eyed faces will be featured in the Harvard-wide virtual slideshow.
We click the arrow in the bottom right-hand corner, and that’s when it hits us. That’s when the room starts to spin. Campus Story is gone. It is a moment like this that puts your priorities in perspective. Somewhere deep down, we had always known that Campus Story came first, family came second, and everything else came after that. But we never truly realized what we had until it was gone, vanished from our list of options on Snapchat.
Sure, we still have geotags that mark the location of pictures taken in the Quad, by the river, or in Annenberg. But how will we know when a peer is leaving Lamont at 1:29 in the morning? How will we know when an athlete is working out at Harvard Stadium? How will we know when some unlucky kid is having swai for dinner?
We ask Amy Y. Zhang ’18, a now-faded Campus Story celebrity, about her days of glory as one of Campus Story’s favorite late-night Lamont-leavers. “The thought was obviously on my mind: If I stay another hour, I could just, like, film myself leaving at like 4:20,” Zhang reminisces.
Garrett C. Allen ’16 earned his fame in a different way. “I really just had my own Snapchat persona that was like an extension of myself as a person but also like very much was a person that’s not me all the time,” Allen says. “Then I started going on a motivational route and being all encouraging and telling people to smile and be nice to people, singing nice songs.”
But in the wake of Campus Story’s disappearance, Allen has little use for his cheeriness. “A part of me has been lost and won’t ever come back,” he laments. “Hashtag bring back Campus Story.”
What was the appeal of this silly little thingamajig? Why did we all tune in day after day? In its short time in Cambridge, Campus Story became more to Harvard than just a device for tracking the goings-on of Lamont studiers and lively motivators. Campus Story was bigger than any one of us. It was bigger than even the Story God, that forever mysterious deity who chose which faces would grace our screens. It brought us together in struggle and in triumph. It made us a community.
Or maybe it didn’t. We don’t really know. We’ll go back to vomiting rainbows on Snapchat now.
Sections
Over the phone, my mother’s voice sounds the same as mine. Same cadence, same pitch, same laugh that bubbles from nowhere. We walk through the mall, and she criss-cross links our arms. A hat vendor asks us if we are sisters.
My mother cooks, and I do the dishes. We alternate telling stories. After dinner, we stay at the table with dirty dishes strewn around us. My mother and I rest our elbows on the grease-covered surface, and we talk until the neighbors in our townhouse complex turn off their lights. One by one, the windows of each sturdy brick unit go dark for the night. Still, the plates have not been cleared, and still, we have more to say.
Sometimes in the evening, the two of us stroll to the neighboring strip mall and try on clothes at
Ann Taylor. We buy the same silk shirt, hers in blue and mine in white, and wear them with the same chiffon flared skirt. To this day, I cannot make a serious clothing purchase without seeing my mother clasp her hands together against the mirrors of the dressing room, one million mothers reflected on the walls. “Yes,” she proclaims. “Buy it.”
When we step outside with our shopping bags, the sky has darkened to navy. We walk on the road illuminated by streetlights and fireflies, flashing in and out of the darkness. As a child, I loved fireflies, and would sandwich them gingerly between my cupped hands, waiting to see their Christmas lights flash under the weight of my palms. Wings would flutter like eyelashes against my callused palm. And my mother, standing on the side disapprovingly, would always tell me to let them go. You’ll crush its wings, she would say. If you love it, let it fly free.
When I left for college, those summer days of recounting stories over dirty dishes drifted sparser on the calendar. Yet this wasn’t for lack of effort. Well into my sophomore fall, every month on the dot (break or no break), I would board a dirty Megabus, and hold my nose against the formaldehyde stench of the moving restroom for sixhours, just to see that big old townhouse appear in the distance. Just to greet the chrysanthemums my mom planted every autumn in front of the wooden gate. Just to once again, take a stroll to the big fountain by the strip mall and watch the fireflies blink to their own symphony.
In the spring of my sophomore year, my mother’s messages on Wechat take on a new urgency. Green bubbles spring up on my phone, 2,4,8 messages in a row, asking why I am not responding. Asking why I am not home. In the summer, my mother’s recruiter finds her “an exciting new opportunity” just six hours north of Paoli. Another tenant moves into the big brick townhouse, and we pack a houseful of valuables into a navy Honda CRV. Westborough is only 40 minutes from Harvard, she tells me. “Now you can come home as often as you would like.”
There is no place to plant chrysanthemums in our new one-bedroom apartment, and nowhere to greet the fall. But nonetheless, September arrives, unbeckoned. I sit in my dorm room at dusk, watching for the last of summer’s fireflies through the window, and my mother texts me asking how I am. I want to travel to Pakistan, with my roommate this winter, I tell her. She types back in consternation, God forbid, you most certainly may not. Come home and have a rest.
The day that I finally relent, she picks me up in front of Eliot and drives me home. The sun is setting on the I-90. For a moment I think we’re going to our house in Paoli, and that the gold of the fading rays will echo the gold of her chrysanthemums, potted above the wooden gate. Instead, we pull up to a strange apartment complex, each gray building identical to the next, and she is so, so happy. She is going to make me shrimp, she says, and we will find an Ann Taylor in this new, foreign city.
After dinner, I start the dishwasher and scrape the remains of the rice into the bin. Our windows face onto the street. I am too big for this one-bedroom apartment, and she is too old to feel the flutter of wings against her lifelines. My mother still does not know that this winter break, I plan to travel to Southeast Asia. But we are thick as thieves, and I suspect she does know that sooner or later, even fireflies must fly free.
Sections
It’s November 2008, after President Barack Obama’s first election, and one of professor Ruth R. Wisse’s undergraduate students comes in to speak with her.
“I really did want to tell you that I’ve been feeling very guilty,” says the student, a freshman.
“About what?” asks Wisse, an outspoken conservative faculty member and prominent Yiddish scholar.
“Well, I worked on the Obama campaign,” the student says.
Wisse laughs, and replies, “You and everyone else—why would that necessarily make you feel guilty?”
“You see, I’m for McCain, and I voted for McCain.”
Wisse was now puzzled—and intrigued. “Well, why did you work on the Obama campaign?”
“Because I so wanted to be with my roommates and with everyone else.”
****
That student’s experience—the choice between social comfort and political conviction, as Wisse describes it—is perhaps dramatic, but it is not outlandish. It is not easy being a political conservative at Harvard, at a university that Richard Nixon once called the “Kremlin on the Charles,” in a city that playfully refers to itself as the “People’s Republic of Cambridge,” in one of the bluest states in the country.
Many face the same decision with respect to their political beliefs. Students who choose to embrace their conservatism publicly often undergo a “baptism by fire,” finding their beliefs strengthened and arguments honed, but only after being subject to intense scrutiny and even caricature. Others do not—out of fear of not gaining social acceptance, out of fear of being dismissed out of of hand, out of fear of being made into a punchline—and remain in the so-called “political closet,” perhaps even passing as liberals. 
The challenge is not that the typical right-wing view on campus is extremely conservative—in fact, it’s the very opposite. While the national conservative movement still grapples with and in some cases defies the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling legalizing same-sex marriage, for example, the campus conversation has moved on, according to Aaron I. Henricks ’16, president of the Harvard Republican Club, the largest conservative student group on campus. In a survey of graduating seniors of the College’s Class of 2014, The Crimson found that just 4.6 percent of students had an unfavorable view of same-sex marriage.
“We have a few libertarians, we have a few who might identify as Tea Party members, but the vast majority are just center-right,” says Government concentrator Andrew B. Pardue ’16 of the HRC. “At other parts of the country we’d be RINOs—Republicans in Name Only—whereas even being center-right is very radical on this campus.”
And so, it’s often not controversial conservative views that drive students into the political closet. Instead, it’s simply the idea—and to some extent, the reality—of a liberal monolith at Harvard that some say makes it difficult for conservative students, closeted or not, to find a voice and meaningful representation on campus.
*****
That the typical conservative student at Harvard has center-right views might be surprising to some people outside Harvard. If you go off examples most prominent in the media, you might immediately jump to the firebrands.
You might think of the Harvard College Anscombe Society, a group previously known as the True Love Revolution that has promoted abstinence, heterosexual marriage, and traditional gender roles. You might think of former Anscombe president Luciana E. Milano ’14, and her appearance on “The O’Reilly Factor” decrying the University’s hypersexualized culture after the Committee on Student Life approved a BDSM group on campus. You might think of Bill O’Reilly himself, a graduate of the Kennedy School of Government.
You might think of Government professor Harvey C. Mansfield ’53, a vocal critic of political correctness, sexual liberation, and feminism, who claims that conservative viewpoints are “totally ignored” on campus by the faculty and administration. You might think of Texas senator and Harvard Law School graduate Rafael “Ted” Cruz, who many associate with the 16-day government shutdown in 2013 and is now running for president. You might think of Arkansas senator and former Crimson editor Thomas B. Cotton ’98, who penned a letter to the Iranian leadership in March casting doubts on the legitimacy of the Obama administration’s authority to negotiate with Iran.
But these are, in fact, the exceptions rather than the rule.
Like their national counterparts, conservatives on campus hold as their guiding principle a great deference to order, stability and tradition, coupled with the idea that a smaller government is a better government, and that the nation and its people—regardless of their background—do best when the government does less.
In practice, however, many conservative students on campus look less to the Grand Old Party and more to Great Britain’s David Cameron and his center-right Conservative Party for inspiration on how to move forward.
“Gay marriage is something that actually is probably a bedrock conservative principle,” says Cameron K. Khansarinia ’18, a regional chair of Students for Rubio, referencing David Cameron in an opinion echoed by several students. “People do best when the government gets out of their lives, and I personally find it hypocritical when conservatives say, ‘Let’s get the government out of our lives, except out of the bedroom.’” 
Indeed, many conservative students at Harvard identify as “socially liberal, fiscally conservative”—more libertarian or moderate than right-wing. While real estate mogul Donald J. Trump—widely accused of being nativist—and retired neurosurgeon Benjamin “Ben” S. Carson—who said earlier this month that he would not support a Muslim for president—soar in the national polls, you’d be hard-pressed to find any vocal Trump supporters on campus. The Republican Party at Harvard, for the most part, is not the party of Trump, Carson, and Mike Huckabee—it’s the party of Mitt Romney, Jeb Bush, Marco Rubio, and Rand Paul.
“The most important thing we have to do is love each other and not judge each other, and once we get the Republican Party more towards that loving spectrum from the judging side of the spectrum, we’ll be a lot better off for it,” Khansarinia says. It’s hardly the rhetoric of an extremist.
So why might we still have a poetic image of a radical right at Harvard? Part of it probably has to do with confirmation bias: The most controversial voices are often the loudest and the most exciting, and the moderate right often gets drowned out. More important, however, is the fact that conservative students—moderate or not—are such a minority on campus that it’s often difficult for them to get enough momentum to dramatically change public perception, and that Harvard is too overwhelmingly liberal for the most soft-spoken and moderate conservative students to feel comfortable standing behind their views.
*****
Of course, that conservatives come in small numbers at Harvard comes as no shock. For years, The Crimson’s freshman survey has found that liberals may outnumber conservatives in incoming classes by as much as five to one—65.1 percent of the 1,184 respondents to this fall’s Class of 2019 survey, for example, identify as somewhat liberal or very liberal, compared to just 12.2 percent who identify as somewhat conservative or very conservative. Last year, among survey respondents from the graduating College Class of 2015, former Secretary of State Hillary R. Clinton had a higher favorability rating than Jeb Bush, Ted Cruz, Mike Huckabee, Rand Paul, Marco Rubio, and Scott Walker—combined. A surveyed senior was almost 10 times more likely to have a favorable view of Bernie Sanders than Ted Cruz.
And the liberal bent—to put it mildly—is not limited to the student body. A Crimson data analysis last year found that nearly 84 percent of campaign contributions from a group of 614 University faculty, instructors, and researchers between 2011 and the third quarter of 2014 went to federal Democratic campaigns and political action committees. In the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, that number was closer to 96 percent. Mansfield, for his part, would only call three professors in the Government department conservative.
And as recently as the 111th Congress in 2009, just 8 percent of Harvard graduates (of any degree program at the University) serving as congressional representatives or senators on Capitol Hill were Republican. 
“Diversity? Political? Two words [that] can be put in the same sentence?” concludes freshman Sapna V. Rampersaud ’19, a registered Republican. “Before I actually got here, all my teachers in high school and family members were telling me: ‘Don’t let Harvard liberalize you.’”
When the left outnumbers the right at Harvard by ratios as high as five to one or even 20 to one, it’s no surprise that the campus sometimes forgets the right exists at all. When Pardue, a former Crimson editorial columnist, made what he thought were “subtle critiques” of Obama while sitting with entryway mates in the Yard freshman year, the students around him reacted with shock.
“I remember one girl actually clutching her chest in surprise,” Pardue recalls. “And I admitted that I was [a Republican], and many of them acted as if they’d never met one before, and they were probing me and questioning me, and I’m getting questions about, ‘How do you feel about this insane thing Michele Bachmann said.’”
The assumption, conservative students say, is that anyone is a Democrat unless they say otherwise. Bush campaign volunteer and former Florida Federation of Teenage Republicans chair Kent K. Haeffner ’18, for example, said his adviser still thinks he is a liberal.
And sometimes, it is that assumption that leads to awkward situations for conservative students on campus.
*****
It’s August of 2013. Declan P. Garvey ’17 is stepping on Harvard’s campus as a college student for the first time. He gets out of a taxi, walks from Mt. Auburn Street to Massachusetts Avenue, and the first thing he sees is a sign held by upperclassman leaders of the pre-orientation First-Year Urban Program he is about to attend. The sign reads “Honk if you hate Reagan too!” Another proclaims, “Ayn Rand Can Go FUP Herself.”
Garvey, a Crimson editorial writer, wasn’t political at the time, and even now he’s only a moderate conservative—he jests that he would be considered a RINO elsewhere. But he still found the environment “pretty hostile,” and felt the program’s description was misleading. Garvey says he was under the impression that the program was service-oriented but not political.
“And for part of the day it definitely was, but for part of the days, it was also a little bit of a left-leaning, discussion-based learning experience,” Garvey says, noting that members of the Student Labor Action Movement and local union leaders came to speak to students.
FUP adviser Varsha Ghosh says the program has not used those posters since Garvey’s freshman year, and student leaders have reevaluated and significantly changed the program’s “welcome wagon” and curriculum since then, framing and contextualizing activities in a more thoughtful way to promote a more inclusive and comfortable environment.
But even with FUP’s program revised, Garvey and Pardue’s experiences as freshmen are hardly unique. Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67, whose office conducts a survey of freshmen at the end of each year, says he has read “dismaying” comments from freshmen who feel like their political opinions and perspectives have not been given proper respect or appreciation on campus.
“I remember one particular student who said, ‘Because I was from the deep South, from the get-go people assumed that I had views to the right of Attila the Hun and I found myself struggling to be heard and to feel other’s respect,’” Dingman says. “I think we have to ask people, expect people, to leave their assumptions at the door and make a genuine effort to learn from one another. We’re cheating ourselves if we don’t and we’re creating an environment where people feel out on the fringe.”
*****
Even if the left might sometimes forget about the right at Harvard, the right never forgets about the dominance of the left.
“If you ever want to know what it is like to live in a country with one party, with one political party, instead of a contested political system, then the closest approximation to that would be some of our major universities, including Harvard, where it’s a one-party system,” says Wisse, who retired in 2014. “There is—as far as I can tell—no encouragement of the kind of two-party system that you have in the polity at large.”
It’s this monolith of liberalism on campus that makes conservatives censor themselves, both inside the classroom and out, they say.
“I’ve had instances in classes where perhaps for a paper I’ve written something other than I really feel, because I know that perhaps if I write what I really feel I may not get the best grade,” Khansarinia says. “I think that at times I’ve changed what I’ve written in essays so that it can fall in line with what I think is the professor’s ideology.’”
Khansarinia is not alone. 
The fear of being judged, misinterpreted, and perhaps then discriminated against is what made Pardue keep his conservatism under wraps freshman year, what makes former Harvard Salient editor Isaac G. Inkeles ’16 often steer the conversation away from politics, and what, according to Wisse, keeps non-tenured faculty members silent about their conservative values. It’s what made Garvey think long and hard about putting a “Jeb!” sticker on his laptop, and ultimately decide not to put it on. (And Garvey’s fears are not irrational—Henricks, the HRC president, has a “Jeb!” sticker on his laptop, and says it, along with his political beliefs, have sometimes been treated as a punchline.) It’s what keeps the students I interviewed from being totally open about their views, especially on social issues like same-sex marriage and abortion.
“I don’t think it’s socially acceptable on campus to be outspoken pro-life,” Henricks says. “Even right now I probably wouldn’t say exactly where I stand.”
*****
It’s one thing to be a center-right student with left-leaning social views on campus, afraid to share your thoughts on immigration or tax reform or the legalization of marijuana. It’s a whole other story to be a socially conservative student with views that do not align with the prevailing campus opinion on issues like same-sex marriage and abortion.
“That’s an ideology that’s just completely looked down on,” Pardue says. “There aren’t many places where you can find them.” And students who use the phrase “socially liberal, fiscally conservative” defensively, says Pardue, only push those social conservative students farther into the fringe.
Inkeles is one of these students. He’s a tall, athletic New Yorker with a deep, gravelly voice who views same-sex marriage as a potentially dangerous change that could redefine marriage from “a unit of stability” to a “unit of love,” which he views as more ephemeral and thus putting the basic units of society at risk. And while he says he understands a woman’s right to her own body when it comes to the topic of abortion, he doesn’t think there is a “morally salient difference between a fetus and a person.”
I ask Inkeles about the first piece he wrote for the Salient—a conservative student publication—three years ago. It’s an editorial in which he argues that “gender is completely binary” and that “gender fluidity represents...a total deconstruction of an institution, as well as a departure from reality.” He’s nervous during our interview—he says so himself, with a slight stutter—and he tells me about a text his friend received after the publication of the article, in which a third-party questions why Inkeles’s friend would ever want to associate with him.
I ask Inkeles about what he thinks about the new option to choose preferred gender pronouns during registration this year. The move was intended by administrators to make students more comfortable with their gender identity and raise awareness of different gender pronouns students might use, as part of making campus more inclusive. Preferred pronouns allow transgender students and students who identify outside of the binary of man and woman to articulate their gender identity; BGLTQ students on campus praised the registration change as progress this summer.
“I think it’s kind of silly,” Inkeles starts. “It’s like, do we need to politicize and change the English language?”
But then he stops—almost instinctively, saying he doesn’t want to offend anyone.
“I guess that might be an instance of self-censoring: I have an intuition about an issue, and maybe if I brought it up and talked about it with people and the environment was one in which I felt comfortable sharing an intuition, and I thought people would take it in good faith and give me their opinions in good faith then maybe I might be able to develop the idea better or I might quickly see that my intuition is wrong,” Inkeles reflects. “But I’m hesitant to bring it up, because I feel like people won’t take it in good faith and just assume that it’s bigoted or irrational—then I kind of keep those feelings to myself and it’s harder to develop them.”
*****
The conservatives I talk to insist that they’re not claiming to be victims, that they’re not “whining and crying,” as Khansarinia puts it. Many of them come from families or cities that are quite liberal, and being in the minority is often not something new to them. For some, it’s even fun.
Moreover, they frame the political homogeneity on campus not as a loss to conservatism, but as a loss to liberal students and to the idea of a liberal arts education. Liberal students, Pardue argues, don’t need to defend themselves constantly like conservatives do and perhaps have a more “flabby and atrophied” ideology as a result.
“Part of going to college and part of being at an academic institution is being exposed to lots of different viewpoints,” adds Haeffner, the Bush organizer, who says that he has seen people often ascribe bad intentions to others simply because they were conservative. “And when we’ve essentially said that one viewpoint is not acceptable to be spoken out for, I think that’s dangerous not only for the folks on [our] side but also the folks who disagree with us—I think being challenged helps you sharpen your viewpoints, it makes you smarter about things.”
But most of all, conservative students said they found the liberal mantra of pluralism and toleration troublingly inconsistent with what they characterized as a lack of a commitment to political diversity on the part of liberals.
“I think liberals have this notion that everyone should have free thought and be open to everyone’s ideas—except people who don’t agree with liberals,” Khansarinia says. “That’s what I’ve experienced on campus—is that they’re very supportive of freedom of thought, and open ideas and open forums of discussion. But once you present a conservative idea, you’re immediately shut down—you’re now a racist, you’re now a homophobe, you’re now X, Y, and Z.”
For his part, Harvard College Democrats president Jacob R. Carrel ’16 says it is important not to make any assumptions of peers on the basis of their political beliefs, and says he hopes conservatives can feel comfortable on campus.
“If someone does believe in liberal and tolerant communities, they should absolutely tolerate other political ideologies as well, and I would hope people on campus do the same,” he adds.
*****
Why should we care?
It’s a blunt question, but it’s a fair one. Why should the dominant liberal majority care about how an assumed small group of students and faculty members feels on campus? Why should they care about the even smaller minority that carry social views they might consider retrograde or hateful?
Campus conservatives have a few answers. The simplest one is that there are probably more conservatives on campus than people think: The myth of the Harvard liberal monolith is self-perpetuating, and people see what they want to see. If even the most vocal Government concentrators are careful about what they say, it’s no wonder that concentrators in the sciences and engineering, argues Haeffner, are less confident in their conservative viewpoints and often keep them private.
More fundamentally, Wisse argues, political homogeneity on campus is unrepresentative of America at large, and a one-party system at Harvard does not prepare students for the two-party system outside of it.
“Liberal democracy is not biologically transmitted,” Wisse explains. “So if you do not really train people to regularly contemplate vying points of view and the legitimacy of vying points of view, then obviously you are not doing your job in educating people for the American way of life.”
Dingman, the freshman dean, added that exposure to different viewpoints and sharing beliefs in an inclusive community is an important source of growth and part of a good education.
“I think we have to ask people, expect people, to leave their assumptions at the door and make a genuine effort to learn from one another. We’re cheating ourselves if we don’t and we’re creating an environment where people feel out on the fringe in a very regrettable way,” Dingman says. He suggests that the campus climate has already made significant strides since the 1960s and 1970s, when right-wing views were more readily dismissed and ROTC students were perceived as being part of a great military-industrial complex.
But it’s again Haeffner who highlighted perhaps the most important reason for a revival of political diversity at Harvard: The leaders on campus today will likely be the ones that fill Capitol Hill and state legislatures across the country tomorrow. As recently as the 111th Congress in 2009, 39 Senators and members of Congress had a Harvard degree (as did the President of the United States). If Harvard was a state, it would have the representation of five and half states in the Senate, and more representation than any state in the Union in Congress, excepting California and Texas. The culture created at Harvard might well be the culture in Washington in a generation, and if we want to foster an atmosphere of respect on Capitol Hill we could do worse than starting by opening dialogue at a time and place where future political leaders are most malleable, most impressionable.
*****
But how to start such a dialogue? How does one rebuild political diversity at Harvard?
For Wisse, the real hope lies in the student body rather than the administration or faculty, in the belief that those closet conservatives may one day come out, stand behind their political convictions, and perhaps even demand the reintroduction of certain academic approaches, texts, and professors.
And the students, for the most part, concur. Garvey called for more events co-hosted by groups from opposite sides of the aisle on campus—like the annual Harvard College Democrats and Harvard Republican Club debate—to give students a “face to put with the name on the other side” and break the isolation of conservatism and liberalism. Inkeles talked about a “Conservative Coming Out Day” the Salient almost organized when he was editor, where conservative students would share their political beliefs with close friends. Pardue raised the possibility of doing more public events and bringing conservatism into the daylight, passing out t-shirts and literature and having a bigger presence on campus.
“It’s on us—we have to, as conservatives, as young conservatives, prove that our party is not full of racists, is not full of homophobes, is not full of nativists,” Khansarinia concludes. “The burden is on us to show that we’re good people, to show that sure, we disagree with you on the ideas, but we’re all going to the same goal: We all want America’s children to be educated, we all want the poor to no longer be poor, we all want this country to be safe from foreign attack. But the burden is on us to put a face on that that is not the crazy people who are leading our polls. The burden is on us to show that we are accepting of all people. The burden is on us to show that we are the party of the future.”
Sections
I have been anxious about the moon all day.
Lunar eclipses are traditionally harbingers of some kind, great signals in the sky warning of the wrath of the gods or the terrifying impermanence of the things we hold constant. My anxiety about watching the eclipse in the best possible way had expanded to the point where watching the supposed harbinger was actually its own calamity: tilt your head skyward, get to high ground. This translated into two near misses on Mount Auburn as I ran towards the Crimson staring awkwardly up and over my shoulder at the sky. Mildly panicked, I noted that there was already a growing bite out of the moon—who knew how long the rest of it would last?
On the rooftop, we made the most of this strange, underwhelming light show. We exhausted our feeble moon-themed playlist after five songs, two of which were “Dancing in the Moonlight.” We compared myriad earnest texts from concerned Dads, who seemed contractually obligated to urge us to “Go outside!!!!!!” and asked us, “Does your brother know about the eclipse??” My own father texted from our rooftop in California, where the sunlight would not fade for several more hours. “Have you found it yet? It’s foggy here.” It was also 7 o’clock in the evening.
We had secured each other’s company at the cost of the corona of light pollution coming off the Square. The moon was hazy and indistinct, haloed by lights from Adams and Insomnia, but at least we had someone to complain about it with. Snapchats revealed only a disappointing smudge of light at best and our own squinting, upturned faces accidentally captured in selfie-mode at worst. There was a lot of disagreement on many points. This wouldn’t happen again for eight, 18, 80 years. It would be best in 20 minutes, no, an hour. It was bigger in Maine.
Tonight’s eclipse was particularly exciting because it stood at the intersection of two other moon-tacular occurrences : It was a supermoon, meaning the moon would appear larger than normal, and also a blood moon, meaning that for a time it would turn an improbable shade of autumnal red-orange. This combined with the fact that it would disappear for a while collectively created a picture of the evening in my head that was significantly more exciting than the two hours I spent staring at the moon more or less doing its normal thing.
At a certain point, we ran out of things to say. The moon grew slowly more orange and, to me, slowly less real. I tried to decide what it looked like: I could make it both positive and negative space, a copper coin or a hole punched in the sky, a weird piece of fruit or a tunnel leading Somewhere Else. It looked like the backdrop for a high school play. It looked like a pin pressed into a map of the sky. It looked like it could fall. It looked like the oranges my dad used to pull out of the fridge and mark up with sharpie pens and tooth picks, trying to explain to my sister and me: This is where the equator is, these are poles. Is it dark in California yet?
At my previous blood moon, the summer after senior year, a confluence of omen-like occurrences had led me to believe that there was something in the mysticism of the eclipse, after all. A small warty toad had hopped directly into my hands as the eclipse faded in the sky; the next day, an honest-to-god raven clutching an honest-to-god live snake twisting in its beak had landed directly in front of me. I know this sounds fake. But the moon disappearing and then turning orange for an hour sounds fake, too. My expectations for this blood moon were high. What Harvard-themed omens might befall me this eclipse? All I had seen so far was a despondent-looking rabbit outside Mather house.
Eventually, the inherent boringness which I admit is a big part of any eclipse got the better of most of the roof party, and it was just me outside, California-cold in the fall night. I stared up at the moon, still burnt orange, definitely still there, waiting for Meaning or primordial fear or the thrill of any emotion at all. I wanted desperately to be able to ascribe some portent to this mystery in the sky, as the ancients did. Was there a way to make this about final clubs?
Instead, I felt only a vague sense of anticlimax and my usual irrational vertigo caused by looking at stars. As the moon shifted back to its usual pale silver, I couldn’t help hoping that the next time brings something more.
Sections
Where: Main Streets of Union Square, Cambridge
When: September 26th, 3 p.m. - 7 p.m. (but don’t worry if you missed it, it’s an annual thing)
What is it?
The short version: “You need Fluff, Fluff, Fluff, to make a Fluffernutter, Marshmallow Fluff, and lots of peanut butter.” Sung by hundreds of people. All day long.
 
Listen here if you’re confused: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O6gljDcLrvQ
The long version: Imagine, if you will, a city square. Now imagine the square is jam-packed with people, and, more importantly, with Marshmallow Fluff. Marshmallow Fluff everywhere. Marshmallow Fluff in things and places you never thought you’d see it.
Hamburger with Fluff? Check.
Messy Fluff competitions? Check.
Fluff-themed musical acts and bands? Check.
Fluff hairdos? That’s right. They got ‘em.
Ghostbusters? Uhm, duh. Double check. Actually, triple check.
And that just scratches the surface.
The festival’s full name, as recognized by it’s website, is “‘What the Fluff?’ A Tribute to Union Square Invention”. Because, as everyone knows, Marshmallow Fluff was invented in Union Square. Wait, what? You aren’t well-versed in the history of this delectably sweet treat? Not to worry - just ask one of the many event staff, and they’ll be more than willing to tell you all about the Irish immigrant Archibald Querry, who made the first batch of Marshmallow Fluff almost a century ago in 1917. They might even do you one better, and introduce you to the big man himself! Or rather, to Michael Katz, a Union Square native who dresses up as Fluff’s inventor every year for the Festival. He’s been doing this since the Festival’s commencement, 10 years ago. (Consequently, this year’s theme is FluffX to commemorate the Festival’s decade-long run). Here’s a list of things to check out after brushing up on your Fluff history.
The Main Stage
Pull up a chair on the intersection of Washington St. and Somerville Ave. to enjoy quality live music and other wacky performance artists. The main stage is booked from 3 to 6, with acts such as Ten Tumbao, the Revolutionary Snake Ensemble, and, of course, the Flufferettes. And make sure you’re there at 5 to hear the winner of the FluffX Cooking Competition - prizes awarded for Best Original Recipe, Best Traditional Recipe, Most Creative Recipe, Best Youth Entry, and Best Overall. Past winners have included BaklaFluff for Most Original, Fluffernutter Pie with Chocolate Ganache for Best Overall, and of course the timeless Fluff Sushi for Most Creative.
The Vendors
Being that this is the Marshmallow Fluff festival, make sure to pick yourself up some nice treats from the various vendors. For the picky eater, one can never go wrong with the classic Fluffernutter, that glorious combination of creamy peanut butter and sticky Marshmallow Fluff on wonderbread. For the more adventurous, try out a slice of S’Mores pizza, or maybe a Chicken and Fluff Sandwich, or a chorizo, guava, and Fluff empanada. And, if you’re 21+, be sure to check out the various selection of Fluff-inspired adult beverages, including a Fluff Old Fashioned and a Fluff Margarita (which uses Fluff on the rim instead of salt).
The Ghostbusters
The celebration of liquid marshmallow spread would be incomplete without these guys. Be sure to get over to their booth and have a good conversation with one of them during your time at the Festival.  Keith R. Eldridge gave us the inside scoop on what it’s like to be a Massachusetts Ghostbuster. “We come here every year to make sure all the ‘awesome energy’ of this place doesn’t bring back Gozer,” he told us, as two of his colleagues took photos with beaming toddlers in the background. “As everyone knows, the 1984 incursion resulted in Fluff everywhere. We figure that this high a concentration might reopen the portal.” And, on top of their tireless efforts to protect our world from malicious supernatural forces, they also raise money for many charity organizations.
The Shenanigans Stage
Two words: Fluff Jousting. Perhaps the crown jewel of the Fluff Festival, the Shenanigans Stage is host to every game imaginable involving marshmallows and Fluff. Emceed by the passionate 142-year-old creator of Fluff Archibald Query (Michael Katz), the stage is the nonstop center of fun (and messiness) for both kids and adults. Some of the most popular events include licking Fluff off of plexiglass squares in the Fluff Lick Off, Blind Man’s Fluff, which involves blindfolded adults stuffing Fluffernutters into their kids’ faces, and of course, Fluff Jousting, which involves a balance beam, pool noodles covered in fluff, and two contestants who end the activity in desperate need for a shower. Katz’s daughter, Pauline E. Katz, Graduate School of Education ‘15, has been attending the festival for five of its ten years. Having participated in the majority of the Shenanigans Stage’s activities, her personal favorite is Fluff Hair Dos, which is exactly what it sounds like: hair styling with Fluff as a substitute for gel. Her personal tip: “Fluff washes out best with hot water.”
Sections
From first picking up a bagpipe in February to center stage at the Freshman talent show in September. From Puerto Rico, where next to no one plays the bagpipes, to just outside Boston, the most Irish city in America. FM caught up with two Harvard bagpipers about their bagpiping journey.
Alaina M. Richert ‘19


Richert hails from rural Indiana and never had trouble finding and empty space to practice her various instruments. Out in the country fields, Richert felt free to play her violin, tenor saxophone, trumpet, mallet percussion, or bagpipes without fear of disturbing anyone. Even though she has tried to keep her practice confined to Harvard’s various music rooms, Richert’s music now inevitably finds its way to some unsuspecting listeners.
“I feel like anywhere in the city it would be more difficult to practice your bagpipes without feeling guilty about other people hearing your bagpipes whether they want to or not,” Richert said.
During opening days, a student who had never seen bagpipes before heard her practicing in the basement and went to check it out. The student was adamant about her trying out for the freshmen talent show. Richert demurred.
“I get very nervous performing in front of people, especially if it’s just me,” Richert said. “I didn’t want to stress myself that much over opening days.” Additionally, Richert has less than year of bagpiping experience under her belt.
Soon after, the episode repeated itself in the Wigglesworth practice room. This time, three people came running down to listen to her play in person.
“That’s when I finally went ok... I love playing the bagpipes. I think they’re special and historical and all that stuff and I thought this is something that needs to be shared with other people,” Richert said. “If this is something that makes other people so happy to hear the bagpipes, I feel like I should at least go out there and audition.”
Richert went on to not only audition but perform third at the talent show.
“I would say one of the key reasons I keep playing is so that I can go and share part of Scottish culture with other people.”
Norman R. Stoner ’19
Storer got involved with bagpiping through a serendipitous chain of events. After hearing Irish music in a commercial, Storer got into Irish and then Scottish music on Pandora. Listening to artists like the Irish Rovers and later Enter the Haggis, he developed an affinity for bagpipe rock. He began to try out the chanter — the recorder-like portion of the bagpipe.
However, unlike Richert, who learned to play through a local bagpiping group, Storer never had local peers to model his play after. Stoner, who grew up in Puerto Rico, instead taught himself how to play through the internet.
“Bagpipes are an instrument that are much better learned with an instructor. It’s really hard to make it sound good without having someone else to tell you things you’re doing wrong… that’s one of the reasons I didn’t progress that much,” said Storer, who also divides his time playing string instruments such as the cuatro, tiple, mandolin, ukulele, and vihuela.
Storer and Richert now share the same freshman seminar on Gregorian chant. While he is currently focusing on his commitments to a chorus and mariachi group on campus, Storer is excited to finally be able to collaborate with someone else who shares his same bagpiping interest.
“The mere fact that I know someone who plays the bagpipes is a big step forward.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At 6:30 a.m. on Wednesday, several dozen neon-clad runners greeted the rainy new day with hugs, cheers, and strenuous physical activity, charging up and down the steps of Harvard Stadium before most Bostonians even woke up.
Runners, who hail from Cambridge and the greater Boston area, come together three days a week through the November Project, a free fitness program founded in 2011 by former Northeastern crew athletes Brogan Graham and Bojan Mandaric. Since its inception in Boston, the group has spread to nearly two dozen other North American cities.
In Boston, the November Project organizes three early-morning workouts a week, including one at Harvard Stadium on Wednesdays, when participants run up and down the arena stairs up to 37 times.
“The driver of it is the energy everyone feels,” William S. Xiao ’16 said. “You do the stadium and then for the rest of the day you feel amazing; nothing can go wrong.”
“The high caries you through the rest of the day, and you can’t wait for the next one,”  November Project co-leader Chris A. Capozzi said.
In addition to the physical and emotional benefits of working out, November Project athletes also pointed to communal bonding as one of the main attractions of their early-morning runs.
“We set up everyone and we really embrace everyone,” Capozzi said. “We’re a weird, wacky bunch of people, and that’s amazing.”
Through traditions like constant hugging, cheering, and singing, the group fosters a sense of shared purpose and fun, participants said.
“It builds community, it builds closeness, it builds a sense of camaraderie that you don’t get in any running club or gym workout,” said Malcolm F. Purinton, a doctoral candidate at Northeastern.
“It’s recess for adults,” said November Project co-leader Chris R. Payne. “We have more fun at 6:30 in the morning than anyone else in town.”
More than anything else, the Boston group’s organizers said, the November Project emphasizes openness and availability to anyone who wants to join, no matter athletic ability.
“All you have to do is show up—that’s sort of the point,” Payne said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Pedestrian traffic has been re-routed and motor vehicles limited to one lane of travel to make way for Cambridge Department of Public Works’ fall repairs and improvements on Mount Auburn Street sidewalks and roadways.
 Paving, scheduled for Wednesday, was suspended due to inclement weather, as rain doused Cambridge that day.
“The motivation for this project was the badly deteriorated condition of the sidewalks and roadways in this section of the Square,” Cambridge City Engineer Kathy Watkins said.
Watkins said the stretch of Mount Auburn between John F. Kennedy and Holyoke Streets was in need of a range of repairs, including fixing potholes, cracks in the street, and sidewalks and repaving the roadway.
In addition to routine repairs, the DPW made improvements to the route by widening sidewalks in the area, replacing outdated streetlights, and planting new street trees. Though Newport Construction, a city contractor, performed milling on the roadway last week, almost three inches of cumulative rainfall yesterday stopped the scheduled paving efforts. Paving was tentatively rescheduled for Thursday, but Watkins said this rain date is completely weather-dependent.
Newport Construction will pave the roadway between 7 a.m. and 4 p.m. on the rain date. While one lane of traffic will remain open during paving, the Cambridge DPW website advises that periodic detours are possible. Police details and signage will direct motorists and pedestrians to all alternate routes.
“We see this project not only as a set of routine repairs,” Watkins said, “but as an opportunity to improve the sidewalks and roadways around Harvard Square.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard will join more than 80 colleges and universities across the country in accepting a new college application platform that positions itself as a more individualized alternative to the Common Application.
The federation of colleges, which calls itself the Coalition for Access, Affordability, and Success, announced Monday that it will make an alternative platform with college planning tools available to prospective students in January 2016. Through the new portal, students can build online portfolios of their work throughout their high school careers, and they then may share parts of them with advisers, teachers, and admissions officers for feedback throughout high school. 
Starting next summer, then, many member schools—including Harvard—will begin accepting applications through the new portal.
Harvard currently accepts the Common Application and the Universal College Application, but has been investigating the potential of a third platform since at least May 2014, according to a confidential proposal request. According to the coalition’s website, member schools—including all of the Ivy League—must have a graduation rate more than 70 percent within six years and demonstrate a commitment to financial aid.
Harvard’s dean of admissions and financial aid, William R. Fitzsimmons ’67, spoke with The Crimson about the then-nascent platform in February. He said the Admissions Office strives to make the College application process flexible enough to accommodate a range of strengths.
“We don’t want to force people to be in some little box or be too direct in telling you how you should present yourself,” Fitzsimmons said. “We respect people’s choices.”
The coalition’s press release touts the new platform’s potential to better engage students from disadvantaged backgrounds by emphasizing college preparation from the beginning of high school. Fitzsimmons, likewise, said Harvard’s Admissions Office tries not to burden disadvantaged students with an overly cumbersome application.
“It’s true that there are some people working two jobs, or supporting their siblings,” he said. “We don’t want to put more pressure on people by having them be involved in many arcane hoops that need to be jumped.”
Still, not everyone is convinced that the coalition’s new application will simplify the admissions process. Parke P. Muth, a former associate dean of admissions at the University of Virginia, said the new platform’s portfolio feature could disadvantage international students who may not plan to apply to U.S. schools until late into secondary school.
He also warned that the platform could create “an arms race of sorts” from the start of high school as younger students “feel pressure to submit papers, projects, videos, and recommendations in numbers unthought of before.”
“It could, for those who feel this might help them stand out, end up becoming a much more complicated process than what currently exists,” he said.
David Mainiero, the director of college counseling at InGenius Prep, said he supports the coalition application’s goals, but cautioned that offering too many application options might overburden some admissions departments.
“I think that this looks like a great program, but I would like admissions officers’ jobs to be easier because I think they’re already under-resourced,” Mainiero said. “Anything that adds to their workload, I wouldn’t necessarily be in favor of.”
Harvard’s decision to join the coalition comes after technical difficulties with the Common App in 2013 prompted a number of schools to push back their application deadlines, which Fitzsimmons said highlighted the need for multiple application methods.
“It became very important with us when there were problems with the Common App two years ago to have an alternative way to apply,” Fitzsimmons said. “It’s always a good thing to have various ways for people to apply to colleges.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As its number of undergraduate concentrators drops by nearly half over the past six years, Harvard’s Music Department is embarking on a major redesign of its undergraduate curriculum, a step faculty and students say is necessary to keep pace with broader changes in the field and continue to attract new students.
The department aims to finalize its new program of study by the winter of 2016-2017 and offer the program to concentrators for the first time in the fall of 2017.
“It’s something that needs to happen every now and then, because times change and the ways that disciplines work change,” said Carol J. Oja, the department’s chair. “I’m hoping that we’ll end up with a curriculum with some flexibility in it, so that students of different sorts will end up concentrating in music and will find that it’s a meaningful experience.”
Alexander Rehding, a professor in the department and co-chair of the curricular review committee alongside Oja, said he hopes to gather new ideas on how to make the concentration more flexible and more open to interaction with other disciplines over the course of the semester.
“The English department and the language departments have long been allies, but we’re now getting a lot of interesting conversation going with other departments, like physics and engineering,” he said. “We’re trying to think through all the dimensions of music and to reach out in ways that we really haven’t in the past.”
The curriculum redesign comes in the context of a decline in the number of Music concentrators overtime. While 30 students from the Class of 2008 graduated with degrees from the department, only 16 from the Class of 2014 did so.
Music concentrator Sam C. Pottash ’16 said the narrow focus of the department’s courses and its relatively rigid program of study has in the past discouraged potential concentrators.
“A lot of musicians on campus don’t study [music], either because they have other interests or because the department doesn’t align with everyone’s musical needs, given that it’s very Western and theory-heavy,” he said. “People care about representing different kinds of music and being able to think about music in more ways than just classical tonal theory.”
Still, Pottash added that he feels the department has already started addressing these problems by hiring faculty committed to new teaching methods and replacing some required courses in the concentration with electives.
“I’ve seen change happen in my time here, change that has really made my curricular experience better,” he said.
The department held the second in a series of open discussions on the future of the concentration on Wednesday. A dozen graduate students in Music and related fields, one undergraduate concentrator, and several members of the Music faculty gathered to hear from guest speaker Aniruddh D. Patel, a psychology professor at Tufts who teaches a popular undergraduate course on music and cognitive science. 
Patel discussed the goals and challenges of interdisciplinary music courses, which both Oja and Rehding said they hope to include in the new program of study.
Rehding added that he looks forward to further opportunities for discussion throughout the concentration’s restructuring.
“Our working hypothesis has always been that we want to produce thinking musicians. What we’re working toward over the course of this year, as we review the curriculum, is to come up with a very precise definition of what that means,” he said. “We want the curriculum to reflect the great diversity of musical experiences that Harvard students have, but we also want to make sure the materials they’ll study have the same depth and rigor that Harvard students have come to expect from other concentrations.”
—Staff writer Elizabeth C. Keto can be reached at elizabeth.keto@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Former U.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., hip-hop artist Nasir “Nas” Jones, and seven others received the W.E.B. Du Bois Medal—Harvard’s highest honor in the field of African and African American Studies—before an enthusiastic crowd in Sanders Theatre on Wednesday.
Harvard presents the medals annually to individuals in recognition of extraordinary contributions to African American culture and the “life of the mind.”
In addition to Holder and Nas, this year’s recipients included Marian Wright Edelman, founder and president of the Children’s Defense Fund; Mellody Hobson, president of Ariel Investments; Carrie Mae Weems, a photographer and artist; Charlayne Hunter-Gault, a civil rights pioneer and journalist; and boxing legend Muhammad Ali, who was honored in absentia.
Richard D. Cohen and Ethelbert J. L. Cooper also received the award in recognition of their donations to the Hutchins Center for African and African American Research. University President Drew G. Faust, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith, and Harvard Law School Dean Martha L. Minow were among its presenters.
Between boisterous bouts of applause, the award recipients shared advice, stories, and humor throughout the evening.
Holder, the first medal recipient, recalled his work with the Obama Administration making progress in “the fight for LGBT rights, the desire to reform our penal justice system, and ensuring every person in the nation has the right to cast a ballot unimpeded.” Edelman, meanwhile, called for America to “invest in all of its children,” and Nas spoke about the role of young people.
“These are the things the kids need to see. The real things,” the rapper said. “This is a light I want on me. I hope that I can be a great role model for those kids…you can be more than the typical image of rap.”
And although the tone of the ceremony was serious overall, the evening still offered some lighter moments. At one point, Holder joked, “I took some pictures with Nas before I came up here. My level of coolness must have gone up 1,000 percent.”
And Weems, at a loss for words, simply said, “What an honor. I am just…” and kissed her medal to chuckles from the audience.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: October 5, 2015, at 10:15 p.m.
Pope Francis, who just days ago spoke at the United Nations General Assembly in New York during his historic visit to the United States, will address Harvard World Model United Nations delegates at their 2016 conference in Rome.
At the Harvard WorldMUN conference, which takes place in a different city every year and brings together more than 2,500 college students from across the world, delegates practice their diplomatic negotiation skills throughout a five-day event. 
“[Pope Francis] is doing a lot in these areas that Harvard WorldMUN is very interested in,” said Joseph P. Hall ’16, the conference’s secretary-general. Specifically citing the pope’s action on the issues of climate change, economic inequality, and social justice, he added: “I don’t think the papacy has been this active in world affairs in a long, long time.”
According to Hall, reaching out to Pope Francis required “a lot of great work” on the part of the United Network, an association of Italian young professionals and students with whom Harvard WorldMUN partnered to organize the conference.
“We did not just send an email to pope@vatican.va,” he said, later adding that the organization’s staff was “floored” that the Pope accepted.
Harvard WorldMUN has hosted several influential speakers in the past, including the president of the Council of the European Union and the South Korean minister of unification. Still, Pope Francis is “the most high-profile speaker” that a MUN conference has ever had, according to Hall.
“I have enormous, enormous admiration for him,” he said. “[It is a] very exciting moment for the WorldMUN community.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Two years into the public phase of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’s capital campaign, Dean Michael D. Smith said the fundraising drive will begin to focus its efforts especially on priorities that are falling behind—House renewal and funding for new teaching techniques.
As of August, the FAS portion of the University-wide fundraising drive had reached $2.2 billion, just short of its $2.5 billion public goal. Some priorities have surpassed or neared their fundraising goals, like the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and “Faculty and Our Scholarly Enterprise,” which funds faculty research and hiring.
Others are not so far ahead. In particular, Smith highlighted the difficulties of fundraising for the “Leading in Learning” priority—meant to fund innovations in teaching and classroom use—and undergraduate House renewal, suggesting that it is not easy to articulate the visions for those initiatives, which are often abstract. Fundraising for both priorities were at just under half their stated goals in August.
“Leading in Learning,” Smith said, “is a little hard...to tease apart” for alumni, and it has been “one of the toughest” for which to fundraise. As of August, that priority had raised $62 million of its $150 million goal.
Funds from that priority will go toward helping faculty experiment with new teaching methods and renovating classrooms to be “more flexible” teaching spaces. Such “flexible” teaching space will make up a significant part of the new SEAS complex in Allston.
Fundraising for Harvard’s House renewal project, meanwhile, had reached $197 million as of August, just under half its goal of $400 million.
Smith said it was difficult to articulate a vision for undergraduate House renewal before the first construction projects concluded, given that donors could only view blueprints of plans. Older donors also lived in a “different world” than current undergraduates, Smith said, meaning that some recall a campus without co-ed housing, among other generational changes.
“It was hard in the beginning,” Smith said. “Not many people in the world can look at a flat set of plans and say, ‘Oh, I know exactly what it is going to look like.’”
Prospective donors can now tour renewed Houses and see how students use their new spaces. Smith said the finalized renewal of Dunster—the first full House to undergo renovation—has helped, given that a completely renovated House can give a more holistic view.
Still, Smith acknowledged that it remains difficult to talk to donors about projects that have not yet started.
“You’re asking somebody to imagine a lot,” Smith said.
House renewal construction is currently on a one-year break; it will resume next summer with the renovation of Winthrop House.
In the wake of the release of the results of Harvard’s sexual assault climate survey, Smith also said, he anticipates that FAS may use unrestricted campaign funds to provide sexual assault prevention resources to its students and faculty.
—Staff writer Karl M. Aspelund can be reached at karl.aspelund@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @kma_crimson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Undergraduates are critical of the hallway common rooms featured in recent House renovations at the expense of private space, prompting the College to incorporate feedback to tweak upcoming construction plans for its expansive House renewal project.
Several years into a more than $1 billion initiative, Harvard has renovated three of its iconic undergraduate residential Houses, finishing part of Quincy House in 2013, part of Leverett House in 2014, and all of Dunster House this fall. This year, construction is on a one-year break, but Winthrop House will undergo renovation starting next summer, and Lowell House will follow in 2017.
While the renovations so far—with all the flashiness of new gyms, pool tables, and common spaces—have received positive feedback from undergraduates, the topic of in-suite common rooms, or the lack thereof, has struck a particular chord with students and even some alumni donors. While the renewed buildings do feature rooms with private common space, floor plans also include clusters of single and double bedrooms that share a common room at the end of a hallway. This set up has proved much less popular with students.
Dunster House Committee co-chair Stephanie G. Franklin ’16 for the most part praises her renewed House, but her chief complaint is that while she lives in a suite with a private common room, many of her peers do not.
Houses should make sure to retain or increase the percentage of in-suite common rooms when they undergo renovation, she argued. In-suite common rooms offer students more privacy and are better suited to holding events, she said.
“As much as is possible, it should be a priority in the future that they try to have more in-suite common rooms because a hall common room is not quite the same thing,” she said.
Peter L. Malkin ’55, a top Harvard donor and a member of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ capital campaign steering committee, advocated for decreasing the frequency of off-corridor doubles. He said he has heard general student dissatisfaction with the lack of private common rooms.
“The former arrangement led to a greater possibility to create lasting friendships among people who were your suitemates,” Malkin said, referring to in-suite common rooms.
College administrators have heard these critiques. Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde, one of the administrators involved in House renewal planning process, said planners have set a target percentage for the ideal ratio of in-suite common rooms in renovated Houses, although he did not specify how much.
“We’re very attuned to this idea of in-suite common rooms and their importance to students feeling like they’re at home,” Lassonde said. “We did some change even between Leverett and Dunster, and then change again between Dunster and Winthrop, and now we’re using that for the next plan."
Lassonde added that the College will use the break between construction projects to hold additional student focus groups and incorporate modifications before renovations continue next year.
At Winthrop House, the next to undergo renovation, undergraduates have already met several times to critique the renovation designs. Winthrop HoCo co-chair Marlee A. Ehrlich ’16 said common rooms have been a topic of discussion, but student opinion is not unanimous.
“There’s a big push for more common spaces within the House as a whole, but also people like having their common spaces in their rooms as well,” Ehrlich said.
To accommodate some undergraduates’ desires for increased on-campus social space, Adams and Cabot Houses recently opened up renovated common areas for student use. Cabot’s junior common room, now dubbed “the Aquarium,” features a kegerator, and students will host a large kickoff party in it this Saturday.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Speaking in Spanish to an audience of more than 150 on Wednesday, Keiko S. Fujimori, the daughter of former Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori and the frontrunner in Peru’s 2016 presidential election, discussed the impact of her father’s involvement in politics on her political career.
Fujimori’s father, who served as president of Peru between 1990 and 2000, was convicted of human rights violations in 2009 and sentenced to 25 years in prison.
“These difficulties made my character stronger,” Fujimori said through an interpreter. “Most importantly, they gave me the opportunity to start to grow from adversity.”
Fujimori has established herself as a skillful politician independent of her father. Since becoming the youngest first lady in Peru’s history at the age of 19, she has served in Peru’s Congress, founded the Fuerza Popular party, and is in the midst of her second presidential bid.
Now, she is poised to become the nation’s first female president, according to Harvard Government professor Steven R. Levitsky, who moderated Wednesday’s event.
During the talk, which was hosted by the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies and the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, Fujimori also addressed her commitment to Peru’s future and the political reforms she intends to implement.
“I’m not one of those politicians who believes that, if you are elected, you have to reject the old government and start from the beginning,” she said. “I think that if there’s something working, and working well, then it doesn’t matter who created it—we have to continue it and we have to make it stronger.”
After her speech, Fujimori addressed criticisms from several audience members, who expressed concern about issues ranging from tax policy and poverty to gender equality and reproductive health.
Even though he questioned Fujimori’s commitment to liberal democracy and human rights protections, Levitsky said he was grateful for Fujimori’s visit.
“Accepting our invitation to come here took quite a bit of courage,” Levitsky said. “We learn from talking and listening to people with different experiences and different points of view.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard unveiled plans for its long anticipated School of Engineering and Applied Sciences complex in Allston—a six-story edifice that will combine academic programming and publicly accessible spaces—at Wednesday’s Harvard-Allston Task Force meeting.
The complex will house classrooms, labs, lounge spaces, an exhibition space, a cafeteria, and 250 parking spots. A central tenet of the design of the building will be its atrium, a large open space within the building that will span the six floors from the basement level.
According to Robert Matthew Noblett—a representative and architect from Behnisch Architekten, the architecture firm responsible for the building—the building will rise to about 130 feet and span 586,000 square feet.
Noblett said a goal of the project is to make the first two floors of the building accessible to the general public. In the past, Allston residents have raised concerns over the public accessibility of Harvard-owned buildings. The front of the building located on Western Avenue will have a tall, frontal facade, while the rear of the building will face a large landscaped lawn that will stay open to the public. 
Behnisch Architekten also penned the design for Harvard’s original science complex, which was planned in 2007. After construction took off in 2008, it stalled in the wake of the financial crisis, and Harvard officials said in 2012 that it would revive plans for a science complex in Allston after years of discussions with residents and development officials from the City of Boston. University President Drew G. Faust named the construction a priority in Harvard’s ongoing $6.5 billion capital campaign.
“We were pleased to be contacted by Harvard again,” Noblett said. “This is still very much a design in progress, and not all the details are set in stone.”
Gerald Autler, senior project manager at the Boston Redevelopment Authority, said the project’s “context has changed significantly” since the original plans. The purpose of the building has shifted from graduate research to undergraduate research and learning, and more generally, Autler said Harvard has grown increasingly conscious of Allston resident interests since 2007.
One of the plan’s notable features is a skin that will wrap around the facades of the building’s upper four stories and reflect sunlight during the summer and let light in during the winter. According to Noblett, planners are still conducting research on the skin’s technology and have not yet decided what material will comprise it.
The building will also include a water drainage system to store and recycle water for future use, as well as a system that will reflect light from south side of the building to create grade-level flood lighting on the north sidewalk, according to the plans. According to Autler, the southernmost end of the property will be landscaped, but remain open for potential future developments.
Kevin Casey, Harvard’s associate vice president for public affairs and communications, said University officials plan to file a proposal in the first week of November. Before then, residents will discuss the plans at two Harvard-Allston Task Force meetings.
Despite the rain, at least 60 local residents and Harvard and BRA affiliates attended the meeting, when officials presented the plans.
That level of attendance stands in contrast to the low numbers at previous task force meetings, which Autler acknowledged Wednesday. “We’ve had some attrition in the task force members, so it’s my goal to get back to a more complete representation of the neighborhood,” he said.
Several people present at the meeting also voiced concerns about Harvard-Allston Task Force Chair Ray V. Mellone’s absence from recent meetings for personal reasons. Although Allston resident Paul “Chip” Alford pushed task force members to move to vote for an interim chair, nobody put forth a proposal.
Residents also questioned the relevance of topics discussed at task force meetings.
“Whoever is thinking about giving this presentation should think about framing it as how these topics directly affect our neighborhood; that’s where neighborhood concerns are,” task force member Bruce E. Houghton said.
—Staff writer Ignacio Sabate can be reached at ignacio.sabate@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @TheIggySabate.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Undergraduate Council’s top leaders are coming under fire from the Council’s rank and file for their decision to continue funding Ventfull, a smartphone application that functions as an online campus calendar tool, through the fall semester.
Since the Council paid $1,200 to bring the app to campus for a spring semester trial period, UC representatives have been publicly skeptical of its efficacy, with some arguing that it was not worth funding. This summer, though, UC President Ava Nasrollahzadeh ’16 and UC Vice President Dhruv P. Goyal ’16 allotted $1,200 out of the Council’s operations budget leftover from the academic year to renew it. 
Now, they are getting pushback. At the end of the Council’s first full general meeting on Sept. 20, Winthrop House representative and inactive Crimson newswriter Daniel R. Levine ’17 brought the issue to the floor, asking Nasrollahzadeh and Goyal whom they consulted prior to their decision and whether it was compliant with UC protocols.
According to Nasrollahzadeh and Goyal, neither the Council nor its executive committee conducted a formal vote on whether to fund the application’s extension. Instead, Nasrollahzadeh said, leaders briefed the executive committee on the decision via email this summer.
Nasrollahzadeh said it would have been infeasible to conduct a vote because Council members were apart during the break. Still, Levine questioned the transparency behind the decision at the Sept. 20 meeting.
Nasrollahzadeh and Goyal said they could make the decision without Council approval under Standing Rule 2, a provision that allows the Council’s executive committee to spend non-term bill funds, including the operations budget, without a UC vote.
In an interview in early September, Goyal said freshmen used Ventfull and Omni, another smartphone app sponsored by the UC, during orientation week, before the Council had the opportunity to vote on the matter.
Still, Levine is not alone in criticizing the way the UC leaders came to their decision. Lowell House representative Samarth Gupta ’18 said he understands the need to fund Ventfull prior to the start of the academic year, but suggested that the Council’s leadership could have been “more transparent” in their decision-making.
“Members would’ve preferred to be in the loop,” Gupta said, adding that he saw the $1,200 as a “significant amount of funding.”
Rules Committee Chair Brett M. Biebelberg ’16 echoed Gupta’s concerns.
“The decision to spend the money probably could have been done in a more democratic and transparent way,” Biebelberg said, suggesting that a vote including the Council’s newest representatives would have been ideal. Through the process, he said, new members would likely have become more knowledgeable about Ventfull’s “function and utility” on campus.
When the app first launched, Nasrollahzadeh and Goyal publicized it through an email to all undergraduates, and Council representatives posted information about the app on Facebook. Gupta said he helped populate the calendar initially, posting events from Facebook and Harvard agencies like the Office of Career Services on the app.
By the end of spring semester, Council members were divided on the efficacy and necessity of the app. In April, the UC’s Evaluation Task Force, a committee charged with reviewing the effectiveness of new Council initiatives, voted to continue Council support of Ventfull. But in a separate vote, members of the UC Student Relations Committee said the Council should not fund the app, questioning whether students were actually using it.
According to Goyal, Ventfull has been downloaded at Harvard 2,363 times as of Sept. 9, but there are no analytics tracking how many undergraduates frequent the app.
—Staff writer Jalin P. Cunningham can be reached at jalincunningham@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @JalinCunningham
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

­As autumn enters full swing with the East Coast bracing for Hurricane Joaquin, so too does conference play in the Ivy League. For the Harvard women’s soccer team, this Saturday brings an important road date with archrival Yale.
“Every game in the Ivy League is just as important as [any] other,” junior goalkeeper Lizzie Durack said. “But there’s always a bigger crowd than usual when we play Yale.”
As in years past, the Crimson (3-6-1, 1-0 Ivy) will be facing a tough test when it travels up to New Haven for its Saturday afternoon matchup. While Harvard has not lost in the series since 2007, only once in the past five years has the game between the two squads been decided by more than one goal.
Last year, the clash ended in a scoreless draw after two overtimes. There were plenty of scoring opportunities for both sides, with each team registering 14 shots–three on target for Yale (3-4-2, 0-1-0) and four for the Crimson. Despite the numerous chances, neither team was able to produce the go-ahead tally in Cambridge.
“That was a great game,” Harvard coach Ray Leone said. “Very end-to-end. Either team could have won, but it just ended up in a tie.”
After losing seven seniors to graduation, this year’s Harvard team will be drastically different from the team that took the field against the Bulldogs last season. For several Crimson players, it will be the first Ivy League road match of their collegiate careers.
Freshman forward Leah Mohammadi saw significant action against Penn last weekend and fellow newcomers Hannah Natanson and Zayne Matulis figure to log minutes this weekend as well. Harvard’s depth will be key against a Bulldogs team that will be hungry for its first Ivy League victory of the year.
“They’re a very dangerous attacking team with a lot of pace, and on the other side, they have a solid defense that’s hard to score on,” Leone said.
The Crimson has struggled this season against teams boasting strong defenses. Harvard has scored seven goals in its 10 games, while conceding 12. The Crimson’s low scoring output, however, can in part be attributed to the quality of the opponents the team faced during nonconference play. It suffered losses to three top-25 opponents, including an away defeat to Virginia, the No. 1 team in the country at the time.
“Playing a tough pre-Ivy schedule definitely helped the team find out its weaknesses, and gave us the time to fix them before Ivy games started,” said senior midfielder/defender Brooke Dickens. “It wasn’t just a physical test, but a mental one.”
After struggling through the early stages of the season, Harvard now turns its full attention to the Ivy League, which it aims to win for a third straight year. Dickens figures to be an important factor in the team’s performance against Yale, as she is currently tied for the team lead in goals with junior forwards Joan Fleischman and Midge Purce. The team has tallied four goals in its last four games.
Dickens and Fleischman were the two goal-scorers last Saturday when the Crimson opened Ancient Eight play with a 2-0 victory over Penn at Jordan Field. Durack only had to make two saves in a game that Harvard dominated for almost the entire 90 minutes. Despite the team’s challenging nonconference schedule, the Crimson is undefeated in the games that ultimately determine the team’s fate.
While Harvard has its work cut out for itself on the field, the team will face another challenge from the skies. Heavy storms are forecasted throughout New England for the entire weekend.
“The ball moves quicker for sure in the rain,” Dickens said. “But both teams deal with the same thing, so it shouldn’t be a factor.”
Leone also downplayed the effect that the weather will have on the game, citing the increased preparation that his team can do now that it has more time between games in conference play. Whereas the Crimson played multiple games each week during the nonconference portion of its season, it now only has one matchup per week against Ivy opponents.
The added time for preparation reflects the added importance of these games, and Leone hopes his team is ready for the challenge.

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a contested five-set loss to Dartmouth in its Ivy League opener on Friday, the Harvard women’s volleyball team looks to keep its Ivy League title hopes alive heading into a crucial two-game home swing against Penn and Princeton this weekend at the Malkin Athletic Center.
The Crimson (4-7, 0-1 Ivy) is off to a slow start following a season in which the squad held a share of the Ivy League title and was one win away from qualifying for the NCAA tournament before losing to Yale in a tiebreaking one-game playoff. This early loss to Dartmouth (4-6, 1-0) does not portend well for the Crimson, but the team is still focused on bringing home the Ivy League title again.
“The loss last weekend hasn’t changed a single thing,” senior libero Sindhu Vegesena said. “[Junior setter] Corie [Bain] and I talked about it a lot and she put it best, ‘Even if we won, the pressure and our drive to win the rest of our games would still be the same.’ If anything, it’s shown that the upperclassmen need to step up.”
But in a conference in which the champion has not lost more than two league matches in each of the last eight years, Harvard finds itself in an unenviable spot, likely needing to win at least 12 of its next 13 games to have a chance at repeating their title.
Consequently, this weekend’s games have a potentially major impact for the Crimson, which plays its next four games at home before taking a five-game road trip that could decide the season.
The homestand, which Harvard likely will have to sweep to maintain in contention for the title, ends with the squad’s first rematch with the Bulldogs since the Crimson was swept in the one-game, deciding playoff a year ago.
However, the Cambridge squad kicks off the opening leg of the homestand with a Friday night match upagainst Princeton (5-5, 0-1). Harvard gave up just two sets to the Tigers in 2014 en route to sweeping the season series, including a 3-0 victory at home in mid-October.
In 2014, the Tigers are led by junior outside hitter Cara Mattaliano, who burst onto the scene as a freshman in 2013 to earn first-team All-Ivy League honors after ranking second in the conference in kills. Mattaliano has accrued 106 kills and 98 digs on the season, while averaging 2.94 kills per set and 2.72 digs per set.
Overall, the team has been playing better recently after sustaining some early season woes, but was plagued by late game lapses in its most recent loss.
Harvard will then go on to face Penn (7-6, 1-0) in its final game of the weekend. Coming off of a three-game win streak—including a decisive 3-1 win over the Tigers in their first Ancient Eight matchup of the season—the Quakers look to continue that momentum against the Crimson on Saturday.
The team will look to ride the experience of co-captain outside hitter Alexis Genske, who thrived last November against Harvard, when she recorded a career-high 22 kills in a five-set Quaker loss. She guided Penn to its victory against Princeton last weekend with 14 kills and 14 digs and leads the team with 148 kills on the season.
The Crimson, like Penn and Princeton, has been improving as of late. After a streak of five straight losses in the early parts of the season, Harvard has won three of their last five games with its two losses coming in close five-setters, the last a 3-2 loss to Boston College.
After the first few games of the year, the Crimson’s relatively young roster has begun to acclimate to the challenges of Ivy League play, including freshman middle blocker Christina Cornelius.
“Christina is obviously an impact player in so many ways,” co-captain Hannah Schmidt said. “She’s such a gamer and will put the ball down decisively when you need her to. We’ve been consistently forcing sets to her to utilize her as much as possible, and she’s doing a great job of shouldering that role.”
After last week’s loss, each conference game has a heightened importance. The matches against Princeton and Penn will be key indicators of whether the Crimson can build off of its young roster and repeat its successes of a year ago.
“We know that every single Ivy League game is going to be a hard fought battle and now we know to expect teams to play their best games against us,” Schmidt said. “Nothing that happened last year should influence the team we are this year on the court.”

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To say the Pieter Lehrer era has been one of Ancient Eight success for the Harvard men’s soccer team would be an understatement.
In 2013 it was a second-place finish in the Ivy League following back-to-back winless seasons in conference play. Last year, the Crimson was one victory short of sharing the crown with Dartmouth and Princeton, but would end up finishing third overall. Despite the recent success, the Ancient Eight title has managed to elude Harvard in the past few years.
The quest to change that begins this weekend, as the Crimson (1-4-2) travels to rival Yale (1-6) to start conference play this weekend.
Harvard struggled to pick up momentum in nonconference action just a year removed from entering Ancient Eight play on a five-game winning streak. Co-captain Mark Ashby, however, seems confident the nonconference slate will have no bearing on the team’s conference fortunes.
“Two years ago, we had a similar situation where we performed pretty poorly in nonconference play prior to Ivy League [play], and we ended up playing for the Ivy League title in our final game against Penn,” the defender said. “What matters now is having a turning point in the Ivy League season.”
Seven games into the season, the Crimson has struggled on both ends of the pitch. Offensively, Harvard has only found the back of the net a total of five times, and the offense has failed to score in each of its last three games.
Though the midfield—led by junior co-captain Andrew Wheeler-Omiunu—has been able to create some open spaces and get crosses into the penalty box, the Crimson has failed to take advantage of such opportunities consistently.
Defensively, Harvard has experienced mixed results as the team has shown flashes of potential while dealing with Ashby’s season long absence due to injury.
After conceding at least one goal in its first five games, the Crimson defense looked to be improving by picking up its first clean sheet at then No. 10 Washington. But the group allowed three goals to Boston University in its next game out. Transition defense has especially been an area of concern for Harvard, with the team failing to contain opponents on the counterattack.
“We have to make sure we’re organized whenever we’re going forward, defensively…[and] be prepared for when we might get countered,” Wheeler-Omiunu said. “We have that full commitment from all the guys. When we get tired in the 70th or 80th minute it’s tough to do that, but it’s that mental fortitude you need to have.”
Yale could be just the team that Harvard needs to remedy these issues. The Elis—who haven’t finished a season in the top-three of the conference since 2008—come in with the worst-ranked defense in the league, conceding an average of 2.24 goals a game.
This could prove appealing for a Crimson offense in need of a spark, as the Yale defense has conceded at least two goals in every game so far.
The Elis have struggled to score as well, managing only six goals—three of them coming against a winless Quinnipiac squad. Yale has also managed to put up just over an Ivy League worst eight shots per game—potentially a confidence booster for the Harvard defense before conference play.
While the Elis aren’t exactly up to par with some of the Crimson’s earlier opponents, Ashby maintains Harvard isn’t taking this game for granted.
“We’re not treating any team as if they’re not going to play well or we’re well over them,” Ashby said. “We’re working just as hard to get wins as they are, so we fully respect them.”
With just seven games deciding the Ancient Eight crown, starting on the right foot is crucial for the Crimson. A win could get the ball rolling for Harvard while a loss or tie will make the battle for the Ivy crown an uphill one.
Though the road to the top will be a long one, the team plans on staying with its philosophy of one game at a time. While the Ivy League crown has no doubt crossed members of the team’s minds at some point, Wheeler-Omiunu insists the team is focused solely on its conference debut.
“We try not to think past the next game,” Wheeler-Ominnun said. “We’re really only focused on Yale and preparing for Yale.”
—Staff writer Julio Fierro can be reached at julio.fierro@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Today is Thursday, October 1. Congratulations on making it past September. On this day in 1931, Spain adopted women’s suffrage. October 1 is also a Nigerian dark psychological thriller film that came out in 2014– scary.
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
There’s a 20% chance of precipitation today, and it’s going to be colder than the day before, with a high of 62 and a low of 45.
IN THE D-HALL
Lunch:Spicy Chicken Stir-fry with PeapodsVegetarian Banh MiBrown Jasmine Rice
Dinner:Community Night - Ground TurkeyHome Made Fish CakesVegan Casserole with Cashew Cream Sauce
ON FLYBY
PSA: Maharaja Is Open AgainBut now, the restaurant is open again for lunch and dinner every day of the week- we highly recommend the lunch buffet because when you have the choice between unlimited food and limited food, you always choose the former.
IN THE NEWS
Two Years In, FAS Campaign Focuses on Struggling PrioritiesTwo years into the public phase of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’s capital campaign, Dean Michael D. Smith said the fundraising drive will begin to focus its efforts especially on priorities that are falling behind—House renewal and funding for new teaching techniques.
Harvard Joins Coalition To Offer Common App AlternativeThe federation of colleges, which calls itself the Coalition for Access, Affordability, and Success, announced Monday that it will make an alternative platform with college planning tools available to prospective students in January 2016.
Music Department Embarks on Concentration RedesignAs its number of undergraduate concentrators drops by nearly half over the past six years, Harvard’s Music Department is embarking on a major redesign of its undergraduate curriculum, a step faculty and students say is necessary to keep pace with broader changes in the field and continue to attract new students.
After Critique, College Reevaluates Hall Common RoomsUndergraduates are critical of the hallway common rooms featured in recent House renovations at the expense of private space, prompting the College to incorporate feedback to tweak upcoming construction plans for its expansive House renewal project.
ON SPORTS
Men’s, Women’s Hockey Crack Top 10 in Preseason PollsAccording to U.S. College Hockey Online’s preseason rankings released Monday, the Crimson icemen will open the year ranked No. 8 in the country. Meanwhile, less than a year removed from a national championship game, the women’s team nabbed the No. 4 spot in last week’s USCHO and USA Hockey Magazine polls.
Lindsey Racks Up 10 Tackles, Return TD in Rout of BrownIt’s hard to stand out on a team with a 16-game winning streak. It’s hard to stand out on a defense that ranked first in the FCS in points allowed last year. And it’s certainly hard to stand out on a night when six different teammates scored as part of a 53-27 rout against a conference foe. But last Saturday, senior linebacker Jacob Lindsey did all three.
EVENTS
Candy Crowley, IOP Fellow and former chief political correspondent at CNN, is holding her second study group “Why Do Candidates Run?” from 4-5:30 p.m. in the IOP L166.
Brent Colburn, IOP Fellow and former Communications Director of Obama’s reelection campaign, is holding his second study group “So Now You’ve Won” from 4-5:30 in the IOP Faculty Dining Room.
The Harvard Foundation is having a discussion with Nikki Haley, Governor of South Carolina, in the PBHA Building at 4 p.m.
The JFK Jr. Forum is hosting a conversation with Larry Summers on the challenge of inclusion in the Forum at 6 p.m.

