News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a major break from the University’s newly centralized approach to handling sexual harassment, Harvard Law School has adopted a new set of procedures that, if approved by the federal government, will incorporate a school-specific Title IX unit to investigate its own student sexual harassment cases and offer legal counsel to all parties involved.
When Harvard unveiled its first-ever University-wide policy and accompanying procedures to address sexual harassment this summer, University President Drew G. Faust and other officials praised them as centralizing Harvard’s management of the issue, although they have drawn criticism from some professors at the Law School. The policy established a definition of sexual harassment to apply to all of Harvard’s schools, and the procedures created a central office, the Office for Sexual and Gender-Based Dispute Resolution, to investigate complaints against students across the entire University in an effort to bring consistency to the process.
If the Law School’s new procedures are implemented, however, the University’s approach to investigating sexual harassment complaints against students will no longer be consistent across all of its schools.
While the Law School, under new pending procedures it adopted Dec. 18, will continue to follow the University’s sexual harassment policy and definition, it has opted to create its own set of procedures for investigating alleged policy violations in lieu of the University-wide process. They are not yet implemented because the Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights must first approve them, as part of an agreement administrators entered with the government after it found the Law School in violation of Title IX late last month.
The pending procedures, which administrators have submitted to OCR for review, were posted on the Law School’s website this week. A set of interim procedures, which the Law School implemented in September to comply with the new University-wide policy and procedures, are currently in place.
Under the pending procedures, instead of reporting student sexual harassment complaints to ODR for investigation, the Law School will conduct investigations in-house, by or under the supervision of their own Title IX unit, consisting of a Title IX coordinator and two deputies. Both complainants and respondents may consult with advisers, including an attorney, throughout the process; the procedures stipulate that the Law School “will provide financial assistance to parties unable to afford an attorney who would like to do so.”
Under the University-wide procedures, personal advisers from the University, including academic advisers, may advise students throughout the investigation process, but cannot speak for their advisees. Attorneys are barred from submitting statements for students, although students are “advised” to consult with a lawyer if a complaint has criminal consequences.
According to its new, pending procedures, after the Law School Title IX Unit has determined that the respondent may have violated the University’s sexual harassment policy, an adjudicatory panel composed of three trained professionals unaffiliated with Harvard will issue a final decision. The panel will also hand down any appropriate sanctioning, which may range from warnings to expulsion.
This process differs from the University-wide procedures, in which a professional ODR investigator and a designee from the school investigate the case and determine whether a policy violation occurred before leaving the individual school to hand down sanctions.
Also unlike the University-wide process, the Law School’s pending procedures incorporate hearings into the adjudication process if any party in the case desires one. While the adjudicatory panel will determine the exact “conduct of the hearing,” the parties—with each up to two advisers, one of whom may be an attorney—will have an “equal opportunity” to respond to results of the investigation and to present witnesses and evidence, although they “may not directly address each other” during the hearing.
The new procedures also allow for each party to “request an impartial appeal,” which will be decided by trained Law School faculty members on its Administrative Board, rather than the original adjudicatory panel.
A committee composed of tenured faculty members will oversee several aspects of the new procedural process, including investigation methods and “reasonable regulations for compensation of attorneys on behalf of students,” according to the pending procedures.
A DEPARTURE FROM CENTRAL
These procedures, which the Law School faculty approved on Dec. 18, were the product of a roughly two-month process that began when Law School Dean Martha Minow asked Law School professor John Coates to chair a faculty committee “to develop ‘local’ procedures for Harvard’s Title IX policy,” Coates wrote in an email. According to Coates, the committee met with law students, faculty members, and University administrators, including University Title IX Officer Mia Karvonides, throughout the two-month period.
Coates wrote that the procedures were shared with OCR during the drafting process and that he expects that they will be implemented in the coming months. The resolution agreement between Harvard and OCR, signed Dec. 23, stipulated that the office would approve or make additional recommendations to the procedures within 45 calendar days.
Minow, in an email to Law School affiliates Tuesday, wrote that she was “confident” that the new procedures comply with Title IX.
It is unclear whether other schools may depart from the University’s central sexual harassment procedures to the extent that the Law School has. When administrators first unveiled those procedures in July, they gave no indication that individual schools could or would break from them entirely.
University spokesperson Jeff Neal wrote in an emailed statement that the Law School’s “distinct pedagogical mission and longstanding reliance on a different adjudicatory system for resolving disciplinary cases” prompted its separation from the central procedures. Neal did not answer follow up questions about whether other schools with different pedagogical missions may similarly institute their own school-specific processes for investigating cases.
A committee at the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, for its part, recently drafted revised procedures that incorporate ODR and would put staff and faculty cases under its jurisdiction in addition to students.
According to Neal, Faust was unavailable for an interview on the subject Friday. Karvonides did not respond to requests for an interview. An automated response from her email account said she would not be checking email while her office is closed from Dec. 24 to Jan. 2.
FACULTY DISCONTENT
The Law School’s pending procedural changes come after some faculty members voiced strong opposition to the University-wide policy and procedures. In October, more than two dozen Law School professors criticized them sharply in a letter to The Boston Globe, charging that they “lack the most basic elements of fairness and due process, are overwhelmingly stacked against the accused, and are in no way required by Title IX law or regulation.”
Among several concerns, the professors asserted that the University-wide procedures lack “an opportunity to discover facts” and to “present a defense at hearing,” as well as fail to ensure “adequate representation for the accused,” especially for those of lower socioeconomic backgrounds. The letter also took issue with the entire premise of ODR, a central office for investigating complaints “rather than an entity that could be considered structurally impartial.”
“Harvard undermined and effectively destroyed the individual schools’ traditional authority to decide discipline for their own students,” the professors wrote.
None of the professors who signed the open letter were members of the committee that proposed the Law School’s pending procedures, according to a list of committee members provided by Coates.
Karvonides, who oversees ODR in her capacity as Title IX officer, has previously said that she disagrees with claims that the central office would fail to be impartial in handling sexual harassment cases.
“In my mind, we fail in our work under Title IX if we are viewed as being biased or even advocates, or in any way that this isn’t a fair process,” Karvonides said in October. “If we’re going to make progress, people need to understand, to have trust and have confidence that this is an unbiased process.”
Still, Law School faculty members have continued to take issue with ODR’s approach. The committee that drafted the procedures was formed after Law School professors raised concerns about the University’s central policy and procedures, according to Janet Halley, a Law School professor who specializes in family, gender, and sexuality law and one of the Globe letter’s 28 signatories. She called the new Law School procedures a “big improvement” compared to the University’s central framework, which she argued is “severely and patently defective.”
Law School professor Jeannie C. Suk, another signatory of the Globe letter, wrote in an email that the pending Law School procedures “address the concerns with the [University] procedures that led me to sign the statement in the Globe,” adding that she hopes that Harvard and its other schools will follow the Law School’s example.
Harvard’s handling of sexual assault remains under review at the College, whose Title IX compliance OCR is currently investigating.
—Staff writer Theodore R. Delwiche can be reached at theodore.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @trdelwic.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at aduehren@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren14.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The first 33:41 played by the Harvard women’s basketball team in 2015 were tight, as the Crimson battled Florida Gulf Coast Friday night at Lavietes Pavilion. The closing 6:19 of the game proved to be the downfall of the Harvard defense, as the Eagles went on a 19-0 run en route to their 68-58 victory.
FGCU (13-2), a team that was averaging 78.2 points per game entering the nonconference contest, was held in check for most of the game by the physical defense of the Crimson (6-6). The explosive 19-0 run not only saw the Eagles erase a six-point deficit but put the game permanently out of reach for Harvard.
“They definitely had the momentum and were feeding off of each other’s threes,” co-captain Erin McDonnell said. “As they got a more comfortable lead, they were becoming more relaxed and were able to drive harder, draw fouls, and continue making their three-point shots. We felt more pressure to score early, which led to earlier shots in the offense, and then we wouldn’t be in good rebounding position.”
While the FGCU offense, ranked 22nd in the nation in points per game entering the contest, came to life in the second half. For the Crimson, two scoreless droughts lasting a combined 12 minutes proved costly. Harvard’s offensive woes began from the opening tip-off as the team did not tally its first point until the 14:18 mark in the first half.
The lack of production on offense did not seem to bother the Crimson on the defensive end, as the team conceded just four points to the Eagles in that stretch. FGCU struggled to penetrate Harvard’s defense and was undersized inside against senior forward Temi Fagbenle and McDonnell. The struggles inside for the Eagles continued for most of the game, as Harvard finished the contest with a 43-30 edge on the glass.
The second scoring drought, which lasted 6:18, was too much for the Crimson to overcome. Following a timeout by FGCU coach Karl Smesko with his team down six and 6:29 left to play, junior guard Whitney Knight hit a three-pointer to start the offensive explosion and cut the Harvard lead to three.
Following Knight’s trey, the Crimson would miss its next nine shots and turn the ball over four times, while the Eagles hit two more threes and converted their next six free throws. The combined 12 minutes without a field goal came on the heels of a stretch without a field goal that lasted over ten minutes for Harvard in its 83-64 loss to Louisiana Tech on Monday.
“I think a lot of it has to do with turnovers on offense,” co-captain Kaitlyn Dinkins said. “If we’re turning the ball over, we’re not getting good shots. I think it has to do with execution and being mentally intense.”
Knight, junior guard Kaneisha Atwater, and senior forward Anthi Chatzigiakoumi combined for 52 points for the visitors, who extended their win streak to eight. Fagbenle led the way for Harvard with 19 points and seven rebounds, both game highs.
FGCU, which has qualified for the NCAA Tournament the last two seasons and had outscored opponents by almost 18 points per game coming into Friday, turned the ball over only eight times, while the Crimson had 22 infractions. The game was the Harvard’s third in five days.
“We definitely could have done a better job of taking care of the ball on offense,” McDonnell said. “We had moments of greatness on offense and got the ball into our post for a lot of mismatches really well. But then again, we were so excited about our mismatches that sometimes we tried to force the ball inside.”
Despite the loss, the Crimson was able to hold one of the nation’s most efficient offenses well below its season averages in points and field goal percentage.
“I thought that was some of the best defense we’ve played all season; we just couldn’t do it for 40 minutes,” Dinkins said. “Overall, the most important thing in that game was defense and we did it for the majority of the game, but those times we didn’t, I think that’s really what cost us.”
—Staff writer Stephen J. Gleason can be reached at sgleason@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections

Nine months later, the second episode of “IVY” finally came out. But it was worth the wait.
When “IVY” last left off, the first episode introduced its main characters: five sophomores who are all roommates at Harvard. It was essentially a look into their lives, covering everything from awkward TF meetings, nameless hookups, some drug dealing, concentration interviews, and deep conversations.
Episode Two, titled “Harley,” focuses specifically on (as the title implies) one of the five main characters, Harley, played by Juliana Sass ‘17. This episode continues to showcase the drama of an Ivy League education. And while sometimes, you might find yourself groaning at the over-stereotyped college student, more often than not you might relate to some of the day-to-day life.
For one, it seems to adequately convey the true attitude of a Harvard student.
 And no worries, it also contains just as many awkward moments (read: makeouts) as the first episode.
This time there's even an incredibly awkward hug (basically reminiscent of one of those unexpected hugs with an acquaintance en route to class)!
Bonus points for some feminism thrown in there! Even if it’s drunk feminism.
 Most importantly however, it conveys the Harvard angst that the first episode so accurately conveyed.
I found myself torn between thinking “IVY” is entirely inaccurate but also entirely accurate of Harvard life. No matter your opinion, you might be tearing up a little bit at the end because you realize how corrupt our silly Harvard lives are. But thanks to “IVY,” you can pretend like you’re crying over a television show and not your actual life.
Let’s keep ‘em coming, “IVY.” (Please, please don’t make us wait another nine months. We can’t handle the suspense. As you've depicted, our lives have enough angst. Don’t add to our pile of troubles.)
Sections

Happy New Year, everyone! Chances are, you’ve been busy these past couple of days washing Wednesday night’s glitter out of your hair and more importantly, coming up with ways to “better yourself” with your New Year’s resolutions. To avoid the crushing disappointment you’ll experience when you inevitably break those highly unrealistic goals two weeks into the semester, we’ve compiled a list of your resolutions, along with the ways that they’re doomed to play out. Because at the end of the day, the best New Year’s resolution is to stop making New Year’s resolutions.
Working OutExpectation: You tell yourself that this is going to be the year that you finally get into tip-top shape. You lay in your bed dreaming of your soon-to-be chiseled abs and toned arms, and the hot people you’re going to meet at the MAC and Hemenway during your daily trips to the treadmill.Reality: You will go to the MAC once. It will be at 9 a.m. during shopping week. You will shortly realize that losing two hours of sleep is not worth running alongside old people that you have never seen before. You will soon revert back to telling yourself that your daily walk from the Yard to the Science Center is sufficient exercise.
Eating HealthyExpectation: You picture a world full of whole grains, cold-pressed juices, and leafy greens. You promise to frequent the salad bar from now on, and to limit yourself to one bowl of Marshmallow Mateys per week.Reality: You will abandon this goal as soon as the semester’s first Sunday Sundaes rolls around. People who say “nothing tastes as good as healthy feels” have clearly never tried chocolate ice cream coated in hot fudge and Oreo pieces.
Waking Up EarlierExpectation: The early bird gets the worm, right? You figure that doing your laundry and getting extra work done at the crack of dawn are both good ideas. You promise to set your alarm t0 8 a.m. every day and experience the “whole new world” that your roommate is always talking about.Reality: Why did you ever think that was a good idea? After two terrible days of slugging yourself to Annenberg for lukewarm scrambled eggs, you come to your senses and conclude that there is no reason to be up this early until your 9 a.m. final 15 weeks from now.
Being A Cleaner RoommateExpectation: There was a little bit of tension last semester, but 2015 will be the year that you bury the hatchet for once and for all. You’ll greet your roommate after break and exclaim that they’ll never have to see your entire wardrobe on the bedroom floor ever again. You even arrive with new storage bins from The Container Store to shelve all of your useless crap.Reality: You will actually try really hard with this one, and will more or less succeed until your first load of laundry. After that, your mess of clothes and papers and trash from Tasty Burger and Au Bon Pain will spiral into oblivion. You will feel bad, so you will surface clean once every few weeks to temporarily hide the fact that you’re a disgusting slob.
