News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
No footnotes
(A reflection on the way we compartmentalize our identities to make the presentation of a whole, normalized, and complete Self visible to others. How do we place ourselves in the realm of the recognizable?)
There is woman seething inside me
And she needs to justify herself
With every second breath
How can you
Expect a full sentence
When you want so many footnotes
For why things don’t fit into place
My body is a legal document
Not the complex kind
Not the kind you need to go to school to learn to read
Because you seem to already know
My body is, for you, illiterate and so legible
Surveilled and pieced apart
Labeled for easy pickings
Cutlets: digestible, convenient
There is the Feminine in me
Taught and still becoming incomplete, filling jagged edges with collages of unfinished
and running out of glue
Trying to un-teach her-self
there is the “girl”
who can’t become a woman
and is tearing her hair upwards out of scalp
trying to grow into her definition
her footnote reads: not curvy enough,
not exotic [to][IN?] the hips,
touch of sharpness to the tongue,
slightly uneven breasts
belly curve is demented
but her vulva is in place—reassuring but not quite enough,
thereby, girl
QED
There is something brown in me
And it smells like shit
Or
curry
because six-year-olds don’t lie and they can’t be taught that kind of cruelty
Something immigrant and dark
Something dusting hair over my forearms darker than any of my classmates, bloating my lips and my eyes until I look like a mosquito
soon-to-be-ladies skirt around me, shading their eyes in their light hair, glancing down into their training bras, wondering why I don’t wear one, looking cautious, as though I might bite
and for sure have malaria
her footnote reads: I can be white too I go to school in America I say the pledge louder and harder than anyone I even say that God part because I, I, I, believe in the US and don’t look at my skin Look directly In my eyes Because they are earnest and wet when you tell me I am Terrifying or Wrong—footnote 2b. not out loud but look at all those pictures of the bad guys why do they all look like my dad And is this why he shaves so close to his face so obsessively like his life depends on it Twice a Day Because he can’t look like one of them you already look at him funny on this side of the boardroom why can’t you love his cheeks deep brown under the stubble like I do—look into my eyes and tell me that I don’t belong what is Citizen and why can’t Immigrant be too no wait I take it back because I didn’t migrate it wasn’t me don’t blame me Don’t blame my parents they just wanted More and they didn’t get it isn’t that Enough
No—I am Brown—the Disruptive
There is Sexual in me
there is longing to taste Woman and touch her reach her as subject as object
there is longing to hold Man around his neck and fuck him claim him as subject as object
there is yearning there is wetness
there are the heady heavy hormones and the scent of sex in my sheets
there is Too Much because this is not Lady or Allowed
her footnote reads: dominates only as much as is wanted, mostly
foreign; expected to have more unconstrained expression of sexuality
dark; could have predicted a whore
footnote 3b. yet immigrant; could have predicted a prude or dry emptiness
dominated only enough to be still Lady
doesn’t drip on the newspaper in an administered test as they made her watch lesbian porn
not the bisexuality and heavens godforsaken not a lesbian
relationships with women likely brief  enough to be negligible
desire may be fueled by sexual trauma
strangeness in taste probably linked to the abuse
chalk it up and leave it alone
no cures for that
just a footnote
There is Shame in me
All fathoms deepened and entrenched by her
She. wearing my Intestines on her arms
and my Hair wrapped as gloves around her feet
the Knots caught up between her toes like in the ridges of the drain
bitten barren cuticles and the edges of sharp nails eat me from the inside, press out through carrion flesh
caressing my cavities and fissures like the secret soul
of Retch
her footnote reads: so sorry so sorry so sorry I was born like this I became like this I was made into this blame him blame her blame elsewise No so sorry I know No It’s me Yes so sorry so sorry slurring together and humiliated footnote reads, head to feet, down to feet, I am feet, I am beneath, I am the footnote on every moment with my Betters I am below see me here so sorry so sorry to Intrude
There is something on the Border
that won’t be taught Hindi; god forbid for that I can’t speak English well enough
that won’t be wearing men’s clothes; but won’t buy a long dress
that speaks in the Academy; and screams at the face of a closed door
that puts on lipstick carefully; and hacks all her hair off in one stroke
that doesn’t know, but talks anyway; and tomorrow contradicts herself
that doesn’t talk when maybe she does know; and tomorrow scorns silence
that proclaims American; that proclaims Immigrant;
who asks why not both as one, but offers two selves to choose from
her footnote reads: origin unknown. Created. unreadable. Ambiguity in the space of erasure and non disclosure.
How much is there
How many more footnotes
that run longer than the text
Because We Have not Created a World
Legible
Without the footnotes
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When the 1993 novel “The Giver” was adopted for the screen in 2014, it sparked a flurry of interviews with usually reclusive author Lois Lowry. “Before ‘Divergent,’ before ‘The Hunger Games,’ there was ‘The Giver,’” one piece typologizes breathlessly. “The Giver” re-emerged over 20 years after its original publication as a refreshed entry in a contemporary genre trend. Young adult dystopia itself is not particularly new, but its current manifestation in the box office and the bookstore is at once more sinister and more sensationalized than what has gone before it.
“The Giver” provides a useful case study for the maturation of the genre—maturation not necessarily connoting development in depth or quality. Rather, the 12-year-old Jonas of the 1993 text was lifted and remolded into a 16-year-old protagonist onscreen, (portrayed by a 25-year-old actor), and turned from a quiet, innocent child into a fist-fighting rebel who, trading in the bicycles of the book for sleek motorcycles, makes out behind trees, and is hunted down by futuristic jet fighters. The film is rated PG-13; the Jonas from the text would be barred from watching this decade’s interpretation of his story.
Maybe it’s simply that the relatively quiet, internal, and childlike original narrative wouldn’t have made for a box office hit. It’s easy to think capitalistically about what becomes dominant in pop culture, but something deeper than pure monetary motivation is at play. Teenagers and adults alike have been gobbling up these books, but, in a sense, they’re also being reproduced in real world discourses. Protesters in Hong Kong and Thailand have adopted the three-fingered salute from “The Hunger Games,” sometimes at the risk of arrest, and the release of its first film prompted some to make connections to the recent anti-wealth disparity Occupy movement.
Something about these narratives is resonant today, particularly in mass movements led, powered, and endorsed by youth. And an intriguing version of the young hero is being perpetrated by these recent “young adult” works: how young does 16-year-old Katniss—family provider, trained killer, occasional two-timer—really act? How teenaged does 16-year-old Tris of “Divergent”—lethal sharpshooter, eventual government fugitive—actually seem? Why did Jonas have to be portrayed onscreen by a 25-year-old hunk?
Perhaps one condition of our modern vision of dystopia is forced adulthood. We demand increasingly more of our young, and we champion our current figureheads of young achievement, especially when their success can be measured by some innovative end product. So maybe, in the end, it somehow is about capitalism: the rigors of competitive, quantifiable, and cutthroat economics might not be as bloody as those of the televised arena of “The Hunger Games,” but throw the children into either and receive a commodity of some sort. It might be the next hip, college-dropout startup or the next box-office hit. Neither, even within the context of “young adult” literature, is particularly interested in the immaturity or innocence of traditional definitions of being young.
So trade in that bike for a bow and arrow, kids. And grab a coffee while you’re at it.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
There’s a lot that Scott Walker doesn’t know these days. Ever since the Wisconsin Republican governor’s name began appearing alongside Jeb Bush, Rand Paul, and Chris Christie in the headlines, he’s become the latest politician to contract a sudden case of know-nothingism.
First, he literally (figuratively) punted when asked about his belief in evolution. “I’m going to punt on that one as well,” he actually said when asked the question at a London trade conference. But he clarified that “he loved the evolution of trade.”
It’s clear that Walker’s evasiveness, or most political slipshoddery for that matter, originates from the real difficulty in crafting a response unoffending to any of the motley coalitions of support that politicians have to assemble to win elections. Doing that in just a few seconds is hard, but then again, so is becoming president.
The last few Republican presidential primaries have been especially treacherous ground, with its Scylla and Charybdis of socially conservative evangelicals and fiscally conservative independents who believe in things like evolution. It’s impossible to please both sides—either a candidate gets skewered by activists early in the primaries, or survives with enough immoderate sound bites to sink the ship in the general election.
The etch-a-sketch strategy has so far proven unsuccessful for John McCain and Mitt Romney not because Americans can’t handle any kind of political reinvention, but because they can’t handle the clear artificiality of most.
Threading the needle, then, is a most essential part of politics. Artful dodgers are rewarded over their less dexterous competitors. And that’s partially the reason Obama, with just two years in the Senate, could displace the decidedly less savvy Hillary Clinton in 2008.
It’s a more superficial criterion than we might want out of our democratic process, but it remains inescapable. And, amid all his flubbing, fumbling, and punting, Scott Walker is failing at it.
There can be little space between shrewd political navigation and fatal equivocation, and perhaps Walker’s neither-here-nor-theres would have received less attention if Rudy Giuliani weren’t, in the words of David Alexrod, “a fading politician, kind of lighting himself on fire.”
Giuliani, the former New York City mayor who won his last election a whopping 17 years ago, delivered a speech to a private dinner last week that Governor Walker attended, where Giuliani declared that he “did not believe that the president loves America” since “he wasn’t brought up the way you were brought up and I was brought up, through love of this country.”
Were Giuliani less peripheral, it might be worth parsing what possible mix of simple stupidity, racism, and xenophobia might have brought that quote forth. But the focus was naturally on the governor’s reaction as a test of his future campaign acumen.
Now, I’ve never been a fan of the idea that the sins of the speaker redound onto an audience, especially since the former mayor wasn’t expected to speak at the event, and it would hardly have been possible to predict these antics even if his name had been on the docket. But even if we assumed some sort of culpability on Walker’s part, he should have been able to defuse that easily.
In reality, Giuliani threw the governor a softball, solvable by a simple response along the lines of “I have no reason to doubt the president’s love of our country” (perhaps with an “even if I think his policies are an unmitigated disaster” clause appended for the good of the base).
Part of artful dodging is knowing when to stand firm. But Walker failed miserably, only answering, “You should ask the president what he thinks about America. I’ve never asked him so I don’t know.”
Is it really so hard to believe that the country’s leader might possibly love it? Or, if that line of thought doesn’t work, isn’t it pointless to get involved in a game of psychoanalytical jujitsu to retain the support of someone as unimportant to Walker’s presidential prospects as Giuliani?
Not just that, but he made it worse by telling the Washington Post that he didn’t know whether the president was Christian: “I’ve actually never talked about it or I haven’t read about that. I’ve never asked him that.”
What might have been the softest of softballs became another disaster. In fact, nearly any single word of the English language would have made a better answer. Examples include “yes” or “obviously” or “really?”
There’s little you can say about the future. But if I were a betting man, I’d bet against a President Walker.
Idrees M. Kahloon ’16, a Crimson editorial executive, is an applied mathematics concentrator in Dunster House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If Harvard students had lost track of the threat presented by climate change in the election-heavy, ISIS-centric news cycle of the past few months, Boston’s record snowfall this winter served as a sobering reminder. As made clear by the increasingly hot summers, rising sea levels, and increasingly frequent natural disasters over the past decade, climate change poses a pressing threat to humanity. Despite these concerns, the Keystone XL pipeline has taken on an unnecessarily symbolic role in the fight against climate change; we believe that—barring harsh reports from environmental agencies—the benefits of building the pipeline outweigh the costs.
One of the primary arguments against the pipeline focuses on the source of the oil, which is extracted from Canadian oil-sands—a process that releases 17 percent more greenhouse-gas emissions than standard methods. Oil sands are undoubtedly dangerous for our environment; however, as the U.S. State Department found in its exhaustive review of the pipeline, “approval or denial of any one crude oil transport project, including the proposed [Keystone XL pipeline], remains unlikely to significantly impact the rate of extraction in the oil sands, or the continued demand for heavy crude oil at refineries in the U.S.”
There are currently no assurances that rejecting the pipeline would prevent Canada from producing and transporting millions of barrels of oil-sands. In the first quarter of 2014, Canada shipped over 165 thousand barrels of crude oil per day via rail alone. Moreover, there are several other pipelines being built—such as TransCanada’s Energy East project—that have the capacity to transport over a million barrels of oil every day (a far greater capacity than the KXL). In short, stopping the construction of the Keystone XL likely will not affect oil production, and consequently the greenhouse gas emissions, from the Alberta tar sands.
While the U.S. would ideally already be past the age of oil ubiquity, oil is nevertheless still a critical part of the life of the average American. Until all Americans have easy and affordable access to alternative energy, it would be preferable for the United States to lessen its dependence on oil from the Middle East, especially given the instability in that region and Saudi Arabia’s consistent infringements on personal liberties. The Keystone pipeline would provide such an avenue.
In spite of our likely support of the pipeline, pending the completion of a full environmental review, we believe Republicans in Congress acted irresponsibly in trying to accelerate the timeline of President Obama’s decision on the KXL. This move by the GOP is indicative of the larger problem surrounding the debate around Keystone: This project should not be a political issue. It is neither the job creator the GOP advertises it to be (it would add only 42,000 jobs in America, almost all of which are temporary), nor the catastrophic environmental disaster Democrats make it out to be. It is simply a move, albeit a rather insignificant one, to make America more energy independent.
This is why, upon receiving the last of his reports, President Obama should make a decision on whether or not to build the pipeline as quickly as possible, in a manner uncolored by political ideology. We hope that we will be able to quickly move past this specific debate and start focusing on the more important issue: fighting climate change.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
FM imagines where Harvard’s premier talent is most likely to end up. Today we bring you a guide to your futures based on your choice of student group. And let’s be honest: We all know Harvard students only join these clubs for the career opportunities. So when you consider what to comp next semester, keep this list in mind.
Harvard College Consulting Group to McKinsey & Company
The paragon of excellence. The pathway to success. The shining example of all things Harvard. Each has been used to describe the Harvard College Consulting Group, or HCCG for short. But why McKinsey instead of Bain? We don’t see the difference between these companies, except that everyone says Bain is way more fun. Apparently at Bain, employees actually get perks, and we all know how the HCCG Board spends its cash. (Disclaimer: Jamie, not Brian, wrote this. Brian is a new analyst for HCCG.)
Colorado Club to Tycoon
We all know how it works. First, members join the club to find a nice “chill” community amidst Harvard’s stress. Then one day sophomore year you decide to try pot to get “the authentic Colorado experience, man!” One day, your friend asks you for some. You’re short on cash, though, so you assign it a random dollar value. Surprisingly, he pays up. Suddenly you decide money’s better. You take a class at the Business School and now you know enough to launch your empire.
Harvard Polo Team to Carriage Driver in Central Park
At Harvard, polo team members become business partners with their horses. After their four years of college are up, those stallions want to shoot for the big leagues, racing at Saratoga or Churchill Downs. You’re a little too tall to be a jockey, so you steer your personal steed towards New York City instead. He’s reluctant at first, but you convince him by mentioning that his employment benefits include having the entire city streets at his mane’s mercy. Every so often though, you have the urge to grab a walking stick and whack a little kid’s soccer ball to relive the glory days.
Crimson Key to Johnny Manziel's Publicity Agent
Johnny needs a mission-based team that can throw a good party. He needs someone who can fake smile with the best of them and doesn’t lack in self-promotion. His current group messed this one up, so it’s time for Crimson Key to put their Harvard degrees to good use. Follow the red sweatshirts, Johnny.
On Thin Ice to Ice Sculpture
Accounts of the exact idea’s proposal vary; we imagine it went something like this: “Man, nobody’s coming to our shows anymore. What can we do?”“I know! Let’s do a show of On Thin Ice…wait for it…on thin ice!!”“Yeah great idea! You get a promotion.”It was an extra warm day—attendance was way up. Midway through the improv game where they rotate in a square, the ice started to crack and, well, you know the rest.
Harvard College Association for the Promotion of Interplanetary Expansion to Matthew McConaughey
Yes, this is a group at Harvard. We hadn’t heard of it either. This connection is self-explanatory, but if you haven’t seen “Interstellar,” ask Christopher Nolan. We’re pretty sure job interviews for the position involve driving stoned through a deserted Nevada highway without crashing into a cactus. Maybe a Harvard education doesn’t  prepare us for the real world after all.
Undergraduate Council to White House
Becoming UC Rep was a prank. Running for House Representative, a dare. Being elected governor, sheer boredom. And President? Ebola became airborne and killed the Prez, the VP, and the 57 people in line ahead of you. Or maybe you went all Frank Underwood and took matters into your own hands. Either way, it all went just as planned.
Sections
It’s a frigid night in mid-February, and for those who have braved the growing piles of snow outside, the Gordon Indoor Track provides a warm, if crowded, refuge. Various teams jostle for practice space, mostly ignoring the gray-clad group of students on the infield. Ten minutes ago, the track echoed with the shouts of cheerleading practice. Now, there’s a markedly different tone in the air, as Harvard students in the Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps take to the track.
“Off to battle we will go, to live or die, hell I don’t know,” yells James J. W. Clarke ’16 as he circles the track. Beside him, a group of cadets stride in time, repeating the traditional lyrics. This is a cadence, a rhythmic call-and-response drill the cadets use to practice marching. In formation along the outside edge of the track, they’re careful to leave room for the ultimate frisbee team. It’s 9:30 p.m. on a Thursday, almost at the end of an hour-long physical training session. The cadets wear matching workout gear emblazoned with “ARMY,” hair either closely shorn or pulled back into tight ponytails.
“From a big bird in the sky, all will jump and some will die,” Clarke continues as the cadets round the track.
Somewhere between solemn and facetious, the lyrics allude to an intensely real future that the rest of the workout—push-ups, sprints, burpees, and mountain-climbers—has made easy to ignore. For now, Clarke and the rest are student-soldiers, existing in the sometimes chaotic space between p-sets and platoons, not to mention the gap between the formidable and not always aligned institutions of Harvard and the military. But someday soon, if they complete the program, they’ll take on new roles as commissioned officers.
Following the repeal of the military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy towards gay and lesbian service members, Harvard officially recognized both Navy ROTC in 2011 and Army ROTC in 2012 to celebratory fanfare. But for students in the program, the merit of reinstatement was largely symbolic. Besides a few benefits like Harvard-funded Zipcars to and from physical training as well as largely unused office spaces in the Student Organization Center at Hilles, the program is largely unchanged on a logistical level. There’s a sense among students in ROTC, alumni of the program, and veterans at Harvard’s graduate schools that the University could be doing more to accommodate students and to grow ROTC’s once-expansive presence on campus.
The challenges of reuniting two long separated institutional and bureaucratic giants—Harvard University and the United States military—remain.
On April 8, 1917, the Boston Globe published an article titled “Harvard Almost A War College.” It wasn’t a sensationalist headline: Students were flocking to Cambridge to join the newly established undergraduate military program. Nearly 1,000 young men from Harvard and other Boston-area schools trained for service on Harvard’s campus, marching and preparing for war in Harvard Stadium. Archival photographs show students learning to bayonet on the football field.
One of the first schools in the United States to host an ROTC program, military preparation was nothing new to Harvard. Its students had been joining the military in conflicts ranging from the Revolutionary War to the Civil War, now commemorated by the likes of Memorial Hall and Soldiers Field. Besides the United States Military Academy and the United States Naval Academy, Harvard University, with 18 recipients, has graduated more Medal of Honor winners than any other institution of higher education.
Still, Harvard’s relationship with ROTC, and, by extension, the military, has fluctuated from near-unity to total disengagement.
It was 1969, the peak of student and faculty backlash against the Vietnam War and its most visible on-campus symbol: the ROTC program. One night in April of that year, more than 300 students swarmed the home of then-University President Nathan M. Pusey ’28 and tacked a list of demands to his door, the first of which was to abolish the presence of ROTC on Harvard’s campus.
The next day, hundreds of students occupied University Hall, carrying James E. Thomas, who was an adviser to freshmen at the time, out on their shoulders. They maintained the same list of demands: ROTC had to go, and, the following morning, they engaged in a confrontation with the police. According to Crimson reporting at the time, 75 people were injured and four people—including a police officer—were hospitalized.
Louis Menand, now an English professor, remembers the scene well. A high school student at the time, Menand traveled into Cambridge from the suburbs where he lived to witness the organized protests. He brought along a video camera.
“[The police] arrested a lot of students,” Menand recalls. “They beat up students and they ended the occupation of University Hall.”
That same year, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences voted to relegate ROTC to the status of an extracurricular and strip it of its previous academic standing—no longer would Harvard host Military Science professors—and all ROTC programming was phased out over the next couple of years. Once a hub of military service, Harvard’s relationship with the armed forces was effectively terminated.
Harvard students could not even cross-register for MIT ROTC courses again until 1976, when the University decided to provide funding for and allow students to participate in ROTC activities at MIT.
While 1969 is perhaps the most dramatic instance of campus uproar against the military in Harvard’s history, it would not be the only time the relationship, however small, was called into question. In the 1990s, students again protested Harvard’s relationship with ROTC. The activists, called the Anti-ROTC Action Committee, criticized the military’s policy toward gay and lesbian service members, which at the time barred openly gay and lesbian members from serving. In 1995, the University cut all remaining financial ties with the program, instead organizing an alumni trust fund, Friends of Harvard ROTC, to cover the administrative costs for hosting the program at MIT—roughly $150,000 per year.
It was a situation Lawrence H. Summers, the next president of the University, says he hoped to change. The steps he took—notably, attending the ceremonies in which students are commissioned into military service—set the groundwork for current University President Drew G. Faust’s eventual decision to welcome back the Army and Navy programs. It was a symbolic gesture that students in and alumni of the program praise as a long awaited reconciliation. In 2013, Faust received the Navy’s highest civilian honor for bringing Naval ROTC back to campus and repairing, if only nominally, Harvard’s long strained relationship with the military.
For students in the program, many days start hours before sunrise. Carolyn F. Pushaw ’16, who’s enrolled in NROTC and hopes to one day fly helicopters for the Marines, describes her weekly schedule: Two hour-long group physical training session at Boston University, two independent work-out times, a weekly “leadership lab,” naval science coursework, and staff meetings for leading the other midshipmen. Despite official recognition and a change in the tenor of Harvard’s relationship with the military, Pushaw’s schedule, as a Navy midshipman, takes place entirely off Harvard’s campus. Pushaw, like all other cadets interviewed in this story, says she speaks for only herself and does not represent the views of the military.
“Those are all from 0600—from 6 a.m. to 7 a.m.,” she says about the physical training sessions, a few hours after that morning’s workout. She stops herself as she uses the 24-hour time standard typical of the military.
In many ways, this split second adjustment—from the military standard to the civilian one—captures the ROTC experience. As full-time students and military officers-to-be, Harvard ROTC participants must navigate two starkly different and historically divergent institutions. Everything from post-graduate plans—consulting vs. combat, piloting vs. programming—to the daily routine makes the ROTC experience a singular one, and the students in the program must transition between and blend the two. In short, they make it work.
Pushaw wears combat boots and a sorority sweatshirt to an interview in the Leverett dining hall.
She says she’s wanted to join the military since she was young; she participated in a program called Sea Cadets at Malibu High School and was sold. Decision time came during her senior year, when, as many students must, she had to choose where to attend college: the United States Naval Academy or Harvard. She doesn’t regret her decision.
“It’s like Miley Cyrus: best of both worlds,” Pushaw says, half-joking, of her decision to come to Harvard.
The experience of a Harvard student enrolled in ROTC starts to diverge into these two worlds early on. In fact, Pushaw says her first week of college proved far different from that of her peers.
“When everyone else was doing FOP and FUP and FIP and FAP, we’re in Newport, Rhode Island, getting screamed at for a week,” she says, referring to “Indoctrination Week,” a week that NROTC students describe as a mini-boot camp and an introduction to military life. “That was a wake-up call.”
Training time isn’t the only way the ROTC program shapes a student’s college experience. Members of the program say they are held to a different standard than a typical college student, a fact reinforced by Lt. Nathan Stempel, a naval engineering and naval weapons systems professor and adviser at the NROTC program at MIT (who also says his views represent his own and not those of the military). According to Stempel, if an underage ROTC student were caught drinking alcohol, his or her military career would be in jeopardy. They also have additional course requirements—students take roughly one military science course per semester, and Navy midshipmen must take coursework in calculus, physics, and military affairs.
Indeed, for some students, a combination of the time commitment, the restrictions, and the promise of military service results in an early end to their ROTC, but not necessarily military, careers. Pushaw says that in her entering class, there were eight midshipmen in the NROTC program. Today, there are four.
While scheduling and restrictions certainly distinguish daily life for cadets and midshipmen—it’s unlikely other student groups spend one weekend every semester doing tactical training at Fort Devens in central Massachusetts—students say differences extend beyond use of time or choice of concentration. Cadets and midshipmen emphasize that athletes also start their mornings early or train when everyone else takes a vacation, and that the real substance of their commitment is not just an allocation of hours in the day. The stakes become clear at physical training sessions, when Marine-option midshipmen are chastised for taking a breather.
“Last week, you convinced me we’re not with the enemy, so it’s OK to show weakness,” says midshipman Nicolas Frayne-Reixa, a junior at Boston University serving as this week’s platoon sergeant. “This week, I won’t accept that. The day you show weakness is going to be the day that one of your sailors does something stupid.”
It’s a reminder that these students aren’t just suiting up a couple of days a week to wear boots and camouflage; many have contractually committed to a term of service in an institution that few Harvard students decide to join, to engage with “the enemy,” whomever that might be.
Charley M. Falletta ’16, a cadet in the Army ROTC program, explains: “We’re doing our training because one day that’s going to be very real. That’s going to be a reality that we’re living. If you go on and you commission to be an active duty officer, that’s a reality that you’re living every day.”
“So whatever we’re building on now is very, very, very relevant to what we’re going to be doing immediately the day we graduate, which I think is different from other students here,” she says.
Harvard’s ROTC cadets and midshipmen don’t just stand out on campus, but also have a unique place in the military. Ten out of 24 participants in Harvard’s ROTC program are female (one is a graduate student)—just over 40 percent—an unusually large number of women in a mostly-male institution. And, like many graduates, they will be subject to the same jokes and jabs the Harvard brand name brings; Pushaw recalls being dubbed “Harvard” at a nationwide summer training session.
As seniors in the program look on, Falletta leads marches on the indoor track to the tune of her favorite cadence. “Someday you’ll be all alone, out there in a combat zone,”  she calls. As a junior, Falletta has been practicing leading marches to prepare for the summer, when she’ll attend Cadet Leader Course, a 29-day training program at Fort Knox. As the cadets snap back to face front, the cadence finishes: “Don’t you worry about being alone, your buddies are gonna bring you home.”
“That’s what it’s all about...you’re there for your buddies,” Falletta says. For Falletta, co-president of the Harvard ROTC Association, an undergraduate club for students in the program, the workout on the track is just another step in a journey that started when she was in second grade.
Falletta was 7 years old in September 2001. “That was kind of a jarring event. I really just felt, seeing what happened on 9/11 and seeing the sacrifices that Americans were beginning to make, I kind of knew then that that was something I wanted to do,” Falletta says. “And that interest held.”
Though her parents initially resisted her decision to commission, Falletta says she would make the choice again, despite the difficulties of balancing a Harvard workload with ROTC commitments. Following the reinstatement of the program in 2011, Harvard has made some efforts to ease that challenge, like providing transportation for students to get to early morning physical training and granting the program office spaces at the SOCH.
But for Falletta, these are only first steps—and waiting for change in and between the institutions can be frustrating. At times, she’s felt that the Harvard administration is “at best, indifferent” to ROTC.
Last semester, Falletta struggled to find reception for her ideas about changing and expanding the ROTC program, and felt bounced between offices with no clear sources of administrative support. The frustrations culminated, she says, in a scheduled meeting with Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana in December, aborted when the dean was called away to address what he says was an “unanticipated emergency.”
“Is that really how you treat ROTC? I don’t know,” Falletta says. “I don’t think it was purposeful. I’m sure it was an oversight, but again, it’s at best indifferent. At worst, it’s something else.” Khurana has since apologized for having missed the meeting.
This fall, Falletta organized a 9/11 commemoration in Memorial Church. Ultimately, says Falletta, the event was a success, but booking the space was an arduous process that left her feeling frustrated and marginalized. These difficulties were magnified by the fact that until recently, Falletta felt that ROTC lacked a point person or representative in the administration who could advocate on behalf of cadets and midshipmen. “I think for us, it’s super frustrating because no one’s going to bat for us, no one’s backing us up in the Harvard administration,” she says. “No one in [the] Harvard administration is saying, ‘That’s a wrong, and we’re going to make it a right.’”
Falletta isn’t the only cadet who has felt that there is a lack of administrative support for the program. Unlike the other two branches of ROTC, Air Force ROTC has yet to be officially recognized by Harvard’s administration, though they still receive some of the logistical support the recognized branches do, such as funded Zipcars.  Nonetheless, Zander E. Farrow ’16 and Kira R. Headrick ’17, Harvard’s only Air Force ROTC cadets, say the lack of support is evident in their smaller numbers.
“I think [official recognition] would be beneficial for us in the sense that it would bring awareness that the Air Force does exist at Harvard,” says Farrow, who leads HROTCA with Falletta. “I talk to a lot of people that are sophomores and juniors who would have been interested in the program had they been freshmen and known about it; they just weren’t aware that it was on campus.” And officially, it’s not.
Air Force ROTC cadets have little to no interaction with Harvard’s administration, and no space at the SOCH. If enrollment is any indication, its lack of recognition may be having an impact. Re-recognizing the Air Force program is the first priority of the Advocates for Harvard ROTC, an alumni group that has long lobbied for more of an on-campus presence of the program.
According to Faust, Air Force ROTC’s unrecognized status is a consequence of shrinking military budgets and lacking institutional rapport. “I think the Air Force felt that it just didn’t fit with their plans,” Faust says. “We would be happy to talk to them about making an arrangement if they wished to, but they haven’t.”
Headrick echoed the lack of clear reason for the continued disconnect. “It’s just something you kind of have to deal with,” she adds.
While Associate Dean of the College Joan Rouse, who coordinates logistical aspects of Harvard ROTC with the commanders at MIT, says she isn’t aware of any projects currently underway to improve ROTC, administrators are open to cadet input on changes to the program.
In particular, Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67, who eats breakfast once a semester with the freshmen enrolled in the ROTC program, has worked to bridge the gap between student needs and administrative action. “When I go back to the ’70s and think about the precarious place that ROTC had on campuses like our own, I want to be sure that with the return students are well-served, and if there are things we can be doing to make their involvement better that we’re aware of them and working on them,” Dingman says. “The military is not going to go away, and I think it would be too bad if Harvard weren’t making it possible for students who, again, have an interest, to participate.”
One way students feel they could be better served is through advising. As a cadet, Nathan L. Williams ’18 sometimes does not know where to go with questions about the intersection of his life as a student and a cadet, such as whether or not to pursue a graduate degree after his years of service. “Often as cadets you feel you only have one another,” he says. “And we’re totally inexperienced.”
“It’s funny because to normal students we’re the army, but to people in the army, we’re civilians; we’re just students. It’s like we’re in this middle world of who do we ask for help,” Williams says. A recent development is the Harvard Veteran’s Organization’s advising program, started last year, which pairs cadets and midshipmen with veterans affiliated with Harvard, often grad students who experience the same duality of purpose that ROTC participants share.
“I really like the mentorship program here, because you can’t go to the college for help,” Williams says. “You could ask your PAF or your proctor, but they can’t really help you with items in the military.” Mentors from the HVO, on the other hand, have experience with both Harvard and military life.
Back on the indoor track, the marching continues. Falletta jokes that this is the first time she’s ever gotten the cadence right; Williams’ left-face lags just a split second behind his peers’. For now, Falletta says, just like the evolving relationship between the powerhouse institutions of Harvard and the military, “marching is a work in progress.”
After recognition, much like in the past, it didn’t take long for protests to crop up again. Staged outside Loeb House, where Faust signed the initial NROTC agreement with the Secretary of the Navy in 2011, was a group of roughly 25 protesters. They held signs, chanted slogans, and staked out the event. They claimed that the University’s newly-forged relationship with the military still violated Harvard’s own policy of non-discrimination. Under military rules, transgender students could still not participate in ROTC, a fact that has drawn criticism from some students.
“When I personally found out about [Harvard recognizing ROTC] I was kind of hurt by that fact,” says the current president of Trans Task Force, a BGLTQ-identified junior who was granted anonymity by The Crimson because the student feared facing discrimination from future employers.
Former Trans Task Force treasurer and former co-chair of the Harvard Queer Students and Allies W. Powell Eddins ’16 suggests that change should come in the form of pressuring the military to alter its policies rather than pressuring Harvard to cut ROTC.  “I think [the military is] a hard place for anyone, regardless of sexuality, who is a little bit gender nonconforming,” Eddins says. Eddins points out that, through extensive scholarships, ROTC provides a route to education and military careers for students who might not otherwise be able to afford it.
“I don’t think that Harvard can take away the ROTC program because it’s not inclusive,” Eddins says. “I think the military needs to be a more inclusive place.”
Some students in ROTC say that, in their time, they have not encountered criticisms of the program’s presence on the basis that it’s discriminatory. For the most part, they say that peers support their commitment, and University administrators are prepared to justify ROTC’s presence at Harvard.
“We need to understand the military; the military needs to understand Harvard,” Faust says in a recent interview. Later on in the discussion, she says, “I think that this issue [of transgender service members] is one that the military still needs to address.”
While Faust suggests it is the military’s role to address these policy issues, others in the Harvard administration believe it’s the University’s responsibility to keep the dialogue open and try to change policy, while also supporting the students in the program.
“The only way we can get [the military] to the place where we want them to be is engagement with them,” says Emelyn A. dela Peña, assistant dean of student life for equity, diversity, and inclusion.  “If we turn our backs, there is no influence that we can exert on their policy on transgender individuals, but if we continue our engagement, imagine how much influence Harvard could have on that conversation.”
Influencing policy concerning transgender service members isn’t the only way Harvard could affect the military, some say. Students in the program, members of the HVO, University administrators, and the officers who run the ROTC program argue that more Harvard students in the military would benefit both the quality of military operations and the University’s representation in leadership positions. They say that Harvard and the military have more to offer each other than what might be immediately apparent.
“We both want to grow leaders, critical thinkers, and people that have a call to serve their government. It’s more or less the same mission, so I think we can move forward together and be mutually beneficial, especially with the history Harvard has,” says Sean McDonough, a recruiting and scholarship officer for the Army ROTC unit at MIT. McDonough says his comments represent only his own views and not those of the military.
And, many involved in the program—both on the student and administrative side—highlight that the military has always been a part of Harvard’s fabric. The protests, they say, were more concerned with the symbolism of the military’s presence on campus, not the individual students enrolled in the program. With recognition, there’s the hope that that will change.
“Regardless of whether we support this program or have official ties to it, our students are in it, and we’re here to support our students,” dela Peña says. “It was a hardship for them to be in a program at MIT that wasn’t institutionalized here at Harvard.”
For most Harvard students, Sebastian R. Saldivar ’15 says, four years at Harvard can be a good time to try out interests, get exposed to different ideas and ways of thinking, and test out possible career paths—“not that you’ll necessarily know what you want to do when you graduate,” he adds.
For Saldivar, a midshipman about to receive his commission, things work a bit differently. On Thursday, he will undergo a roughly three-hour interview in which he’ll be asked to solve physics and calculus problems—calculating volumes and trajectories of randomly selected objects on the fly—as well as discuss the structure and function of various aspects of nuclear-powered submarines. Later he’ll interview with a four-star Admiral, and at the end of the process, Saldivar will find out whether he’ll spend the next four years on a surface ship or, as he hopes, immediately begin year-long top-secret training for work on a nuclear submarine. “They do some of the same types of things in consulting interviews,” Saldivar jokes.
“Being on a submarine, it’s a pretty cool environment,” he says.  “It’s like being on a spaceship, except there’s no windows and you’re underwater instead of being in space.”
For the last few weeks, Saldivar has met Lt. Stempel at the SOCH offices to study physics and calculus, along with less commonplace subjects like the neutron cycle and reactor structure. While some ROTC cadets and midshipmen are making use of the SOCH, the study space represents only the first in a series of expansions and changes that they’d like to see. But for many of those changes to be feasible, the Harvard program would have to host significantly larger numbers of cadets.
“It’s kind of a Catch-22,” Saldivar says. “If [there were more resources] at Harvard, the numbers would probably increase, because people could try it.” But, without more ROTC cadets and midshipmen, the military and Harvard won’t offer more resources. Ideally, says Saldivar and other members of the program, Harvard would be home to enough cadets and midshipmen to support a unit based at Harvard, as it did in the days before Vietnam and the firestorm of protests that prompted the program’s ousting.
“It’s kind of a lonely road,” says Saldivar, who likens the ROTC commitment to that of practicing on a sports team, but without a unit at Harvard, “we’re never playing the game.”
“To be at Harvard, putting your time into something that never really comes to fruition until four years down the line is tough,” Saldivar says. “It’s kind of that community that would only come if there was a unit here.”
Daniel T. Fisher, co-director of the HVO, agrees that it would be “truly fantastic” to create an ROTC unit centered at Harvard and raise the current status of the program. To that end, he and his organization have begun lobbying the administration and are preparing a “white paper” that will include a list of recommendations for ways to improve Harvard’s approach to ROTC.
First and foremost, Fisher would like to see Harvard admissions take ROTC involvement or a student’s ROTC scholarship into stronger consideration when evaluating them as candidates. Sally C. Donahue, director of financial aid and a member of the College’s admissions committee, says that, though ROTC involvement is a strong feature on a student’s application, coordinating Harvard acceptances with ROTC admissions can be logistically challenging. At the time when many students apply to Harvard, ROTC decisions and scholarship awards have not yet been released.

According to McDonough, who deals with recruiting and scholarships firsthand and stresses the “excellent working relationship” between the MIT ROTC and the Harvard Admissions offices, it’s also partially a numbers game. A couple of hundred qualified students might apply to Harvard and the ROTC unit based at MIT, but because of Harvard’s stringent admissions policies, only one or two might actually be able to make use of the scholarship. McDonough and other commanders at the unit may submit letters of recommendation or other materials about hopeful Harvard cadets to the Admissions Office, which may be factored into Harvard’s decision.
Another way to get around the “Catch-22” that Saldivar describes, say supporters of the program, is to improve ROTC for cadets already on campus through a variety of means.
“There’s great reason to celebrate [the ROTC] community,” Fisher says. “Literally, if they don’t accomplish anything else in their lives, this is an accomplishment; to attend Harvard and graduate Harvard with all of these extra responsibilities, it’s actually extraordinary. So taking a look at that community and asking yourself, ‘How can I make their lives easier?’”
A key change, says Fisher, would be offering course credit for more of the army and naval science classes cadets and midshipmen must take to commission—anywhere from six to nine additional classes, depending on the branch, on top of their Harvard workload. While Fisher and others acknowledge that some ROTC courses aren’t necessarily on par academically with Harvard classes, he suggests a compromise that would allow some expanded versions of ROTC courses to count for Harvard credit, so that cadets’ transcripts would reflect the extra academic hours they’ve put into the program.
For his part, Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris says that the College almost exclusively gives credit to liberal arts classes represented by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences departments, adding that even most professional school courses cannot be taken for credit.
“This has nothing to do with their intellectual merit, nothing to [do] with their importance to our society,” Harris says. “But they’re not consistent with what Harvard College exists to do.”
Still, Harris says, if the courses were shown to be up to Harvard’s standards, there’s potential they could be taken for credit.
“If the case can be made that [ROTC courses] are consistent with the liberal arts focus of the college, of course,” he adds.
Another vital change, says Fisher, would be allowing the HVO to pay for cadets’ room and board, which is not automatically covered by their ROTC scholarships and, depending on their family’s financial situation, Harvard financial aid. Donahue says there’s no reason the HVO wouldn’t be able to provide students with money for room and board, as long as the aid doesn’t come in the form of a Harvard grant, which can only be awarded on the basis of financial need and not merit or participation in programs like ROTC.
For Falletta, changes to the program with the power to increase enrollment, which has stayed roughly flat since reinstatement, aren’t simply a matter of improving life for ROTC students. “When I came in my freshman year, I think things weren’t great for the state of Harvard and ROTC, and I think they will get  better. I don’t think they’re there yet,” she says. “I don’t believe that there are only [24] people on this campus who want to serve their country in the armed forces. I refuse to believe that. Harvard’s not doing its part.”
Last Thursday, on Feb. 19, Falletta and two other ROTC students, Mike P. Murray ’17 and Luke I. Pumiglia ’17, climbed the gray steps to University Hall—the same steps that once hosted the violent protests of the 1960s. This time, they met with Khurana. For the most part, Falletta says that the meeting was a positive one; she feels better about program’s relationship with the Harvard administration. Long troubled by issues of access, Falletta finally feels like she has an administrative contact in Associate Dean of the College Rouse.
“Now I feel like at least we have a point of contact. We have a relationship,” she says. “At the very least, if we have done nothing else, we at least have something to stand on. Because, before this meeting, I would say that we probably didn’t.”
Still, Falletta stresses that obstacles remain. She says that Khurana’s hands are largely tied for the ROTC community’s trifecta of goals—course credit, funded room and board, and support from Admissions—and that the power to effect many of these changes lie not in the hands of the College administration, but with FAS and the Admissions Office. (The Faculty is responsible for voting on proposals to change College policy, such as those concerning course credit.) Falletta says she’s less upbeat about how ROTC might go over with the University’s largest Faculty.
“FAS might be a little too big for us to overcome,” she says. “That’s a tough reality.”
Not that that means she’ll quit—that wouldn’t be like her, or her years of training.
“We will exhaust our options,” she says.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
—Staff writer Emma K. Talkoff can be reached at emmatalkoff@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff photographer Madeline R. Lear can be reached at madeline.lear@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @madelinerlear.
Sections
We’ll be the first to admit it: we aren’t the most muscular writers on FM. We don’t have the prodigious heft of Nathan and Ben, for instance. But, feeling fed up with the biting jabs about our scrawniness at writers’ meetings, we recently sought the help and advice of one of the fittest people on campus: Carolyn F. Pushaw ’16, a Marine-option ROTC midshipman.
As a participant in ROTC, Pushaw does two days of group conditioning and two at-home assigned workouts a week, as well as occasional hikes—while carrying a 65-pound pack. After deciding that we weren’t quite ready for Pushaw’s most extreme workouts, we caught up with her for one of her at-home routines. Six feet tall, muscular, and clad in a Crossfit tank top, Pushaw clearly has the credentials to whip us into shape.
And now, without further ado, the workout—and how we fared.
Cardio Warm-up:
This part is pretty easy. Pushaw instructs us to run on the treadmill for 30 minutes at a comfortable pace. Ramsey watches the episode of “Friends” in which Matt LeBlanc’s character laments over a broken lounge chair. Ramsey also gets his left shoe caught in the loop of his right shoelace and almost wipes out royally but catches himself just in time. Crisis averted.
Medicine Ball Warm-up:
We prepare our upper bodies by tossing an eight-pound medicine ball amongst ourselves. First overhead throws, then bounce passes followed by chest passes. Carolyn launches the medicine ball at Miranda as if it were a basketball. Miranda is almost toppled over as she catches the first throw. Still, she recovers nicely before heaving the ball over to Ramsey.
Box Jumps and Farmer’s Carry:
This one consists of jumping onto a box 10 times and then walking 50 yards while holding dumbbells at your sides. Apparently the Farmer’s Carry is helpful for carrying a stretcher, a good skill to have given that on some of the Marine ROTC hikes, one lucky midshipman designated as a “casualty” must be carried on a stretcher by the others. Miranda is a little too short for the box height that Carolyn uses, but she gives it her best shot. Then, Carolyn cheerfully hefts a 55-pound dumbbell in each hand and sets off along the 50 yard stretch. Miranda, unable to budge a dumbbell over 20 pounds, settles for a lesser weight.
Chin-ups and Box Step-ups:
Here’s where things get nasty. Even Carolyn admits that “this part’s a killer.” A quick disclaimer: Miranda has never done a chin-up before in her life. Ramsey holds his tongue, stares at the chin-up bar valiantly, and then gulps in fear. After claiming that she, too, is “bad” at chin-ups, Carolyn proceeds to knock out eight in a row, easy. Ramsey follows with five—really not bad! Then Miranda dangles sadly from the chin-up bar with both hands before Carolyn picks her up and lifts her to the ground, kindly putting her out of her misery. Miranda still does the step-ups, though! With weights!
Bench Press and Romanian Dead Lifts:
At this point, Ramsey is starting to move into the swing of things with Carolyn, while Miranda, having all but given up, decides to just do some more step-ups. After a brief demonstration on bench pressing from a kindly football player who is clearly wondering why the heck two scrawny souls like us would ever be in the weight room, we set to work.
We quickly discover that Romanian Dead Lifts are comparatively much easier. Plus, their name is infinitely more fun to say. All in all, the ordeal takes almost two hours to complete (though we may have lengthened it by our incessant questions and need for instruction). We wanted to get #swole, but it feels like ain’t nobody got time for that. (FM knows what pop culture sayings the youths are using!)
Still, Carolyn advises us that lifting consistently, even for a short amount of time, is really good for building strength. We thank her profusely and leave the gym dripping in sweat and aching all over, never to return until forced by a similarly sadistic Crimson assignment.
Sections
Boston might have a better baseball team than New York; it might have better clam chowder and a better collection of universities, too. But bagels? New York has that one in the bag.
Or at least that’s what I thought until I took my first bite of a cinnamon-raisin “T-Rex” at Bagelsaurus, the Porter Square home to what Serious Eats calls “Boston’s Best Bagels.”
Being a purebred New Yorker, when I was approached to write about a bagel place near Harvard with an “awesome” smoked salmon sandwich, I had no choice but to let out a patronizing chuckle (oh, cute, you guys make bagels, too), and then agree to write the piece (damn, there’s a dearth of bagels in my life).
So, I woke up early on a Friday and men- tally prepared myself to join FM Multimedia Executive Alana M. Steinberg for an excur-sion to bakery and café Bagelsaurus, to eat what I was sure would be a series of oversized, gimmicky breakfast sandwiches made by a bunch of Bostonian Philistines.
Boy, was I wrong.
Working toward the goal of creating “the best bagels in Boston and the world, [making] everything from scratch, [and taking] no short-cuts,” Bagelsaurus’s owner, Mary Ting Hyatt, is an artisan of the highest order. And her breakfast sandwiches, made from as many locally-sourced and all-natural ingredients as possible, are equal parts creative and simple.
Eating them, you can’t help but sympa- thize with the sensation a 10-year-old experiences when looking at a Jackson Pollack painting. “I could have done that,” you think, staring at the simple presentation. Well, you (I) didn’t. And you (I) couldn’t have.
But the simplistic nature of Hyatt’s sandwiches makes perfect sense. After all, she cares “first and foremost” about making food that is “super-delicious.” And so, it doesn’t really matter that her bagels look cool (they do) or that she uses buzzwordy ingredients (honey rosemary?). What matters to Hyatt— and what matters to me, when I eat a bagel— is that, after you leave the restaurant, as one diner next to me put it, you “want to pretend like [you’re] still eating that bagel.”
I’ve been playing make-believe since I left. As for the ambiance, Bagelsaurus feels likea place you’d see in HBO’s “Girls.” Armed with simple syrup and hot sauce, pineapple tarts and cauliflower soup, bagels and a high price tag ($2.50 a piece), Bagelsaurus makes you feel like you’re in Brooklyn without having to embody the Brooklyn hipster cliché. It’s the kind of café that has you wondering whether all of the employees are instructed to wear hoodies or if they just happen to share the exact same sense of style.
But the vibe is besides the point; Bagelsaurus is about food. And the sandwiches are truly exceptional. The aforementioned T-Rex, which consists of a bagel of your choosing topped with housemade almond butter, bananas, and bacon, is the kind of breakfast that would have Elvis wishing he had lived through the hipster food boom. The egg and smoked salmon sandwiches were also delectable, even though after eating the T-Rex, I was ready to accept a world of bagels without cream cheese.
“It’s a pretty limited sandwich menu,” Hyatt explained. “But we just wanted to nail all of them.”
Mission accomplished.
Sections
Any self-respecting Philadelphian has gone through a few rites of passage during his or her time in the City of Brotherly Love: Running up the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art like Rocky, booing both our team and the other team at Phillies and Eagles games, gorging on crabfries at Chickie’s and Pete’s. I joined the ranks of Philadelphia’s finest when I ordered those irresistible crabfries (along with a glass of water—pronounced “wooder” where I come from) during a late lunch at Chickie’s and Pete’s in 2009.
My parents and I had the poorly lit place to ourselves until a group of middle-aged guys came sauntering in. Their cool looks and confident struts captured our attention right away. Dressed in leather jackets, these dudes seemed pretty hardcore, but I didn’t have a chance to get a good look at them as they slid into their seats a few tables away. I joked to my parents, “Wouldn’t it be funny if those men are in a famous band, and we had no idea?” Well, those men were in a famous band, and we had no idea. My dad read in the newspaper the next day that Bon Jovi was in town, and I then read that the rocker’s favorite Philadelphia dive is Chickie’s and Pete’s. I put two and two together, and I was beside myself. This was before the days of selfies, but I at least could have nabbed an autograph on my crabfry-encrusted napkin.
The irony of my missed opportunity is that I am fascinated by celebrities and the pop cultural sphere that they inhabit. I spend my free time combing through Twitter to read the musings of my favorite stars and devouring every word of entertainment news articles to learn about the goings-on of B-list actors. No tweet is too inane to spark my curiosity (I’m looking at you, Jaden Smith). No article is too obscure to merit my interest (seriously, I just read an article about the fashion ambitions of Sadie Robertson of “Duck Dynasty”). I especially love picking apart the Hollywood elite’s style decisions, from the chicest of chic (Heidi Klum’s gown at the 2012 Emmy Awards) to the oddest of odd (Keira Knightley’s butterfly-adorned frock at the 2015 Golden Globes). Red carpet season is my Christmas.
Perhaps the most unusual aspect of my obsession with all things pop culture is not the enthusiasm that I devote to it but the extensiveness with which I recall its ins and outs. Dubbed a walking People magazine by my family, I pride myself on remembering every last detail of celebrities’ lives. Wondering what Prince Albert and Princess Charlene of Monaco named their newborn twins? I’m your gal. Can’t remember from whom Hilary Duff just filed for divorce? I’ve got you covered. Curious which dress Sandra Bullock wore the night that she won an Oscar for Best Actress? I’m not one to forget a stand-out design.
When I came to Harvard, I expected to cram my celebrity fix into pockets of extra time, scrolling through tweets in the seven minutes before class starts and reading Us Weekly articles on the shuttle to play practice. But I was downright giddy to discover that Harvard allowed me to bring my interest into the classroom. I loaded my schedule with classes about pop culture, from “Rise of Pop” (my final paper was about “The Rocky Horror Picture Show”) to “Media and Pop Culture” (my final paper was about the rise of the Kardashian empire) to “I Will Survive: Women’s Political Resistance Through Popular Song” (my final paper was about the feminist evolutions of Miley Cyrus and Taylor Swift). I had to pinch myself when my research included listening to Hannah Montana hits that I used to belt out during my preteen years.
Taking these classes helped me answer a question that has plagued me for a long time: Why do I keep up with the Kardashians? Celebrities are not the heroes they portray on the big screen—they are flawed, regular folks who hit it big. So why do I care when they fall in and out of love? Why do I care when they have fashion flubs on the red carpet? Why do I care when they name their children outrageous monikers (don’t think I’ve forgotten you, Apple Martin)?
To me, the fact that celebrities are so normal makes their affairs that much more captivating. The world of pop culture is a microcosm of sociopolitical issues that affect us all. The untimely death of Cory Monteith taught a valuable lesson about the dangers of drug use. David Burtka and Neil Patrick Harris’s beautiful family makes a strong statement in favor of equal rights, and speculation around Bruce Jenner’s possible transition from male to female sparked a national conversation about gender expression. Angelina Jolie brings attention to humanitarian crises across the globe, and Amanda Bynes has become a talking point in the discussion about mental health. The tragic death of Princess Diana shows what can happen when celebrity obsession goes too far.
But on the flip side, I also think that there is nothing wrong with having no good answer to the question of why I keep up with the Kardashians. Maybe I tune into “The Bachelorette” because I enjoy the frivolity of watching vacuous men throw themselves at a glammed-up woman. Maybe I read about Kate Middleton because I am smitten with the romance of a modern-day Cinderella story. Maybe I follow the feuds between Bette Midler and Ariana Grande or Orlando Bloom and Justin Bieber because I view the stupidity of it all as a lighthearted break in my day. While I relish the opportunity that Harvard gives me to think deeply about academic subjects that I care about, like art history and sociology and English, maybe I just think the whole celebrity thing is fun. Sometimes it’s important to just kick back and have fun.
So I’ll keep the sky-high stack of People magazines that I store in my room. I’ll continue reading celebrities’ tweets and scanning entertainment news articles. I’ll recognize pop culture’s place in my life and in society as everything and nothing, as a magnifying glass of profound sociopolitical issues and a delightful way to waste a bit of time. And I’ll make a final plea to Jon Bon Jovi: If you’re reading this, could you please make my seventh-grade dreams come true and send me an autograph on a crabfry-encrusted napkin?
— Emily B. Zauzmer 
Sections
In the past two years, Harvard has welcomed United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, Vice President Joseph R. Biden, and billionaire philanthropist Oprah Winfrey to its hallowed campus. But none of those speak- ers gave students the kind of energy, laughs, or celebrity-student make-out sessions that Keegan-Michael Key did during his “Player of the Year” performance with the Immediate Gratification Players, a Harvard improv comedy group, on Feb. 20.
For hours leading up to the show, hundreds of Harvard students lined the hallways of the Science Center hoping to grab one of Lecture Hall C’s 350 seats. And it’s no wonder. In his Comedy Central show, “Key and Peele,” Key plays some of the funniest characters in sketch comedy, including President Barack Obama’s Anger Translator and substitute teacher Mr. Garvey.
“I’ve been waiting here for two hours, so I now know how it feels to be John Mayer,” I thought I heard one freshman in line say to another, referencing Mayer’s epic ballad, “Waiting on the World to Change.” But I also might have imagined that entire conversation. In the deafeningly loud and paralyzingly crowded corridor outside of the entrance to the performance, there was little opportunity to eavesdrop. This was a Darwinian case of survival of the fittest, and not getting into the show wasn’t an option for me.
When the floodgates (or, more accurately, the blockade set up by police officers) finally opened about 20 minutes before the start of the show, the whole thing turned out to be a rouse. The performance was actually moved to the slightly larger Science Center B, not C, and students had been funneled into the wrong entrance as what felt like a diversion technique, perhaps designed to alleviate the danger of welcoming hundreds of students at once into a lecture hall. The message: Harvard does not put up with Black-Friday-at-Walmart-style lines.
The “plan” worked smoothly, and within minutes, Science Center B, a room traditionally defined by students sleeping in lecture, possessed a level of euphoria generally reserved for a One Direction concert. And the students who didn’t get in? At least they got to watch the Snapchat Stories of those who did, which is basically the same thing, right? (Wrong.)
“I say fire, you say hazard,” one IGP member shouted at the audience, half-jokingly leading a chant on the lack of free space. A fire, however, wasn’t my chief concern; with the number of people packed into that room, I was far more worried about oxygen deprivation.
But when Key walked onstage to a ravenous standing ovation, the only emotion anybody in that room, including neurosis-plagued folks like me, could possibly have felt was jubilation. And for the next 90 minutes, that high-octane, I’m-having-way-too-much-fun-right-now feeling did not dissipate.
Telling stories about Robin Williams and ranting about Kanye West’s baby, imitating food-deprived bodybuilders and at one point literally dropping a microphone, Keegan- Michael Key came to Harvard, and, for lack of a more eloquent expression, lit the place up.
And while he only physically kissed three performers in the show, Key made everyone in the audience feel as though they had experienced something intimate with him.
By the end of the night, with a Harvard diploma and the signature IGP red-and-yellow tie in tow, Key had given hundreds of students an unforgettable evening. The rest? Well, at least they had the Snapchat Stories.
Sections
Too nervous to go on a date alone, FM writers Nicole Levin and Keyon Vafa decided to take their lucky Datamatches on a double date. Braving rejection and social stigma, our FM team emailed all of freshman matches and eventually found some a pair that was willing to date on the record…the record of love.
Below are their respective accounts of the evening.
Nicole and Max
I greet my Datamatch, re-gifted rose in hand (thanks, Sora), in Zinneken's. His name is Max. He’s a freshman. I’m a senior.
“You’re old as fuaaaaak,” he says, his spelling, not mine. “Twenty-one?”
I correct him. “Twenty-two.”
“Ewwww.”
“Don’t worry, it’s regifted,” I tell him, referencing the rose. I don’t want him to think that I am coming on too strong. He asks if I have a significant other as well.
“No,” I say. “It’s from my roommate.”
He has already informed me that he has a girlfriend, and apparently she does not know about the date.
“She won’t care,” he says. I hope that this is true. I guess this makes me the other woman. I kind of like it.
Due to a tragic series of events, we cannot eat at Zinneken's. It’s too full for a double date and I already used my free waffle code on a different Datamatch (who declined joining as a fifth). I thought that the waffles were unlimited. It turns out, they are not.
So we go to Panera, it’s not my favorite place, but they have good soup (theoretically). On the walk there I ask Max if he wants to hold hands. He tells me that he has to walk his bike. He does not use a bike lock. I’m impressed. He’s a risk-taker.
Once at Panera, Keyon and I can’t decide if it’s against Crimson policy to pay for dinner, so we don’t. Plus, I’m still pretty bitter about the lack of unlimited waffles, so I’m not about to shell out the big bucks on two half salads and a cup of soup.
Max doesn’t seem to mind. As he pays for his own meal he offers the cashier a rose. My rose! I scold him. This is not appropriate behavior for a first date at Panera.
The date takes a turn for the worst when Andrej (pronounced Andréj), the waiter, tells me that not only are they out of black bean soup, but also garden vegetable. Max quickly tries to set me up with him when he brings me a salad (my third choice). A consolation prize, I guess, for the lack of soup.
“What time do you get off?” Max asks.
Andrej gets off at midnight. It’s too late for me. It will never work. There is a reason we weren’t matched through a complex algorithm sponsored by the Harvard Computer Society.
Max and I, however, discover over the course of the meal that we have a lot in common. He has a girlfriend. I have girlfriends. He lies and tells me that he is from New Zealand; I love “Flight of the Conchords!” My favorite movie is “Big Fish,” his favorite movie is a pornographic film. We both study Government.
At one point he shows Keyon a photo that he says “will make him puke immediately.” Keyon does not puke.
“What’s it about?” I ask.
“You can have one guess,” Max says. I guess wrong.
There is a lot of mystery. I find it intriguing. Waffles or no waffles, Datamatch works.
At 5:55 Max, says the date is done, he has to get to class. I head to Dunster D-hall for second dinner. Panera never fills me up.
Keyon and Alexis
Like any rational human being, I made sure to stalk both of our dates on Facebook before our meal. My date was a freshman named Alexis, and her profile picture featured her skydiving. She looks fun, I thought. Nicole's date had a cover photo that featured him shirtless in public. A comment calling him a particularly vulgar epithet received 294 likes.
To be honest, I was a little nervous. From her responses to my emails, Alexis seemed cool and congenial, and I didn't want to disappoint her. If I played my cards right, maybe she would take me to Freshman Formal. So, I dressed to impress: wet winter boots, my backpack, and a 2013 Leverett Housing Day t-shirt.
“I actually didn't make any friends during Visitas," Alexis confided in me at the start of the date. Typically, women don't open up to me until I get to know them well. Alexis had opened up to me within minutes. I was smitten.
At the table, the small talk continued. Alexis mentioned she was a part of the Freshman Year Social Committee, which plans Freshman Formal. I was intrigued. Trying to gauge her romantic interests, I asked her how she spent Valentine's Day. "I spent it with a friend in New York," she said. My heart dropped—was she taken? "Not in the romantic sense," she clarified. "And that's why I'm here on a date with my datamatch." Score one for Keyon.
"I want to show you something that will make you puke immediately," Max interrupted, pulling out his phone.
He took out his phone and showed me a picture of his face. A description of the remainder of the photo would be unfit for print in this publication.
I tried to think of the social conventions when presented with such a picture, but nothing came to mind. I followed up with the only possible response. "Do you like Miley Cyrus?" I asked Alexis.
“I actually modeled my hair after her," Max interrupted. He scrolled through his phone, and showed me a tamer picture this time comparing his initial haircut to that of Miley Cyrus's.
I asked Alexis what her favorite movie was. Max shared the title of his favorite film, proceeding to clarify the spelling of the first word of the title, "newb," presumably so we could find it on our own. As the title sounded pornographic in nature, I decided not to look it up.
Alexis laughed uncomfortably. Enough with the small talk, I figured. I needed to take control of the conversation before it got out of hand. I decided to approach the situation with humor, even if it was a riskier move. I came up with the perfect comment.
"I usually wait until my third date to bring up pornographic films!" I responded. Silence. Either my sarcasm didn't translate well, or it just wasn't funny. I didn’t even get an uncomfortable laugh.
Soon, the meal wrapped up. But there was something I needed to bring up. "I remember my Freshman Formal," I suddenly reminisced. It was a force, but I proceeded to tell the story of how I ended up in a party bus with soccer and football players. "If you don't end up with a date, and I don't end up with a date this year, will you take me?" I asked Alexis. I made sure to phrase the question in a way that would allow me to pass it off as a joke in case she wasn't interested.
"Maybe," Alexis responded. That was all I needed to hear.
— Nicole J. Levin and Keyon Vafa
Sections
Elizabeth A. Beverly-Whittemore ’70 considers her relationship with Dr. Robert D. Whittemore II ’69 an anomaly. When Beverly-Whittemore and Whittemore studied in Cambridge, Harvard men normally looked outside the Yard for potential love interests.
“Radcliffe women had the reputation of being…the brain trust,” Beverly-Whittemore explains. “We were actually in classes with these guys and often doing much better than they were academically; we had the reputation of being not nearly as appealing for purposes of dating and mating.”
But Cupid worked his magic just before Valentine’s Day of 1967, and Beverly-Whittemore and Whittemore struck up a romance. On February 7th, they met at a Gilbert and Sullivan Players party, and a week later, Beverly-Whittemore asked her roommate whether she should send him a valentine. “The making of the individual valentine was still a ritual that people didn’t take lightly,” she says. “They might have done it kiddingly or happily, but clearly there was a significance given to it because it opened the doorway to the next step.”
Finally, Beverly-Whittemore made her fateful decision. She recalls “fashioning that valentine to be perfect and then…taking it down to Leverett House and having the man in the booth [give the valentine to Whittemore]—because of course I wasn’t allowed into Leverett House to put it in his mailbox.”
She adds with a laugh, “He obviously knew it had to be me. I of course thought that he must have had many, many young women and girls madly in love with him.” Whittemore in turn sent her a valentine of his own—a piece of fudge with a heart on top. After they exchanged valentines, Whittemore asked Beverly-Whittemore to accompany him to a Rembrandt exhibit at the Museum of Fine Arts. The rest is history.
In the days before Harvard and Radcliffe merged, cross-campus relationships posed a romantic possibility. “We were young women who had been raised on Seventeen magazine,” Beverly-Whittemore says, noting that most of her friends believed in “that idea that you could really meet a soulmate.” She continues, “The sexual revolution, the feminist revolution—those things were actually positively influencing that sense of romance…in terms of lifting gender-prescribed roles and freeing people to be themselves transparently with one another.”
“It was a very different era,” says Candace Gaudiani ’67. “One of the things that we often miss is that it was culturally a lot harder for men and women to just be pals.” Students had the opportunity to forge those not-so-platonic relationships at mixers, one of the few occasions on which men and women mingled outside of the classroom. (Classes became coeducational in 1944 as a response to decreased enrollment during World War II.) Otherwise, male and female students lived separate lives: For example, women resided apart from men in the Radcliffe Quadrangle (now an oft-undesired housing draw for underclassmen), and they were not allowed in Harvard libraries: “We were told...that the sound of our heels or the smell of our perfume would distract the young men from their ability to concentrate on their work,” reports Beverly-Whittemore.
But perhaps the scarcity of Harvard-Radcliffe interactions heightened the sense of romance on campus. Although Gaudiani does not remember any specific Valentine’s Day traditions at Radcliffe, she suggests that every amorous interaction between Harvard men and Radcliffe women felt like February 14. She concludes, “We did fewer things in groups back then, and every date became almost like a Valentine’s [Day] occasion because the man…had to do something to be impressive, to take you out to dinner, to bring you something.”
Sections
Ever gone in for the hug only to be held at arm’s length with a firm handshake?  Ever had your extended hand crushed between two bodies in a gripping embrace?  FM knows that, sometimes, it can just be hard to greet people. We’re here to help. Take our quiz below and get on the path to becoming a socializing extraordinaire.
01) Where are you?A) The dining hall.B) The Science Center Plaza.C) The Institute of Politics, obviously. Where else would I be?D) Widener stacks. For academic reasons, of course.
02) What are you doing?A) Wondering what the “catch of the day” REALLY is.B) Running to get out of the cold as quickly as possible.C) Faking it till I make it.D) Trying to keep the motion-sensor lights from turning off.
03) How do you know this person?A) I might have seen them in CS50 lecture once.B) They’re one of my blockmates.C) I read a summary of their memoir and know they’re only offering 10 internships this summer.D) I don’t.
04) What are they wearing?A) This is not relevant at all.B) This is not relevant at all.C) This is not relevant at all.D) This is not relevant at all.
05) How are you feeling?A) Disappointed.B) Like I want to move out of the Northeast.C) Determined.D) Scared and alone.
If you answered mostly:A’s: Upward nod.Play it cool. You know them, but you don’t KNOW them. Give them a chill greeting and then get up and hunt for those curly fries.
B’s: HUG, DEFINITELY HUG.Not only are they your close friend, but they have body heat! Use them for it. Steal it from them. Then go on your way, feeling warmer inside and out.
C’s: Overly firm handshake.Look them in the eye. Flash them your fakest smile. Then just move around and “network” (whatever that means).
D’s: DNG (Do not greet).You need to stop reading this quiz and get to a safe place.
Sections
This weekend, I auditioned for Identities. I didn’t get it. To be fair, they haven’t told me yet. But I’m assuming that on Wednesday they’ll send me some sort of mailmerge informing that it was really competitive this year...and that a lot of people tried out… and that I should stop trying to add the producers on LinkedIn. I only agreed to audition because I used to be obsessed with “America’s Next Top Model” and wanted to meet Tyra (I was under the false impression that she would be there). Plus, my mom had just told me that I should get out of my comfort zone and try new things—although, in retrospect, I think what she really meant by by “new things” is apply for a job. So, on Friday night at 7 p.m., I show up in my snow boots and leggings. I’m hoping that the girdle-like effect of the spandex would hide all the grapes that I ate for dinner—an entire bag from Star Market (the diet of a model, I assume). Emerson 105 is surprisingly empty. From the far end of the classroom, four girls yell directions like cops at a lineup. Producers, I assume, or HUPD’s gotten new uniforms. They do look fashionable, but that could be just because they’re far away and I’m not wearing my glasses.After I check in, one girl takes my photo. I want to make sure that the shadows don’t give the appearance that I have a mustache, but she won’t let me see it. I’m going for a Lindsay Lohan-like mugshot. The directions are simple. “You’re going to walk twice,” the blurry figure of executive producer Susannah L.R. Maybank ’15 instructs: Once to a slow song, once to a fast song, and then we strike a pose at the second row of seats. I watch as one guy, the only other auditioner, walks up and down the classroom in boots. I have to wear heels. Putting them on is a little awkward, if only because I keep telling the girl who checked me in how bad my feet smell. I’m not worried about walking in a straight line. I have my orthopedics heels, Clarks, which are about one inch high and padded. I bought them in the old women’s section of Macy’s. They were on sale.The pose is what had worried me. “You shouldn’t smile,” my friend informed me before the audition. “Try to look angry.” The most I could manage was a middle finger. “Don’t do that,” she said, “Try putting your hands on your hips.” So I do that. At least, I think. Somehow I have no recollection of what happened, but after I walk up and down the classroom Susannah interrupts and tells me not to look at her. “Everyone laughs when they look at us.” She says. “Look at the corner of the room.” I didn’t realize I had laughed. I hope I didn’t cackle. I walk a second time. I imagine each judge critiquing me on a Google Doc. Is she wearing yoga pants? Her stomach looks flat, but almost unnaturally so, like she’s wearing Spanx for old people? Yeah, a panty girdle. That’s what their called? Do you smell something foul? No, that’s not a mustache, those are just shadows. I also heard rumors that if they are considering you they ask you to repeat the process. But they ask nothing else of me, not even where I get my shoes. Instead, they say that they will let me know Wednesday. I laugh in the general direction of the corner of the room. I should have applied for a job.
Sections
The following letters have been arranged to describe a completely imaginary scenario inspired by the recent real emails from Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde. Please do not attempt to receive consultation from Lassonde regarding your recent decision to bring a winter guide into your life.
The winter guide peels off our ice-encrusted blindfolds. We blink in the sudden wash of light that overwhelms our delicate senses. The sun reflects off the frozen crust of snow covering the earth, illuminating the dark structure that looms before us. A sophisticated array of equipment juts off of the roof, stretching into the sky like a twisted, metal cobweb. The guide turns to us and says, “He will see you now.”Ben swallows audibly. “Phillip, I don’t think we’re in Harvard anymore.”Gaining an audience with the mighty Local Emergency Management Team Leader Supreme, All-Knowing Weather Aficionado Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde was not easy. But after months of negotiations, weeks of planning, and days of travel we have arrived at his hidden base armed with little more than a manila folder of email warnings and a vague image of the man behind the curtain.Stephen Lassonde has his back to us as we enter. We stomp the impossible Boston winter off our boots onto his decorative doormat displaying the helpful message, “Please be sure to cover all exposed areas to prevent frostbite.” His lair is impressive; the walls are lined with screens linked to all the weather channels, and he sits behind an impressive control panel with buttons ranging from Shuttle Service and HUDS to Make-Up Exams and Student Activities.Phillip clears his throat to break the silence. “Mr. Lassonde, we appreciate you taking time out of your busy schedule to see us.” He, Stephen Lassonde, gives us a weary look. “There is a weather emergency, and you should exercise caution when traveling. Please wear the appropriate clothing including: winter coats, hats, gloves/mittens, boots, etc.” Ben smiles nervously and gives Phillip a sidelong glance. “Sure, uh, thanks for the tip. We were just wondering, well, I mean, the people were wondering…” Stephen Lassonde stares back with all-knowing eyes. The tension in the room is thick enough to cut with a knife. “Anyways, what does it take for school to get canceled?”“Winds gusting to 30 miles per hour and temperatures below zero.” The reply is snappy, almost rehearsed.“Wow, it does have to be pretty cold,” says Phillip, squirming uncomfortably under Stephen Lassonde’s intense stare. “Hey, aren’t the temperatures tomorrow supposed to drop that low?”His eyes flit briefly to one of the monitors, but we are at once overwhelmed with the impression that it’s all just for show. Stephen Lassonde doesn’t need to consult the news for his forecast. “Monday and Tuesday mornings’ temperatures will be below zero, with windchills reaching below -25 degrees, so please be very careful when you go outside.”“Of course! We wouldn’t think of being anything but careful,” Ben replies cautiously. “So, will school be canceled tomorrow?” Without speaking, Stephen Lassonde looks down at his control panel and begins pressing the buttons. There is a sense of grace and poise that undercuts each motion. In this moment he, Stephen Lassonde, seems more conductor than Dean. One of the screens turns to a real-time video feed of Harvard Yard. When his long, slender finger comes down on the button label Shuttle Services, we see the buses immediately screech to a halt.Our phones buzz with an email, “University Closed Tomorrow PLEASE READ.” When we look back up, Stephen Lassonde has turned away, his attention focused on the flickering screens and eldritch controls that lie in front of him. Our time is up. As the cold fabric is lowered over our eyes, we hear one last haunting refrain.“Dear Harvard College Students, please don’t hesitate to call me, Stephen Lassonde. Sincerely, Stephen Lassonde, Dean of Student Life.”
Sections
Walking into Sanders, no one quite knows what to make of the scene. The hall that has in its time hosted heads of state, great debaters, dignitaries, scholars, and presidents, is now blasting Enrique Iglesias. While the music calls for a mosh pit, the audience is reserved, but a buzz of excitement swells in the air. “I hear she’s sweet,” one girl whispers to her friend, who replies, “I hope she dresses like she did on Desperate Housewives.”
When the name Eva Longoria is mentioned, some gab about who her character cheated with two seasons ago and if that dress color was really the right choice at the Emmys last year. Not often enough is her name brought into conversation with higher education, philanthropy, and cultural awareness. Thankfully, those in charge of Cultural Rhythms didn’t just cast her off as a good reason to waste a few hours on Lifetime reruns Sunday afternoons. They did their research and in turn discovered an intelligent, well-informed activist who has something to give to Harvard.
Before attending this event, I have no idea what exactly I’m in for. And apparently I’m not alone. While many official-looking people show up in suits, skirts, and other painfully appropriate business casual attire, most of the students (particularly freshmen) don’t get the dress code memo. “There are a lot of people dressed in nice clothes here,” one sweatpants-clad girl observes. “To be honest, I’m not even wearing a bra right now.”
After another 20 minutes of Enrique, our student hosts run out, one wearing a sherwani to reflect his South Asian and Bengali heritage, the other draped in a fleur de lis patterned shawl indicative of her Creole ancestry. They introduce the MC as someone who’s on our dollar bills, and I immediately think a George Washington costume is headed our way. Alas, no costume, but, fortunately, something better. Rosie Rios, Treasurer of the United States, gracefully struts out, and she serves as a poised and impressive middleman between student performances. Maybe next week Joe Biden can host the Acapella Jam?
After a lot more chutzpah and some skillfully edited montages, Eva finally makes her grand entrance. Dressed in a sleek grey cocktail dress and six-inch heels with subtly bright red soles, she emerges smiling, sophisticated, and humble. As she watches performance after performance, her grin never fades, the Louboutins relaxing elegantly beneath her grandiose chair. It’s pretty difficult to seem down-to-earth when sitting atop a throne on display in Sanders, but she manages well. In her remarks, she mentions her mother, upbringing, and, most touchingly, her sister, who is developmentally disabled. She reflects upon how her personal connection to this issue inspired her to start Eva’s Heroes, a charity that provides stability to those in such a position. After accepting her award, Eva unfortunately rushes out, racing a blizzard to catch her plane back to Hollywood. Thanks, Snowpocalypse.
As I glance from the sherwani to the sweats to the stilettos, I can’t help but appreciate the array of students, faculty, and locals who otherwise would never find themselves in the same room on a Saturday at four o’clock. As mentioned in the opening speeches, we are “one Harvard.” The diversity, from ethnicity to age to interests to outfit, is undeniable. And isn’t that the point of Cultural Rhythms?
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In response to Muslim students’ requests for healthier halal protein options, Harvard University Dining Services began serving halal chicken on the grill menu in all dining halls last week. Halal chicken will eventually serve as the only halal meat at the grill, once supplies for halal hamburgers and hotdogs run out, according to HUDS spokesperson Crista Martin.
“In the last year or two, students have expressed an interest in seeing chicken, rather than hamburgers and hot dogs, as the halal option,” Martin wrote in an email.
Shaiba Rather ’17 sent out a survey last October to Muslim students at the College to gauge whether their dietary and religious needs were being met.
Rather said she had received responses from about 70 percent of the Muslim population, and results showed that students wanted healthier protein options.
“What we saw was that people were not actually eating the hamburgers and hot dogs that were being provided by HUDS,” Rather said. “The comments were telling us that people essentially were refusing to eat processed foods as a protein.”
Rather said she took the results of the survey and asked HUDS administrators about the possibility of offering halal grilled chicken. With the addition of another item on the grill menu, HUDS had limited menu space and will consequently stop serving halal hamburgers and hotdogs, according to Martin.
“Operationally we couldn’t just add to the existing menu (nor was there enough demand to keep the old items); financially, we couldn’t also just add to the cost of offerings,” she wrote.
However, the halal grilled chicken does cost more than the halal hamburger and hotdog options.
“It actually costs more to serve chicken. So it was a cost increase, not a cost decrease,” said Martin T. Breslin, HUDS’s director of culinary operations. “Having too many items on the grill makes it too difficult to manage.”
The change in offerings has been met with enthusiasm, according to both Breslin and Rather.
“We are seeing the volume increase with the halal chicken right away,” Breslin said. “In Adams House, we have seen that what students have ordered in chicken versus what they would have ordered in hamburgers and hotdogs has doubled.”
—Staff writer Jill E. Steinman can be reached at jill.steinman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @jillsteinman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Martha M. Coakley, the first female attorney general of Massachusetts, argued that media coverage can jeopardize a defendant’s right to a fair trial during a "Freshman Luncheon and Discussion” event on Wednesday.
The discussion was part of a series organized by the Institute of Politics and the Freshman Dean’s Office to expose College students to ethical issues.
While there is a need to protect the right of the press, Coakley said, media coverage can influence the actions of both juries and attorneys, possibly resulting in an unfair trial.
Coakley provided an example of this First Amendment issue, citing the case of Sheppard v. Maxwell in 1966. Sheppard served 12 years in jail before the Court overturned the case because they decided that media coverage had not allowed for a fair trial.
“Media watches what prosecutors do,” she said. “We worry about that kind of influence.”
Coakley said, however, that the proliferation of news sources in recent history may have alleviated the dangers posed by the media.
“There’s actually less concentrated media around particular cases,” she said. “There’s so much news that has been decentralized… I think that’s helpful.”
Wednesday’s event was was held in the house of Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67. Past luncheons in this series include “Ethics of Medical Research” and “Should College Student Athletes Be Paid?”
“We’ve been trying to offer opportunities for freshmen to meet interesting people in the community,” Dingman said. “We’ve been asking our guests to address ethical issues, thinking our own students will be facing difficult issues.”
The discussion, which was lotteried to include 15 freshmen, attracted students with a wide variety of interests. Luncheon participant Cameron W. Akker ’18 said he enjoyed hearing Coakley’s personal experiences.
“The stuff we learned during that hour—there isn’t a class for it,” he said.
—Staff writer Annie E. Schugart can be reached at annie.schugart@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @AnnieSchugart.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Jodi Goldstein, director of the Harvard Innovation Lab, was named Wednesday the i-Lab’s new managing director, the highest position within the organization. She will replace Gordon S. Jones, who is leaving Harvard for Boise State’s new innovation college in June.
Goldstein, who has been at the i-Lab since its inception in 2011, will assume her new position at the end of the academic year. The i-Lab, located in Allston, is a cross-disciplinary facility that serves Harvard students interested in innovation and entrepreneurship. In an interview earlier this month, Jones said approximately 3,800 students made use of the i-Lab in the past year.
“I feel like we are still in the infancy of our development, and I’m looking forward to further developing the programs that we started,” Goldstein said. “It’s a nice time to step back and reimagine a version 2.0 of the i-Lab… and what this last iteration will be.”
Goldstein said in the coming months she will discuss the future of the i-Lab with Jones and the i-Lab staff. Jones said he is confident in his appointed successor’s ability to lead the i-Lab.
“[Goldstein’s] strength in the startup community and passion for Boston and Harvard students in particular is going to really serve the lab well as it moves forward into its next chapter,” Jones said, adding that Goldstein was a “natural choice” for the selection committee, which was composed of various deans and Provost Alan M. Garber ’76.
Jones said he and Goldstein share ideological similarities, but he also emphasized her unique skills. “Her own imprint will show itself over time,” Jones said.
While new plans for the i-Lab are still in the development stage, Goldstein said she will work to strengthen the platform already established at the i-Lab, making the facility more adept at “resourcing from a larger population” and encouraging heightened entrepreneurial activity on campus. Goldstein said she and the i-Lab team are looking forward to further “productizing” their offerings to better measure the i-Lab’s value.
According to Goldstein, the selection committee has not yet named her replacement as i-Lab director.
—Staff writer Ignacio Sabate can be reached at ignacio.sabate@thecrimson.com . Follow him on Twitter @TheIggySabate.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A gender equity campaign spearheaded by the Undergraduate Council and inspired by a United Nations campaign, underwent a name change earlier last week. It is now called "Side by Side," deviating from the UN’s campaign name HeForShe.
According to campaign project manager and Mather House representative Michelle S. Lee ’16, the change to the campaign occurred mainly because students and administrators felt that “HeForShe” implied that gender is a binary, an idea from which the campaign seeks to stray, she said. Lee, an inactive Crimson news editor, said the UC consulted various administrators such as Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana and College Director of BGLTQ Student Life Van Bailey, who supported the name change.
“It’s critical that we include all genders in the conversation for creating an inclusive campus environment,” Bailey said.
Lee told UC representatives at the Council’s general meeting on Sunday that other than the name change, plans for the campaign would continue as previously planned. The UC has reached out to student group leaders via email about the campaign.
“[We] desire to create something that we as a Harvard campus could take ownership of and that everyone could feel like they were part of,” Lee said. “The name HeforShe just didn't quite fulfill that mission.”
The UC is hosting a campaign launch event on March 2, which will feature former CEO of Planned Parenthood Gloria Feldt and former Miss America 2014 pageant winner Nina Davuluri.
—Staff writer Jalin P. Cunningham can be reached at jalincunningham@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @JalinCunningham.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Undergraduates are organizing to create a chapter of international fraternity Delta Kappa Epsilon, marking a potential increase in the already growing number of Greek organizations at the College.
Last October, the fraternity’s headquarters approved the creation of a colony at Harvard, according to Eric S. Holland, a chapter consultant and adviser for DKE at Harvard. Shortly thereafter, the colony initiated eight Harvard undergraduates and one graduate student as members at MIT’s branch, according to Jimmie Hill ’18, the president of the new colony.
Hill said the group has met with fraternity alumni in recent months to organize the colony, which is currently in the process of recruiting additional students on a rolling basis—three are now pledging—and eventually submitting an application to become a chapter.
If approved, the move would reactivate DKE’s “alpha” chapter at the College, which undergraduates founded in 1851, according to the fraternity's website, but whose charter was revoked in the early 1890s following disputes over dual membership.
Hill said he hopes the reintroduction of the near 200-year-old fraternity at Harvard would allow for a new and diverse group of members.
“We don’t want to resurrect this dinosaur. We don’t want to be your grandfather’s fraternity,” Hill said. “We live in a new world and we want to address the new issues at hand.”
Hill said DKE hopes to solicit alumni help in securing property, with the hope of making the fraternity a “permanent part of Harvard.”
Hill added that the group hopes to differentiate itself from existing social organizations at the College by emphasizing diversity and service to the larger Cambridge and Boston areas.
Several fraternities already exist at the College, including Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Chi, Alpha Epsilon Pi, and Kappa Sigma, which was re-established last year.
“We are a fraternity by definition, yes, but when it comes to actually giving back, performing in the community, I’d feel we’re much more than that,” he said.
Some chapters of DKE have come under national criticism in recent years, particularly at Yale, which hosted the first chapter of the fraternity. In 2011, Yale levelled a five year ban against its DKE chapter after prospective members reportedly chanted controversial phrases, the Yale Daily News reported.
Despite a recent growth in their presence in undergraduate life, Harvard does not recognize many social clubs, including fraternities, sororities, and final clubs. On the broader topic of single-gender student organizations, now-Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana told The Crimson in 2011 that he was “always suspicious of a club that builds itself on gendered exclusivity.”
Associate Dean of Student Life David R. Friedrich wrote in an email that the College does not recognize fraternities or sororities, but “expects students to create safe social environments that are characterized by inclusion, personal responsibility, and care for others.”
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Spurred by racially charged emailed death threats that hundreds of students received last semester, the College is beginning the process of redesigning its current bias reporting system, according to Emelyn A. dela Peña, the College’s assistant dean of student life for equity, diversity, and inclusion.
Two committees, one focusing on the community response aspect and one focusing on bias reporting infrastructure, will lead the process for changing the system beginning before spring break, dela Peña said.
“We know that something needs to change; we know that our current system is incomplete,” dela Peña added. “When the email threats happened, we realized that the current bias reporting system we had was really designed for one-on-one interaction… but we didn’t have a mechanism for reporting something that happened to hundreds of people at the same time from one person who was not even a part of the College.”
Among the potential changes are the creation of an email address and website to increase students’ access to bias reporting resources and the ability to anonymously report an incident, according to dela Peña.
However, dela Peña cautioned that the process will take time so that the College can figure out how to be responsible with the anonymous information it receives, including the possible legal implications that accompany it.
The process will begin with a meeting of faculty, students, and staff who will meet as a team before spring break through the end of this semester. They will then discuss designing a committee that will respond to incidents of bias that addresses both the immediate community that was targeted, as well as Harvard affiliates at large.
The recommendations for how to constitute that permanent “community building” committee will likely be released this fall, according to dela Peña, though administrators hope the committee will continue to meet monthly.
The redesign of the formal bias reporting system will begin with meetings later this semester, and will also be lead by a team of students, faculty, and staff. However, that team will likely release their recommendations by next spring and will dissolve afterwards, dela Peña said.
“Creating new infrastructure for the College, it’s kind of a big deal,” dela Peña added. “We also want to do our due diligence in terms of before we roll out a complete system that we have the buy in of the students that will be using it.”
—Staff writer Ivan B. K. Levingston can be reached at Ivan.Levingston@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @IvanLevingston.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ahead of a policy change set to formally universalize gender-neutral housing options for upperclassmen this spring, all 12 Houses and the Dudley Cooperative already offer their students mixed-gender suites, although the process for requesting such housing arrangements varies from House to House.
The Faculty of Arts and Sciences voted last spring to adopt changes to the Harvard College Handbook for Students to allow all upperclassmen to request mixed-gender rooming groups, no matter in which House they reside. The policy change, which came after students lobbied for the effort, will take effect with the spring’s upcoming rooming lotteries, according to Associate Dean of Student Life William Cooper ’94.
At the time of the Faculty vote, the majority of Houses had already opted into a pilot program, which the College originally launched in 2011, relaxing logistical limitations on which rooms could serve as gender-neutral suites.
According to Van Bailey, the College’s director of BGLTQ student life, the process of requesting gender-neutral housing varies from House to House, just as their rooming lotteries differ, although his office does not currently have information on the rooming situation in each House.
In Lowell House, according to House Administrator Elizabeth G. Terry, there is no formal application to request a mixed-gender suite; students ask Terry before the spring rooming lottery or their housing assignments. In Leverett House, students need not formally request to form a mixed-gender rooming group, but they are required to fill out a contract if there are no locks on bedroom or bathroom doors within their suite, according to House Master Howard M. Georgi ’68.
Cooper wrote in an email that most House rooms and suites will be available for gender-neutral housing once the policy takes effect, although students should discuss details with their own House administrators.
Because House rooming lotteries will not take place until later this spring, the Office of Student Life will not tally how many total students are in gender-neutral housing across the Houses or assess how effective the system has been until “late August at the earliest,” Cooper wrote.
However, he wrote that Houses that had been part of the pilot program reported positive experiences.
“We’re eager for this option to be to be available throughout the Houses,” Cooper wrote.
Now that administrators are implementing universal gender-neutral housing in the Houses, some students are pushing to increase mixed-gender housing options for freshmen.
“I think that gender-neutral [housing] for freshmen should be of the utmost importance to the University and should be where it heads next,” said W. Powell Eddins ’16, a former co-chair of Queer Students and Allies.
According to Michael C. Ranen, a freshman resident dean for Ivy Yard, administrators at the Freshman Dean’s Office have discussed gender-neutral housing. “Right now, [gender-neutral housing is] on an individual basis, but we’re constantly discussing best practices and what should be done moving forward,” Ranen said. “We’re following the trend of the Houses.”
Ranen added, however, that there are some challenges to implementing gender-neutral housing that are unique to freshmen, such as students’ younger age, their adjustment to a new college environment, and the FDO’s practice of assigning roommates.
Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde said in an interview early this month that the OSL expects to comprehensively assess and make recommendations regarding gender-neutral housing to the Houses once the policy has been implemented for several more semesters.
—Staff writer Kristina D. Lorch can be reached at klorch@college.harvard.edu.
—Staff writer Quynh-Nhu Le can be reached at quynhnhu.le@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @qnhule.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: March 1, 2015, at 3:28 a.m.
There is a delicate balance between preserving individual rights and protecting public health when it comes to vaccines, experts argued at a panel discussion at Harvard Law School on Wednesday.
In the wake of the recent outbreak of measles in California, the panel emphasized the need for Americans to be more informed in their decisions for or against vaccination. While allowing an opt-out option to remain in place, the panel proposed making the opt-out process for vaccines more difficult.
By making the process of refusal lengthier and requiring discussions with a doctor, Nir Eyal, a professor at Harvard Medical School, said public health officials could encourage compliance with current vaccination mandates.
George J. Annas, a professor at Boston University, said that, ironically, a reduced sense of urgency has emerged around vaccinations, as vaccinations have proved successful in lowering incidence of disease.
“The perceived risk of the disease is very small, and that’s a challenge when the person making the decision doesn’t understand the risk,” Annas said. “In some ways, the measles vaccine is an example of doing too good a job.”
Annas spoke of achieving “herd immunity,” the point at which a critical mass of vaccinated individuals protects the susceptible few. At that point, public health is protected, and the minority of Americans opting out of vaccination can exercise their philosophical disagreements.
“We can have both autonomy and public health... as long as 90 percent-plus Americans continue to vaccinate their kids,” Annas said.
Panel event organizer Holly F. Lynch, executive director of the Petrie-Flom Center for Health Law Policy, Biotechnology, and Bioethics at the Law School, said the prevailing culture of maintaining polite conversation can complicate the push for vaccination in some circles.
“I’m wondering if there’s a way that we can get past this politeness and really get down to brass tacks of what people are doing when they refuse to vaccinate their kids,” Lynch said. “There’s this challenge between respecting people’s decisions, but calling them on it when their decisions may be underinformed in some way.”
—Staff writer Gabrielle M. Williams can be reached at gabrielle.williams@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @GabWilliams23.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While waiting at a bus stop on the 600th block of Cambridge Street Tuesday night, a man was allegedly stabbed twice by a teenage male, according to Cambridge Police Department spokesperson Jeremy Warnick. Minutes after the incident was reported, Cambridge Police located the suspect, a 17-year-old, blocks from the scene and arrested him, blood on his hands.
The incident occurred at about 9:29 p.m. Tuesday. The victim, a 30-year-old Boston resident, was allegedly approached from behind and stabbed in the lower back and buttocks by an individual who fled the scene.
“There appears to be no sort of association between the [suspect] and the victim,” Warnick said, describing the stabbing as a “random incident.”
When officers arrived on the scene, they found the victim in a nearby restaurant, according to Warnick. It is unknown whether restaurant staff or the victim himself alerted authorities of the incident, he said. The victim sustained non-life-threatening wounds and was sent to the hospital and released later Tuesday evening.
Officers found the suspect in the doorway of an unoccupied Thorndike Street building and arrested him, detaining him overnight, according to Warnick.
—Staff writer Brooke A. Bourgeois can be reached at brooke.bourgeois@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @bro_bourgeois.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Ugly winter weather and a tough day on defense appeared ready to undo the Harvard men’s lacrosse team last week against UMass, but a frantic fourth quarter comeback now has the Crimson (1-0) off on the right foot to start its 2015 campaign.
Instead of bemoaning a fourth straight loss to the Minutemen, No. 13/10 Harvard will enter its Saturday road matchup with two-time defending national champion No. 6/6 Duke (3-1) looking to build on that gritty victory and pull off a season-sparking upset.
In previous seasons, the teams have scheduled this tilt for late March, during the heart of the regular season, after both had already shaken off the rust.
Because Harvard starts its season later due to Ivy League restrictions on practice schedules, its opening out of conference games often pit the Crimson against teams who are weeks further into their seasons.
“They have spent more hours, but we are confident in our system, our coaching staff and our team,” captain goalkeeper Jake Gambitsky said. “We think we’re as prepared as we can be to play them this weekend.”
Despite its abbreviated preseason preparation, heading down to Durham a month earlier this year may actually prove advantageous for the Crimson. Duke has become notorious for starting slow under head coach John Danowski, often dropping a handful of games early before coming on strong to close the season.
If Harvard hopes to take advantage of this trend and beat the Blue Devils, its defense must contain the dangerous Duke offensive midfield, considered one of the best units in the country. The group is lead by juniors Myles Jones and Deemer Class, who combined for 128 points last season on their way to All-America honors.
“I think communication is the biggest piece, taking away their strong hands, forcing them to be a bit uncomfortable with their weak hands,” Gambitsky said. “We’ll just rely on our long pole midfielders... put a lot of trust in them and support them when they need it.”
Jones in particular was stellar for Duke during its run to the national championship, earning a place on the NCAA All-Tournament team. Entering this season, his name has frequently appeared in the national player of the year conversation, and he has validated that hype so far by notching 24 points through the Blue Devils’ first four games.
Staff writer Phil Delamater can be reached at philipdelamater@college.harvard.edu.­
Another player off to a hot start this season is junior attackman Deke Burns, who carried the Crimson offensively against UMass, netting a career-high seven goals on just nine shots.
If their performance against the Minutemen is any indication of what’s to come, the attackmen of the junior class have asserted themselves as Harvard’s go-to offensive options, as Devin Dwyer, WillWalker, and Ian Ardrey combined for five goals to give the group 12 of the Crimson’s 14 total goals.
With an offense that can clearly put up points, possession will be a major factor for Harvard this weekend. Sophomore Austin Williams had a strong performance at the faceoff X against UMass, going 16 for 28 and recording an assist. His battle with senior Jack Rowe and sophomore Kyle Rowe could have a large role in determining the outcome of Saturday’s contest. The brothers have combined to win 56.8 percent of their draws in Duke’s three wins but won just 27.3 percent in the Blue Devils’ loss to Denver.
Although Duke holds a 14-4 lead in the all-time series between the two programs, the Crimson must merely look to last week’s games for inspiration in overcoming history.
The Minutemen held a 32-13 all-time lead over Harvard heading into last week’s matchup, while Ivy League rival Yale beat lacrosse blueblood Maryland for the first time since 1925 to spur a 5-1 weekend for the Ancient Eight.
“[The Blue Devils] are a very well-coached team and they combine that with great athleticism and talent. It’s always going to be a very challenging game,” Harvard coach Chris Wojcik '96 said. “We’re going to have to play our best game to date to beat them.”
If the Crimson can best the Blue Devils in Durham on Saturday, it would merely solidify what many college lacrosse followers already know: the Ivy League is a force to be reckoned with.
—Staff writer Phil Delamater can be reached at philipdelamater@college.harvard.edu.­
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
­Just four weeks ago, the Harvard men’s basketball team (19-5, 9-1 Ivy) walked out of Lavietes Pavilion, its home court, and into an air of doubt. For a team that had been placed by the Associated Press in the preseason Top 25—the first time an Ivy League team garnered the honor since the 1974-1975 season—losing in Cambridge to Dartmouth was an upset, to say the least.
Fast-forward one month. The Crimson has rattled off eight straight wins, swept Penn and Princeton, and now sits alone atop the Ancient Eight.
Though Harvard has already beaten both Columbia (13-11, 5-5) and Cornell (12-14, 4-6), penciling in another perfect weekend for the Crimson would be ill-advised.
Two weeks ago, Harvard handled the Big Red. Dominating on the glass and in the paint, the Crimson turned a one-possession deficit at the half into a 21-point blowout win.
Stifling Cornell to just 23.9 percent shooting from the floor, Harvard held senior Shonn Miller to just 10 points, an off-night for a forward that drops 16 a game.
“It’s a tough matchup because he plays on the base line yet has perimeter skills,” Crimson coach Tommy Amaker said of Miller on Wednesday. “He shoots the ball from three, and we will do the best we can.”
Miller will enter Friday’s contest hot off of a 27-point performance against Brown last weekend. As a result, if Harvard is able to once again contain Miller, scoring may once again be scarce for Cornell.
While Friday’s matchup may not appear so daunting, it is the game that will take place 24 hours later that could really test Amaker’s squad. The last time the Crimson traveled to New York City, it took two overtimes, 22 points from junior captain Siyani Chambers and captain Steve Moundou-Missi, and 19 points from Wesley Saunders in order to get the win.
“Our league is hard,” Amaker admonished. “And that second night is brutal.”
Facing statistically the best defensive team in the league, an already sold-out crowd at Levien Gymnasium, and a team hungry for revenge, Harvard cannot afford to fall behind early to the Lions.Preventing that from happening will fall on the shoulders of junior swingman Wesley Saunders. Saunders is coming off a weekend in which he averaged 19 points, four assists, and seven rebounds, earning him his third Ivy League Player of the Week honor this year.
This season, the Crimson has gone how Saunders, its reigning Ivy League Player of the Year, has gone. While slow starts have plagued Harvard all year long, Saunders has emerged as a Superman figure with big second half performances to save the day.
“We have a couple of games where we haven’t played very well on the offensive end in the first half,” Amaker said. “We need some help and a spark, and our kids have dug in a lot deeper.”
Though Saunders has continually come to the rescue, it has been senior forward Jonah Travis that has sparked the Crimson off of the bench. After starting a couple of games at the beginning of the season, Travis has become a vital asset to Amaker off of the bench.
During Harvard’s current win streak, Travis is averaging nearly 8.75 points and 4.25 rebounds per game, all in the role of reserve. When the Crimson nearly squandered a 17-point lead against Columbia in their matchup earlier this season, the eight points from Travis off the bench in the second half alone proved to be vital.
“It always helps to have guys come in like that; the rest of us can feed off that energy,” sophomore shooting guard Corbin Miller said of Travis after a game against Boston College this year. “It is important that we have a player that can come in and do it for us. The rest of us definitely feed off that.”
Defensively, the key to stopping Columbia will be shutting down junior guard Maodo Lo. Lo dropped 22 points against Harvard the last time out, and the Berlin-native just posted a 53-point weekend over his last two matchups.
Amaker’s go-to for stopping high-scorers like Lo this season has been a combination of looks, including Saunders, Chambers, and Junior Agunwa Okolie.
With just four contests left in the season-long tournament that is the Ivy League, Amaker is not taking anything for granted.
“It’s a long horse race,” he said, “and it still is.”
—Staff writer Andrew Farber can be reached at andrew.farber@thecrimson.com.­
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections

Dear Lonely Classmates of Harvard,
Welcome to the first re-vamped edition of Listen Up! After a short hiatus, we’re back on Flyby, this time with wiser, older (freshman) columnists in the form of Caie and Will.  We’ve been looking forward to hearing about the many struggles of the average college student here, and from the questions you’ve submitted, we haven’t been disappointed. From section crushes to inappropriate crushes to burgeoning real-life romance crushes, love is certainly in the air at Harvard, and in the name of all things Datamatch, we’re going to tackle these problems first:
I met a guy for 5 minutes last semester, and I immediately started crushing. He added me on Facebook over break, but we've had no contact otherwise - I don't even think we have any friends in common. How should I proceed? I really want to spend time with him. 
Okay, there are a couple of ways to tackle this. First of all, utilize the network that is Harvard! Find him on Harvard’s Facebook, track down any and all mutual friends (they don’t need to be reaaaal friends) via Mark Zuckerberg’s Facebook, and then use his @college.harvard email account to spam his inbox with invitations to attend “the largest science research conference” where he can “explore all the cutting-edge developments in the universe” aka you. After all, the real connections that last are from the people who send you so many emails that you’ve literally created a filter so that you don’t have to hear about their latest conference/performance/event/party/accomplishment.
Also, a classic excuse to chat if you see him is the Bump ‘N’ Chat™. When you see him in the Yard physically bump into him and then say “Hey, how are you?” Doing this immediately creates an excuse for casual conversation, a d-hall date, and maybe even his digits.
We really think the key here is to make yourself noticed– alternate your time between the d-halls and Lamont, and keep posting to Snapchat’s Campus story until all anyone ever gets to see are pictures of you wailing about your psets, falling into snow, or dancing around your dorm room. Submit to the Harvard Crush page fun facts about yourself, write a Harvardyak about how hot you are, and practice your bend-and-snaps in the Science Center. If Elle Woods could do it, so can you.
There is a cute girl in my entryway that I like, but I am afraid to make a move because I don't want to risk getting shut-down and then have to see her again all the time. Thoughts?
This one’s a tricky one. Entryway-cest is normally not recommended, because even though Harvard’s not high school, word still gets around and Harvard kids still often have nothing better to do than spread the news of who-is-hooking-up-with-whom. Our best recommendation is to take it slow. Since you probably know other girls in her entryway, field out some questions to her roommates/suitemates relating to what she thinks about you. Become even better friends with her, and see how it develops. If she’s not responding, try taking it to the next level by grabbing a meal with her in the dining hall. Show off your smooth moves as you seductively eat your swai-and-brown-rice combo, and then round out the night with a trip to the free ice-skating rink. Free ice-skating and dining hall food? Now that’s the secret to long-lasting love.
I have a crush on a guy but I am afraid that he thinks I friend-zoned him. I am not good with making the first move, but I really think he is special. How do I see what's going on in his head without potentially damaging the friendship?
Ah, the beloved friend-zone. There’s actually a really easy solution to this: fielding! Since you guys are good enough friends to be in the (debatably) magical land that is the “zone,” ask them about what he thinks of you and make it clear to them how you feel about him (don’t get too vague with words, ain’t nobody got time for that). If they don’t know, they will ask. We promise. At the same time, if we were you, we’d consider trapping him with the infamous 36 questions that have never ended with two people who aren’t in love. You can drop them casually and intermittently, like, “Oh hey, I see you’re working on your pset. How do you feel about your relationship with your mother?” or “Cute sweater! Of all the people in your family, whose death would you find most disturbing?”
My roommate doesn't use deodorant and smells disgusting. How do I encourage her to use hygiene products without explicitly stating that she smells bad?
Casually recommend that your roommate that read this Flyby post, and we’ll do the dirty work for you with a beautiful poem:
Dear Roommate, you’re really very nice, but your smell is a vice. Stop making me fear of lice, because I really don’t want to pay the price of having mice, or having a roommate who also operates as a contraceptive device. What I’m really trying to say is that it’d be as cool as ice if you just WORE DEODORANT.
Is it okay to ask an older girl out or is that still weird?
It’s only weird if you make it weird, so you do you. Just be confident. Honestly, with gap years, PG years, and skipped grades, you will find people at this school ages 14-25 (not even kidding, look at the hockey team.)
That’s all for now! Come back soon for our next installment of Listen Up!
Love,
Caie & Will
Submit your problems HERE!
Sections
Attention all lovers,
And by “lovers” I mean anyone who has ever been in love, feels passionately about love, or even knows how to spell the word love. The New York Times Modern Love College Essay Contest is on! This contest asks college students around the globe to write an essay depicting their interpretation of love. This contest, which has only happened two times in the past seven years, will offer $1,000 to the winning essay as well as a feature of the essay in the NYT! The contest page also showcases some of the recent essay winners and runner ups. Fresh off your Datamatch date, this is the perfect contest to enter. Who knows, you could be one free Zinneken’s waffle away from $1,000 big ones.
Sections

With housing day right around the corner, freshmen are finally allowed to make their one and only not-random housing decision: blocking groups. They'll be sharing a house with you for the next three years, so the decision of who will be in your group is a substantial one. Some freshmen have already figured out who they’re blocking with, but in case you haven’t, don't worry! Here are some typical groups that you can model after:
The Unoriginals– blocking with your current roommates/entrywayYou’re used to them. You’re used to their smells, their shower schedules, and their empty candy wrappers in the cracks of the futon you bought together. Heck, you also went splitsies on that minifridge, the microwave, and the high-end oscillating fan. Rather than play divorced-with-kids and decide who gets what, you avoid confrontation and take the easy route– blocking with your roommates and/or entryway (level of satisfaction is questionable).
The party animals– blocking with your party buddiesYou’ve been seeing each other regularly on the weekends so you might as well make it official! With plans to party it up seven days a week next year, you and your buddies are gonna make sure sophomore year is one to remember. They always say college is about having fun (minus the psets and papers and midterms and finals)!
The Athletes– blocking with your teamYou leave for lift at ungodly hours of the morning and don’t get back from team dinners until after 7 p.m. You have a very strict schedule that's unique to your team. You work out, eat, and study together so why not live together, too? And no one knows for sure, but it’s rumored that if you block with your teammates, you’ll never be late for practice again. Won’t Coach be proud?
The Pre-Med Concentrators– blocking with your classmatesYou’re always together because you're taking all the same classes and are in all the same clubs. Blocking together is just more convenient for everyone! And at the end of the day, you're competing with each other for the same spot in medical school...as the saying goes, it's best to keep your enemies close.
The Internationals– blocking with fellow foreignersfYou met at FIP and it was love at first sight. These people (their accents mainly) are the closest you can get to home and the farthest you can get from “football” and the New England Patriots.
The Floater– blocking with… yourself!You like to live life on the edge; you crave the thrilling excitement of the unknown while simultaneously hoping and praying you aren’t roomed with a psychopath. Tbh you really couldn’t care less whether you’re put into a single or an octuple, as long as people stay out of your stuff and don’t touch your Oreos!
Sections

We may have had three days of cancelled classes this semester, but one event that hasn’t been called off (yet) is Junior Parents Weekend. While most of you juniors are busy doing your laundry and cleaning your room for the first time in months (read: ever) in preparation, Flyby has put together a list of the best places to take your parents when they come to town this weekend. This post showcases some great spots on campus and in Cambridge!
ON CAMPUS:
1) Harvard Yard: this one’s obvious. In case they didn’t visit during Freshman Parent’s Weekend, this is your chance to show them around! Although it’ll probably look more like an Arctic tundra than a scenic lawn.
2) Harvard Museum of Natural History: During your treacherous walks to Northwest, you’ve probably been too upset about the fact that you’re walking to Northwest to notice the Harvard Museum of Natural History. This museum has tons of artifacts and animals you’ve never heard of before. And best of all, Harvard students get in for free!
3) The Harvard Art Museums: It may have taken a few extra months, but the Harvard Art Museums have finally been reopened! And make sure you’re prepared to tell your parents about your favorite pieces; they’ll be thrilled at how mature and cultured you are.
AROUND CAMBRIDGE:
1) MIT: Yes, it’s our friends down Mass Ave. Be sure to visit the Great Dome, the Ray and Maria Stata Center (designed by Frank Gehry), the Kresge Auditorium, and the MIT Chapel (the latter two of which were designed by Eero Saarinen, who also designed St. Louis’s Gateway Arch).
2) Central Square: The food here is really good. And by that, I mean really good. Seriously, have you tried Eritrean food from Asmara Restaurant? Toscanini’s is also a solid bet for ice cream.
3) Inman Square: One of Cambridge’s trendiest areas, Inman Square is also home to some nice food options, and is about a 20-minute walk from Memorial Hall. Christina’s in Inman Square is Toscanini’s main rival in the ice cream department, so go here and judge for yourself. Punjabi Dhaba is also a good, if inexpensive option for fast North Indian food.


3) Mount Auburn Cemetery: While it may seem odd to consider a cemetery a major tourist attraction, Mount Auburn Cemetery is no ordinary cemetery. A National Historic Landmark, Mount Auburn was the first “garden cemetery” or “rural cemetery” in America, meant to serve as both a parklike retreat from the city and a burial ground. To that end, it is also a noteworthy arboretum, and includes a tower with a good view of Harvard and Boston. And of course, many of Boston’s most famous former residents, including several Harvard presidents are buried there. While gorgeous any time of year, it is at its best in the fall.
And for those who like to be adventurous, tune in tomorrow for a list of places to visit in Boston!
Sections

It’s Thursday, Thursday, gotta get down on Thursday! Fridays are overrated anyway. It’s all about gettin’ down on Thursdays– unless you have a 9 a.m. on Friday, in which case, nevermind.
IN THE ATMOSPHERESay goodbye to the sun! It’s going to be nice and cloudy today. If we’re lucky, the clouds won’t precipitate on our heads– but grab an umbrella just in case. With highs of 23 degrees and lows of 8 degrees, it’s going to be another chilly day, so bundle up!
IN THE D-HALLLunch:Classic Kotopoulo Yiouvetsi: Chicken Casserole with OrzoPhilly Cheese Steak SubSpanakopita Turnovers
Dinner:Cajun SalmonMesquite Rotisserie ChickenSavory Baked TofuSweet Potato Pecan Souffle
ON FLYBY
1) A Visitor’s Guide to Cambridge and Boston (Cheatsheet for Junior Parents' Weekend): Being cooped up with your parents in your unexplainably dirty room and then exchanging affections over a HUDS dinner of red spiced chicken doesn’t sound fun to us!
2) How to Get Your Life Together for Parents’ Weekend: Junior Parents’ Weekend is coming up! Prove to your parents that you are capable of living on your own– or at least pretend that you can for one weekend.
3) Listen Up! Finding Love in a Hopeless Place and Other Struggles: Caie and Will answering all questions about love and smelly roommates!
4) PSA: NYT Modern Love Essay Contest: Do you have thoughts on love? Want to write these thoughts down and maybe win $1,000 and be featured in the Times?
5) Blocking for Dummies: Last Minute Blocking Tips: Freshmen, look no further for blocking advice– we’ve got you covered #yourewelcome
IN THE NEWS
1) More Students Take Time Off Before Applying to Medical School: “In 2004, out of the 302 Harvard applicants to medical school, about 40 percent were seniors aiming to continue schooling directly after graduation. The remaining 60 percent were alumni who had taken at least one year off, opting to pursue projects such as a travel fellowship, a different graduate degree like a Master’s or Ph.D., a research project, a teaching or community service experience, or paid employment.”
2) Undergrads Form DKE Fraternity Colony: “Undergraduates are organizing to create a chapter of international fraternity Delta Kappa Epsilon, marking a potential increase in the already growing number of Greek organizations at the College.”
3) HUDS Rolls Out Halal Chicken: “In response to Muslim students’ requests for healthier halal protein options, Harvard University Dining Services began serving halal chicken on the grill menu in all dining halls last week. Halal chicken will eventually serve as the only halal meat at the grill, once supplies for halal hamburgers and hotdogs run out, according to HUDS spokesperson Crista Martin.”
4) Analysis: Experts Say ADA Case Has Merit: “After the National Association of the Deaf filed lawsuits against Harvard and MIT alleging that the universities’ online content discriminates against the deaf and hard of hearing, some legal experts said they believe the suit has merit.”
ON SPORTS
1) Women’s Ice Hockey Takes on Yale in First Round of Playoffs: “Some call it the second season. Technically, it’s called the ECAC Quarterfinals. But for the No. 4/4 Harvard women’s ice hockey team, this weekend’s series matchup is a chance to get one step closer to its ultimate goal of a national championship.”
2) Formerly Retired Penn Football Coach Joins Lions: “We have certainly given Columbia some abuse of late, but in three years, maybe the Lions will have joined the league’s royalty. The basketball team, title-less since 1968, appears headed in that direction after upsetting Yale this weekend with a better roster expected next year. And now with Bagnoli headed to Kraft Field, the football team could get there too.”
EVENTS
The IOP is hosting its second study group with TIME Correspondent Jay-Newton Small, Ms. Smith Goes to Washington, featuring a discussion of the impact of women in the Senate, along with North Carolina Senator Kay Hagan. This event is from 4:00-5:30 p.m. in the FDR Room of the Harvard Kennedy School.
The Harvard Undergraduate Humanities Initiative is hosting author and Harper’s Magazine editor Clancy Martin for Love and Lies: A Discussion with Clancy Martin about Love, Honesty, Publishing, and Writing where Martin will be giving a talk and Q&A session on the writing and publishing process, as well as his new novel. This event is from 5-6 p.m. in Ticknor Lounge.
The OCS is having a talk today called Data & Technology in Government Panel Discussion from 6 to 7:30 p.m. in Starr Auditorium at the Kennedy School.
The IOP is having a public address from The Honorable Mehdi Jomaa from Tunisia today called Tunisia: A Start-Up Democracy at 6 p.m. in the JFK Forum at the Kennedy School. This event is free and open to the public!
Tonight is the opening night of Ghungroo 2015! Ghungroo is the largest cultural show on campus, and over 400 students produce, direct, and dance for this show. The show begins at 7 p.m. at Agassiz Theatre. Buy tickets here!
PHOTO OF THE DAYDavid C. Matthews '17 uses curling sheets outside of the Science Center after he "saw it on Our Campus [Snapchat] Story, so [he] figured might as well try it out".
 
