News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At the Institute of Politics’ election watch party last November, miniature American flags and campaign signs lined the JFK Jr. Forum. Harvard students piled in until it was standing room only, all eyes fastened to the monitor at the front showing CNN’s live coverage.
Roars, cheers, hugs and high-fives around the room met each Wolf Blitzer-announced Democratic victory—as with Republican wins to a lesser degree. Students who had canvassed for the same Elizabeth Warren precinct or phone-banked at the same Charlie Baker office alternated between the same reactions.
When one of your party’s candidates won, you smiled ear-to-ear and pumped your fists in the year. After a loss, you hunched your shoulders and dipped your chin until others noticed, then said something mockingly analytical like, “At least Pennsylvania will swing our way.”
It was a festive evening.
But there was something quite ironic about the event.
Harvard students are part of the youth demographic (18-29 year olds), of which just 37 percent trust the President, 25 percent trust the overall federal government, and 17 percent trust Congress.
Years of fiscal cliffs, government shutdowns, and failures to progress on seminal issues like immigration have caused the majority of America’s youth to disdain the idea of a career politician who’s served for 20 years en route to another 20, and to reject the partisanship and gridlock that mire the country’s politics.
At the same time, these youth—especially at Harvard, where students are always being crowned the “future leaders”— are seen and see themselves as the ones to one day change something and usher in better government.
But here at this IOP party, Harvard students were dividing themselves along the same partisan lines that bog down the government. For a generation whose political mantra it is to criticize America’s establishment politics, this group of students looked an awful lot like the establishment.
Fast-forward nearly a year to today. Students are now prepping for the 2016 presidential election—some coordinating campus teams, others going up to New Hampshire for the early primary—and the question of establishment, status-quo politics is taking an unprecedented spotlight.
On one hand, Hillary Clinton and Jeb Bush are the mainstream frontrunners with Windsor-esque political royalty and are leading their second-to-none resumes into voters’ hearts.
But on the other hand, the field is shaping up to be the least conventional in modern American history. Neither of the two leading Republican pollers, real estate mogul Donald Trump and neurosurgeon Ben Carson, has served a day in elected office. And in the smaller Democratic field, Bernie Sanders—the senator whose far-left views have marked him as more of an outsider—is continuing to gain momentum.
Harvard Law School professor Lawrence Lessig has even thrown his hat into the ring, running on the lone platform of campaign finance reform. Should he win, he says he would pass a series of major reforms as President and then immediately resign.
With this dynamic, it will be telling to see how Harvard students respond.
Not in terms of liberal vs. conservative, or Democratic vs. Republican. If the past is any sign, Harvard will lean heavily left.
The question is: Will the Republicans support the padded resumes of Jeb Bush and Marco Rubio or the outsider messages of Trump and Carson? Will the Democrats align with the experience of Clinton or the dose of freshness surrounding Sanders?
Perhaps the next year will show Harvard students aligning with the former, evidently content with America’s establishment politics. Or perhaps we will see a demographic fed up with the current state of politics and ready for a new approach. Either way, it will be telling about what type of “future leaders” Harvard students will turn out to be.
At the next IOP election watch party, it will be the same scene. American flags and red-white-and-blue balloons will surround a room of students cheering on their respective candidates.
But there will be a lot more at stake—because the end of the night will show not just America’s leaders after 2016, but also something about America’s leaders for years to come.

Aaron J. Miller ’18, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Currier House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In recent days, Harvard students have not shied away from voicing their disappointment over the closing of Yogurtland, the only self-service frozen yogurt restaurant in Harvard Square. Though many of the melancholic sentiments offered by students regarding the popular froyo place may have been made in jest, the event is interesting on a deeper level. The closing of the popular California chain’s Cambridge location says something about the gentrification and its effect on the Square.
When it opened, Yogurtland itself was a symbol of the phenomenon that has now forced its departure. Yogurtland, along with other recent additions to Harvard Square, stands in contrast to the greasy restaurants and dive bars that characterize many college towns. Tasty Burger, Felipe’s Taqueria with its newly renovated rooftop bar, Shake Shack, and others have added an extra air of glitz to an area that over the past decades has become less hippie and more yuppie.
Now, rents have risen even higher: Yogurtland came in because Harvard Square was popular, but its increased popularity seems to have pushed the chain out. This is a fitting time to reflect on what Harvard Square was, what it has become, and what it will be in the future.
According to the Harvard Square Business Association, the Square was founded in 1630 as the center of Newtowne, intended to serve as the capital of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Since then, Harvard Square has been in a continual state of transformation: Once a bastion of radical thought in the 1960s and 70s, Harvard Square in recent decades has witnessed rapid expansion. The opening of the Charles Hotel in 1985, for example, sparked the development of the surrounding commercial area. Today, the identity of the Square continues to evolve as rents and prices increase.
It is difficult and perhaps dishonest to assign ownership to the Square. Those affiliated with Harvard might be tempted to claim primacy, but Cambridge residents often disagree. Plans for the renovation of the Smith Campus Center have been delayed twice, with some residents concerned that the construction will prove to be detrimental to Cantabrigians unaffiliated with the College. Nevertheless, despite differing opinions on Harvard’s further expansion into the Square, it is impossible to deny the profound impact the University has had on the surrounding area and its composition.
As Harvard has grown into a popular tourist destination, Harvard Square has further gentrified, shifting the mix of stores and restaurants that populate the area. It is a problem common across the city—with the price of a single-family home in Cambridge rising to nearly $1.4 million, the city is seeking to triple fees on commercial buildings to help pay for subsidies on more than 1,000 housing units across the city. The demise of Yogurtland is symbolic of the larger concerns facing the Square and this city; its closing provides a welcome opportunity to step back and consider the past, present, and future of our neighborhood and its culture.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After the world markets went through a rough and volatile summer, investors are searching for stability in the Federal Reserve Board's upcoming September meeting. If the Fed decides to raise its interest rate target, it will signal that it feels the U.S. economy is growing at a reasonable rate, with unemployment falling and inflation potentially rising.
Beyond the question of when the Fed will raise rates, the more serious topic exactly how the Fed will raise rates, and the costs of doing so given its enormous balance sheet.
Before the 2008 financial crisis, if the Fed wanted to lower the short-term interest rate in the economy, it would lend to commercial banks to add funds to the banking system. The idea was that more money would entice the banks to lend more to companies and people, for a lower fee—or interest rate—and when this new money was put towards robust projects, the economy would grow. Likewise, if the Fed wanted to raise rates, it would do the opposite: be a borrower and withdraw funds from commercial banks.
After the 2008 crisis, the Fed expanded its balance sheet by buying bonds, specifically Treasuries, at an enormous rate. A New York Times article summed it up pretty nicely when it said that, if the money banks carried before 2008 were a single brick, now we have 256 additional bricks.
Naturally, with a 256 times increase in the banking system’s reserves at the Fed, using the old form of monetary policy will probably not be effective unless a large quantity of money is removed from the system. That would be risky for the economy and the financial system as a whole.
Instead, when the Fed decides to raise rates, it will most likely raise the interest rate that it pays on reserves, the deposit rate, paying commercial banks to keep their money with the Fed and not lend it out. Banks can get more than the current 0.25 percent that the Fed offers from consumers and companies, but only with additional risk. The Fed’s rate is virtually risk free, which is part of the reason that banks have been tying up their reserves and not lending as much in the past few years.
When the Fed decides to raise this rate, holding reserves with the Fed will only get more attractive, especially with a global outlook that has been weakening with emerging markets getting hammered by low commodity prices, Europe’s limping economy, and China’s slow down.
It is vital that the Fed time its deposit rate hike and each subsequent hike harmoniously with demand growth, or the actual market rate in the economy, before banks are keen on lending their reserves to the economy.
However, paying interest on reserves is not a cheap task for the Fed, especially if this interest rate were to rise. In 2013 and 2014 alone, the Fed has paid banks not to lend, at its minuscule rate of 0.25 percent. Just for the sake of argument, let’s say the economy is operating with higher demand for loans and banks want to lend out their reserves. The Fed can either raise its deposit rate and pay banks even more not to lend the money it already paid them, or can let them respond to market forces, lending this money out and creating an abundance of new money, risking a rise in inflation. Whether this inflation is dangerous depends on how effective the Fed is in the years beforehand.
The Fed has another option, too.
It can start to sell some of the assets it holds on its balance sheet, like U.S. Treasuries, or the mortgage backed securities it bought back in 2008. The obstacle is that with so many assets ($2.5 trillion of Treasuries and $1.7 trillion of mortgage backed securities), it would have to sell a lot to have significance, and selling this large of a volume would drive the prices of these assets down, potentially hurting banks that held similar assets.
What’s more, the Fed isn’t the only central bank retaining these assets. The Fed holds about $2.5 trillion, and China and Japan combine to hold another $2.5 trillion.
Speaking of which, China recently tried to stabilize its currency rate, after the yuan devalued severely in the weeks before. The Chinese swapped Treasuries for dollars then sold dollars to buy yuan, both hurting the value of the dollar and Treasuries.
This temporary pullback of the dollar is not a problem; the dollar has strengthened substantially against a basket of currencies since July of 2014. The problem lies in the risk of U.S. Treasuries losing their market value.
If China, or any other country, begins to service its currency through sale of commonly held American debt, U.S., bond values will fall.
This poses extreme risk to the Fed because its assets are primarily U.S. Treasuries as well, meaning it will lose value on its assets but remain in debt on its liabilities if we see foreign nations take Treasury dumping to a larger scale. Furthermore, it will probably think twice before devaluing these assets even more by selling them to reduce its balance sheet. At the end of the day, though, the Fed will have to make a decision to keep the economy on keel.
It goes without saying that the Fed’s job is not easy. But in the post-2008 era, with an inflated balance sheet, slowing global growth, and central banks that are now intervening with their currencies, the Fed’s task will take some intelligent thinking to navigate.

Jack Kelley ’18 is an economics concentrator living in Pforzheimer house.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
We came to Harvard excited to punch a final club. We’d seen The Social Network, talked to students, and gotten the lowdown: Girls would bus in from across Boston to line up for our parties. Awesome.
The Spee punched us Thursday night. The Porcellian came next, followed by the Fly and the A.D. But instead of celebrating, we decided not to punch.
Sure, being in a final club comes with meaningful connections, close friends, and the chance to party with the Patriots. But should you join a group of predominantly white and privileged guys when you go to school with the most diverse and influential students in the world?
As fun as final clubs can be, they remain a microcosm of the socioeconomic and gender inequality that defines contemporary America, which is why politicians like Ted Kennedy and Deval Patrick severed their ties. The discourse around the clubs mirrors the nationwide discussions of systemic inequality that led to Occupy Wall Street, Black Lives Matter, and Feel the Bern.
After all, most of these clubs physically and symbolically divide our campus along racial, class, and gender lines. Even after years of diversifying (first adding Jews, then African Americans, and finally, in the case of the Spee, women), the clubs remain largely homogeneous and insular. Yet given the stringent dorm party rules enforced by the administration and the lack of other social spaces on campus, final clubs are one of the only places we—and hundreds of other students—actually enjoy going out. 
We have three suggestions for the clubs: include women, match Harvard’s financial aid, and transition from an invite-only punch to an open first event. We also call on Dean Khurana and President Faust to match these efforts with an unofficial message to tutors and proctors: Do less.
These recommendations would expand the social scene, reduce sexual assault, and foster bonds between the clubs and the community to which they are inextricably linked. Forcing clubs to go members-only just further damages an already anemic party scene and promotes exclusivity.
Would the school rather have students with fake IDs on the rooftop of Felipe’s?
The Spee’s decision to include women and their policy of generous financial aid—which we learned about through conversations with members—certainly marks progress, and we were tempted to try and join. However, their punch process, like those of the other clubs, still perpetuates damaging exclusivity, because students can’t even try to join these clubs unless they are invited. Imagine if you couldn’t apply to Harvard unless you were chosen by the students who already go here. How would we reach the kids from high schools and countries that have never sent anyone here before—the kids who make this place special?
This is the essential difference between final clubs and other exclusive organizations like the Lampoon, the Advocate, and Harvard itself: For those institutions, admission is largely based on merit, and, unlike final clubs, anyone may attempt to join.
Some students argue that improving female final clubs is the solution, but as the Supreme Court has stated, separate organizations created for minority groups are inherently unequal. Female clubs have almost no property (limiting their ability to throw parties), a small alumni network, and hardly any impact on the campus social scene. This isn’t meaningful progress. Similarly, while more diverse and less exclusive than the clubs, Greek life at Harvard is not a panacea to our social scene. Frats and sororities are not exactly known for gender equality and inclusivity.
This lack of viable alternatives is why it’s so important that the administration provides students with additional places to let loose, and lessens their restrictions on the ones that already exist, as William F. Morris IV ’17 noted in The Crimson earlier this week.
Ultimately, the stigma and history of final clubs are less important than what the clubs are doing to change. And until all final clubs make their role in Harvard’s social scene more progressive—inviting women, offering financial aid, and altering the punch process—we refuse to join any of them.
If you, like us, enjoy good company and good parties, but care more about developing a better social scene than being in a club, we encourage you to forego punch this fall. If not, the first event is at the Spee at 76 Mount Auburn Street, starting 5 p.m. tonight.
There will be two free spots.
Nathaniel B. Horwitz ‘18, a Crimson editorial writer, and Sam H. Koppelman ‘18, a Crimson editorial executive, live in Leverett House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
I walk up to Liquiteria, intrigued, practically purring with intrigue. I think I might catch three stray cats so we can all literally purr with intrigue. What possibly could this new business serve? Their name makes no sense, it isn’t a word in the dictionary. I was unbearably, intensely intrigued, so I decided to look the word up. Nothing. I even read through all of Shakespeare’s plays in case this was one of his new words that didn’t catch on. Once again, nothing. I did find the word lackcustard, which somehow never caught on.
In the window, I see meadows. Grass as far as the eye can see. It’s waving as if stirred by some coastal Italian breeze. Imported Italian air. Nice. Not cheap, not cheap at all. When I enter, it turns out the stirring meadows are just little boxes of plastic grass. How was I fooled? Sorcery! Liquiteria is truly an enchanting place.
Upbeat pop music is playing and the singer keeps repeating “everybody.” I like this place. I want to be part of everybody. I just want to fit in.
I walk up to the cashier who is donned in her best Best Buy blue shirt, intriguing of course. Come to think about it, they are all wearing Best Buy blue. Maybe they work at Best Buy too. Wait! Is this a Best Buy? This would not be the first time I wandered into a Best Buy unknowingly, innocently. Last year, I spent the first four CS50 lectures in one, just looking at computers wondering when they’d teach me something.
Squinting, I look around and go through my checklist. Are there TVs everywhere? No. Is the floor poorly carpeted? Tiled. Do the walls say Best Buy? Liquiteria.
The cashier catches my puzzled look. I recover and act casual. Hands on my hips I let out a barking laugh. “Ha! It’s a fine day to be alive, isn’t that right my fellow Liquiterian?” She looks at me normally, so I know I’ve acted casually. Perfect! I’m already a part of everybody. This is so much easier than fifth grade.
“I’ll only take the best, but don’t you already know that my chummy liquiterian!” She shrugs in that classic Liquiterian way and I pay. $8.50 That’s a lot of money, honey. I purr with intrigue.
I wait. They call my name as I’m stroking my back. Purr. Purr. Purr.
The Best Buy employee hands me a cup with green “liquid.” Oh, I get it now. Liqui-teria. Like a liquid cafeteria. Genuis, pure genius. The drink was like a bad jamba juice, but the name. Everything is in the name. I would pay $8.50 over and over again to say that godly name. Liquiteria. Liquiteria. Liquiteria. I love this place.
Sections
Why hello ___________ (insert name of potential future employer)! What an ________ (excellent/fortuitous/unfortunate) coincidence seeing you here! I was just thinking about pursuing a professional career in __________ (finance/computer science/binge drinking).
Now remind me, what __________ (investment bank/start-up/fake job) are you with now? Wow, ___________ (Goldman Sachs/Facebook/your mom’s basement), you say? What a __________ (thrill/accomplishment/disappointment)! I think my ____________ (uncle/third cousin once removed/childhood babysitter) works there as well. Do you know them?
Of course you do. Isn’t she/he just the most _____________ (kind/hardworking/intolerable) person you’ve ever met? … Yes, I couldn’t agree more. The three of us should grab lunch __________ (someday/after I land this gig/when pigs fly) and ______________ (make awkward small talk/peer edit our LinkedIn profiles/sit on the couch).
In the meantime, if any positions open up at your company, I would love to be ________ (informed/hired) immediately, because I’m really ____________ (interested in your company/nickle and diming it right now). Among my qualifications are knowledge of basic arithmetic and __________ (Excel/NotCS50/beer pong). I also had a(n) ____________ (enlightening/painfully boring) internship at a(n) _____________ (investment bank/quant firm/summer day camp) last summer where I _______________ (gained many skills/read a lot of Buzzfeed/fell asleep and ignored the kids).
Anyway, it was great talking to you! Let’s certainly ________ (keep in touch/connect on social media/never see each other again).
Sections
OCI
Become a consultant
Unchecked blabber
Harass recruiters at least daily
Cranberry juice at the Charles
Check your SAT scores
UTI
Consult a doctor
Unchecked bladder
Hopefully go at least daily
Treated with cranberry juice
Check on STIs
BOTH
Traditionally doesn’t end in sex
Comfortable underwear is advised
Leaves you tired and shaky
You’re on the wrong track
Sections
It was a nightmare.
After searching for classes on the redesigned my.harvard for nearly 30 minutes, I’d only managed to find one potential class, a new Gen Ed that revolved entirely around eating chalk.
Needless to say, I was bemused and brimming with questions. For example: Is a class in which 40 percent of the grade is determined by how much chalk you can eat, and the other 60 percent is determined by how little chalk you subsequently regurgitate, really fulfilling the guidelines of the General Education system?
And, more importantly: Would the TFs be any good?
Issues like these have plagued the relaunch of my.harvard. Students have experienced every possible mishap, from being unable to successfully request permission from a professor to take a course, to temporarily going blind after opening the syllabus for that one voodoo class that no one can remember actually having taken.
Everywhere the students are in an uproar. How, they seem to be asking, is it possible that Harvard managed to screw this up when CS50 is so big that they’re thinking of renaming Widener in its honor and then just dumping all the books out somewhere?
Like a grandparent that you were pretty sure wasn’t that racist, the more time you spend with the new my.harvard, the more its flaws become apparent.
For instance, were you aware that clicking the financial services tab sends you to meatspin.com roughly half the time? Though admittedly it’s a design flaw in keeping with Harvard’s longstanding commitment to making poor people feel uncomfortable, this poor person can’t help but feel it’s a tad unbecoming.
Other users, my dear friends among them, have reported trying to schedule appointments with UHS only to end up accidentally voting in the UC election.
Which is something that should really, truly never happen.
Unfortunately—and this is really the icing on top, the gross, pitted, worm-eaten Maraschino cherry besmirching the resplendent fondant—the new my.harvard is so hellaciously bad that, like a computer program in some poorly written thriller, it’s begun to infect operations outside the Harvard administration. The Spee Club has gotten a lot of great press in the past few days for deciding to punch women, but this new gambit becomes a lot less exciting when you consider it was a complete accident.
They were just trying to sign up for that class where you eat chalk, and the new my.harvard got a little carried away.
Sections
Besides an influx of inclusivity, gender equality, and margarita orders at Felipe’s, the (almost/not quite/nobody really knows) moratorium on final club parties has come alongside a pretty tragic casualty.
No longer can you walk down Mt. Auburn Street on almost any weekend night and line up for hours at a time in mini skirts or salmon shorts, desperately awaiting entrance to one of those bike rooms from “The Social Network.”
But fear not, line enthusiasts and connoisseurs alike: There are plenty of lesser known places, open dawn until dusk, where you can watch people line up, or, if you’re feeling adventurous, queue up yourself.
After all, who cares about the popular waiting spots? No one goes there anymore—they’re too crowded. From the well-known lines to the mysteriously hidden hotspots of campus, FM has you covered with all the (un)necessary waits you could possibly desire.
For the Frivolous Freshman:
If you want to embrace your claustrophilia and are new to lines at Harvard, this should get your feet wet. Just head down to Annenberg around when Ec10 gets out and find yourself immersed in a sea of hungry freshmen.
For the “Dedicated” Gym-Goer:
It has been well established by the two authors of this piece (whose combined bench weight is now upwards of 105 pounds) that Hemenway has a nicer weight room than the MAC. But if, like us, you’d rather wait in line to pump iron than actually pump it, check out the bench press in the basement of the MAC. It’s one of the few places on campus where people actually hate getting to the front of the line.
For the People who Tried Shrooms Once to Become Closer to Nature, and Are Still Trying to Get Out to Joshua Tree for the Weekend:
Try Clover for lunch, the only place in the Square that tells you the exact temperature (in degrees Fahrenheit) of their water, and serves “zucchini sandwiches” without any further description.
For the Unsatiated Partier:
Are you bored on a Friday or Saturday night? Do you want to go out, without having to hear someone wax poetic about “CS50” or “concentrations?” Are you a freshman guy? If you answered yes to any of these questions, then go wait in line for a Charlie Card and head out to BU or BC. We've heard rumors that there are still parties out there; they just might be worth checking out.
For that Guy on His Last Pair of Socks:
You waited until the end, the bitter end. It’s Sunday night, and you’re debating between doing your laundry and just skipping class tomorrow. You finally decide to rally to the laundry room, only to find everyone else has made the same mistake you have. Suck it up and get in line, or call it quits while you’re still ahead: Mankiw isn’t planning on showing up for class either.
Sections
I am not swole. My closet is bro tank-free. My friends find it amusing to see if they can wrap their thumb and index fingers around my biceps. So when I received the pitch for this article—rank all 12 Harvard House gyms, first to last—I knew I would need to bring in an outside consultant. Before setting out on my epic gym crawl (similar to a pub crawl, but sweatier), I invited along my friend and blockmate, who works out regularly. Although he will remain unnamed—let’s call him Gym Bud for now—take my word for it that he is, indisputably, swole. Armed with equal parts journalistic drive and athletic power, we set out on our journey. So, without further ado, FM presents the house gyms in order of quality—a vague concept that Gym Bud assures me has something to do with size, ease of access, and the availability and quantity of weight and cardio equipment. Or something along those lines. Don’t ask me. I told you, I’m not swole.
01. Cabot

Cabot gym’s rep is well-deserved. It’s brightly lit and welcoming, with a full suite of swanky exercise equipment: dumbbells, a bench press, rows of treadmills, and rowing machines. Although all of this is packed into one room, it doesn’t feel cramped—there’s enough space to move about freely. Yellow walls lend it a warm, homey atmosphere. It’s also the only gym we visit that has a boxing dummy, who glowers at gym-goers from a corner of the room. For anyone in the Quad, Cabot should be your top pick without question. For everyone else, the quality of this gym might even outweigh the hike to get there.
02. Pfoho

Like its Quadling sibling Cabot, Pfoho is brightly lit and modern-looking, with plenty of weights and exercise equipment. The main thing that distinguishes Pfoho is its partition into several smaller rooms, all accessible through a long hallway: aerobics, weights, and the mysterious “Pfojo,” a martial arts studio where Gym Bud informs me he has taken classes in Krav Maga, an Israeli martial art that counsels victory at any cost. Pfoho loses points for smaller room size and fewer weights than Cabot, but wins for sheer brutal efficiency.
03. Quincy

The recently renovated Quincy gym feels like Cabot’s River equivalent: roughly the same size and layout, except with walls painted blue rather than yellow. There’s a well-placed flatscreen TV and good A/C, along with the full suite of equipment and some motivational slogans on the walls that get us straight fierce. It’s not quite as extensive as its Quad siblings, but that doesn’t stop it from claiming the top spot among the River gyms.
04. Dunster

We enter Dunster with high expectations. The house’s brand-new sheen—seriously, the place smells like a furniture store—does indeed extend to the gym, which occupies a large basement area overlooked by the common room and grille. In the main space, a row of treadmills and ellipticals extends across the room, but Gym Bud notes that this seems like overkill considering the comparative lack of weightlifting equipment. Dunster also loses points for noise pollution from the nearby squash court. It’s still a wonderful gym—and cleaner than any of its neighbors—but overall, we can’t help feeling a bit let down.
05. Kirkland

Kirkland is roughly the same size and layout as Quincy, with the minor addition of a bizarre machine called the “i-Shape,” which resembles either a spider web or a torture device. Go ahead and try it out: We weren’t brave enough. Kirk is also distinctive for having no swipe: The gym opens onto a common room, which has both benefits and drawbacks. If you’re in the neighborhood and the MAC is closed, by all means hit up Kirk—just be prepared to share your workout experience with a p-set stress party or two.
06. Leverett

Things get interesting in Leverett Gym, known to residents as “Rabbit Run.” We’re not sure if every space in Lev is equally as bunny-obsessed, but the gym certainly trends this way—a bulletin board advises its athletes on “how to be a good Gym Bunny” and pictures of rabbits gambol around the walls, along with a lifesize cutout of famous former Lev resident Jeremy Lin ’10. Gym Bud notes that the athletic equipment seems more geared toward dynamic exercises like CrossFit, with plenty of medicine balls and kettlebells. There’s no bench press, though, so bodybuilders should probably steer clear.
07. Currier

Sparser than both Cabot and Pfoho, Currier gym ranks lower than its Quad siblings. It’s got the basics—weights, treadmills, etc.—but everything is slightly older and grungier. For some reason, there’s a multitude of rusty 45-pound bars but only one bench press. There’s no shortage of mirrors, though, so at least Currierites will be able to admire themselves from all angles.
08. Mather

Unlike most of the other River houses, Mather’s gym is on the first floor rather than tucked into a basement, which we appreciated. It’s modern and fairly clean, with a TV and sound system. Gym Bud observes, though, that the cardio equipment—a handful of treadmills and ellipticals—doesn’t match up to its neighbor Dunster’s. Go here if (like me) you prefer running in the great outdoors, or if you’re just looking to get huge and don’t care about cardio.
09. Eliot

Eliot’s layout is unique among the House gyms. The athletic rooms—separated like Pfoho’s—open onto a long basement hallway, partitioned off by chain-link barriers. Eliot definitely takes first place for rowing equipment: an entire room houses nothing but ergs. The weight room itself is less well-equipped than some of the other River houses, but wins points for its lovely hand-painted décor. If you’re a wannabe Winklevoss, this is the gym for you. Otherwise, we can’t recommend it too highly.
10. Lowell

Lowell’s gym is housed in a poorly-disguised former squash court, so the dimensions don’t quite work—it’s high-ceilinged but crowded on the floor. We also didn’t appreciate the passive-aggressive posters asking us to restack our weights (“I’m not mad, just disappointed.”). Overall, Lowell is perfectly functional, but given the proximity of the MAC, we’d advise that you head there instead if your tolerance for stale squash-court scent is low.
11. Winthrop

Sorry, ’Thropstars. Your gym’s got plenty of equipment—lots of weights, benches, and treadmills—but it’s all crowded into a space reminiscent of a medieval dungeon: hot, dimly-lit and low-ceilinged, complete with a “Kernerator” brand incinerator in one wall. We’re not sure this is what personal trainers mean by “feel the burn.”
12. Adams

Gym Bud and I conclude our gym crawl at our very own house, Adams. Sadly, even our House pride can’t save home sweet home from the bottom spot. There’s little to the Adams athletic facilities beyond a couple of treadmills and weights stuffed into the Adams tunnels, which are gorgeously painted by previous Adamsians but not our idea of a well-ventilated workout space. We do appreciate, though, how the tunnels lead up to Adams d-hall—and man, after all that energy spent imagining working out, we are starved. Golden Nuggets and Netflix, anyone?
Sections
By Emma K. Talkoff
Professor Roland Fryer is a man with little time.
He rose this morning well before the sun—at 3 a.m., in fact—and will work past 11 p.m. this evening, if need be. Our phone interview is conducted in what is apparently a rare moment of rest, a few minutes snatched out of the day as his New York-bound flight sits on the tarmac, preparing to launch.
If Fryer is hard to reach, it’s because he’s been busy with tackling some of the most complex and controversial issues of the day: Fryer studies the economics and roots of racial inequality, a sharp and complex set of issues, which serve as constant background to his his own meteoric rise and success in academia.
“When I first got to Harvard, people would ask me, ‘How does it feel to be here?’” he says. “I always thought that was a silly question, because sometimes it feels great, sometimes it feels terrible, because there’s a lot of people left behind.”
“And the question is not how do I feel, the question is how do we change the odds for the rest of the folks. Everything I’ve been working on has been about leveling the playing field.”
Fryer’s work has sent him criss-crossing the country, conducting studies in low-income schools and proposing solutions to the inequalities in education which he sees as the “key” to racial inequality. In addition to studying student incentives and other factors of achievement, Fryer proposed the seminal theory that African-American students may fall through the achievement gap for fear of “acting white”—the social pressures and the threat of ostracization that can plague African-American students, especially in low income communities.
In April, Fryer recieved the John Bates Clark Medal, a prestigious award bestowed on a top economist under forty by the American Economics Association. He was the first African-American to recieve the honor. Breaking this kind of ground is nothing new for Fryer. In 2008, he became the youngest African-American professor to receive tenure at Harvard and founded Harvard’s EdLabs, a think tank devoted to studying the kinds of problems Fryer has built his career on.
Despite these unquestionably laudable achievements, Fryer’s sensibility is one of overwhelming humbleness. When I ask him what he personally sees as his greatest achievement, he pauses for a long time.
“I don’t think there’s any way to answer that without sounding arrogant,” he finally says. “But I think for me personally, the thing I am most proud of is not losing who I am.”
For Fryer, work on race inequality has a personal dimension, which fuels his intense work ethic. Usually, says Fryer, “there’s a wide gulf” between economists and the disadvantaged communities they study, but Fryer has experienced the inequalities he studies first-hand, something that motivates his work.
“When you really, really care about the problem, you become impatient, you become passionate about making sure kids have opportunities.”
“What I want for kids of all races, but particularly of low income, I want them to have that same opportunity that was afforded to me.”
So what’s next for Fryer?
“I’ve had enough controversy in my life, so I think I’m going to be researching police brutality,” he laughs. Fryer spent the summer embedded in police forces in Austin, Texas and Camden, N.J., and hopes to parse the results of his work in the months to come. Like many of the issues surrounding race equality, Fryer has found a complexity in this field which he hopes to tackle. “The issues are far more subtle than we give them any credit,” he says.
By Henry S.U. Shah

She’s a Time Magazine Person of the Year, earning the honor for her lab’s critical work in sourcing the Ebola virus. Some think she’s hot on the trail of a cure for malaria. She’s a former Rhodes Scholar. She played competitive tennis throughout her childhood and into college. She’s “most looking forward” to taking selfies with the students during one of her “favorite things in the world,” the spring semester of LS1b. She’s developed a network of labs to work on Lassa virus and other infectious diseases in some of the riskiest locations in the world.
Meet Pardis C. Sabeti, associate professor of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology and frontwoman for Thousand Days, a band she and her friends founded in medical school.
No, she’s not a superhero.
FM’s midnight email to Sabeti was met with a prompt automated response that Sabeti had suffered “a vehicular accident.” Nevertheless, she fired back a cheery email eight hours later to set up an interview.
Sabeti spoke to FM from a hospital bed. She hasn’t walked since July 17th, when she was thrown from an ATV, over a cliff and into a boulder, during an excursion at a Montana conference. She is already joking about her injuries—a shattered pelvis and two broken legs.
“It’s a piece of art; I have 30 rods in my pelvis,” she told FM, later sending an x-ray to prove it. Sabeti is busy rehabbing and is dead-set on teaching in the spring.
“Part of the reason I gotta rehab is so I can run around like a crazy person with those freshmen. Or roll around like a crazy person.”
By Ramsey C. Fahs

The nameplates of the Barker Center offices are nothing if not tasteful. Elegant serif eggshell-white script on a crimson background traces out the names of the distinguished professors: “Amanda Claybaugh,” “Louis Menand,” “Stephen Greenblatt.”
Stephen L. Burt ’94 opted for something a little different. A piece of printer paper taped over the office tag has “Stephen Burt” scrawled in what I can only assume was Magic Marker. I couldn’t tell if it was written by him or one of his children.
His office’s interior is similarly non-traditional. Burt works in a post-avalanche snowdrift of books poking out from under the couch and lying in stacks on shelves. Posters from conferences, more artwork from his children (my favorite piece was a poster for the “National Symphony Orchestra of SLUGS and SNAILS”), and some stuffed animals reflect the many hats he wears: Professor, Poet, Critic, and Parent.
For all the stereotypes of poetry professors, he’s refreshingly unequivocal. On the case of Michael Derrick Hudson, a white poet who recently submitted a previously unsuccessful poem under the name Yi-Fen Chou and was subsequently published, Burt said: “When somebody does something dick-ish and gets a lot of attention...it’s a little depressing because you want people who didn’t do anything dick-ish and made interesting art to get attention and instead it’s going to this dude. But, if you ask, ‘Why did that get a lot of attention? Why did people care so much?’ The answers can tell you something interesting about the art form.”
An avid user of Twitter, Burt enjoys it for its low barriers to entry into poetry discussions.
Burt, who regularly wears traditionally female clothing at poetry readings and as often as not will introduce himself as “Stephanie,” also uses Twitter to keep up with BGLTQ activism, especially concerning gender issues.
His semi-obsessive energy is infectious, and he’s a champion of the cause of literary forms traditionally ignored by academia (another thing he loves using Twitter for), having taught a graphic novel course over the summer. While we talked he periodically checked how enrollment for his Science Fiction course was shaping up.
Yet, for all his stylistic eccentricities, he’s surprisingly traditional. He believes there is a canon of “World Masterworks” that everyone should read (“Middlemarch is great, everybody ought to read it…and I wouldn’t say that about just any 800-page novel”), and his ultimate feeling about what the study of literature should be could’ve come from the mouth of a Claybaugh or a Menand:
“I really strongly believe in the exercise of aesthetic judgment. I...think we should be able to give reasons we think something is good and reasons we think something is bad. And that’s part of what English should do.”
Ultimately, he’s a lot like his own office’s name card: a spiky aquamarine script taped over a classic crimson and white typeface.
By Nathan A. Cummings

Growing up as a teenager in Washington, D.C., History professor Alison Frank Johnson recalled finding inspiration for her studies from an unorthodox source: The Police. Or rather, Sting’s first solo album, namely the anti-Cold War track “Russians,” which advocated for understanding between the United States and the Soviet Union.
“It is so pathetic to cite this,” she laughs, “but when you’re 13 and Sting is singing to you ‘Don’t the Russians love their children too?’ I was like, of course they do.”
It may sound silly to Johnson, but I think she’s on to something. History, after all, involves the study of faraway cultures and people—in her case, branching out from Central Europe and encompassing subjects from the Habsburg Empire to the global exchange of commodities in the 19th century.
“When you’re teaching history,” she explains, “you’re trying to help people think about a world that is profoundly different from their own. And to develop a sense of empathy, even, for people who are not obviously like they are.”
For Johnson, this need for empathy extends outside the classroom. In 2014, amidst intense criticism directed toward Harvard’s Title IX policies on campus sexual assault, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith asked her to serve as chair of a new committee to address these issues.
As part of her job, Johnson served as a liaison to the student body, engaging with students through panel discussions. Many of these brought her face to face with students angry and disappointed by Harvard’s prior policies on sexual harassment.
“The first graduate student meeting was really hard,” she says. “You can’t just say to somebody, ‘Oh, don’t worry, we’ve got a really good policy and we’ve got really good people to implement it, if they believe that we don’t mean it.”
She leans forward. “It’s not enough to have resources. You also have to establish trust. Which is hard in cases where you have lost it.”
Despite this early challenge, Johnson describes her overall experience on the committee as profoundly positive.
“I wanted to come as close as possible to meeting every person at Harvard in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences,” she says. “The more people knew, the less our conversations were colored by anxiety and fear, and the more we could focus on the really difficult questions we had to answer.”
Having stepped back from her efforts as committee chair, Johnson is still awaiting the long-term results of her work with Harvard’s Title IX policy.
“It’s like publishing a book,” she says. “You don’t get to decide what it says after it gets published.”
When asked if she would serve on a committee like this again, however, she does not hesitate.
“Of course I would,” she says. “A community only functions when people do community service. Deans don’t make committees for fun; they make them because there’s a pressing need. And if there’s a pressing need, and the dean asks me to serve, then I’ll serve.”
By Laura E. Hatt

“I’m interested in lots of different aspects of biology. I’ll study anything,” says Stephen J. Elledge, leaning slightly forward in his chair.
It’s a gray Sunday afternoon on Harvard Medical School’s Longwood campus, and Elledge’s sleek genetics lab is appropriately deserted. The exception is a lone geneticist, a serious bearded man in his late 50s, who looks patient and teacherly as he explains a series of complicated scientific concepts.
In the last several decades, Elledge has tried his hand in a variety of fields. “When I started my career, I was doing much more basic research. I worked on yeast; I worked on e. coli,” he says. “I decided when I went to Harvard that I would do things that were more translational, that might have an impact on human health.”
In that spirit, much of the work Elledge has done since his move to the Harvard Medical School in 2003 has targeted sources of human suffering–and much of that research has been rooted in DNA. “The thing that I’m most known for is understanding…when cells have a problem replicating chromosomes, and what they do about it,” he summarizes.
In particular, he has spent a great deal of time studying the genetics of cancer. “Everyone focuses on [genes called driver mutations], because you can understand when a single gene drives cancer,” he explains. “But, there are a lot of other changes. They have the wrong number of chromosomes, and the wrong number of chromosome arms. We were able to build a mathematical model that predicts how frequently you would see certain types of chromosome changes, based on the genes that are on those chromosomes. And that’s been a really decisive conceptual breakthrough.”
In addition to cancer research, Elledge has spent time studying a number of viruses, including HIV, Hepatitis C, and influenza. He’s also explored immunology. “I don’t know that much about immunology. It’s a very complicated field, but I’ll work in it. I think sometimes it helps if you come in with a completely different angle. You don’t have all the preconceived notions.”
Of course, despite the modesty, Elledge is anything but new to science. Earlier this month, he received the Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research Award for his work in DNA repair. The Lasker Award is one of the world’s most prestigious science honors, and its honorees so often go on to Nobel recognition that it has become known as “America’s Nobel.”
When asked about next steps, Elledge is energetic. “I’m going to work on a lot of things. I’ll be working on cancer, and autoimmunity, and ageing.” He does not see recent success as an excuse to slow down. “I don’t want to rest on my laurels. I want to keep doing science. Pedal to the metal.”
By Emily B. Zauzmer
It must be a little intimidating to be a student in “Introduction to Journalism.” When pupils submit their narrative articles, they are not handing over their work to just any old professor. They are opening themselves up to critique from Jill Abramson ’76.
That sounds just about as daunting—but also as exciting—as asking Claude Monet to give you pointers on your painting or bugging Henry Ford to tune up your car. After all, Abramson is a master of the craft that she teaches at Harvard.
After rising through the journalism ranks at TIME, The American Lawyer, Legal Times, and The Wall Street Journal, Abramson arrived at the New York Times in 1997. Over the subsequent 17 years, she ascended from Washington bureau chief to managing editor to executive editor. Along the way, she broke down gender barriers as the first woman to hold each of those positions.
Though she was controversially ousted as executive editor in 2014, Abramson has many fond memories of the triumphs and challenges that she experienced at the New York Times. “Every day that I worked at the Times I loved,” Abramson says. “It was an opportunity to work with the best journalists in the world and to brainstorm with them about the ways to approach stories and cover major events in the world.”
She cites the 2000 presidential election, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, and the 2008 presidential election as news stories that stand out from her time in the newsroom. In her office at the Barker Center, Abramson has framed a picture of New Yorkers waiting in line to buy a copy of the edition touting President Barack Obama’s first victory.
During her tenure at the New York Times, Abramson presided over not only hard-hitting news coverage, but also a rapidly changing industry.
“The Times went from being very focused on the print newspaper…to becoming really a digital-first operation by the time I was executive editor,” Abramson recalls. The role of women at the Times also shifted during the employment of—and perhaps because of—Abramson. Referencing a Neiman Foundation article, Abramson comments, “There’s still a lot of work to be done to see women particularly at the very top of news organizations. There are some but not many.”
In 2014, Abramson packed her bags and came to Harvard. Each semester, she accepts a dozen students from a pool of applicants to take “Introduction to Journalism.”
“I hope [my students] become more acute readers of journalism,” Abramson reflects,
“and are more aware of what standards of quality journalism should be and why sometimes journalism runs afoul of those high quality standards.”
Outside of class, Abramson maintains a busy schedule. “I’m actually working on a book about all of the changes in the news industry and what it means for quality journalism,” she shares. In addition, Abramson serves on the advisory board of Columbia’s Graduate School of Journalism, speaks at journalism conferences, and writes book reviews. Her daughter and son-in-law, Cornelia Griggs ’05 and Robert Goldstone, are expecting a baby—Abramson’s first grandchild—very soon.
As she settles in for her second year as a Harvard teacher, Abramson feels happy about her return to the institution that she first entered in 1972. “It’s like a dream for me to be back here teaching and trying to share with such bright students and such great student writers my passion for well-told stories,” she says. “I look forward to my class every week. Today I’m a little nervous because it’s the first one.”
By Lauren E. Grobaty
Bold, bright letters posted opposite Robert A. Lue’s desk read,“Hell Yeah!” Lue, a molecular and cellular biology professor, says that they’re meant as inspiration. “That’s my approach to life,” Lue explains.
Lue says that he approaches pedagogy with a willingness to experiment. “If you have an idea, try it out and see what happens,” he says. Lue teaches Life Science 1a, Molecular and Cellular Biology 64: “Exploring the Brain,” and a Harvard Summer School in Paris course called “Biology and the Evolution of Paris as a Smart City.” In those classes, he attempts to combine interdisciplinary learning with hands-on teaching.
His courses, he says “are tremendous experiments.”
Designing MCB 64, Lue hoped that his students could examine the individual human experience from a hard-sciences perspective. The course centers around “different stages of someone’s life as a way of understanding how biology impacts them, almost as a human-life-history-case study,” he says.
In Lue’s Harvard Summer School course, guest lecturers from Harvard Business School and the Graduate School of Design discussed how students might apply biological principles to urban design and political problems.
A self-described movie buff, Lue often plays remixed movie trailers to introduce new concepts in lecture. “I love the emotion and ‘oomph’ that [trailers] create, so I wanted to remix them in funny ways,” he explains. “They came from a combination of an interest in having punctuation in the course in a particular lecture session, but also just having fun. I love making them.”
Lue’s LS1a study playlist includes Coldplay’s “Sky Full of Stars,” Hozier’s “Take Me to Church,” and Owl City’s “Fireflies.”
Lue first earned teaching experience while completing his Ph.D. in cellular biology at Harvard. As a graduate student, he began to see his role as a teacher as central to his academic career.
“I paralleled my development as a scientist with my development as a teacher,” Lue says. “The same spirit of exploration, experimentation, and discovery that you think about in science is the same that I have in teaching and learning.”
Lue also praised the rise of interdisciplinary, experimental courses elsewhere in Harvard’s undergraduate program. “The Harvard curriculum is really becoming one that is increasingly adventurous and experimental.”
By Lena K. Felton
Laird Bell Professor of History Sven Beckert is a tall man—so tall that he makes the ceiling look two feet too low, so tall that he can reach his office’s highest bookshelves, which are overflowing with colorful hard covers and loose white papers.
Today, he is a little frazzled because he has a class to teach on global capitalism at Harvard Business School in 30 minutes. He ushers me into his Robinson Hall office and starts speaking loudly and excitedly and in a German accent. He’s honored to be one of FM’s 15 featured professors, he assures me.
When we sit down to talk, he begins at the very beginning. “This sounds very strange,” he says, “But I’ve been interested in history forever.”
His interest sprouted from an early skepticism of his history teachers—he didn’t think they were “telling [him] the truth.” So he went to the library, read “a lot of history,” and fell in love with the subject on his own terms. The first history book he ever wrote, one about Nazi Germany, was published before he went off to university.
But Beckert isn’t internationally renowned for his height or his animated manner of speaking or even for that book he wrote in high school. He’s known for another book, one published in 2014. It’s called “The Empire of Cotton: A Global History,” and it is quite a big deal—it recently won the Bancroft Prize, was a Pulitzer Prize finalist, and is being translated into 10 different languages.
Beckert’s research focuses on American economic history, but “The Empire of Cotton,” which took 10 years to write, became a global story. He started by looking at the historical implications of this 18th century American commodity—cotton—and followed it. It led him to all over the world, from Argentina to Senegal to India.
“It became so much bigger and so much more complicated than I had envisioned in the beginning,” Beckert tells me. But once he started stringing together a story, it seemed “totally impossible” to keep his research within the borders of the United States.
Beckert explains that history is usually taught in a nation-centric way—American history, Chinese history, French history. Global history is a relatively new approach. “Often in academia, people have these debates about what’s the best way to do something, but I didn’t really want to participate in that debate,” he says. “I wanted to do it.”
At the College, Beckert teaches classes that similarly look at the bigger picture. “History of American Capitalism” is his favorite to teach, partly because it is so interdisciplinary. And although Beckert’s been getting lots of airtime for “The Empire of Cotton,” he “really love[s] to teach,” he says, and allows his teaching to shape his research and vice versa.
“You know, if I weren’t teaching, I might’ve written the book in half the time,” he admits. “But maybe then it wouldn’t have been as good of a book.”
By Yehong Zhu

Joshua Greene ’97 greets me in his office on the 14th floor of William James Hall, home to a standing desk, a stack of books, and a spectacular bird’s-eye view of Cambridge. He is warm and inviting, with sharp bluish-green eyes, a calico beard, a mop of curly brown hair, and a penchant for good conversation.
I catch Greene right before he’s about to leave for sabbatical. He’s traveling to Utrecht and bringing with him a stack of books about four feet high—his reading list, he tells me. “There’s no grand agenda. I’m mostly looking to do some more reading and thinking about new topics.”
Greene is fascinated by the intersection of philosophy and science. “In some ways, the divisions are artificial,” he says, describing the unique humanistic perspective from which he sees the world. “What we now call science used to be a branch of natural philosophy, and that kind of captures what I’m trying to do—I’m starting with questions that come from philosophy’s long history, but trying to use scientific tools to answer them.”
Greene is unusual in the Psychology department because of his background. He was an undergraduate philosophy concentrator at Harvard before he went to Princeton for his Ph.D. in philosophy. Wanting to combine his interests in philosophy and neuroscience, he pitched an idea of using brain imaging to try to understand moral dilemmas—and subsequently launched a groundbreaking study into the underlying causes of human motivation, all without a formal scientific degree. He eventually synthesized his ideas in a book called “Moral Tribes,” which “summarizes most of what I’ve been doing for the last 10-15 years.”
As a raved-about professor who has taught SLS20 and “Social Psychology”—and will be teaching a new seminar in the spring—he describes his passion for teaching as a pursuit of that “Eureka” moment. “With teaching, there are moments when you are building up to make a point, and you finally make that point, and you see everyone in the room go ‘ahhhhh.’ I just helped 200 people get something all at once! There’s nothing else like that in ordinary life.”
Greene’s philosophy for life is intertwined with his natural curiosity for the world: “What are the biggest, most interesting questions that there are? Of those, which have already been answered, which can never be answered, which seem answerable, and which could I, with all the tools at my disposal, make progress on?”
By Maia R. Silber
When math professor Noam D. Elkies explains Chebyshev’s theorem, he turns away from the chalkboard. His hands have skidded over its black surface for the past half hour, filling it, from left to right, with variables, terms, and formulas. This one, he says, might look familiar.
“You’ve dealt with this if you’ve ever been in a math contest,” Elkies explains. The Mathematical Olympiad and other high school competitions often ask students to calculate the number of zeros at the end of a large factorial. The formula for solving that problem also held the key to Chebyshev’s work.
“But they didn’t have those contests back then,” Elkies says, drawing chuckles from the dozen or so students in his upper-level course on analytic number theory. Elkies, who has taught at Harvard since 1990, knows his students well. He also speaks from personal experience. Elkies first earned recognition as the youngest-ever gold-medalist to earn a perfect score at the International Math Olympiads.
By high school, Elkies had long known that he had an affinity for numbers. “Math and music were the languages that I grew up speaking,” he says over lunch in Lowell House. Elkies’s father worked as an engineer and his mother taught piano lessons at their house. He read Euclid at the local library, and began composing music at a young age.
Elkies completed a dual degree in mathematics and music at Columbia, studying the former with a faculty member at the Juilliard School. After seeking advice from Milton Babbitt, a mathematically-trained composer of serial music. Elkies decided to continue his studies in math. He entered Harvard’s Ph.D. program at the age of 19.
At Harvard, Elkies focused his work on number theory, the field that continues to interest him most. There, he also found colleagues and mentors with similar interests. Columbia, according to Elkies, saw fewer students pursuing advanced mathematics.
“Here there was a community of peers and time I didn’t have at Columbia when I was wasting time on these purportedly great books,” he jokes. On his first visit to campus, Elkies told a faculty member about a research project he had begun in high school.
“He made some suggestion, why don’t you just look at the standard deviation of the sums you’re calculating?” Elkies remembers. “And what do you know, his suggestion immediately proved what I had been doing with some complicated integrals.”
In his first year at Harvard, Elkies took an elective course with former College Dean Benedict H. Gross ’71. After the semester ended, Elkies looked back at a theorem he had learned from Gross and realized that it held the solution to a difficult problem in elliptical construction. Using this problem, Elkies was able to prove the theorem.
“I had to work with my 10-digit calculator I had at home,” he remembers. “I called and my adviser told me that this could be my thesis and I could graduate in two years.”
Elkies published his findings, and earned a Harvard College Fellowship. That position enabled him to gain teaching experience, and it also allowed him to live in Lowell House until he earned a full professorship. At the age of 26, Elkies became Harvard’s youngest-ever tenured faculty member.
The professor’s current research builds off paper published by his Harvard colleagues Lucia Caporaso, Joseph D. Harris, and Barry C. Mazur, “Uniformity of Rational Points.” According to Elkies, the range of methodologies within number theory means that conclusions constantly lead to new investigations.
“It’s like the heads of the hydra—you think you’ve slain one and two or three pop up,” he says.
Though he now lives in Central Square, Elkies stays heavily involved in Lowell House life. Elkies plays piano for the Lowell House Opera, rings the Lowell House Bells, and participates in semesterly trivia competitions and chess tournaments. (Elkies is a nationally ranked chess master.) Elkies also accompanied student singers in Lowell’s 2013 Housing Day video, based on the song “Get Low.” The rap reminded Elkies of Shostakovich’s eighth quartet, so he played a fugue that punned on that composer’s name.
Elkies sings a few notes to illustrate. “That was a bit of an amusement.”
By Lily C. Sugrue
In a deep, measured voice, Professor Laurence A. Ralph describes how he came upon the topic of his 2014 book “Renegade Dreams: Living Through Injury in Gangland Chicago.”
“What I encountered in Chicago,” he explains over the phone, “was a lot of young people who were disabled as a result of gunshot injuries…and I kind of got interested in looking at the gang and the community from their perspective because a lot of people would talk around the issue of disability.”
He began the project as an anthropology graduate student at the University of Chicago. Originally intending to go abroad to complete his thesis research on criminal and youth violence, he began working with violence prevention groups around the city and shifted his focus. “When I was telling people about my graduate school experience and my interest in going abroad they were questioning me,” he chuckles, “‘Why you would go abroad when we have those same issues here and we have those same problems here?’” Like much of his work, the book is interdisciplinary, touching on the cross section of anthropology, public health, and urban development.
As the John L. Loeb Associate Professor of the Social Sciences, Ralph teaches in two departments: the Department of Anthropology and the Department of African and African American Studies. His current research focus is on “youth activist groups in Chicago who have become frustrated with the law and are going to international bodies like the UN to kind of seek accountability for police violence in the United States.” Many of his contacts for this project are rooted in relationships he made during his previous research in the city.
Ralph currently teaches four courses at Harvard. His favorite, “Gangsters and Troublesome Populations,” is a large lecture-style course with lots of student involvement. Each week, the class focuses on a different population—ranging from gangsters, to criminals, to terrorists. By assigning ethnographies written from the point of view of these groups, Ralph tries to guide students towards a “new perspective on how the law works and…why people become part of the groups that they become part of.”
When Ralph isn’t researching or teaching, he’s working with the Public Services Committee or traveling. He just returned from Cuba a few weeks ago. “All these opportunities for me as a Harvard faculty member to see the world” are some of his favorite parts about working for the University. “I think it’s great, because that’s one of the things I enjoy doing most,” he says. “Just going to different places, particularly outside of the country and getting a different perspective on the world, and seeing how things are done differently. I think it kind of re-energizes me professionally, but also personally.”
By Joshua A. Goldstein
“I think we are doing a huge experiment on the planet that hasn’t been done for millions of years, and our best evidence suggests that the impact is going to be quite severe—both for humans and for natural ecosystems,” says Daniel P. Schrag, the Sturgis Hooper Professor of Geology.
Schrag, best known around the College for his course, SPU20: The Climate-Energy Challenge, has been interested in the issues and intersection of science and public policy for his entire academic career.
At Yale, Schrag earned a B.S. in geology and geophysics and political science. After college, he enrolled at the University of California at Berkeley, where he ended up falling in love with science.
After graduate school, Schrag held a faculty position at Princeton from 1994 to 1997. Schrag describes his transition to Harvard with enthusiasm.
“When I moved to Harvard, it was like a big playground,” he says.
It did not take long for Schrag to combine his interests in science and public policy.
“Right away John Holdren, who was at the Kennedy School and also in Earth and Planetary Science at Harvard—and was, at the time, advising President Clinton on climate issues—he asked me for advice and input. I thought, ‘Wow, here I am doing science but I’m kind of doing what I set out to do in the first place.’”
This year, Schrag has come full circle, spending two days a week at the Kennedy School as the director of a program called Climate, Technology, and Public Policy.
“For me, it’s an incredible formalization of something—an interest I’ve had since college. It’s really very satisfying,” Schrag says.
Throughout all of the science projects he has worked on at Harvard, Schrag has never given up his interest in public policy, focusing not just on the climate or history of the oceans and atmosphere, but also “on what to do about climate change.”
Schrag worked with his most recent Ph.D. student on carbon sequestration, energy technologies to eliminate carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and technologies to store it in parts of the earth.
When Schrag is not in the classroom or conducting research, he may be found in Washington working to advise President Barack Obama.
For the last six years he has worked on President Obama’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology.
The group, called PCAST, has produced more than 25 different reports for the resident and met him more than a dozen times since Schrag has been a part.
While Schrag’s research and Washington role may be impressive, there is nothing more important to him than students. “It’s important to remember that there is no impact that I will have—whether it’s advising President Obama or talking to business leaders—there is impact that I will have that is greater than the impact I have through teaching my students.”
By Ben G. Cort
“If your office isn’t messy, you aren’t working,” the late husband of Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham once said. If that saying holds true, then it appears that Higginbotham, the Victor S. Thomas Professor History and of African and African American Studies, has been hard at work for years.
A towering bookshelf dominates one wall of her office, overflowing with literature. The others are crammed full of eye-catching artwork of striking African American figures, and her awards have grown numerous enough to cluster haphazardly on top of a filing cabinet. It doesn’t help that I’ve caught her freshly arrived from Washington, D.C., where she’s just received the National Humanities Award from President Obama. When you’re busy illuminating the stories of thousands of lost voices, I imagine there’s little time to clean.
Though Higginbotham recieved the award (given to leaders in the humanities “whose work has deepened the nation’s understanding of the humanities”) just last week, it seems as if she was destined to recieve the distinction from birth. Higginbotham grew up with famous and influential historians as close family friends. Her father worked closely with Carter J. Woodson, who is “known as the founder of Black History.” Among his work is the foundation of what we now call Black History Month. Her own family was rich with stories. Her great-grandfather was a former slave who served on the jury of Jefferson David, the former Confederate president, and her great-grandmother founded one of the first post-Civil War orphanages for black children. “I knew as a child that I wanted to be a historian,” she remembers categorically of the time.
“One of the things I’ve done is to recognize the importance of biography,” Higginbotham says of her presence in the field. In her work with University Professor Henry Louis Gates Jr., she has helped assemble more than 6,000 names in the African American National Biography. “It’s important to recognize not only the names we know about in history, but the ones who are forgotten,” she says of the project. The bibliography grows from there, including, among others, the 1993 Righteous Discontent, and her rewrite of the famous “From Slavery to Freedom” by John Hope Franklin.
Perhaps her greatest addition to the study of history has been her recovery of groups forgotten from the American narrative. “I knew how important it was to tell a story of America, with a sense of the role African Americans had played in it. But it wasn’t until I was in grad school that I recognized I had made an oversight, as did these great historians,” she recalls. “They had left out the women.”
Even with her new presidential distinction, Higginbotham continues to be only humbly aware of the pioneering role she has played in bringing this history to light. “I think of myself as a person who helped to bring a new generation of African American women’s history,” she notes. And this was, she considers, the main reason she was honored by the president last week.
Upon further reflection, however, Higginbotham expanded how she defines herself as a historian. “I’d like to think of myself as someone who always looks to the larger American story. Someone who needs the inclusion of everyone. The American people.”
By Bailey M. Trela
Though the exterior of the Museum of Comparative Zoology Laboratories is composed of layered concrete, dark and rucked with shadows, the inside of the fifth floor—where Alexander Agassiz Professor of Zoology Gonzalo Giribet keeps his office—gets a surprising amount of light.
We sit in plush, black, modern chairs girding a glass table on which sits a large blue coffee cup: Giribet’s. At the moment Giribet is in between meetings; he’s only got a few minutes to talk.
Generally speaking, Giribet’s work focuses on invertebrates, or “things without a spine,” as he puts it for me. To clarify even further, Giribet provides a list of illustrative examples: “…centipedes and spiders or daddy long legs, and many marine animals, octopuses, squids, and clams, sponges and coral.” The examples come as they occur to him, in staggered waves, suggesting a mind ever attuned to classification.
Scientifically speaking, his work embraces phylogenomics and biogeography. He’s interested in “when groups originate through geological time, when they diversified, [and] whether their organs or diversification can be linked to special events in the history of the planet.”
But why, specifically, invertebrates? First off, he explains, they’re everywhere, and have existed for a much longer span of time; they have a greater history of interacting with the planet. Secondly, and “from a practical point of view,” he admits with a laugh, “it’s much easier to get permits to collect invertebrates.”
“But that’s a practical side that I had actually never considered,” he continues, “because I’ve always liked invertebrates, since I was a kid.”
As a child, he was always “collecting a lot of shells at the beach, or collecting insects and butterflies,” spending his time outdoors. “And I never dropped it,” he adds. “I’ve always wanted to work on those things, and so that’s what I do nowadays.”
But there’s another holdover from his childhood. For the past 30 years, since the age of 12, Giribet has been an avid and successful windsurfer.
“Every year I normally do a couple of the big competitions, whether it’s the World Championships or the European championships,” he explains. Unfortunately, because of knee surgery and a busy schedule, this year Giribet has only managed to attend two small competitions.
At the moment, some of his best friends are in Spain competing in the European Championship. Meanwhile—when he can remove himself from his taxonomical studies—Giribet maintains a regimen of training. “I do want to prepare myself,” he says, before tacking on the addendum that this preparation must fall “within the limits of my summers.”
Those limits constitute fieldwork, meetings, and international congresses—which, if you happen to be living your childhood dream, can be just as invigorating as speeding along the roof of the sea.
By Nina E. Luo

As a zombie consultant to Hollywood, Steven C. Schlozman gets to answer some questions like, “Why don’t zombies ever poo?”
“There’s obviously some metabolic process going on because they’re eating humans, so one possible explanation is that, like reptiles, they just excrete gaseous wastes through breaths,” says Schlozman, a Harvard Medical School assistant professor of psychiatry.
As a “nice Jewish boy” growing up in Kansas City, Mo., Dr. Schlozman discovered his passion for horror while watching the “Creature Features” that played during Saturday morning cartoons. He loved the feeling of being scared. Fast forward past the large public high school, the first date with a girl he couldn’t work up the courage to hold hands with, and the late-night calls on the landline, and Schlozman had made it to Stanford. In college, Schlozman studied English and biology.
A few years later, while in his medical school residency, Schlozman tried to charm his wife-to-be with the line “I can hospitalize this guy in 15 minutes.” (She was not charmed; she did not speak to him for six months).
Six years ago, Scholzman’s wife was diagnosed with breast cancer, and during one night of worry-induced insomnia, Schlozman walked downstairs to see “Night of the Living Dead” playing on the living room TV.
“I thought to myself, I can’t make her better because I’m not an oncologist, but I can make [the zombies] better,” Schlozman said.
So Schlozman published an article, which prompted a speech invite from a theater. The speech went viral. “The Zombie Autopsies: Secret Notebooks from the Apocalypse,” Dr. Schlozman’s work of fiction, details, with medical accuracy, the attempt to find a cure for the flesh-eating disease. The rights to its film adaptation have already been purchased by George Romero, creator of “Night of the Living Dead.” Max Brooks, author of “World War Z,” adapted the screenplay.
“Zombie movies, they’re always deeply tongue-in-cheek. There’s always a little slapstick comedy,” Schlozman, who now teaches a freshman seminar on horror film and literature, muses. “But these movies, they’re also not about zombies, they’re about people. Watching zombies is like watching snails. It’s really about the people who are left, and whether they can figure out a way to stay alive. These movies are cautionary tales of what not to do.”
Schlozman is currently working on a young adult romance set in a post-zombie apocalypse world. As a member of the Science and Entertainment Exchange, he frequently advises entertainers on both zombie neuroscience and his other area of expetise, child psychiatry. All this fame has not gone unnoticed by his patients, who nowadays “Google their doctors.”
Some of them have even given him horror films as Christmas presents.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The grassroots movement against Boston's bid to host the 2024 Olympic Games was key to its failure, the leaders of the group No Boston Olympics and Boston Magazine journalists argued at the Kennedy School of Government on Wednesday.
The panel event, hosted by the Kennedy School’s Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation, was less than two months after the United States Olympic Committee and Boston 2024 moved to end the Boston Olympic bid campaign.
Liam Kerr, one of the co-chairs of No Boston Olympics, a volunteer organization that opposed the Boston Olympics bid, highlighted the role that word of mouth played in the bid's take-down.
“You just need everyday citizens to just be paying attention. If one out of five people were not paying attention when they were, poll numbers would have flipped and Boston could have still had the Olympic bid today,” he said.
Boston residents had voiced their concerns about the bid throughout the campaign, especially wary that the 2024 Olympics would overrun projected costs and force the city to use public funds to finance venues and the Games' execution. A WBUR and MassInc poll conducted in July found that only 40 percent of Boston area voters supported the bid.
Journalists from Boston Magazine on the panel were quick to point out what they characterized as critical flaws in the bid from its very beginning, emphasizing in particular a lack of communication with the general public and the media on the part of the Boston 2024 organizers.
“The bid organizers didn’t even attempt to get out into the community and ask people what they thought about the bid. Boston 2024 created a cloud of suspicion not only among the public, but among the press,” said Garrett Quinn, a digital news editor for the magazine. “Their inability to work with the press and to build consensus with the community and stakeholders hurt them even more.”
Christopher Dempsey, a Harvard Business School graduate who co-chaired No Boston Olympics, argued that working with residents to hash out ideas would have helped them develop trust with the general public and improved the bid.
“There is a great story about ‘small d’ democratic governance,” Dempsey said.
—Staff writer William C. Skinner can be reached at wskinner@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @WSkinner.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The story had it all: the breakdown of a historic gender barrier, set at America’s preeminent institution of higher education with some intrigue thrown in. 
Early last Friday, The Crimson reported that members of Harvard’s Spee Club, one of the eight all-male final clubs at the College, had voted to invite women to participate in its annual punch process, when prospective members are put up for entry to the unrecognized social organization. The story of the group’s historic move to go co-ed broke late, well past midnight—and national media outlets quickly picked up the thread.
In less than 24 hours, The New York Times and The Boston Globe had reported their own extensive versions of the story, complete with campus reaction and analysis. BuzzFeed followed suit a day later. Other blogs also picked it up.
As an elite and international institution, Harvard often but sporadically attracts national media attention. In this case, according to reporters who covered the story and outside experts, the Spee narrative’s encapsulation of several topics trending in public discourse—gender equality, higher education, fraternities, and sexual assault—prompted it to draw outsized attention.
The Times, declaring that a “gender barrier” had fallen and describing the Spee as seemingly “relatively progressive,” chose to highlight the club’s move to go co-ed alongside women protesting the Hasty Pudding Theatricals’ all-male cast. The Times story connoted a trend of recent challenges to single-sex organizations at Harvard.
According to Katharine Q. Seelye, the Times’s New England bureau chief who shared a byline on the paper’s story, its significance reached beyond Harvard’s own campus.
“That elite, all-male clubs still exist in this day and age, especially at a university that prides itself on equality, would probably surprise a lot of people,” Seelye wrote in an email. “That they do exist says something about Harvard and about society. It also says something about both that at least one club is now changing.”
“In general people are drawn to the first history making type stories of any sort,” said Tamerra Griffin, a reporter for BuzzFeed News who wrote about the Spee for the site. “I think in particular BuzzFeed readers tend to be interested in stories about gender equality or inequality.”
Beyond its relationships with gender equity issues, Griffin said the setting of the story—higher education, another issue important to BuzzFeed’s younger readership—made it that much more worthy of coverage.
“All of those things were at play, which after you consider each factor, to me made it that much more newsworthy,” she said.
And it was not just any institution of higher education involved. Harvard occupies an outsized role in the national imagination and claims the reputation of the country’s most famous university. That is part of what drove the coverage, according to Boston Globe reporter Laura Krantz.
“Anytime Harvard does something, it’s a big deal in the world of higher ed,” said Krantz, who wrote the Globe’s version of the Spee story. “These clubs are a unique part of the Harvard culture and I think your average reader is probably interested in them,” she added.
Media experts add that the role of final clubs in the story also served as a connection to the national conversation surrounding the merits of fraternities on college campuses.
Nicholas B. Lemann ’76, dean emeritus of the Columbia School of Journalism, said the story touches on both the “Harvard button and the fraternity button.”
“If you sub in the word fraternity instead of final club, which is how the country would understand, it's a whole big national argument going on about fraternities, fraternity culture, campus rape,” said Lemann, who is also a former Crimson president.
—Staff writer Ivan B. K. Levingston can be reached at ivan.levingston@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @IvanLevingston.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As sophomores wine and dine at Harvard’s male and female final clubs this month as part of a decades-old selection ritual—the punch process—Harvard administrators will also gather to meet with the elite unrecognized groups.
But unlike the stream of sophomores eager for entry into the clubs, College officials have their own agenda.
On Thursday, administrators will join graduate board leaders of Harvard’s final clubs for a meeting, one highly anticipated among circles of club members. Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana is expected to attend, according to a final club graduate board president who will go to the meeting.
The meeting is not out of character for the College administration; representatives from the Office of Student Life routinely meet with final club leaders, despite the groups’ officially unrecognized status. But this meeting comes at a time of swirling uncertainty about the future of the final clubs. As the groups face mounting scrutiny from administrators, they have hosted fewer parties, and one all-male club has moved to go co-ed. 
Khurana, for his part, has been working on a set of recommendations about campus social life and unrecognized social organizations, and both he and University President Drew G. Faust have made clear that “nothing” is off the table in terms of their willingness or ability to regulate them.
It is unclear what topics the group will address on Thursday. Although he declined to discuss the upcoming graduate board meeting in an interview last week, Khurana has said that he will eventually discuss his recommendations with stakeholders. He has declined to say what they include.
According to some legal experts, though, he has many options if he wants to influence the groups.
Experts said this week that Harvard can reasonably argue that it has the power to make the clubs essentially defunct. While administrators have not said that they want to eliminate the groups, if they chose to do so, the University would have a relatively strong backing in court, lawyers said.
According to Gregory F. Hauser, an attorney and alumnus of the fraternity Delta Chi who has represented fraternities, the fact that the relationship between private universities and their students is essentially contractual gives the colleges a lot of leeway. Private institutions have the power to impose restrictions on joining certain organizations as a condition of enrollment, he said.
In 2014, Amherst College in Massachusetts did just that, prohibiting student participation “in off-campus fraternities and sororities and fraternity-like and sorority-like organizations,” according to its undergraduate policies.
Hauser said courts have not settled just how far such regulations can go, but he predicted that Harvard could successfully defend a policy banning students from joining final clubs.
“Because they limit their membership to Harvard students, because their activities are centered on the status of the members as Harvard students, I suspect a court would probably uphold a ruling by Harvard,” Hauser said.
The limitations on how strictly universities like Harvard can regulate their students’ private activities depend on whether the action in question is in sync with the larger institution’s mission, he added.
Khurana, for his part, has made clear his stance that single-gender organizations are not “appropriate” for the College. He also suggested in an interview last week that he is working with unrecognized social organizations to brainstorm “a different kind of relationship with the College that’s not just an unrecognized status.”
Harvey A. Silverglate, an attorney who has advised Harvard students facing Administrative Board investigations, said he disagrees with the idea of Harvard becoming more involved in students’ private lives. But he nonetheless agreed that Harvard could place restrictions on final clubs.
“Harvard could issue a rule that disallows its students from joining these clubs or any clubs which have gender exclusive policies,” Silverglate said.
Using anti-sex discrimination law Title IX as a means to control the groups, though, might prove more difficult, according to Hauser and Peter F. Lake ’81, a professor at Stetson University College of Law and an expert in higher education law. They were both skeptical of the legal backing of using the law to further regulate or pressure single-gender social organizations to go co-ed.
“If you are using Title IX as sort of a weapon to control the groups, it’s probably not what Title IX is intended for,” Lake said.
Still, legal experts agreed that the final clubs, whether through irate almuni or more formal litigation, would probably challenge any regulation that barred students from joining them.
Hauser said final club leaders could go through Harvard’s handbook to see if a new regulation constitutes a breach in contract. Silverglate suggested that the clubs might also argue that restrictions on membership violate freedom of association protections in the state constitution, although he questioned whether they would have a high chance of succeeding in court.
Regardless of what Harvard could legally accomplish, however, a more fundamental question remains, experts say.
“If you can do it, is it something you should do?” Lake asked.
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche.
—Staff writer Theodore R. Delwiche can be reached at theodore.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @trdelwic.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Eight new faculty members joined the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences this fall, plus its new dean, a “bumper crop” that marks the largest addition to the school’s faculty in the past five years, according to SEAS spokesperson Paul Karoff.
Five of the new faculty members are computer scientists. Last November’s donation from former Microsoft CEO Steve A. Ballmer ’77, given to fund 12 computer science professorships in total, enabled the hirings. 
Faculty growth at SEAS, which has been one of the administration’s priorities in recent years, is part of the larger expansion of a school that has received increased interest from students and donors alike.
This June, hedge fund magnate and Harvard Business School alumnus John A. Paulson pledged to give $400 million to SEAS, marking the largest donation in University history that renamed the school and brought with it significant public scrutiny.
The number of undergraduate computer science concentrators, meanwhile, has increased fourfold over the past eight years, according to the SEAS website. Last year, a record number of undergraduates enrolled in Computer Science 50.
Francis Doyle III, the new dean who took the helm of SEAS this fall, said he is “thrilled” to start his deanship at a time of expansion and growth. School administrators will look to further expand the size of SEAS faculty through ongoing searches this year, he said.
According to Harry R. Lewis ’68, a Computer Science professor and the school's former interim dean, the limited available space on SEAS's current campus will hinder faculty growth in the next few years, until the majority of the school moves across the Charles River in 2019.
On Tuesday, Harvard officials discussed more details on plans for the new SEAS complex in Allston, a single building that will cover 586,000 square feet.
Still, despite substantial professorial growth, SEAS also saw the departure of a long-time faculty member, according to Lewis.
Greg Morrisett, a former Harvard Computer Science professor who taught Computer Science 51, left Harvard at the end of the last academic year for Cornell, where he is now dean of the school's faculty of computing and information science.
“We are sorry to see him go, but that too is a measure of the quality of the people on our faculty that other schools come raid us for their leadership,” Lewis said.
In addition to Doyle, the following faculty members joined SEAS this fall: Demba Ba, Boaz Barak, Sean R. Eddy, Scott Kuindersma, Xin Li, James Mickens, Alexander M. Rush, and Madhu Sudan. SEAS hired Ba and Rush in 2014, but they arrived on campus this fall.
—Staff Writer Zara Zhang can be reached at zara.zhang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter at @zarazhangrui.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
With a new process for responding to cases of alleged sexual harassment now in place at Harvard Law School, a new group of administrators are overseeing the beginning stages of integrating the new system and informing students about it. 
Since the end of last semester, two of the three members of the Law School Title IX Unit that oversees the investigation and adjudication of student sexual harassment cases have left their positions. Marie H. Bowen, who served as the school's assistant dean of human resources and its chief Title IX officer, left Harvard for the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. Ellen M. Cosgrove, the former dean of students and another Title IX officer at the school, departed this summer for Yale Law School.
The two administrative departures have left interim administrators in their place to oversee the rollout of the Law School's complicated new approach to Title IX compliance. The Law School’s process, new this semester, is a major departure from the system in place at all other Harvard schools, whose student sexual harassment cases go through one centralized Title IX office.
According to Catherine Claypoole, the Law School's interim chief Title IX officer, she is the only member of the original Title IX unit still at the school. Jeffrey C. McNaught, the acting dean of students, and Kathryn Beaudry, the acting assistant dean of human resources, are now interim Title IX officers.
“We will revisit composition of the Title IX Unit and roles after our new Dean of Students and our new Chief Human Resources Officer settle into their jobs. For the time being the current coordinators will remain in place,” Claypoole wrote in an email.
Marcia Sells, who comes to Harvard from Columbia, will assume her post as the Law School's new dean of students on Sept. 21. According to McNaught, her interim predecessor, Sells may assume Title IX responsibilities later in the semester.
The series of departures and new arrivals among staff members means that the Law School's administration is in flux as the school itself transitions to a new Title IX approach.
Under the Law School’s new system, in place after months of faculty debate, an adjudicatory panel of non-Harvard affiliated professionals will rule on violations of Harvard’s University-wide Title IX policy, potentially after a hearing. The Law School will provide students involved in a case with an attorney if requested.
According to Claypoole, the Title IX and Dean of Students offices will hold a series of information sessions to inform Law School students about the new sexual harassment adjudication process.
Several returning students recently said they were unfamiliar with the new procedures. All new Law School students, according to Claypoole, were trained in the new procedures both online and during orientation.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Recalling his compassion and deep faith, hundreds filled the pews of Memorial Church on Wednesday evening to celebrate the life of Luke Z. Tang ’18, a Lowell House sophomore.
Music and prayers characterized the memorial service, which began with a rendition of “Over the Rainbow," delivered by a quartet including members of the Harvard-Radcliffe Asian American Christian Fellowship, of which Tang was a part. Shortly after, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana offered a reading of “No Man Is An Island” by poet John Donne.
Tang died suddenly and unexpectedly on Saturday. The state medical examiner's office has not yet released a cause of death—on Wednesday, a spokesperson said it was pending—but police do not suspect foul play.
The Wednesday evening service, emotional and touching, highlighted Tang's relationship with his faith and his passion for learning and teaching others. Reflecting on his life, speakers read several prayers, Bible verses, and a passage from Tang’s favorite book, "The Brothers Karamazov."
Friends and family members shared the message that faith was a part of life that Tang held dear, reiterating his passion for religion and teaching others throughout the service.
“Because of Luke, I am Christian,” said  Catherine Y. Li ’18, who lived in Lowell with Tang.
“He asked us the difficult questions about our faith, and showed us what he was passionate about without intimidating us or alienating us,” said Sarah Wang, Tang's childhood friend.
M. Hanl Park ’18, one of Tang's blockmates, described his friend's love for teaching, saying, “he had more vitality than anyone I’ve ever met.”
 Friends and family also described Tang as deeply committed to empathy and compassion. Friend Jimmy Lin ’17 described Tang's practice of leaving a bookmark in both the Bible and the Quran, a small symbol of his tolerance and understanding.
“Luke taught me so much about love, about humility, about perseverance,” Wang added.
Two professors, Courtney B. Lamberth and Howard Georgi, called a Tang a “blessing” to teach. According to speakers at the service, Tang’s intellectual interests were broad and far-reaching, “from physics to philosophy.”
Tang’s older brother, Richard, shared childhood photos of Tang and their family during a slideshow presentation at the service. Caitlin M. Casey, Lowell House's dean and Tang’s sophomore adviser, also reflected on Tang’s impact on the House.
“In the short time that we knew him at Lowell, it became clear to us that Luke was a committed young man. Committed to his spiritual journey... and committed to his quest for knowledge,” Casey said.
Outside of Memorial Church, visitors shared their memories of Tang by writing notes on whiteboards.
—Staff writer Jalin P. Cunningham can be reached at jalin.cunningham@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JalinCunningham.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As students gathered around campus for viewing parties of the Republican presidential debate on Wednesday, candidate Donald J. Trump’s animated performance was the center of undergraduate attention, triggering both laughter and dismay.
Republicans and Democrats, freshmen and seniors, all roared as the business mogul-turned-politician derided the other candidates for the Republican Party's nomination in 2016 and extolled his own virtues.
At the Institute of Politics’ debate watch party, co-sponsored by the Harvard Republican Club, three rooms hosted a crowd of about 70 people in total. They resounded with laughter as Trump attacked fellow candidate Senator Rand Paul for his appearance.
After questioning why Paul, whose poll numbers have hovered at 2 or 3 percent, should be present at the debate, Trump remarked that he has never “attacked him or his looks” and that “there’s plenty of subject matter right there.”
Compared to the bombastic Trump, other candidates drew limited attention from undergraduate observers at the watch party. Jokes from New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and Ohio Governor John Kasich elicited some mild chuckles, but some students pulled out their phones or focused on event bingo sheets when Trump finished speaking.
That is not to say, however, that the crowd of Harvard students support the controversial candidate. The enthusiasm, some attendees noted, seemed largely in jest.
Students “were definitely laughing at him,” Alex H. Meade ’19 said.
Students were not “thrilled” with where Trump steered the debate, Declan P. Garvey ’17 added. “It geared the debate more toward entertainment,” he said.
“While it’s entertaining when Trump says what he says, it’s not presidential to be able to get Jerry Springer-style oohs and aahs out of people,” suggested Aaron I. Henricks ’16, the Republican Club president.
On the other side of campus, and the political spectrum, the Harvard College Democrats hosted their own debate watch party in the Big TV Room at Mather House. The mood at this event, though, was notably less boisterous than the atmosphere at the IOP. They, too, laughed at Trump, but the crowd of about 15 students in Mather seemed overwhelmingly concerned by the opposing party's candidates and their views.
“We’re definitely laughing at Trump, but it’s a nervous laughter because he could actually be running the country," said Jacob R. Carrel ’16, the College Democrats president.
The modest crowd at the watch party shrank considerably after a fire drill interrupted the event.
—Staff writer Michael S. Avi-Yonah can be reached at michael.aviyonah@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: September 16, 2015, at 10:19 p.m.
The Harvard football team did not lose a single game last year, but the team suffered a setback just days before the beginning of its new season. Junior quarterback Joe Viviano, who was in a close competition for the starting job, is out for the season after breaking his foot in a recent scrimmage, according to Crimson coach Tim Murphy.
Viviano suffered the injury to his left foot during a Saturday night scrimmage over the Labor Day weekend. The team later learned that the injury required surgery, and the quarterback is currently wearing a large protective boot that will render him unable to participate in football activities.
According to Murphy, Viviano and senior Scott Hosch were in an “even” competition for the starting position throughout the entire offseason. The injury to Viviano means that Hosch is now the starter and will open the season behind center on Saturday against Rhode Island.
“[The competition] probably would have gone down to the wire,” Murphy said. “The only sort of silver lining of the whole thing is that we were able to determine the starting quarterback sooner than we might have had the competition gone down to the wire.”
Indeed, Wednesday marked the first day Murphy publicly announced his 2015 starting quarterback. During the team’s spring practices, Viviano took most of the reps with the first team offense in order to give the coaching staff a chance to evaluate him with the best possible personnel. But according to Murphy, the starting job was very much up for grabs entering the preseason.
“It was still a competition, and it was a very close competition,” Murphy said. “Both [Viviano and Hosch] are really improved players and both guys bring their own skillset…. It would not have been an easy decision.”
Viviano served as Harvard’s third-string quarterback last season, behind then-senior Conner Hempel and Hosch. Although Hempel was sidelined with an injury for much of the season, Viviano only appeared behind center at the end of a rout against Columbia. During that game, Viviano threw once for an incompletion but had 63 rushing yards on three attempts, including a 53-yard carry.
The now-starter Hosch enjoys more experience that he will attempt to build on throughout the 2015 campaign. The senior made six starts behind center last season, guiding his team to victory in each of them en route to Harvard’s third undefeated season in the last 14 years.
Surrounding Hosch on offense will be a host of capable skill position players. Senior Paul Stanton was First Team All-Ivy in 2014, and senior receivers Andrew Fischer and Seitu Smith are established, athletic threats on the outside. Murphy has referred to senior tight end Ben Braunecker as a potential All-American candidate, and senior veteran linemen Cole Toner and Anthony Fabiano will anchor the unit up front.
Senior quarterback Jimmy Meyer, who has seen minimal game action over his three years with the Crimson, will serve as Hosch’s backup.
—Staff writer David Steinbach can be reached at david.steinbach@thecrimson.com.
This article has been revise to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: September 16, 2015
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated which foot Joe Viviano injured. In fact, he broke his left foot, not his right one.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After suffering a litany of injuries in the spring, the Harvard women’s tennis team finished last season with a record of 7-12, including an 0-7 mark in Ivy League play. The 2015 campaign was the first time in coach Traci Green’s tenure that the Crimson went winless against Ivy League opponents, and only the second time under Green that Harvard finished below .500 for an entire season.
This weekend, the Crimson attempts to start the new season on a different note.
On Friday, the Harvard women’s tennis team kicks off the year with the Harvard Fall Classic, a three-day tournament at the Beren Tennis Center featuring players from Harvard, Boston College, Columbia, Connecticut, Wake Forest, and Yale. This marks the start of the individual tournament-based fall season and is the first time since 2011 that the season-opener for the Crimson will be played at home. In January, Harvard will begin the more team-oriented spring season.
“We are excited to have our team back and looking forward to our first home event,” Green said. “We’re hosting very strong competition and are looking forward to getting back into the swing of things. We are using this tournament as part of the process to prepare for the spring season… and are looking to get our feet back.”
Senior Amy He captains a young and upcoming group that sees the return of only three other juniors and seniors, fellow senior Amanda Lin and juniors Danielle Mirda and June Lee. Following the graduation of captain Sylvia Li, Lee anticipates the four upperclassmen will take on more of a leadership role this year.
“Freshmen and sophomores look to the juniors and seniors during practice and team things,” Lee said. “I’ve learned so much over the last few years, so hopefully I’ll be able to teach the freshmen something.”
Despite last season’s woes, two bright spots were the play of now-sophomores Nikki Kallenberg and Annika Ringblom. In doubles, Ringblom ended the season with a 16-12 record and an All-Ivy League second team selection. In singles, Kallenberg, recently ranked No. 98 in an Intercollegiate Tennis Association preseason poll, finished off last season with a team-best 19-6 record.
Kallenberg and Ringblom are poised to be contenders in the Fall Classic, which also features junior Lexi Borr and sophomore Asiya Dair of Boston College, both of whom attained ITA preseason rankings in the 90s. Senior Kanika Vaidya of Columbia, a recent first team All-Ivy selection, and junior Kimmy Guerin of Wake Forest, ranked No. 84 by the ITA, also figure to be threats.
Besides goals of capturing this weekend’s title, Green emphasizes the role that the tournament plays in preparing the team for a long season.
“We really haven’t had that many days of practice,” Green said. “We’re using this tournament to brush off some of the cobwebs, and are really excited to compete at home and to get back to playing tournament tennis.”
The Harvard Fall Classic will be the first chance to adjust to college play for the team’s four new freshmen: Isabel Jasper, Erica Oosterhout, Claire Spackman, and Sabrina Xiong. This will also be the first exposure to Crimson tennis for the team’s new assistant coach, Andrew Laing, who was hired over the summer.
“We’re a very young group, but our team still has a lot of depth and everyone plays very differently,” Lee said. “It’ll be really good and interesting to see how everyone does against all the other schools.”
The last time the Harvard Fall Classic was hosted in 2011, Harvard came home with championship wins. This year’s team hopes to bring back similar hardware, but acknowledges that the tournament is a learning experience.
“It’s our first tournament with a whole new team,” Lee said. “Our goals are to try our best and have the best attitude possible.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After stumbling through the opening gate of the season, the Harvard men’s soccer team (1-2-1) was finally able to get a much needed win at Stony Brook on Sunday after grabbing the lead in the 82nd minute. The team looks to take the momentum from this win into the weekend to the Pacific Northwest where it will play against Seattle and No. 9 Washington.
Seattle (3-2-0) has not had as much trouble getting off to a good start as the Crimson has this year. The Redhawks came out of the gates hot in their first competitive match, beating UC Davis, 6-0. The team has averaged over three goals while failing to concede one in its three victories so far.
Washington (4-0-1) has fared similar in the early portion of its schedule. Through the team’s first five matches, the Huskies have scored six goals and have conceded none on their way to their place in the top 10 nationally.
However, whether it is Seattle, Washington or any other team, the Crimson will look to prepare the same way.
“The team as a whole, when we play we fight really hard, we grind out games and we compete,” junior co-captain Andrew Wheeler-Omiunu said. “With the exception of the first game, I believe that we have competed, more so than the other team. That’s the baseline standard that we set: to compete. We have a very strong fighting spirit.”
That fighting spirit will be needed if the Crimson has to once again take the field without co-captain Mark Ashby. The starting centerback has been out for the last few games due to a quad injury and has been listed as day-to-day so far this season.
“It’s the question of the hour. I’m at about 90, 95 percent fit, close to 100, but it’s a matter of taking the risk to play or not.” Ashby said.
Without his leadership at the back, the remaining men in the backline have stepped up, particularly the centerback pairing of juniors Alex Leondis and Dan Smith.
While playing without the reigning Ivy League Defensive Player of the Year presents a formidable challenge to Harvard, Wheeler-Omiunu believes that the rest of the team is more than capable of filling in Ashby’s shoes.
“Ashby is irreplaceable to our team.” Wheeler-Omiunu said. “That being said, our team is a team of leaders. Guys have absolutely stepped up and not only in the leadership department but in playing as well.”
This weekend could kick-start the Crimson season into gear, but doing so will be no easy task. Seattle's offense has been potent this campaign, scoring 10 goals over its five games.
The Redhawks have been led by senior striker Hamza Haddadi, who has scored five goals so far and is one of the top 15 goal-scorers in the nation. The defense has also been strong for Seattle, conceding only two goals and achieving a top-20 rank in the nation in goals against average with .4 goals per game.
Following its match versus the Redhawks, the Crimson has a quick turnaround before facing the Huskies.
Washington comes in with the best defense in the nation, as senior keeper Ryan Herman has anchored the defense between the sticks. Herman has made nine saves for the Huskies, who have yet to concede a goal this season.
While this weekend will present a challenge for Harvard, there have been promising signs that indicate this weekend could be a breakthrough for the team.
Over the last few games, the team has improved, honing in on cleaning up the details that have allowed opponents to come away with results against the Crimson so far. Doing so will be key for Harvard to get the ball rolling before conference play.
“There were details that we were not executing perfectly, like working on set pieces, not giving the ball away in dangerous positions, but it’s progressively cleaned up. “ Ashby said. “We’ve started to find our rhythm a little bit.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
After a summer of deprivation from swai, seitan fajitas, red spiced chicken, and all our other favorite dhall delicacies, we’re sure you were all as excited as we were to return to the fine dining that is HUDS. This long-awaited return, however, was met with substantial changes to the traditional HUDS lineup, on top of a sweet new website that makes us wonder where the asparagus flatbreads and macarons have been hiding for all this time.
Whether you’re having trouble navigating the new sandwich bar or don’t understand why there’s so much chili, here is a run through of our thoughts on all the major changes that the have occurred in the world of dining at Harvard:
Chili and Cornbread: a match made in heaven
Whether chili is actually HUDS’ idea of a healthy lunch item or it’s just their way of hiding whatever was yesterday’s leftovers, in our opinion, this is the best new addition to the daily repertoire. The chili is surprisingly tasty and quite filling, and hey, when did adding cornbread to a meal ever make it worse? Plus, the dining hall staff even offers various types of chili to accommodate both meat-eaters and vegetarians alike, making the chili a lunchtime must.
Quiche
The latest and greatest HUDS policy to revolutionize breakfast is the addition of quiche, and a mystery food “strata” (seriously, has anyone ever heard of this?), at least twice a week. This is crucial– we’re not sure if the bulk of the Harvard student body would be able to get through the day without a slice of quiche in the morning.
Sandwich Bar
Aka arts and crafts at lunch time, HUDS’ attempt to spark the inner Picasso within all of us. While the sandwich bar has always been in existence, it has been completely revamped this year, now including rotating ingredients such as grilled chicken, mozzarella, pesto, and ciabatta bread. Just in case you can’t figure out how to make a sandwich out of the ingredients provided, a sample sandwich and list of ingredients are always provided. But remember, tempting as it may be, please refrain from eating the sample. Seriously, a lot of hard work went into making that.

Less chunky Greek Yogurt and various other breakfast essentials
One of the most not-so-subtle differences in the dhall this year is that the yogurt has finally changed to one with a more pleasant consistency! Say goodbye to the former days of chunky Greek Yogurt and hello to frozen blueberry topping! This combined with the new, more diverse, breakfast pastry selection make for an A+ HUDS breakfast experience.
Sections
It’s mid-September, so you know what that means– the leaves are changing, you’ve finally won your battle with the new my.harvard, and you’re counting down the days to Bean Boot season. Your more politically-active friends at the IOP have probably been barraging you with emails about registering to vote, which also means that it’s also officially election season.
The second GOP debate is happening tonight at 8 p.m., which gives you the opportunity to take a study break and– more importantly– to drink. So, just in case you needed an excuse to turn up in the middle of the week (#WineWednesday, anyone?) Flyby has created the Ultimate [Second] GOP Debate Drinking Game. All you need is a plastic handle of liquor and whatever cheap, watery beer your friends like to have a Grand Old Party tonight.
Take a drink…
for every candidate wearing an American flag pinfor every mention of/complaint about “political correctness”for every time a candidate cuts off the moderator
Finish your drink…
for the first time Donald Trump blames China for America’s problems...and the second timewhy not the third time too, for good measure?for inappropriately long rounds of applause from the audiencefor every time you realize that a candidate is quoting your Ec10 lecture
Take a shot…
for every time someone bashes Hillaryfor every “Make America Great Again”for every mention of Kim Davisfor every time Jeb Bush says the phrase “anchor baby”
Sections
Rejoice for it is Thursday, the beginning of the weekend. For those of us who don’t have class on Fridays, that is. Amazing things have happened on this day in the past. In 1978, the Camp David Accords were signed by Israel and Egypt. And then in 1983, Vanessa Williams became the first black Miss America. What amazing things will happen to you today?
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
Get ready for another nice hot day! With highs of 88, it’s going to be quite toasty for most of the day. But things will cool down in the evenings, with lows of 60.
IN THE D-HALL
Lunch:
Asian BBQ Pulled Pork Sandwich
Vegetable Lo Mein with Tofu
Roasted Russet Potato Wedges
Dinner:
Chef’s Choice
Cider Roasted Pork Loin
Tuscan Herb Garlic Rsted Chick
5 Cheese Tortellini with Spinach and Mushrooms
ON FLYBY
“Change is Good”: Your Guide to the New and Improved HUDS: Flyby’s official endorsement of the positive changes that have come to HUDS.
Farmal: The Real Garden Party: Get the lowdown on the event that has 4.1k people registered to attend on Facebook.
So, What’s a Class Marshal?: Voting for class marshal has already begun. But what even is a class marshal, anyway?
IN THE NEWS (sorry, there’s nothing new that’s come up yet! as of 9:33. I’m going to bed super early today because I have to get up at 5:30...sorry about leaving this section blank!)
EVENTS
The Harvard Cancer Society is hosting Alex’s Lemonade Stand, its annual lemonade stand to raise funds for the fight against pediatric cancer, in the Science Center Plaza today and tomorrow from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
The Harvard Project for Asian and International Relations is holding an information session in Ticknor Lounge from 7-8 p.m.
The Solars are performing in the Queen’s Head Pub at 10:30 p.m.
Sections
Let’s start with the obvious: coffee is important. Whether you pound espresso shots, savor cappuccinos, or sip pumpkin spice lattes (yes, your barista is definitely judging you), you understand the importance of a strong infusion of caffeine in the morning, unless you’re one of the lucky few who are “naturally energetic.”
When it comes to coffee, there are quite a few on-campus options. There’s always your local dhall, but let’s face it: Seattle’s Best doesn’t always stand up to its name. Lamont Cafe and Greenhouse are two other common choices, but let’s not be quite so basic.
Instead, this reporter took a closer look at two of the lesser-known cafes on campus: Chauhaus (like “Bauhaus” but with chow… get it?) in the Graduate School of Design, and the Arts Cafe in the Barker Center. Both cafes accept BoardPlus, which unfortunately I did not know was a thing until after I bought my coffee. Fellow freshmen: BoardPlus is $65 per semester that you get to spend at several non-Annenberg locations.
Chauhaus
1. LocationLocated on the first floor of the GSD at 48 Quincy Street, Chauhaus is seconds away from CGIS and just across the street from Sanders Theatre, making it an excellent choice for Gov concentrators and Ec 10 devotees alike (lol jk— you’re in section all week).
2. AmbianceMy initial impression of the place was not a particularly positive one, given the intimidating “no trespassing– GSD students only” sign on the door. I decided to gather up my courage and give it the old college try, and I ended up having no trouble getting a coffee. Not too sure what the deal was there.
The cafe itself is very open and bright, with lots of natural light streaming through the large window that faces a rather pleasant green area. The food and coffee are self-serve, which is a plus or a minus depending on whether you feel like interacting with humans.
Once you’ve purchased your food and/or beverages, there are plenty of tables where you can sip your coffee as you design Boston’s next great art museum. The vibe of the cafe is decidedly artsy and somewhat hipster (no shortage of thick-frame glasses), so it’s an excellent choice if you want to access your creative side after slogging through p-sets.
3. CoffeeStarbucks. I was a bit disappointed. Don’t get me wrong; Starbucks is solid, and it plays a very important role as, in my opinion, the best of the big chains (sorry, Dunkin). But Starbucks is not exactly in short supply, so I don’t get ecstatic when I see it.
I poured myself a French Roast ($1.65), being partial to darker coffees, and I was quite happy with it, but it wasn’t anything to write home about.
4. FoodChauhaus has an array of snack foods and a hot food section that’s open during mealtimes. Aside from some very large cookies, nothing jumped out at me in particular, so I passed.
5. OverallDefinitely a good place to go if you have work to do and you want a change of vibes from the usual spots. The coffee is dependable, but that’s not the reason to go to Chauhaus. It’s more about hanging around a different set of people who are working on very cool and artsy things.
The Arts Cafe
1. LocationLocated at 12 Quincy Street in the Barker Center, the Arts Cafe is definitely the most convenient coffee spot for the Crimson Yard crowd. It’s also right across the street from Lamont, so if one cafe is too crowded, it’s very easy to run across and try the other.
2. AmbianceNo scary signs here. The room that houses the cafe is large and circular; ceiling-high windows covered with translucent drapes shine a warm, yellow light on the room, which creates a very cozy feel. The seating is more varied than at Chauhaus, featuring couches, comfy chairs, and windows seats in addition to standard tables.
Also distinct from Chauhaus is the way you purchase your goodies: the Arts Cafe features three very friendly baristas who provide a nice human touch to the caffeination process.
Overall, the Arts Cafe lives up to its name when it comes to ambiance, but it features a wider variety of artsiness than Chauhaus does given its location in the multi-discipline Humanities Center. Definitely the place to go to read Thucydides or talk about the poetry of Keats with a group of friends… or, just, you know, get some coffee.
3. CoffeeNot Starbucks! The coffee brewed at the Arts Cafe is named, appropriately, Counter Culture Coffee.
Having already reached my optimal buzz (caffeine buzz, that is), I decided to order an Americano ($2.85) instead of a brewed coffee in the hopes that its caffeine content would be lower (it wasn’t).
(Café Americano for the uninitiated.)
I was predisposed to like the coffee simply by virtue of it not being Starbucks, but I will say, though, that it had a bit of a metallic taste, which I wasn’t crazy about. Overall, however, a solid cup of coffee. I probably would have enjoyed it more if it wasn’t my second cup in the span of half an hour.
4. FoodI wasn’t particularly hungry, but I couldn’t resist trying at least one of the baked goods that the Arts Cafe offers in addition to a selection of sandwiches. I ended up trying the vanilla bean cake ($3.15), which was delish but on the pricy side. Definitely a good treat for a rainy day.
5. OverallI’m a fan, and I plan to return soon. I really liked the creative and slightly bookish feel of the place. The cafe has a nice energy to it, and a lively chatter pervades the room. Give it a try if you happen to be in the neighborhood.
