News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I cannot believe in God. It would be inaccurate to say that I am happy or even comfortable with my particular condition, for I feel nothing but a gnawing emptiness when confronted with the rites of the religious tradition in which my mother attempted to raise me. Try as I might, I simply can’t conjure up those feelings that I imagine must be the hallmark of faith—and for me, at least, reason leads to the same spiritual dead end.
Unlike many atheists, however, I believe that the existence of at least one god, if such a thing could indeed be demonstrated beyond any reasonable doubt, would offer humanity the possibility of substantial moral improvement. While I am satisfied that a universal code of ethics could exist independently of faith, and that secular communities and organizations can offer the same benefits as their religious counterparts, I maintain that God could still change the equation for the better.
At its essence, religion demands that we acknowledge our inferiority to some being or beings. In my opinion, all the pomp and circumstance is extraneous, purely ornamental. This notion of inferiority is apt to provoke discomfort amongst many of us at Harvard—why should we, the denizens of one of the world’s most storied institutions, devote any time at all to the consideration of our own fallibility? The ethos of Harvard is collective triumphalism: We laud our Rhodes Scholars. We tout our financial resources. We celebrate our competition-crushing entrepreneurs. We conveniently gloss over the many alumni who will lead quotidian rather than superior lives.
Great minds think alike—many secular thinkers across the centuries have shared in this conceit. Nietzsche famously lambasted religion as the apotheosis of the weak. I am more comfortable with the theory of one of his contemporaries, Feuerbach, who argued that God is merely an amalgam of ideal human traits that none of us could possess all at once.
Regardless, it is inferiority itself that matters. The problem with nearly all religious institutions today, however, is that they imbue people with a sense of inferiority for the wrong reasons. Many faiths are obsessed with homosexuality, non-procreative sex, and a whole host of prurient and often asinine concerns. Others make specific claims regarding ethnicity. Still others will go to war over historical grievances. The problem lies in the fact that this sort of condemnation is discriminatory rather than universal. I am not opposed to fire and brimstone preaching so long as we are all destined to burn in hell.
Some might object that religion should be uplifting rather than sobering, that faith should serve as a refuge for those who, owing to poverty or powerlessness, are abused by the world. In this respect, there are secular alternatives that should allow religion to do something that it is uniquely poised to do: show us that we are not god.
We needn’t necessarily wallow in our own wretchedness or believe that we are destined for hell, for human beings are magnificent creatures. As I argued earlier, we are capable of many great things without even considering a god or gods. The one thing that we are decidedly poor at doing, however, is suppressing our own hubris. Herein lies the beauty of a being that is, by its very definition, superior to every person on the face of the planet. No matter how much money we earn, or how many lives we save, or how many people we influence, there is always something greater. Even if our god is merely that of a deist, our particular triumphs remain paltry by comparison.
As I said, I sincerely wish I could believe in such a god. There are certainly alternative means of keeping one’s pride in check, but none is quite as effective as knowing that, no matter what, you are relegated to the status of best of the rest. If God exists, all hauteur is rendered comical. The emperor has no clothes. By contrast, the very real prospect that God does not exist puts us in the terrifying position of actual superiority—and as I study my fellow man, I can barely contain a shudder. I’d rather be the perpetual buffo than the very zenith of all existence.
Ian R. Van Wye, a Crimson editorial writer, is a history and literature concentrator in Mather House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
America was founded upon principles of individual rights: We believe that people should be allowed to live their lives as they see fit. At the same time, however, individual freedoms must occasionally be limited, especially in situations where unabridged liberty may endanger the safety and welfare of the public. Vaccination against fatal diseases is one such case.
An outbreak of measles, a disease once nearly eradicated, has occurred in California as a result of high percentages of unvaccinated children. This event has turned the question of mandatory vaccinations has not only into a public health issue but also into a political one: A number of politicians, including three potential candidates for the 2016 presidential race—former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Kentucky Senator Rand Paul, and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie—have publicly commented on the use of vaccinations. Whereas Clinton noted that vaccines work, Christie defended the rights of parents to have "some measure of choice.” Senator Paul went one step further, insisting that all vaccines be voluntary.
Though it would be extraordinarily ill-advised for the government to have unlimited control over citizens’ lives, the efficacy of vaccines, and especially of the measles vaccine at hand, is an established scientific fact. Paul and Christie are championing an unflinching insistence on individual rights that has no regard for the interests of public health. Theirs is a dangerous and destructive position.
Measles is a dangerous and potentially deadly disease, and the vaccine is remarkably effective. Nevertheless, there are some in the United States who reject vaccines not due to any religious or moral beliefs but rather because of a 1998 research paper which linked the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine to autism. The study has since been definitely disproven. While it is true that not all vaccines are effective and not all diseases are deadly, neither caveat applies to measles. The MMR vaccine should be universal.
Politicizing this issue, and, in particular, validating the idea that MMR vaccines should be voluntary, only lends credence to the misguided objections of a few. And even though the clarification later issued by Christie’s office suggests that he does believe the MMR vaccine should be mandatory (but that parents should be allowed to choose for other vaccines), the timing and content of his initial comment can, and has, been misconstrued by both anti-vaccination parents and by Christie’s political opponents. The doubts cast upon the necessity for vaccines by Paul and Christie provides ammunition for those opposed to vaccines and is potentially harmful for the public if resistance towards the MMR vaccine grows.
Currently, there is no federal standard for vaccinations; given that politicians on Capitol Hill have refrained from proposing either a federal ban or mandate for vaccination, the only effect of raising this “issue” on a national scale is the legitimization of a fringe movement that runs counter to modern science and public health.
Never should political posturing interfere with the lives of our nation’s children. We acknowledge both the importance of individual rights, and we believe that not all vaccines should mandatory. But even as the government must balance the principles of liberty with benefits to public health, in this case the evidence is clear. MMR vaccines save lives; abstract principles of liberty do not.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This winter break, I had the rare privilege of getting lost.
Don’t worry—I’m not starting this article like that only to tell you later that it’s really about something cheesier like being “lost in translation” or something. Believe me, I’ve done enough of that.
I’m not even talking about a beautiful kind of being lost, like walking with a bulging Gregory pack through a faraway ancient city in search of the self. I’m just talking about being lost, like sweaty, exasperated, crap-where-am-I. People don’t really write about that kind of lost anymore.
That’s because we—as in our technologically privileged nation—don’t really get lost anymore. When we’re equipped with little voices in our cars and apps in our phones helping us stay found, it’s darn hard to not know where you’re going. That’s why maps don’t sell at gas stations anymore and people have somehow developed a strange ability to traverse crowded streets like robots while their eyes are glued to the screen. With fewer cars stopping by flower stands and fewer people stopping passersby to ask for directions, one can say that Google Maps plays the role of putting on earphones in a group setting.
So when my family and I landed in Madrid the last Thursday of the year without “unnecessarily expensive roaming services and data charges,” I was 80 percent excited to travel and 20 percent scared to navigate.
Thank God for cities and color-coded subway maps.
If I had been left to fulfill an itinerary in a more rural part of a foreign country, this article might have lost its positively sentimental feels about the subject of being lost. So when I said “Madrid,” I hope you registered—so that you don’t harbor any false expectations for the rest of this piece—that my travels were no Odyssey. I was in a popular tourist city with a full-blown transportation system in a developed country.
So when I was lost in Madrid, I was only a little bit lost, but still lost. After all, I’m the girl that doesn’t know how to get home by herself from another point in the same neighborhood. I blame Google Maps for this too, although my mother claims that this one is just me. But oh!—The feeling of not knowing which intersection is really the one coming up next in your unconfident wander with four tired family members chugging along behind. The feeling of turning back to the subway station and starting again. Huge exaggerations, I know, but these are the things that overwhelmed the 21st century me in varied intensities before I got over them in the ten minutes that followed.
Still, these experiences let me take a larger part of Madrid with me each night we went back to the hotel. Every time I was “lost,” I had overcome it by grabbing the first pedestrian I saw. Through these spurts of desperation for human contact and help, I carried away tailored memories of Spain that I don’t have of any other country.
Madrid—a city where people continue to watch you as you walk away to make sure that you understood their directions, where people have to be convinced twice that Asians like me can also come from the United States, where Spanish people take the time to travel the beauties of their own country—was human to me when I left.
Back with full-time LTE and navigation service on my phone at home, I have happily completed the transition from a state of being slightly lost to being found all the time. But as I walk though the foreign streets of my family’s new town not feeling dependent (or helpful) to anyone around me for my (or his/her) next foot forward, I wonder if this is really the way a community is supposed to be. Although it comes up in my dreams a lot, I doubt I could switch back to a phone that wouldn’t know where I am at this point.
I have a feeling I know the answer, but I don’t have the courage to set out on a quest for all the answers, so the questions are what really get me. What might be lost as the result of our being perennially found?
Jenny J. Choi ’16, is a social studies concentrator in Winthrop House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Why do people fall out of love?
I write that in my notebook at Tokyo Haneda International Airport. It’s a lofty question to be asking myself at 6:00 a.m., when, beyond the concrete slabs of runway, a city is just beginning to wake up. The sky’s a gradient of color, blazing turquoise at its outer edges and orange right at the horizon—in between, the sunrise casts a muddled sort of purple. How easy they come, new days.
I’ll be in the airport for another five hours, awaiting the flight that will take me to Thailand to meet my two best friends from Harvard. Though they’ve been planning the trip for months, I bought my plane ticket (layover in Tokyo included) just three weeks ago. When they asked me to come in October, I’d turned them down; I was anticipating spending my entire winter break in California with my long distance, long-term boyfriend.
But here I am, posing sappy questions in the Tokyo Haneda International Airport, for one main reason: we broke up. A week into winter break, my boyfriend and I had a conversation that lasted 40 minutes, an hour maybe, and then he left my room, and that was the last time I’ve seen him. After two years of dating, and far longer being best friends, it was as terrifyingly simple as that. The gist of our conversation was that he’s tired of being in a long distance relationship. The real gist is that he is no longer in love.
The first couple of weeks were terrible and raw. I still occasionally get the sense that the thing inside my chest—the gooey, squishy, red-with-life thing—has turned cold and hard, like a winter stone. It still pokes into my chest, unforgiving and sharp, every now and again.
That’s the painful part of things. There is also confusion, anger, a great weighty feeling of loss. There’s something miraculous, too: relief.
Thailand is the first decision I’ve made in two years without someone else in mind; it’s the first time I won’t sacrifice one thing for another. My urge to go on the trip was, admittedly, part “Eat, Pray, Love”—I knew I needed to separate myself from the home I so inextricably linked with him. But Thailand also means something else, and something more. Thailand means independence.
The premise of the trip is that three young women will go to paradise, hop around a couple islands, and figure out how to travel, competently, on their own. They’ll buy useless guidebooks, roast in the sun and walk around with no shoes on, and decide to ignore all the honeymooning couples. In other words, they will learn that they are young, alone, and gloriously free.
And I’m already learning, en route to my final destination, that breakups are a little like this Tokyo sunrise. At first, the colors are strange and tinged with a bit of twilight; then, all of a sudden, the anxious darkness starts to melt away. And soon the shiny planes outside are glinting, and the promise of beginnings is seeping in from the windows, washing every bored airport fixture in a heavenly sort of light. Even if there are still questions, lofty ones, the day moves on; an airport buzzes; hearts are, again, red-with-life. Soon, we’re on our way to paradise.
Sections
Dan C. Hazen, Ph.D., has recovered books from the battlefield. While working for a Nicaraguan library in the 1980s, Hazen led a team to salvage political documents from local government buildings overtaken by the Sandinistas. Storming into offices whose occupants had been exiled, the archivists attracted some suspicion.
“They were like, who are you people? Librarians? Yeah, right.” Hazen, now the associate librarian for collections development at Widener, shrugs off the mission with the cool confidence of an adventure-movie hero—“it was an unusual experience.”
Hazen does not look, at first glance, like the Indiana Jones-type. He wears a neat gray sweater and wire-rimmed glasses; his fingers perpetually clasp an uncapped pen. His desk, buried under eight or so neatly stacked piles of paper, stands out in an otherwise spartan office. In an adjacent conference room, he sits two seats away from me, because I have a cold (germy hands fare badly with rare manuscripts).
But Hazen, from his office, can view the world.
“That over there is Latin America, that’s Western Europe, and that’s India,” Hazen says, pointing to a cubicle decorated with an image of the Buddha. Sub-Saharan Africa is downstairs. Hazen oversees Widener’s Collections Development Department, staffed by about 60 or 70 archivists, divided by geographical area of expertise. The librarians spend much of their time outside of those cubicles.
“Our librarian for sub-Saharan Africa is working in a Yoruba-speaking area of Nigeria, developing a database of Yoruba speech and transcribing oral statements,” Hazen says, referencing a current project. Another staff member recently visited Germany to track down a film buff for a collection of reels; a third searched for science fiction comic books in Alabama.
“We got into some funny situations in Russia,” Hazen reminisces, leaning back in his chair. “Stuff that was property of the state back in the day, now somebody says it’s theirs... it’s not always clear whether they really own it.” (Revolutions from Nigeria to Russia upend the book world, too.)
While Hazen’s librarians obtain most mainstream academic materials from established bookdealers and donors, rarer documents turn up in unlikely (and sometimes reluctant) hands. The original charter for Harvard University, stolen decades ago from the Massachusetts archive, ended up in the possession of an individual who refused to sell it to Widener for no less than a million bucks. Hazen passed—price aside, “I didn’t want Massachusetts to come knocking on our door.”
Library acquisition, Hazen explains, yields a greater reward than stolen treasures. “You’re building representations of political events and human expressions and cultural activities that are unlikely to survive in the places they’re being created. It’s a way to preserve human patrimony.”
For librarians like Hazen’s Middle Eastern specialists, salvaging documents is more than an adventure: It’s a rescue mission.
Walking back into his office, Hazen tells me that preservation often means digitization. Over the past decade, Widener has undertaken a major online exhibition project. We lean over the many piles of paper on his desk, and Hazen opens a single screen that contains links to 17th-century Harvard, Latin American businesses, and the Civil War. These open collections, designed for university research and teaching, allow library-users to view rare artifacts and manuscripts online, and then request real copies from Widener’s Depository.
Some of these web collections attempt to restore physical collections that have long been dismantled or dispersed; the exhibit “The Lost Museum of Harvard Dentist School” includes records of the world’s largest tooth, once displayed at the museum. These collections do not require Harvard identification for access, making them available around the world—and in places where physical documents might not survive.
Hazen’s team does not necessarily seek to replace print materials with digital ones; rather, digitization ideally should draw attention to materials that cannot, for logistical reasons, be physically displayed. Hazen references a California collector who sold the library 20,000 individual zines (which are typically short, self-published works reproduced via photocopier)—unsorted in boxes. Though the library’s Pforzheimer fellows (graduate student interns) spent several months sorting through the zines, Widener has not yet found a way to showcase such a large collection. In the mean- time, one fellow started an online blog analyzing the zines.
Widener has also embarked on recent initiatives to compile websites—especially ephemeral ones—in archives. “We’re not collecting representations of the digital world the way we collected representations of the print world,” Hazen says.
Hazen’s favorite collection, though, remains a physical one: the Santo Domingo Collection, acquired from a private Columbian collector obsessed with the history of European sex, drugs, and rock and roll. The collection contains everything from 16th-century medical treatises about opiates to French pulp novels from the 1950s.
“The rock and roll part of it went to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland,” Hazen explains. “But we got the sex and drugs.”
Sections
Dear extended relatives, family friends, former English teachers, gynecologists, and my brother’s roommates and their extended relatives, I am very tired of answering the same questions about my future, over and over. And I know, for the most part, you have only been asking to be polite, to make conversation, or so that you can compare me to your daughter (she wins, okay, she wins!). So to streamline the process I have compiled a list of the most commonly asked questions (and their answers) about my future and career goals.
Before contacting me with any inquires, please read these questions. If you still have questions about what I am doing with my life after reading, feel free to contact me via post and I will get back to you within 7-12 business days.
What are you doing after you graduate?
I’m taking a year off to study for the LSAT. (Author’s note: I am not going to take the LSAT. This just seems like the most socially acceptable answer.) Maybe I’ll live with my parents; they’ve converted my room into a Man-Cave. The treadmill will make a nice Murphy bed.
Won’t that be awkward moving back in with your parents?
The Man-Cave has HBO.
How will you make money?
My dad pays me $10/hour to sit at home and wait for packages to arrive so that I can sign for them. He also gives me a generous allowance: $20 a week if I remember to feed the dog—which I don’t because I am trying to train him to be independent.
What kind of dog do you have?
(Authors note: this is a good question. Please feel free to ask me this question in person.) He’s an American Eskimo. Would you like to see the video of him rolling around in the snow? It’s adorable. Oh! Here’s a picture of him driving. See that, he’s sitting under the wheel—that’s not how you drive! Wait, I have a few more good ones, let me find them. Shoot, I think they’re on my com- puter now. Do you want me to send them to you?
You know, if you found a rich nice man, that would solve a lot of problems.
Dad, please keep these in question form.
Have you met any rich men at Harvard? It’s not shallow if they are also nice.
Dad, if you don’t want me to live at home, please just tell me straight up. Is this about the Man-Cave? I promise I won’t touch your LP’s.
If I give you some money, will you promise to buy something nice, maybe get a haircut, and then put yourself out there?
Dad, I’m hanging up now.
What are your long-term plans?
Well, based on storm surges and changing weather patterns, I’m not sure I need to plan past 2036.
God, that sounds horrible, shouldn’t you do something about the impending environmental collapse?
Shouldn’t we all? I bought a book about the cod industry, what have you done?
Okay, hypothetically if society does not collapse, any career plans?
Well, I’m not going into the cod industry. I might try to become Twitter famous.
Is 159 a lot of followers?
Do you have one? You should follow me!
Well, have you tried getting a job?
Yes. (Author’s note: no.)
What do you mean that you stopped using LinkedIn once you realized that you can’t poke potential employers? Should you be joking about things like that?
No. (Author’s note: yes.)
What are your skills?
I’m very good at social media, Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, and I know conversational Spanish when I’m drunk. Also, Word; I’m great with Microsoft Word. Plus, as of last month, my resume only has one typo, and it’s really more of a stylistic choice. What do you study?
Government.
Government’s a major?
Yeah. But I only chose it because I wanted to write for “The Colbert Report.”
Didn’t that end?
Yes.
Isn’t that kind of a dumb idea, you know, to base your entire education on something like that?
That’s kind of a pointed question. I don’t want to answer it.
Your dad tells me you’re applying to law school.
Is that what he’s telling people now? Sure. Let’s go with that.
Sections
I’m standing in Clover. I’m thinking, “Goddammit, now I have to eat food without meat in it.” I look at the menu, a confusing flurry of new age mumbo jumbo. It tells me the wait time for various dishes, proving to me that Clover has never learned the lesson that my dad’s frown taught me in fifth grade: keep expectations low.
I have some thoughts about the menu.
I order a breakfast sandwich. The sweet, bearded man with the iPhone takes my order, and asks me what my name is. I tell him, and he points at his iPhone, saying, “This thing just doesn’t want me to put Niv in.” I laugh because that’s the best response to not fitting in.
He rounds up my change and gives me a dime instead of eight cents. This is not sustainable. Shame on you, sweet bearded man.
I wait for my sandwich amidst repeated cries of “Ali? Granola for Ali?” I become convinced that if Ali were to wait a few more minutes before accepting her granola, the lady behind the counter would have said “Please, Ali! I made it for you! Where are you? Why do you want to hurt me?”
I ask if I can have a cup for water, and the lady behind the counter excitedly says, “Yes, of course!” I like to be challenged, so I don’t enjoy my free, clean, perfect-temperature water.
I eat the breakfast sandwich, and it’s actually really good. But, Clover failed to pick up on my food critic vibes, and didn’t give me the two-for-one that I expected.
Shame on you, sweet bearded man.
— Niv M. Sultan
Sections
“’Cause we make the hipsters fall in love” – Kesha (2010)
In Harvard Square’s Clover, a row of coffee filters adorns the counter, percolating coffee for all to observe. On Thursday, I strode into Clover for the first time, tasked with penning an eloquent ode to the young coffee shop. I couldn’t decide if the coffee slowly trickling into the gaping mouth of the cup seemed urinary or nurturing (like a mother bird feeding its baby?).
I ordered coffee and a breakfast popover for a cool $8. Shortly after ordering, I discovered Clover’s “secret” menu. You can pick up a copy from a stack of 4X6 notecards right next to the real menu-- a well-kept secret indeed.
I’ll be quite upfront: I didn’t particularly enjoy the atmosphere. Though the popover was superb-- if an egg and a croissant had a salacious love affair, the product would probably be this popover-- the food was overpriced and seemed a little precious. I also didn’t bring close to enough moleskin journals. Upon a cursory (and very journalistic) stroll around both floors, I spotted three (three!) 20-something-year old men sporting beanies and copies of David Foster Wallace’s Infinite Jest.
Despite this my initial skepticism, Clover’s value to the greater Cambridge area quickly became apparent. Before Clover came to the Square in 2010, these beanie-wearing, encyclopedic-novel-toting, flannel-wearing young men and women were relegated to getting their caffeination from mainstream establishments not attuned to their needs. They had to ask incompetent baristas about whether or not their muesli was fair-trade and, worse, they were forced to rub elbows with people who had not once read David Foster Wallace. Not even one of his  short stories.
And herein lies the beauty of Clover. It provides a community, a space for congregation, for this group of artistes.
The gleaming white walls juxtaposed against authentic wood-grain tables create just the sense of post-industrial ennui necessary for these artistic heroes, who are just one rewrite away from a Man-Booker Prize-winning semi-autobiographical novel about a twenty-something from Somerville who is disillusioned with modern life.
Additionally, Clover’s extensive selection of beers makes it easy to knock back a nice bohemian cool one at 11am between chapters of Joyce’s Ulysses.
Coke executive Robert Woodruff, famous Atlanta philanthroper and purveyor of sugared beverages, once put up millions of dollars to start an arts center for the city of Atlanta. No lover of the arts himself, he famously said that while he might never set foot in the building, it was important for the city to have it.
It is in precisely the same spirit that I’ll toss Clover $8 for a breakfast popover and coffee every once in a while. You should stop by too. Enjoy a sumptuous eggplant platter. For the artists.
— C. Ramsey Fahs
Sections
Ah, senior spring—when some of us solicit people we'd hardly ask to pass the salt in the d-hall for sex. Eyes swipe right and left; rigid social divides melt like snowflakes. The season is ushered in by First Chance Dance: a freshman tradition lost to us by act of hurricane, the dance—and with it, the freshman-fall-free-for-all-sex-hungry-nostalgia—has been resuscitated. Tickets cost $20, which means to get my money's worth I need to consume the equivalent of 25 glasses of wine.
Wine
(Atrocious white; effectively $10/glass)
I am greeted by an olfactory wall of shampoo and pheromones, spilled alcohol, and sweat. The party is full of tit starers, dry humpers, existentially confused early twenty-somethings who want to get their dicks wet. Everyone looks like everyone, only more sexually eager and in tighter dresses.
I am not least among the penciled brows and push-up bras: My liner wing goes on for miles, shadow smokier than a hipster bar; my legs are the smoothest they’ve been since puberty; and my nipple situation is out of control—like a glamorous early Kirsten Dunst, in an alternate body-positive universe in which Kirsten Dunst could have ever starred in a cheerleading movie as a DD cup.
I adjust my boobuation in the bathroom mirror (misted with sweat and questionable decisions) between a girl I’ve interviewed for The Crimson and a girl I hooked up with freshman year. Meanwhile, a group of women debate the finer points of freshman versus senior grinding.
“It’s cool, here, if a dude grinds on you without you quite knowing him, because you sort of know him already, right?”
At this point, I exit the restroom and push my way to the front of the drink table, preparing to hip-check any errant pelvis that comes between me and the booze. Feminism!
Beer
(Gross; effectively $10/cup)
And here is my freshman year roommate! We kiss briefly on the lips, because that’s not gay at all. Between enthusiastic hugs and reminiscences of all of the times I sexiled her freshman fall and then cried the next morning on my journey to self-actualized womanhood, I end up drinking her beer.
All other urine-flavored beer is but a shadow on a cave wall beside this baby: It’s both fuzzy and flat, so metallic I worry I’ll poop a penny. As I muse over the finer notes of its flavor profile, two very intoxicated girls approach. They press their bodies against me like subway gropers or my close-talking relatives. I have never seen them before.
“You are soooo beautttiful,” Woman One says. “Isn’t she soooo beautttttiful?”
“Soooo beauttttiful,” says Woman Two. “It’s the adorable gap tooth.”
I smirk over to where Hot Boy who asked my entire freshman Expos class “why Reina had never gotten her teeth fixed” is doing his stupid two-step.
Woman One says, “Men would think you were so beautiful in Africa. We’re from Africa, and African men love gap teeth.”
“Oh!” I say, my White Liberal Guilt squirming lest I appear to think that Africa is a unitary national entity. “Which country?”
“Africa. All of Africa.”
“I always was glad I didn’t get braces,” I say nervously, downing the last fizzy contents of my glass.
Whiskey
(???; friend’s room)
The eternal loneliness of the unmated! I leave the party with my bra in my pocket, still scanning the crowd for gorgeous people whose roommates I have never hooked up with/whom I do not find deeply ideologically objectionable/who have genitals and believe in affirmative consent. My roommate, whose tolerance for my bullshit is admirable and dwindling, tells me to get a move on: Her hands are still red from the walk here.
Alas, I reflect as we near the Kong. My biological clock is ticking; the time to find a Harvard power spouse who will fill my womb and 401k is dwindling as rapidly as my youthful beauty. Will the crowds through the Kong window not take me into their human harmony? I press my nose to the glass.
My other freshman roommate and various friends and acquaintances wave. Oh hey guys, what’s up?
I end up in a friend’s suite. There is whisky that tastes like nail polish, early 2000s hip-hop that sounds like love. We dance in front of the wide windows, silly in our finery, against the cold coming off the glass.
At some point while dancing, my friend goes in for the tit squeeze–just once, a bit of companionable pressure. Do not fear the loneliness of the present, the uncertainty of the future, says the tit squeeze, for I am here. My laptop blaring Destiny’s Child, my hand, accidentally-on-purpose, grazing your breast.
Sections
Hi (name of super hot TF),
You may not remember me, but we met last week when I ___________ (shopped/stumbled into/fell asleep during) your class. I know I _________ (slept/texted/Facebook stalked my ex) for most of the hour, but I didn’t realize that you were (the TF/sitting behind me/ smokin’ hot). To be honest, I find your __________ (teaching style/foreign accent/position of power) very ___________ (informative/charming/seductive).
Anyway, in an attempt to ____________ (apologize/boost my grade/romance you) I was wondering if you would like to grab _____________ (coffee/drinks/a candlelit dinner) sometime this week. I need help ____________ (on the p-set/passing this class/breaking my dry spell) and was thinking we could talk about ____________ (an extension/study tips/whether or not student-teacher relationships are ACTUALLY prohibited).
I’m ___________ (excited for/ambivalent about/dreading) this class and I would love to _____________ (hear from/hook up with) you soon.
Best,
(Your name)
Sections
Unlike many other colleges, Harvard’s policy allows for any FAS class to be co-taught, a policy which has given rise to a variety of teaching teams as well as a number of opportunities for thoughtful debate both in and outside the classroom. Here are a couple of Harvard’s dynamic instructor duos and a look at the workings of their academic partnerships.
Professors Rowan K. Flad and Jason A. Ur
Course: Anthropology 1010: Fundamentals of Archaeological Methods and Reasoning
For the last decade, Professors Flad and Ur have introduced students to the field of archeology through what Flad calls this "bread and butter course." For the teaching duo, a strategy of divide and conquer is critical: Anthro 1010 delves into the dovetailing fields of archaeological method and major events in human history from evolution to urbanization, which according to Flad, "some of which I have expertise in, some of which professor Ur does, some of which neither of us do." The difference in background can be especially helpful when it comes to case studies: While Ur is a specialist in the Middle East, Flad is an expert on China, allowing for a more "vivid and interesting" geographical spread, according to Ur. "We can do a much better job presenting material that we really control," he says. "We can be much more entertaining when we’re talking about things that we really know."
When it comes to disagreements, Flad and Ur tend to find common ground, though their contrasting approaches to "basic methods that archaeologists use to find stuff" makes for an interesting start to the class. "We take jabs at each other in subsequent lectures about which is the most effective way of doing that," says Flad. Often though, the professors simply present a variety of material and then step back, letting debate unfold organically. "The students do a very good job of fighting things out amongst themselves," says Ur, and forming viewpoints on the sometimes conflicting material. And the method seems to work: After 10 years, says Ur, "we’re still doing it, so it must be a positive experience. I wouldn’t say that about everybody."
Professors Jessica E. Stern and Ronald Schouten
Course:  Freshman Seminar 46k The Terrorist
Professors Stern and Schouten are currently in their second year teaching a freshman seminar on terrorism, this year with a renewed focus on current events and the tangible outcomes of theories of human behavior. The first iteration of the class centered its attention on theoretical explanations for patterns of terrorism. Stern says this change is in response to the desire last year’s students expressed for a more practically grounded course. "I thought it was a good point," she says.
"[This year] the students will hopefully walk away knowing about the terrorist groups functioning in the world," Stern says. "And also have an understanding that there’s nothing new, that this has been going on a long time, and not just since they were six years old and 9/11 happened."
Schouten mentioned "civilized arguments" as a key aspect of the class, with both professors lecturing and debating during most sessions. Aside from occasional disagreements about the workload, Stern and Schouten say that their principal point of debate is their varied approach to the material. Schouten is from a more medical perspective, while Stern takes a more "psychoacademic" approach, according to Schouten, a difference which has led them to some clashing opinions on human behavior. Still, it all depends on who you ask—"I think it’s great if we can argue," Stern says to her co-professor. "When I said that before, you disagreed and said we don’t ever disagree."
Sections
Five years into his unfinished Ph.D. program at Harvard’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Caley C. Smith is preparing to return to his home in Georgia. To him, a 30-year-old graduate student in the Department of South Asian Studies, the decision makes sense—more money, less stress, and the opportunity to focus solely on his dissertation.
It’s late October 2014, and by the looks of it, Smith, whose thin blond hair hangs down his forehead with no discernable part,  is overwhelmed. He describes the physical toll that comes from scrambling to find a teaching position at Harvard, and the challenges that follow shortly thereafter.
“It's very, very stressful. I break a lot of teeth—I grind my teeth at night, and I break teeth. I never broke teeth until I came to Harvard," he says.
During his third and fourth years of graduate studies, Smith, like hundreds of GSAS students, sought a teaching position as part of his funding package. Serving as a teaching fellow is a job that is guaranteed by the program during those years. But for a sizeable portion of graduate students, including Smith, those appointments, even when promised, prove to be elusive and filled with stress.
It’s safe to say that Smith is not your typical TF. He expends a bulk of his funding attending academic conferences, forcing him to cut back in other areas of his life. Smith says his room in Somerville, for instance, is a converted office space, and therefore does not contain a true closet. He hangs “self-installed hooks” to the walls, and has recently taken to preparing a concoction of rice, mustard, and ketchup as a primary form of sustenance.
Smith is idiosyncratic, but his experiences as a TF at Harvard are not all unique.
In recent months, the graduate-student led Harvard Teaching Campaign (of which Smith is not a member) has gained momentum. Over a dozen departments and committees have signed on to the campaign, whose chief initiative calls for a flat cap of 12 students in all mandatory discussion-based sections and lab groups. That cap, activists say, would not only serve to benefit TFs, but also improve the undergraduate education experience.
Beyond this initiative lies decades-old problems embedded in the TF experience. Despite increases in funding and hiring for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, and even HarvardX, many TFs continue to feel overworked and underappreciated.
In many ways, the experiences of TFs are inherently non-standardized; they vary greatly from department to department and from seminar to lecture course. In other regards, though, many TFs share common struggles: searching for work, navigating sometimes unclear expectations, and balancing teaching with the completion of their degrees.
Small changes, many TFs claim, can drastically improve both their lives and those of the students they teach, which leaves many wondering: just how feasible are those goals, and how bad is it to TF at Harvard, anyway?
It would be almost impossible for an undergraduate to leave Harvard without receiving supplementary instruction from a graduate student. When FAS first introduced TFs in 1939, they numbered just a “few individuals,” according to the most recent set of TF policies and procedures. Now, TFs make up a small army of more than 1,200, with various individuals  leading labs, seminars, and weekly sections in a swath of departments ranging from Biology to Classics.
For a large portion of Ph.D. students at GSAS, teaching is practically non-negotiable—third and fourth year students in the humanities and social sciences are expected to teach as part of their funding package. Students in the natural sciences, meanwhile, have varying requirements, but generally teach fewer sections than their humanities-oriented counterparts.
TFs can have a number of roles and responsibilities: they follow  instructions from course heads, attend lectures, digest course  material, lead discussion sections, and grade assignments. Some don the title of “Head TF,” managing course logistics and expectations for other TFs, and a smaller group are knighted Departmental Teaching Fellows. “DTFs,” as they call themselves, lead teaching seminars at the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning intended to prepare the next wave of graduate student-teachers. Many of these seminars are mandatory for TFs in several departments such as Sociology and Music.
When it comes to preparing soon-to-be TFs, administrators say they are dedicated to improving training resources, and for good reason. A sizeable portion of graduate students entering the classroom have no prior teaching experience.
The Bok Center, along with departmental guidance, forms the locus of these resources for both new and returning TFs. “The Bok Center has a very long tradition of working very closely with departments, with programs, to really develop training opportunities for graduate students,” says Robert A. Lue, faculty director of the Bok Center. This past winter, the Bok Center expanded a two-day teaching conference ordinarily held before the semester to a weeklong series.
In recent decades, the University has taken additional steps to bolster teacher training. In 1994, the Faculty Council passed TF training guidelines, allowing individual departments to determine their standards. The GSAS has also instituted mandates for English proficiency, offering a communications training course in the Bok Center to help international students meet that requirement.
According to Lue, demand for Bok Center offerings is high. Courses in the Teaching Certificate program are in special demand; there, TFs enroll in a minimum of three teaching seminars, after which they demonstrate what they have learned in videotaped sessions.
“There’s such a hunger for them among graduate students that they close out within [about] 24 hours every time,” Lue says. Xiao-Li Meng, the current GSAS dean, did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
Despite expanded offerings from the Bok Center and GSAS, many TFs say that training remains uneven, varying greatly by department or program. In a recent GSAS Student Council survey, for instance, about 600 graduate students representing the humanities, natural, and social sciences indicated that they had received “minimal or no training for teaching.”
In the undergraduate classroom, such discrepancies can create increased stress for TFs, some of whom say that they are forced to learn on the spot.
“I do wish there had been more pedagogical training from the departments, particularly ahead of time,” says William E. Baldwin, a teaching fellow in the Department of English.
Others simply remain unaware of the Bok Center’s offerings.
Only when Smith was halfway into TFing the popular course Culture and Belief 22: “The Ancient Greek Hero,” he says, did he learn that he was expected to attend the Bok Center’s pre-semester teaching conference. He candidly adds, with an apologetic shrug, that as of the October of his fifth year, he still didn’t know where the Bok Center was located (it’s in Science Center 318).
But other TFs say that their departments’ training leaves them readily prepared to teach undergraduate students.
“No complaints. If anything it was too much, maybe,” James F. Angstman, a TF in Molecular and Cellular Biology, says of the preparation for a laboratory and discussion section for MCB 52: “Molecular Biology” before the fall 2013 semester.
Shopping week, when students pile into a variety of often overcrowded classrooms, embodies intellectual exploration for many students. However, for graduate students dependent on teaching positions (in 2014-2015, TFs in their third year or later receive $20,520 a year to teach the equivalent of two standard sections a semester), the period might be more aptly named “anxiety week.”
"Every semester, it's a big ambiguity: Am I going to get a job or not?” says Esra G. Sahin, a TF in the Anthropology department.
“I have been in situations where I've spent months and months preparing for a course, and then it didn't get enough enrollment, and so I had to go teach another course," Baldwin says.
Smith’s decision to return to Georgia largely revolved around the uncertainties of shopping week.
“I felt like the insecurity and the chaos I felt in sort of looking for the job was adversely affecting my ability to do research and make me an effective educator,” he says. Smith plans to pursue non-profit work while completing his dissertation in Georgia.
In recent years, the Office of Undergraduate Education and FAS Registrar’s Office have implemented new measures to better predict course enrollment, most notably Pre-Term Planning. Before each semester, undergraduates, under the penalty of a fine, submit a non-binding list of courses online. Pre-Term Planning had succeeded in lowering the number of post-shopping week TF hires in General Education or Core courses, Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris, who declined to comment, told The Crimson in 2012.
Shopping week, however, still poses problems for administrators who process TF appointments.
Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education Stephanie H. Kenen is the chief enrollment predictor for General Education classes. At the beginning of each calendar year, Kenen says, the OUE contacts faculty and compiles a list of Gen Ed courses for the following academic year. Then comes the guessing.
According to Kenen, undergraduates generally have a firm idea of their course load for concentration and secondary requirements, but waver on Gen Ed courses until closer to the start of the  semester. Various outside factors, such as the course’s “buzz” on House email lists or motivations to enroll in a course with certain students, make predicting Gen Ed enrollment especially difficult, according to Kenen.
“PTP is really not helpful for Gen Ed,” Kenen says.
Instead, Kenen, who is also the administrative director of the Program in General Education, says that she and her staff meticulously estimate Gen Ed enrollment based on historical data, course evaluations, the frequency with which a course is offered, and other qualitative measures.
Though Kenen does not use computer algorithms, she tracks this data on a spreadsheet titled “2014-2015 Preliminary Section Allocation Report.”  Kenen says the OUE sends these numbers to course instructors for Gen Ed classes before the semester so that they can hire the requisite TFs.
Even with these measures, Kenen says she has to reposition about 75 to 100 TF appointments after shopping week. Last Saturday, she woke at 6 a.m. to send emails to professors who would have to either cut or hire additional TFs.
The uncertainty associated with shopping week is nothing new, but historical efforts to remodel the system have met with strong opposition. In 2002, then-Dean of the Faculty William C. Kirby proposed that students submit their course selections one semester in advance. Shopping week would have been maintained in the form of an add-and-drop period.  However, faculty and students swiftly backlashed against this new system, many arguing that shopping week was an integral part of undergraduate education. Kirby’s plan was eventually tabled.
“I think it’s time for us to start the conversation again. I think you hear it a lot more, even in the last couple of years than five years ago,” Kenen says.
The constant fluctuations in assignments and enrollment, TFs say, can also mean large delays in payment. TFs generally receive their pay on the 15th of every month, including a payment before the term and an off cycle check to accommodate late appointments, Robert LaPointe, a senior admissions and financial aid officer at GSAS, wrote in an email. He added that timely payment depends on when an FAS department processes a TF appointment.
Elaine F. Stranahan, a TF in the Linguistics department, says that she had repeatedly brought up payment problems with administrators before the matter was resolved. Now, she’s not taking any more chances.
“I watch my paychecks like a hawk because I know that it’s my responsibility to advocate for myself. I’m responsible for making sure that I get compensated by the school when I’m doing work for it. It’s not fair,” Stranahan says.
In an emailed statement, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education Noël Bisson wrote, “We do everything we possibly can to pay Teaching Fellows on time and accurately, but sometimes there are factors beyond our control that cause a situation. When this happens, we work as quickly as possible to remedy it."
FAS spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven wrote in an email that the university is unable to comment on specific cases.
As with other concerns TFs have raised, Stranahan is not entirely the outlier. Although many TFs, such as the MCB Department’s Angstman, say they have had no problems with timely payment, about 200 TFs said in the GSC survey that they had experienced significant delay—defined as more than two weeks—in receiving pay.
Kenen acknowledges that payment problems are a “hardship” for graduate students, but says that few graduate students actually report problems. “The number of them is quite small, and they are very vocal,” Kenen says.
Former GSAS Dean Peter T. Ellison says that pay delay problems might be solved if the College could commit to hiring TFs before enrollment was finalized. “A lot of things could be improved if we freed up more money for the instructional support budget, if we were more liberal allocating it to teaching fellows in advance. If we could allow ourselves to commit more fully to our teaching fellows and take them as respected members of the teaching community here rather than as perilously vulnerable adjuncts, everyone would benefit,” he adds.
TFs who are unable to secure positions before the semester often have to teach outside of their area of expertise.
“Even if there might be space in a class on the exact topic that a student is writing their dissertation on, they will opt to get in to the class where they can be guaranteed space first,” says Summer A. Shafer, president of the Graduate Student Council of GSAS and a TF in the History department. “There are a lot of very, very qualified teaching fellows who have taken other positions because shopping period has created a situation in which the job security for that particular class just does not exist.”
Smith puts the dilemma in simpler terms: "There was this problem I felt where in order to sort of survive, you had to be ready to teach something that was not your expertise or even something that you weren't particularly familiar with," he says.
Some TFs say that last-minute hires, and hires in areas of non-expertise, contribute to a less-than-ideal undergraduate experience. “Sometimes I barely know what is on the syllabus, and I’m scrambling to make sure I have a sense of when their papers are due," the English Department’s Baldwin says.
“It’s just not a good thing for anybody when someone comes on board at the last minute,” Kenen says.
Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, for his part, says the College is “committed to making sure our classes are appropriately staffed and sectioned.” He adds that the OUE is continually researching ways to improve planning while still allowing for the flexibility built into the shopping week system.
Despite these concerns, some TFs still believe in the benefits of shopping period for undergraduates, even if it places additional pressure on graduate students and results in a less productive first week or two of the term.
"I like it in theory, even if it's difficult in practice," says Tyler M. Schwaller, a graduate student in the Divinity School and TF in the Gen Ed program.
Others, pointing to institutions such as Stanford or Columbia, argue that undergraduates can maintain the benefits of shopping week by simply shopping informally during the first few weeks and then utilizing pre-existing or extended weeks for adding and dropping courses.
"No one wants to take those benefits away from undergraduates. We just want to find a way that doesn’t make the first month of class a circus,” Smith says.  
Out of shopping week and into their sections, many TFs encounter additional pressures to satisfy course instructors.
“The biggest source of stress was not knowing early on how much autonomy I had as a TF,” reflects Baldwin. He describes his first experience teaching a section, in which he found himself unsure of expectations and therefore “not doing things that needed to be done.” Other TFs have conveyed the opposite problem—that is, doing too much and needing to change their section assignments or grading policies to better reflect those designed by the professor of the course.
Baldwin is not alone; many other TFs have reported difficulties in understanding exactly what is expected of them going into the semester. At a GSC meeting in November, Vice President John Gee briefly summarized the 2014 spring survey results, noting that “only about half of TFs said they had a clear understanding of what they were responsible for doing when they were teaching as opposed to what their course head is responsible for doing.”
The online teaching fellow handbook even readily acknowledges this institutionalized vagueness: “teaching fellows’ responsibilities vary from course to course and are seldom formally spelled out.”
The handbook urges TFs in uncertain situations to rely upon resources both in and outside their departments for questions and support, a resource some have found to be quite useful. For Trevor Baca, a sixth-year graduate student in the Department of Music, weekly course-wide staff lunch meetings have proven to be invaluable. “The situation was clear: We will buy you a free sandwich and you will talk about your grading so that there will not be fairness accusations between sections,” he says.
GSAS Dean for Student Affairs Garth O. McCavana did not agree to answer questions over the phone or in person, but wrote in an email that he directs students to resources such as the OUE or, if necessary, intervenes directly with departments to resolve problems.
The expected time commitment for teaching likewise remains unclear. Each TF should expect to spend roughly 10 hours on each section per week, according to the official TF policies and procedures handbook. The GSC’s survey interviews with TFs, however, indicate otherwise.
The median survey response was 10 to 12 hours spent preparing and teaching a standard section each week, while 16 percent of responders reported spending 16 hours or more. Only 37 percent believed the time commitment of teaching had been clearly explained to them.
With the uncertainty of this time commitment, many TFs feel as though it is impossible to have the best of both worlds, to conduct engaging sections and still have time to research and write their dissertations.
“Obviously if you’re pursuing a degree...and want to do research full time, you can’t make teaching section your top priority,” says Samuel A. Mehr, a third year graduate student and teaching fellow in the Psychology department. Many other graduate students tend to agree, with 41 percent of survey respondents labeling teaching as “a major obstacle to degree completion.”
And for many in that 41 percent, speaking up is not always an option. “Your future career depends on the very close relationship you have with your adviser and the other professors,” says Cristina V. Groeger, a TF in History and an active member of the Harvard Teaching Campaign. “Many TFs do a lot more [hours], but they don’t want to bring it up to their adviser because they might threaten that relationship.”
Their posters plaster the walls and offices of Emerson Hall. A large television loops through Philosophy Department announcements, but frequently pauses on the straightforward declaration: “Harvard Teaching Campaign. Smaller Sections. Better Learning. Endorsed by Department of Philosophy.”
Although less than two years old, the organization fighting to institute a 12-person cap on all mandatory sections has swiftly transformed into an organized lobbying unit. They’ve acquired 1,600 petition signatures, garnered departmental endorsements, met with high level administrators from both GSAS and the College, and have recently spawned an undergraduate wing.
The campaign points to many problems—some of which were raised as far  back as 1997—that large sections allegedly cause for the undergraduates attending the university. In some cases, for instance, the classroom is unable to accommodate the number of students enrolled.
“Sections often meet in a room that’s often too small for the section, and everyone gathers around the table, and then everyone gathers around the outer wall,” Smith says.
Baldwin addresses issues beyond the problem of space. “I don’t think anyone’s ever had a good conversation with nineteen people at the same time,” he says. “It feels like you both shortchange the students who are not doing well and also shortchange the students who are doing really well. You can’t give either of them the time you need.”
Shafer agrees, adding that larger section sizes have allowed some undergraduates to get through sections without truly participating.
“If you’re not somebody who’s inclined to lend your perspective…you can duck in an eighteen person section and get through the whole semester without contributing anything substantial,” she says.
Larger section sizes create problems for graduate students as well. According to Smith, the time commitment necessary for teaching large classes has made it difficult for him to teach more than one section a semester and work on his dissertation at the same time. As a result, he feels he may need to teach less and make less money—or leave altogether—in order to have time to work on his own projects.
“I could work a 9-5 job, make twice to three times as much as I’m making now, and I would have my weekends free,” he says. “And then I could write on my weekends.”
Lue, on the other hand, does not believe that a cap on section size would necessarily translate to a better learning experience for undergraduates. “Twelve is not a magical number,” he insists. Leaning forward in his chair, he instead re-emphasizes that the bigger issue is to ensure all TFs have adequate training. “You can have a superstar TF with 20 of you and it’s the most amazing section you’ve ever had. You can have six of you and a TF that’s not trained, and it’s terrible.”
Even in an ideal situation with TFs who are all adequately trained and prepared, Lue believes that having more students may be preferable for sections whose activities consist largely of group work. “There should be a dialogue where the section size is…based on the pedagogy, not the course,” he says.
Campaign leaders frequently point to the 2009 financial crisis as a turning point for sections and undergraduate education. When Harvard’s endowment plummeted more than $10 billion, FAS began to increase the size of sections by more strictly enforcing the guideline of an 18-student ceiling (last modified in 1998), maximizing section sizes whenever possible.
Ellison served his tenure as GSAS Dean before the crisis. According to him, many of the people who ended up leading sections during that time were teaching assistants, individuals either not associated with the University or involved in some capacity other than being a graduate student.
Without interested and available graduate students, Ellison found himself in a “last minute scramble” to find people to lead sections who were frequently unprepared to do so. Even today, he believes most departments have a shortage of teaching fellows and still need to rely, although less so than in the past, upon outside help.
“In general when we looked at teaching evaluations and other things, teaching assistants got much poorer evaluations,” he says. “They didn’t have the preparation, they were dragged in at the last minute, they weren’t necessarily familiar with Harvard and Harvard students, so it was not an ideal arrangement.”
If the Teaching Campaign succeeds in its mission to cap section size, Ellison believes the University will have to go back to finding more people outside the graduate school to teach the increased number of sections.
“If the argument goes, if capping sections sizes will allow more students to teach in their preferred courses, that’s probably right. Does it mean that we will improve the instruction in the non-preferred courses? No,” he says. “It would just put us back in a situation of this mad scramble to fill sections, leaving us to pull people off the street who are ill-prepared to do it.”
Groeger understands this to be the main concern of those hesitant to accept the Teaching Campaign’s proposal, but still does not believe it poses a major problem. She argues that the number of TAs who would need to be hired in response to a section size cap would not increase by much, if at all. “If a graduate student was offered the choice of having three sections of 12 [instead of two sections of 18] and getting paid an extra section, we imagine that this would generate a lot of graduate students who would be willing to teach more sections,” she says.
She suspects many courses could use the same number of teaching fellows, and simply have each one teach an additional section; no extra hired help would be required, and the workload for individual TFs would remain relatively flat.
“More people would be teaching in their specialty, which is going to improve education quality. If you have to bring in TAs, that’s the price of improving education,” Smith says.
Several months after first being interviewed for this piece, Caley Smith’s luck appears to have turned. He’s visibly more relaxed, and sports a new haircut, shorter and parted to the right.
He seems to have a generally contented demeanor, and almost immediately utters the phrase that proves things truly have changed for him: “I haven’t broken any teeth this semester.”
No, Smith did not head home. In fact, he was unexpectedly appointed as the sole instructor of a spring term Advanced Sanskrit course back in December, and experienced a powerful sense of security as a result. Gone are the stresses of shopping week, large sections, and unclear expectations.
“Not only am I excited to teach it because it’s something I love to teach, but I had a lot of time to prepare and know what I was going to teach, and the stress of actually maybe being here and then not finding work…isn’t there,” he says.
And it is, in his own words, “a whole different degree of mental agitation.”
One Thursday, Smith packs his fragile dictionary in a box and heads to the classroom on Bow Street. Eight students join him at the table, as he guides them through the course syllabus—his syllabus.
He cracks jokes and animatedly describes a set of ancient ritual texts they will be translating. When it comes time to arrange an optional reading and translating hour he had developed for the course, students list off scheduling conflicts. Smith assures them it won’t be a problem; he will review the same text at two separate hours if need be.
Confused, one student asks Smith if this repetition will bore him.
No, he says. And why would it? He’s teaching a subject he loves.
Sections
When last week’s gargantuan blizzard brought much of the Northeast to a standstill, many Cambridgians reverted to their most primitive instincts. Some burrowed deep in their homes at the first sign of danger. Others released their inner predator and descended in hordes upon the stores of Harvard Square. Forming around the afternoon of Monday, January 26 and picking up speed as the day progressed, the frenzy left many shelves wiped clean.
But what exactly were people so desperate to stock up on? Canned tuna and Spam, perhaps? Flashlights and batteries? Toilet paper? No.
“Alcohol was sale number one,” Broadway Market staff member Laura Garcia said. “We sold pretty much everything on the shelves.” Garcia estimated that the store saw more than triple its usual volume of customers on Monday.
Mark Cardullo of Cardullo’s Gourmet Shoppe had a similar experience: “A lot of wine did get sold, I just need to say that. People had an excuse to restock and they were doing it. Treating themselves.”
But Cambridge residents didn’t stop there. “Sale number two was bread,” Garcia said. “I was baking bread like crazy… I didn’t have time to cool it off, just put it outside [and it] was gone.” Apparently even burnt fingers weren’t enough to deter the carb-hungry crowds.
Unfortunately, this degree of enthusiasm came with a few drawbacks. According to Cardullo, “there was a bit of a frenzy.”
Garcia agreed: at Broadway Market, tensions were running high. “They were fighting for shopping carts,” she said.
All this took a toll on the staff. After waves of customers began pouring into Broadway Market around 2:00 p.m., Garcia described watching a few of her coworkers turn into zombies: “I’d say ‘Hey, how are you? How’s everything?’ And it’d be like they’d wake up.”
Adam Lucia, general manager of Savenor’s Market, had a similar experience. “People were definitely coming in kind of panic-stricken, and saying things like, ‘I just need something to cook for tomorrow! What should I do?’”
Regardless, Lucia remained sanguine. “It seemed to me that most people who came in weren’t necessarily feeling like they were going to die,” he said. “It was more like they… were situating themselves to spend a day drinking and eating.”
We understand, Cambridgians. Our winters are long, cold, and cutthroat, and we take our snow days very seriously. By all means, enjoy them in comfort—but next time, consider adding a few non-perishables to the shopping list. Why are you so desperate for bread?
— Laura E. Hatt
Sections
Looking up at the massive, leafty, almost phallic plant sculptures lining the cavernous walls at the new Felipe’s on Brattle Street, we ask ourselves, “What function could those possibly serve?” After posing a few more similarly puzzling questions to one another, we quickly learn to abandon all hope of finding logical answers.
With two full floors of seating, in addition to a rooftop garden, an extra service counter, an expanded menu, and a bar sans a liquor license (more on this later), Felipe’s still serves the best burritos in Harvard Square—don’t even look at us, Qdoba. But lacking the versatility of a shared space with Flat Patties and the close proximity to Harvard nightlife that came with its Garage location, this new Felipe’s seems to still be figuring out its identity in its angsty, pre-teen years as it nears its eleventh birthday this April.
As we walk into Felipe’s, we overhear a man bragging about his workout routine, and it occurs to us: this formerly greasy burrito joint has somehow become a premier date spot, with couples packed into an intimate and cozy booth. But fret not sad, sweaty, or single Harvardians—Felipe’s has a place for you as well. Whether you’re coming from the MAC, ready to eat back the calories you just burned, or heading in from Lamont, looking for a respite from your studies, the bar at Felipe’s seems to be a sanctum for the solitary (read: single) Harvard student.
But don’t get excited about meeting anyone new; using the bar as a place to bring people together would make far too much sense at the new Felipe’s.
Without a liquor license—and the conversational lubrication it provides—the Felipe’s bar has the same undercurrent of anguish as more traditional bars, without the sense of (albeit probably false) hope that comes from alcohol service. So, single Felipe’s patrons are left sitting at the bar, generally two to three seats apart, with their only companion being a tortilla, stuffed to the gills with meat.
While aesthetically the new Felipe’s is noticeably different, we can report that the lovingly apathetic service remains the same, which comes as a relief. We’d have been offended had they been accomodating—we have Chipotle for that. As at their prior locations, a seemingly complete lack of trust between patron and server results in consistently nerve wracking ordering experiences.
Unsure of whether to speak English or Spanish, we, like most customers, resort to the universal language of the point. This process works swimmingly, except when jittery diners try to get creative. When one particularly zealous man spends approximately 30 seconds pacing back and forth down the counter debating the age-old question of “queso or no queso?” Felipe’s employees and fellow-customers alike collectively blow a gasket. And we’re with them: with Felipe’s lines, there’s no time for this kind of tomfoolery.
Armed with design follies, confusing social dynamics, and a whole lot of space, we don’t how the role Felipe’s plays in the lives of Harvard students will change in its new location. But we do know that at 11p.m.—scratch that, at any time of day—there’s no place we’d rather go to grab a bite. No questions asked.
— Ben G. Cort and Samuel H. Koppelman
Sections
After finals ended, I was ready for a break from Harvard. I packed my bags and boarded a plane back to Georgia, the place that for eight years I had called home. I was ready to celebrate the holidays, spend quality time with family and friends, and catch up on sleep without worrying about looming deadlines for papers, psets, or tests.
But soon I realized that—as much as I missed warm weather, Chick-fil-A, and lazy afternoons—after about a month of being back home, I started to miss Harvard, too. I knew I wanted to come back to campus early, and I was genuinely looking forward to experiencing Wintersession for the first time.
On the first weekend of Wintersession, I attended a two-day seminar on "Public Narratives" led by Marshall Ganz, an amazing senior lecturer at the Kennedy School of Government. He had worked with Cesar Chavez in the ’60s to help organize migrant workers in California; now he was giving us a crash course on cultivating public narratives as a leadership skill. Together we wrote, revised, and shared our stories within our groups before performing them in front of all the seminar participants. And in the process we had acquired all the tools we needed to craft a compelling public narrative—and to teach others how to do the same.
Throughout the next week I was an active participant in SIEPSI, the Synergy International Exchange Program for Social Innovation. This program brought together 16 Harvard students and 12 Chinese college students for a rigorous, cross-cultural introduction to social enterprise. We were split into teams with the goal of building a sustainable business model for social good, and soon became close with our teammates. Together we watched TED talks, participated in workshops on leadership and innovation, took field trips to the Harvard iLab and to Workbar, and listened to speakers ranging from start-up attorneys to successful social entrepreneurs. At the end, my team and I created our own social enterprise, pitched it to a panel of venture capitalists, and received valuable feedback on our business model—an incredible experience in and of itself. The program ended with a closing ceremony, an impromptu dance party, and tearful goodbyes to the Chinese students we had gotten to know and love during the week.
On the last day of Wintersession I attended a slam poetry workshop hosted by Speak Out Loud, Harvard's premier spoken word poetry organization. After a series of icebreakers and inspiration sessions, we worked in writing workshops led by Porsha O, the Individual World Poetry Slam Champion in 2014. She was our emcee at the Spoken Word Wintersession Showcase, where I performed my very first slam poem later that night. And as I faced a hushed audience and a spotlight, I somehow found the courage to be vulnerable in front of an open mike.
I can safely say that I was absolutely blown away by the sheer quality of Harvard’s Wintersession programming. I’ve learned more in a week here than I did in a month back home, met and spoke with experts in their respective industries, and gained skills in leadership and story-telling that will benefit me for the rest of my life.
And if J-term was just a taste of 2015, then I’m looking forward to an unforgettable spring semester.
Sections
The roads are plowed, the students have stopped hibernating and started shuffling back to class, and so our latest “Snowpocalypse” is officially behind us. As dire as that name might sound, last Tuesday, Jan. 27, was in fact Harvard’s third closure due to inclement weather in three consecutive years. After Hurricane Sandy in 2012 and winter storm Nemo in 2013, it’s easy to imagine this becoming another of the College’s many traditions.
But before 2012, it required nothing less than an actual apocalypse—“an act of God, such as the end of the world,” former Dean of Students Archie C. Epps III declared in 1977—for the University to close.
Epps’s intuition wasn’t that great, as it turned out. Soon after, in 1978, a blizzard dumped 29 inches of snow on New England, buffeting Boston inhabitants with hurricaneforce winds and sea waves.
Tim Driscoll, senior reference archivist at the Harvard University Archives, remembers experiencing the storm as a high schooler: “The damage…was unlike anything I’d ever seen. Roads were completely eaten by the ocean. You would walk down the street and see lobsters and flopping fish.” When National Guard trucks arrived to clear out his neighborhood, they became stuck in the snow, and Driscoll was forced to help dig them out.
Faced with the worst conditions seen since the University’s last closure—the Great New England Hurricane of 1938, which nearly destroyed parts of the campus—Harvard officials bit the bullet. The morning after the storm, thousands of University Employees called in and heard the unimaginable: Harvard was officially closed.
No one knew what to do. According to a Harvard Gazette article published on Feb. 17, 1978, the blizzard was Harvard’s first real closure since British troops occupied the campus during the Revolutionary War. The 1938 hurricane had caused significant damage, but it struck Cambridge before classes began. Now, the administration was trapped under more than two feet of snow with a campus full of hungry college students.
The storm had made the city’s roads impassable, forcing Massachusetts Governor Michael S. Dukakis to ban cars and motor vehicles. Despite the danger, however, many University personnel made the trek on foot. As reported in the same article, head nurse Muriel A. Cunningham walked to Harvard and remained there throughout the closure, treating over 600 patients. John O’Neil, head chef of Adams House, hiked 11 miles to campus. When he arrived, Adams residents helped him prepare and serve the day’s meals.
Some professors followed suit. English professor William Alfred’s doors were frozen shut, so he climbed through a bathroom window in order to make it to class, only to find an empty lecture hall. Evidently, he hadn’t gotten the memo.
The buildings and grounds crew, meanwhile, faced the daunting task of clearing the massive snowfall away so that employees could return. Workers shoveled 18 hours a day, sleeping in shifts in common rooms and Weld’s basement. They weren’t alone, however: More than 100 students joined them to shovel. Together, they cleared more than 20 miles of road in both Harvard’s campus and the surrounding area.
While these employees and students labored to keep the school heated and fed, most other undergrads did what undergrads do best—party. All over campus, people drunkenly celebrated the unexpected break from classes. Snow versions of the Loch Ness monster, a stegosaurus, and a sphinx appeared all over the yard. People took nosedives off the top of Pusey Library and skied a jump constructed on Widener’s steps. The result was a series of snow-related injuries, including 27 sprains and one broken neck.
Even after the paths had been cleared, cars remained banned under Gov. Dukakis’s order. In their place, students zipped around on skis. “We were cross-country skiing and literally going across the tops of cars,” Patricia M. Nolan ’80 said, according to a 2011 Crimson article. So many people used skis that their tracks began to hinder snow clean-up operations, and Cambridge city officials banned skiing as well.
With no cars, students and locals wandered the streets freely. “[A] party atmosphere reigned in Harvard Square,” The Crimson reported in 1978, “as a multitude of students and Cambridge residents enjoyed the winter wonderland.”
Sadly for them, the snow wouldn’t last. It would be fully cleared (costing Harvard almost $200,000 in maintenance fees), and life would return to normal after Harvard’s first Snowpocalypse. Former Kirkland House Master Catherine Vogt, however, remembered a sense of togetherness that remained, a shared bond over closed streets and snowedover paths that led people to work together and keep the school lit. If the Blizzard of 1978 produced nothing else, she told the Gazette, “one million people found they had legs.”
Sources: Harvard Gazette Feb. 19, 1978 (Harvard University Archives); Harvard Magazine, “The Blizzard of ’78” (Harvard Historical Calendar, Archives website)
--Nathan A. Cummings
Sections
What did I do when my hometown got hit with its coldest week in 23 years? I put on a long-sleeve T-shirt. Like any good Angelino, when the temperature dropped to 40, I headed to the airport. It wasn’t an instinctive reaction or an impulsive decision—although that would make for a better story—but after a great deal of planning, 12 hours of travel, and several bad airplane sandwiches, I landed in St. Maarten.
There is something about hopping off an airplane and onto a little sailboat in the Carib- bean that made me think I’d be escaping it all. That maybe I’d have some time without emails, without Facebook notifications, and without the constant blabbering of news anchors. As I quickly found out, you may be able to get away from wifi and the pundits of international news, but, even during vacation, there’s no escaping Fireball.
There we were, at the hole-in-the-wall Dingy Dock restaurant in Oyster Pond, St. Maarten, and there it was, dancing devil and all, shining with cinnamon glory (or was it just the anti-freeze?). My dad, many years removed from college life, asked what the bottle was. I insisted it was a college classic.
For the entire third quarter of the Packers game, he kept badgering me with questions, trying to discern just why this particular brand of whisky was so special––“It’s just cinnamon in whisky?”
“Yeah.”
“What’s so special about it then?”
“Nothing.”
“Then why is it a college classic?”
“Honestly, I couldn’t tell you.”
He asked for a drink.
Whether he simply wanted to see and taste what all the kids are doing these days, or relive his own glory days, I’ll never know. But for an ER doctor who works enough Halloweens and Fourth of Julys to consistently ask me “Why does everyone drink so much? The stuff isn’t even really good, is it?”––well, I was a little shocked.
My dad is usually a one-beer-and-a-nap kind of man, but after his first Fireball, or maybe his second, I think he finally got it. He didn’t stop yelling at the game’s referees or spontaneously order calamari, but with only a cheap bottle of whisky, we quietly, momentarily, bridged the generational gap. Then we got the check, and like any good Angelino facing either a short walk or a longer ride, he called a taxi.
--Hunter J. Stanley
Sections
My grandmother lost her ring on the dog path yesterday, which is why I’m ferreting through bushes, poking with a stick through dog poop and bits of plastic and one empty condom packet. (Public sex among the retired must be on the rise.)
“Get the Keurig cups from the garage!” my grandmother barked earlier today at my grand- father. He trudged slowly toward the door. It was raining outside.
“Nana, you’ll find your ring,” I said. “Don’t get mad at Grandpa.”
“His fault!” she snapped. “His fault.”
I watched her, 92 and sharper than ice skates, sit on the kitchen stool—the kind which folds out into steps and has a squishy white foam seat that I associate with white sneakers, broaches, and nursing homes. She had told me that the ring, a yellow topaz, belonged to her own grandmother. A 16th birthday gift.
“Do you want me go look?” I asked, as my grandfather breathed heavily down the hall.
“No, he claims he looked!” she said. “Anyway, I want to show you this first.”
On the bedspread covered in dark flowers, we pieced through jewels. There were antique pink-and-white curios, the jade “your grandfather” (not this one, the first one, the one who died) brought back from the war. I learned to test pearls on my teeth. My grandmother held a sapphire ring up to the light, and a wriggling line-legged star appeared in the cloudy blue sea.
“Did I tell you my grandmother gave me that topaz ring?” She looked toward the mirror, at nothing in particular. “For my birthday, my 21st birthday. It felt so special.”
“21st birthday or 16th?” I asked.
“21st,” she said definitively. She offered me a ring, to keep. “Gold,” she said, though it tastes like plastic and hits the ground with a thwack, not a metallic ring. I think about how losing something makes you cling close to what you have, torments you with the specter of losses to come.
When the rain cleared, I convinced her to let me look for the ring. So now I’m combing the bushes along the dog path, looking for a ring in a tiny Ziploc bag near a trashcan, every so often noticing a tiny shard of broken glass—but no topaz.
The rainclouds are coming in. I concede to probability.
And there, taped to a bench along the path, not a ring but a handwritten note: one long, rambling sentence, pleading, ink running from the rain—one woman who has lived nine long decades, describing exactly where she has lost some worthless bit of metal and stone which she cannot live without, asking for its return.
Long gone, I think. Probably in a dog’s belly. Or on Ebay.
Walking back up the street, I feel, like my grandmother does, as if my hands are no longer enough to hold up the sphere of my world, as if at any moment the sky could come falling down. And then it does, soggy and gray and putrid-smelling, like the wet fur of a dog.
--Julia F. P. Ostmann
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Laws regarding rape should be taught in criminal law classes at Harvard Law School despite its potential to trigger psychological trauma, two Law professors argued at a discussion on the topic Wednesday afternoon.
Law professor Jeannie C. Suk, who has taught criminal law and procedure at the Law School, and Andrew M. Crespo ’05, who served as Harvard Law Review’s first Latino president and will teach criminal law for the first time next fall, both stressed the pedagogical value of including rape law in a curriculum. Suk spoke out on the issue when she penned a New Yorker article called “The Trouble with Teaching Rape Law" in December.
At the well-attended discussion, Suk and Crespo said law school students should engage with potentially emotionally difficult cases in preparation for their role in the legal world.
“Getting through that challenge together as a class, to have challenging discussions, to be able to analyze and to provoke and to respond to and to reason through these challenging subjects is a big part of what it is lawyers do in our society,” Suk said.
Crespo added that teaching rape law offers a unique opportunity to connect law students in a more personal way to crime. While law school students can be far removed from most criminal activities like drug arrests, rape is an issue they are more likely to have encountered, whether in a collegiate environment or elsewhere, Crespo said.
“I think that with rape, everyone can relate to it in a way that is more personal and that allows for us to talk about crime as something that affects us personally,” Crespo said.
Wednesday’s discussion comes amid controversy over Harvard's sexual assault and harassment policy and procedures among the Law School faculty. Last October, 28 Law School faculty members, including Suk, penned an open letter in The Boston Globe criticizing Harvard's University-wide sexual harassment policy and procedures for what they claimed was its lack of due process. In December, the Law School was found in violation of Title IX, and in a break from the University-wide policy, the Law School faculty voted to adopt its own set of sexual harassment procedures. They are awaiting feedback from the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights.
Suk said the event’s discussion related to her earlier criticisms about the way Harvard's central policy characterizes sexual harassment. Under the specific language of Harvard’s definition of sexual harassment, Suk said, “there’s a fear” that normal classroom discussions about sex and sexuality could be construed as sexual harassment.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Evelynn M. Hammonds, a former Dean of Harvard College and a History of Science and African and African American Studies professor, spoke Wednesday afternoon to dozens of Harvard affiliates about diversity in fields of scientific research.
The event was the first in a colloquium series held by the Hutchins Center for African and African American Research, which opened in 2013 thanks to the help of a $15 million alumnus gift from Glenn H. Hutchins ’77.
Hammonds, the director of the center’s Program for the Study of Race and Gender in Science and Medicine, centered her presentation on an essay written by W.E.B Du Bois called “The Negro Scientist,” which she said  “has long been a touchstone for [her].”
The essay, which was published in 1939, considers the lives of different black scientists as they struggled to find research positions in the early 1900s. Hammonds noted that in his argument, Du Bois wrote that it was not a lack of talent or interest among black scientists that precluded them from attaining jobs. Rather, it was an “America that did not believe in negro talent despite the scientific evidence that he and other African Americans had produced,” Hammonds said, referencing Du Bois.
Hammonds added that Du Bois did not write about African American females in scientific fields, but historically they have often faced greater challenges in receiving science educations and finding employment. She also said that while there has been progress in opening science up to a larger pool of people, movement toward diversity and inclusion in scientific fields has been slow.
“While challenges are being made to the exclusion of people of color in U.S. science and technology, progress toward eliminating the structural exclusion has been a long and difficult slog,” she said.
In 2013, Hammonds stepped down from the College deanship and then took a year-long sabbatical. At her new role in the Hutchins Center, she studies race and gender in the fields of science and medicine.
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at meg.bernhard@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meg_bernhard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Students, faculty, and administrators discussed the timing of midterm exams on Housing Day at a Committee on Undergraduate Education meeting Wednesday.
During the meeting, Undergraduate Council Vice President Dhruv P. Goyal ’16 told committee members that many undergraduates dislike taking exams on Housing Day, when freshmen receive their upperclassman housing assignments amid College-wide festivity. Last fall, Goyal, a former UC Education Committee chair, and his running mate clinched the UC’s top leadership positions on a platform that included the abolition of midterms on Housing Day, which is typically scheduled for the Thursday before spring break.
Pointing to recent course cancellations during shopping week, however, Goyal acknowledged that efforts to modify the timing for this year’s Housing Day will likely be challenging.
“This semester, it almost seems impossible,” he said. “If any change has to be made, it would only be instituted for next year,” Goyal added after the meeting.
Still, Goyal said faculty and administrators who attended the meeting seemed open to discussing retiming Housing Day so as to avoid potential conflicts with midterms. They discussed two possibilities: starting Housing Day festivities on Thursday afternoon, instead of the morning, or moving them to the Friday before spring break, Goyal said.
After the meeting, Goyal said scheduling Housing Day on that Friday could present additional problems for students, specifically student-athletes, who often leave campus beforehand. Goyal said he will continue advocating to move Housing Day or reschedule midterms on that day with administrators, including House masters, the Freshman Dean’s Office, and the Office of Student Life.
The meeting also featured a prolonged exchange on the General Education program, which is currently under review.
UC representative Michelle S. Lee ’16 asked administrators at the meeting why certain introductory courses, referencing the Anthropology department in particular, do not fulfill Gen Ed requirements. Lee, who is an inactive Crimson news editor,  also questioned the rationale for enforcing the same, full set of requirements for all students, regardless of what they are studying.
The Core Curriculum, which preceded the Gen Ed program, granted exceptions to certain requirements depending on an undergraduate’s concentration.
Administrators present at the meeting argued that Gen Ed courses serve to encourage students to connect material to broader questions in the world rather than strictly introduce them to a discipline, according to Lee.
“Not all courses that are introductory could or should be Gen Ed courses,” said Daniel E. Lieberman ’86, chair of the Human Evolutionary Biology department.
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Museums of Science and Culture are establishing an undergraduate student board tasked with promoting museum engagement at the College. The new board will consist of 16 selected undergraduates and will meet once a month at the different museums, with guest speakers and professors at its sessions.
According to Wendy Derjue-Holzer, the education director at the Museum of Natural History, the decision to move forward with a student board “definitely benefited” from conversations with staff at other University departments that already had student boards, including the student outreach and program coordinator at the Harvard Art Museums.
Derjue-Holzer emphasized that the Museums of Science and Culture seek applications for student board membership from undergraduates of all academic backgrounds and concentrations, rather than only students from fields of study related to the museums.
Derjue-Holzer said she hopes the new student board will learn how the museums can make an impact on students' experience outside of the classroom.
“The best way to see how we serve Harvard College is to have students come help us,” she said, adding that student involvement would aid the museums augment student outreach efforts.
Potential inaugural projects include a signature student event at the Semitic Museum and an initiative for accepted students to visit the museums during Visitas, according to Derjue-Holzer.
Faculty and staff at the Museums of Science and Culture first proposed the establishment of a student board in early 2014.
The Harvard Museums of Science and Culture, a partnership officially established in 2012, consists of the Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments, the Harvard Museum of Natural History, the Harvard Semitic Museum, and the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology.
—Staff writer Kristina D. Lorch can be reached at klorch@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A record 280 women will seek entrance to Harvard’s four sorority chapters in a redesigned, shorter rush process starting Thursday, marking a slight increase from the 272 students who rushed last spring.
Rush this year will largely take place on the weekend rather than on weekday evenings, unlike in years past, and it will span three “rounds,” rather than the usual four, according to Leah C. Goldman ’15, vice president of recruitment for the Cambridge-Area Panhellenic Council, composed of chapters of Alpha Phi, Delta Gamma, Kappa Kappa Gamma, and Kappa Alpha Theta.
Sorority leaders last year made these changes to the process after receiving feedback from participants, Goldman said.
“Everybody just felt that it took way too much time,” she said, adding that events often began at 6 p.m. and ended at midnight, which prompted many participants to drop out. According to Ting-Ting H. Liu ’15, the Panhellenic Council’s president, sorority leaders also decided to shorten rush for logistical and financial reasons.
The schedule change moves the day participants receive their “bids”—acceptance offers from sororities—to Tuesday. “Bid day” was previously on Sunday, and many sororities traditionally hold events for their new members after they received their bids.
Although Goldman said the time change will “discourage drinking,” she and Liu said they do not expect the day to be any less exciting.
“There will still be exciting things, getting to know [the new members], different fun things,” Goldman said.
Liu acknowledged that the schedule change may create conflicts with some participants’ schedules, including athletes playing in away games over the weekend. Still, she said she does not think the issue is unique to this year.
The adjusted schedule accompanies other alterations to rush that sorority members introduced this year. According to Liu, the sororities this year made a greater effort to publicize their rush process to “to emphasize this year...that it’s open to everybody.”
All four sorority chapters published online letters sharing their sorority and recruitment experiences, and some, such as Delta Gamma, created a recruitment video. Goldman said these new initiatives reflect the growing strength of Harvard’s Greek life.
“It’s becoming more mainstream,” she said.
Goldman said she does not yet know how many women will receive bids, but hopes to “have as much retention as possible.”
With that goal in mind, she said, sorority leaders for the first time this year held a pre-rush meeting with participants to inform them about rush expectations and scheduling.
Greek life at Harvard has grown substantially over the last few years. The number of women rushing this year—the majority of whom are freshmen, according to Liu—is significant compared to the average rush classes in years prior to 2011, which was 150. Liu estimates that roughly more than 400 women are currently involved in Harvard’s sororities, although she declined to name each sorority’s size.
—Staff writer Quynh-Nhu Le can be reached at quynhnhu.le@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @qnhule.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Three months after announcing plans for a new postgraduate course of instruction and training for College students interested in obtaining a Massachusetts teaching certificate, leaders at the Harvard Graduate School of Education are determining the logistical details of the upcoming Harvard Teacher Fellows Program, as well as forging plans for expanding the model across the country.
The program will differ from other teaching-preparation programs in its inclusion of intensive and sustained field-based training to prepare fellows for classroom instruction and subject-oriented coursework, Ed School professor Jon R. Star, HTF’s interim director, said at a meeting for interested students last Thursday. About 20 students attended the event.
The program will launch next spring, with graduating members of the Class of 2016 as the first eligible to apply. Eventually, the program aims to accommodate 100 students at a time.
Those selected as fellows will begin their time in the program by taking a course during the spring of their senior year titled “Introduction to Schools and Teaching.”
Following the completion of the course, fellows will spend the summer after graduating from the College doing field-based training with a partner teacher at the Cambridge-Harvard Summer Academy. Fellows will participate in the same summer program a second time, following completion of a full year of instruction at the Ed School. While at the Ed School, they will also take continued coursework in their specified subject area—mathematics, social studies and history, English, or science.
During the academic year, clusters of fellows will be placed in participating high-performing urban schools nationwide, where they will be paired with a teacher and given a lightened workload, a strategy Star said would be beneficial for the teachers-in-training without compromising instruction for the students.
Fellows will receive salaries from their host schools, according to a handout provided to attendees of Thursday’s event.
Katherine K. Merseth, a senior lecturer at the Ed School and director of teacher education, said the format for HTF has the potential to be groundbreaking in the area of teacher education, not just for Harvard, but for other universities as well. She said she is currently thinking about how to expand the program to other universities.
“My end of it,” Merseth said, “is thinking more of, ‘How do we spread it? How do we get Berkeley to do it? How do we get Stanford to do it?’ and to create the movement.”
HTF will assist the fellows in networking to find employment upon completion of the program. Even after the HTF program is over, a fellow will have access to a designated hotline where they can call in for advising, mentorship, and general support.
—Staff writer Gabrielle M. Williams can be reached at gabriellewilliams@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @GabWilliams23.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At 5 p.m. Wednesday, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Registrar’s Office bustled with activity as students rushed through the doors, dropped off paperwork, and exited the Garden St. building into the cold. Two hours before the final study card deadline—extended because of an interruption to course shopping by a blizzard last week—the office came alive with students’ finalizing their spring semester schedules.
“We have seen good traffic today,” FAS Associate Registrar for Enrollment Services Maggie Welsh said. “People are coming in, in good spirits.”
After the University closed for blizzard “Juno” during shopping week, administrators said students, if necessary, could submit their registration materials past the Friday deadline until Wednesday evening without a late fee. About 80 percent of undergraduates turned in their course study cards by the original deadline, according to FAS Registrar Michael P. Burke.
Based on the course enrollment data updated on the FAS Register’s Office website, Harvard’s flagship introductory economics course has continued to enroll the largest number of undergraduates this semester. On Wednesday evening, 619 students were enrolled in Economics 10b: “Principles of Economics,” taught by professor N. Gregory Mankiw, compared to 535 students listed on Sunday.
A life sciences course, statistics course, economics course, and a computer science course rounded out the list of the semester’s courses with the highest enrollment. From the updated data, Life Sciences 1b: “An Integrated Introduction to the Life Sciences” is the second-largest FAS course this semester, with 464 students enrolled, followed by Statistics 104: “Introduction to Quantitative Methods for Economics” with 372 students.
Now that study cards have been submitted, the Office of Undergraduate Education can finalize teaching fellow and classroom assignments, according to Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris. As add/drop period begins, there will be “final adjustments” to these assignments based on the fluctuations of students enrolled in courses, he said.
Welsh said she expects to see a decline in the number of add/drop forms because the study card deadline extension gave students more time to plan out their spring semester schedules.
Many students who dropped off their study cards Wednesday said the additional time allowed them to shop more classes.
“I had a couple of Tuesday classes I wanted to shop, so extending the deadline was helpful,” Alice M. Xiao ’18 said.
Jessica R. Lucey ’15 also appreciated the additional time to figure out her schedule before committing it to paper. “It was really great that they extended the [time]. There was a lot of confusion and frustration beforehand,” she said.
—Staff writer Melissa C. Rodman can be reached at melissa.rodman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @melissa_rodman
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Cambridge City Council passed amendments to the Tobacco Ordinance last week that raise the age to legally purchase tobacco in Cambridge from 18 to 21, while also designating more public spaces as smoke-free and placing limits on the use of electronic cigarettes, according to Cambridge City Councillor Marc C. McGovern.
The Public Health Department followed its initial proposal in October with two options for the amendments in December, and the Council ultimately favored Option B with additional changes. The changes include that e-cigarettes will not be allowed in restaurants and that fenced in “tot lots”—areas where children play—and tot lots at Clement Morgan Park and Raymond Park will become smoke-free areas, McGovern wrote in an email.
The amendment to the ordinance will not take effect until June 2015 in order to give businesses notice of the new policy. Businesses will be required to check for age verification to sell tobacco to anyone under the age of 26.
Although e-cigarette smoking will be banned inside restaurants, smoking that involves hookah or water pipes will be allowed in outdoor restaurant seating if the area does not reside on a public sidewalk, according to an exemption in the ordinance amendments.
Only retail tobacco stores may sell flavored tobacco under the approved amendments.
“This is going to be one of the most significant public health decisions we’ve made,” McGovern said in an interview Wednesday.
McGovern said he hopes the ordinance will limit smoking by 16- and 17-year-olds in Cambridge.
“I see it everyday at the high school where I work,” he said. “At lunch the 18 year-old goes up to the corner store and hands cigarettes to a 15 year-old. [If the ordinance amendment is followed], that’s not going to happen anymore.”
The amendments to the ordinance passed last week are limited in scope relative to the original October proposal, which aimed to ban smoking in municipal open spaces, city benches, and city parks. In part due to opposition from the Cambridge Citizens for Smokers’ Rights, the further amended “Option B” prohibits smoking in parks less than 15,000 square feet in size, tot lots, and city events held on public open space.
Dharma Kafle, who works at Out-of-Town News in Harvard Square, said Wednesday that he had no knowledge of the ordinance amendments. Kafle estimated that more than 100 students buy tobacco there each day, the number of buyers peaking over the summertime.
“If we raised [the age], maybe they’ll go outside, give another person money [to buy tobacco by proxy],” he said.
Daniel E. Hughes ’18, a self-described “libertarian,” said he strongly disagreed with the change to the tobacco sales age.
“Making the age higher will only increase the image of tobacco (and of other substances such as alcohol) as a ‘forbidden substance’ and will then only further incentivize teens to use these substances,” he wrote in an email.
—Staff writer Samuel E. Liu can be reached at samuel.liu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @samuelliu96.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Eleven months ago, a dagger of a three-pointer from then-co-captain Laurent Rivard sent Harvard out of Payne Whitney Gymnasium riding high. The trey effectively sealed the Crimson’s win over rival Yale, clinching its Ivy title and punching its ticket to the NCAA Tournament.
This year, trailing Yale by one game in the Ancient Eight standings, the Harvard men’s basketball team will enter New Haven facing a different kind of pressure. Barring an unforeseen Crimson or Bulldog defeat on Friday, the former will have to win in the latter’s home gym on Saturday evening in order to remain in control of its conference title aspirations.
Earmarked by Ivy hoops pundits months ago as Harvard’s most crucial road swing of the season, this weekend’s matchups will send the Crimson (13-5, 3-1 Ivy) first to Rhode Island, where it’ll take on a depleted Brown squad (9-12, 0-4), before the team heads west to New Haven, setting up a slog between the two powerhouse teams of the Ancient Eight.
While all eyes will be on Saturday’s contest against Yale (15-6, 4-0), senior wing Wesley Saunders says the team is careful not to look past the Bears, a program whose 2014-2015 iteration is utterly unlike the one the Crimson faced last year.
“We have to take care of business against Brown, we don’t want to get ahead of ourselves,” Saunders explained. “[Harvard coach Tommy Amaker] has been doing a good job keeping us focused, telling us that we can’t overlook anything. There’s all this hype around the Yale game, but we can’t even think about that until we take care of Brown first.”
While Brown lost its go-to All-Ivy player Sean McGonagill ’14 to graduation last spring, Bears coach Mike Martin announced just last week that leading scorer Leland King would be leaving the program effective immediately due to “personal reasons.” While King was top-ten in the conference in field goal percentage, points per game, and rebounds per game this year, the stat that perhaps best tells Brown’s reliance on the forward is his league-leading usage rate of 32.0—a five-point hike above even that of reigning Ivy League Player of the Year Saunders (26.8).
The last time Harvard and Brown met, McGonagill and King combined for 53 points, 10 assists, and five blocks, leaving a massive chasm for the Bears to fill on both the offensive and defensive ends—a responsibility they will likely hand off to big man Cedric Kuakumensah.
Although Kuakumensah now paces the team in scoring with King out of the picture (10.8 ppg), it’s his defensive efforts that top the scouting report. Only the second player in conference history to win consecutive Defensive Player of the Year awards, the junior set the Ancient Eight single season blocks record with 93 swats.
Kuakumensah’s presence in the paint—and his ability to affect shots down low—may hamper a Crimson squad that predicates much of its offense on getting into the lane. With two starting wings—Saunders and junior Agunwa Okolie—more inclined to slash into the key than shoot the ball from deep, Harvard may be forced to rely more than usual on its perimeter offense on Friday as a result of Kuakumensah’s efforts.
But other than Kuakumensah, Brown lags on the defensive end. Giving up a league-worst 68.9 points per contest and tallying a conference-worst 4.9 steals per outing, Brown, on paper, simply may not have enough firepower to hold back a versatile Harvard offense.
And then there’s Saturday.
A matchup between the two best ball clubs in the conference, a contest between the two probable candidates for Ivy League Player of the Year, this second night of the back-to-back will, likely, be an exercise in nerve-management for both benches.
After splitting last year’s series with their Cantab counterparts, the Elis have upped their stats across the board. As compared to last season’s conference play, Yale is making opponents shoot worse (38.4 percent vs. 41.4 percent), while managing to shoot at a better clip (42.2 percent vs. 40.2 percent), tallying three fewer turnovers per game along the way. It’s allowing Ivy opponents 2.2 fewer points per matchup (60.8 vs. 63), while scoring five more points per contest itself (69.2 vs. 64.2).
Surprising no one that watched league play last year, Yale’s 2014-2015 success can largely be attributed to the play of forward Justin Sears. The junior—who notched 28 points, eight rebounds, and three blocks just this past weekend against Columbia—was, perhaps, the player that gave the Crimson the most trouble last season. In the teams’ two 2014 matchups, Sears tallied a cool 49 points and 24 rebounds, forcing a coterie of Crimson big men into foul trouble with 17 trips to the charity stripe.
“He’s one of the better players in our league and I think he’s established himself as a marquee player around the country as well,” Amaker said. “He’s orthodox but he’s incredibly effective and efficient.…There’s nothing he can’t do. He’s a very, very tough matchup for anyone in our conference because of his versatility and his athleticism.”
This year, Harvard will likely once again throw a bevy of able bodies at the forward, who has a knack of drawing contact and earning the whistle. Co-captain Steve Moundou-Missi, sophomore Zena Edosomwan, and, if deemed healthy, senior Kenyatta Smith will be the probable Crimson rotation to face Sears, while his quick first step and his ability to put the ball on the floor will force other Crimson defenders to pack the middle.
Of course, a heavy presence inside heightens the importance of perimeter offense—something, too, that Yale has in abundance. Paced by Jack Montague’s league-leading 44.6 percent shooting from deep, the Elis have three rotation players that shoot at least 38 percent from beyond the arc, making opponents pay for collapsing on Sears down low. And while Harvard will rely on a glut of forwards to guard Sears, the task of guarding senior Javier Duren—who averages 14.1 points per game—is expected to fall on the shoulders of Saunders and junior co-captain Siyani Chambers throughout the contest.
Unlike last year, there’s no NCAA Tournament ticket riding on this game alone. But with these two teams neck-and-neck in the standings and the end of Ivy play only weeks away, when Harvard steps onto the court on Saturday evening, it may just feel like there’s a lot at stake.
“It’s going to be a good game—they have a good team this year, we have a good team this year, so it’s just going to be a battle,” Saunders said. “We have to be ready to go in there and fight. It’s just going to be fun. These are the kind of matchups you look forward to during the season.”
—Staff writer Juliet Spies-Gans can be reached at juliet.spies-gans@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The streak stayed alive for the Harvard women’s squash team (8-1, 4-1 Ivy), who defeated No. 1 Trinity (12-1) on the Barnaby courts on Wednesday. The team only dropped one game on the day, finishing the match with an 8-1 victory.
The Bantams entered the game that was rescheduled due to weather with an untarnished record—both overall and on the road. The Crimson came into the game with four home wins, with only one game dropped and three 9-0 sweeps.
In its final game at home and third to last of the regular season, the team looked to defend its home and overall record as well as avenge a championship loss to Trinity last season.
“I was definitely really nervous going into it but I also think the team didn’t feel much pressure, especially because they were seeded above us,” freshman Sue Ann Yong said.
It was a race to the win from the beginning, with both sides fighting for every point. Every game except for those at the No. 1, No. 6, and No. 7 spots lasted more than three matches, and a few went more than 11 points.
“Every single one of us played our best this season, because we all went in without too much pressure” sophomore Katherine Tutrone said. “We were just playing free.”
Senior Amanda Sobhy, junior Saumya Karki, and sophomore Dileas MacGowan were the three Crimson players who played just three matches. Karki recorded the first point for the Crimson, winning three close matches against Salma El Defrawy at the No. 6 spot, 11-5, 11-9, 11-8.
The No. 1 spot was a battle of the best players in the country. Sobhy, the top-ranked player, defeated No. 2 Kanzy El Defrawy, 3-0. The first two matches were hard fought, with Sobhy winning by one and two points, respectively, but outlasted her opponent, winning the last match 11-1.
In MacGowan’s match against Natalie Babjukova at the No. 7 position, two of the three matches were pushed to extra points, with the first to 15-13 and the second to 13-11. The last match ended 11-6.
Tutrone and Freshman Alyssa Mehta had the longest matches of the day, both playing to five sets.
“Really just staying in there mentally and hustling throughout the entire game and knowing that every girl in all the other courts are fighting as hard as you are," Yong said. "I think that’s just great in terms of overcoming the nerves.”
At the third position, Mehta was trailing 2-1 by the third match, but came back to win the next two and hand opponent Anna Kimberely her first career loss in a dual-match.
In the only match that the Crimson lost, Tutrone fell in a close 3-2 match at the No. 2 position. Initially dropping the first match to Raneem Sharaf, Tutrone took the second, and then the duo alternated victories. Tutrone won the fourth match to push the game into a tiebreaker, but could not top Sharaf, who won 11-8.
Yong, junior Michelle Gemmell, senior Julianne Chu, and junior Isabelle Dowling also contributed key wins for the Crimson in a meeting that saw Harvard battle for every point.
“The score was…definitely decisive and we weren’t sure we would win,” Yong said. I think all of us as individuals really came in strong mentally and really hustling for every point, and I think that was really crucial and that’s what made the huge difference today.”
With this win, Harvard handed Trinity its first loss since exactly a year ago, when the Crimson defeated the Bantams 5-4. The victory provided a crucial confidence boost going into the late stages of the season.
“It’s pretty much to stay the same,” Tutrone added. “We don’t really need to make too many adjustments. I think we just reminded ourselves that we are a lot stronger than we thought we were. It was definitely a big confidence boost, especially going into Nationals.”
—Staff writer Katherine H. Scott can be reached at katherinescott@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections

Happy Thursday, Harvard! Hopefully you’ve turned in your study cards and are at least somewhat sure on your classes (but thank goodness for add-drop). Unfortunately, being officially signed up for classes is a horrible reminder that every week can’t be shopping week, and we’re actually expected to show up for lecture and section for the rest of the semester. No more sleeping through a class you thought you might want to take when you looked at its reviews– who are we kidding? You’re still going to be sleeping through lecture, but it’s okay because you’ll totally watch the video of it before you try to do the pset...until you realize it's not taped and you cry your eyes out.
IN THE ATMOSPHEREToday is starting out cold and is only getting colder. It should stop snowing (for now) by midmorning, but it will be windy and it’s going to feel like -6º by dinnertime. As if we needed another excuse to blow off all our commitments and sit in our rooms.
IN THE D-HALLLunchBacon and Spinach Pizza on Multigrain CrustChicken FingersRoasted Vegetable Panini made with Eggplant, Pepper, and Squash
DinnerChicken Pot PieHome Made Fish CakesSweet and Sour Tofu
ON FLYBY1) Congrats, Lampoon: Everyone’s least favorite pranksters are at it again with “a decent attempt at humor".2) Skating through a Winter Wonderland: Ice rink + Science Center Plaza + Winter = Fun
IN THE NEWS1) Two College Students Dismissed for Sexual Misconduct:  “The Faculty Council dismissed two undergraduates from the College on Dec. 10 for sexual misconduct, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith said at Tuesday's monthly meeting of the Faculty.”2) Analysis: Dartmouth’s Hard Alcohol Ban Unlikely To Affect Harvard:  “Responding to news that Dartmouth will soon implement a ban on hard alcohol on campus, Harvard administrators and national experts on alcohol safety said that while they were unsurprised by the new policy at Dartmouth, they expect the changes to have little effect on Harvard College’s recently revised approach to policing alcohol.”3) Cambridge Residents Raise Concerns about Affordable Housing: “Longtime Cambridge resident Barbara Taggart, who has lived in the city since 1977, shared her observations of the many middle- and low-income residents who have been priced out of the area.”
EVENTSHear visiting scholar Phillip Goff, Houston Mayor Annise Parker, and Commissioner of the Philadelphia Police Department Charles Ramsey in Challenges to Democracy: The Future of Policing discuss policing at the JFK Jr. Forum at 6:00pm.
Harvard College Engineering Society is hosting a Khan Academy Info Session in Pierce 209 to talk about data science and engineering for the educational website. Software developer Eliana Feasley will be speaking at 6:00pm.
Let's Talk Harvard #BlackLivesMatter Kick-Off Dinner is co-hosted by PBHA and IOP tonight. This dinner will foster discussion about the necessity of advocacy. The #Blacklivesmatter organizers on campus and Professor Phillip Goff will be in attendance to talk with undergraduates about the movement. Dinner is from 7:15-8:30 p.m. at the IOP.
Hansel and Gretel, presented in Agassiz Theatre at 7:30 p.m. tonight Student tickets are only $10 at the Box Office.
Come to the Kates-Tobin room in Quincy House at 7:30 for the i3 Kickoff. Learn about the innovation challenge for 2015 and meet present and past participants.
Harvard Thinks Big is tonight! Hear renowned professors share their ideas to change the world at 8 p.m. in Sanders. Pick up free tickets in the Box Office!
PHOTO OF THE DAY“To be able...to reason through these challenging subjects is a big part of what it is lawyers do in our society,” Law professor Jeannie C. Suk said at a panel on whether rape law should be taught in law classes on Wednesday in Pound Hall.The well-attended event featured several students sitting on the floor.
 
 
 
Sections
You promised yourself that this semester would be different. You were going to stay on top of your work. No more procrastinating so that you’re up late enough to merit a second (or even third) dinner. But as the first pset due dates roll around, we’re all stuck in the same bad habits. So if you need another meal and brain break just isn’t cutting it, here is the definitive listing of late night food in the Square, from “just another night” to “one of those nights”.
Starbucks: If you’re just about to settle in for a long night of alternately getting work done and lamenting your life choices, coffee from Starbucks may be exactly what you need. If you’re getting started early enough, it’s even a pretty good place to get work done, and the baristas on the second floor give free refills. Closes at 1am.
ABP: Definitely doesn’t feel like a late-night spot, but ABP is open until 2am. If you’re looking for a pick-me-up but don’t want to be in an environment that screams ‘I’m gonna be up all night’, this is the place for you.
Felipe’s:  Burritos are arguably one of the best late night study foods. Unfortunately, you’re probably going to need to plan ahead if you’re going to want Felipe’s; it closes at midnight Monday through Wednesday but you’re in luck if your work is all due Fridays, because you can go get your fill of guac until 2am on Thursday nights.
Noch’s:  On a weeknight? You can get pizza and subs until 2am, so if you need something a little more comforting than ABP can offer, Noch’s is here to remind you of better times (like last Saturday night).
CVS: May God have mercy on your soul. If you’re up late enough that you’re taking a break after everything else in the Square is closed, you’ll find something at the 24 hour CVS (s/o to the weird fruit cups and pre-packaged sandwiches you feel judged eating Honestly, at this point it probably doesn’t even matter what you’re eating; you’re going to feel like garbage from mental strain and lack of sleep.
