News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 1, 2015, at 2:40 a.m.
The Institute of Politics’ website was temporarily taken over Wednesday in what was allegedly a cyber-attack by pro-Palestinian hacker group “AnonGhost,” whose insignia replaced the site’s usual patriotic images for roughly 35 minutes.
“To All Governments of the World, We are watching you, we can see what you’re doing, we control you, we are everywhere,” read a message on the web page at 5:30 p.m. on Wednesday. “‘We are AnonGhost, We are legion, We do not forgive, We do not forget, Expect us,’” the post continued.
The message lay beneath the AnonGhost logo and a headline that read “HACKED BY ANONGHOST TEAM #OpUsa.” Rotating in the background was a series of real and drawn figures, including what appeared to be an armed individual waving the black flag of the terrorist group the Islamic State, and a figure with a Guy Fawkes mask overpowering what appeared to be a security agent.
The IOP website was taken offline by the Kennedy School of Government by 6:05 p.m. Wednesday, redirecting site traffic to a maintenance notice on the school’s main site. As of early Friday morning, the maintenance notice still remained.
Kennedy School Director of Information Technology Steven W. Duncan said at about 6:10 p.m. Wednesday that his team had just started “looking at” the issue, but declined to comment further.
IOP spokesperson Esten Perez said the Institute was “aware of the situation and [we] are working with the Kennedy School IT staff to address it.”
The hack coincided with a busy day for the IOP: the release of its biannual millennial poll.
—Staff writer Luca F. Schroeder can be reached at luca.schroeder@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @lucaschroeder.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 30, 2015
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that the Institute of Politics' millennial poll is annual. In fact, it is biannual.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For several precious seconds on Wednesday night, the final point of the Harvard men’s volleyball season did not seem final.
A moment ago, with George Mason holding a 2-1 set lead, the Patriots (15-12, 7-5 EIVA) had served for match point and the possibility of securing a spot in the EIVA tournament final. The Crimson (13-12, 7-5) had controlled the ball. Sophomore outside hitter Casey White had risen up for the spike.
Then, in the eyes of many Harvard players, the ball had ricocheted off the George Mason block and out of bounds, meaning a 25-25 tie, a resumed match, and a surviving hope for a league title.
But the referee had seen otherwise. He pointed to the Patriots’ side of the court and awarded the point.
For George Mason, the decision secured a spot in the league championship. For the Crimson, the decision ended the game, the match, and the season.
“That was a hard way to lose,” Harvard coach Brian Baise said. “It shouldn’t have been that close in the fourth set anyway.”
The last point came just a few minutes after Harvard held the momentum in the gym. Despite dropping the first two games, the Crimson had clawed back to take the third and lead 20-18 in the fourth.
Then came a 5-1 run from the Patriots, a back-and-forth sequence to send the frame into a tiebreaker, and an irreversible referee decision.
“It’s always tough to lose on a call like that,” junior outside hitter Branden Clemens said. “But we showed a lot of character in working through all the adversity.”
The opening of the first set prefigured this level of competitiveness, as the two teams played to an even 9-9 tie until George Mason took control with a 4-1 run. The margin held the rest of the way, as the Patriots finished with a 25-18 set victory.
As he did throughout the evening, outside hitter Jack Wilson led the attack for George Mason. The redshirt sophomore ended with 26 kills, including six in that opening game.
“They came out hot, and we came out flat,” Baise said. “I’m not sure why that was.”
However, Harvard overcame this barrage in the third set. Facing a 2-0 set hole, the Crimson opened the frame by winning the first two points. Harvard built an 18-13 lead and then traded points the rest of the way to win, 25-19.
In the frame, the Crimson managed a game-high killing percentage of .353. But Harvard hit to an overall mark of .254, topped by 14 kills from co-captain D.J. White and Clemens.
The momentum shift of the third frame felt especially sudden after a rough second game for the Crimson. It wasn’t just that George Mason took the first three points and led wire-to-wire—it was that the Patriots mounted a mid-frame 11-1 run and opened up a double-digit deficit en route to a deceptively close 25-22 advantage.
“We always thought that we could win,” Clemens said. “We built momentum at the end of that second set that carried into the third.”
For Harvard, which entered as the second seed in the four-team EIVA playoff, the loss to George Mason came after a pair of 3-1 wins during the regular season. However, the Crimson was missing co-captain Caleb Zimmick, who had been sidelined since the last match with sickness.
History meant little at the start of the contest and less at the end, when the Patriots erased three different fourth-frame gaps. There was a 4-3 Crimson lead, a 13-11 lead, and a 20-18 lead.
Finally, at the end of the match, there was no lead to erase at all.
“There’s a little bit of disappointment knowing that we weren’t able to pull that out,” Baise said. “But pretty soon [Harvard players] are going to get proud of all the work they’ve done.”
—Staff writer Sam Danello can be reached at sam.danello@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections


Classes are over, the weather is warm-ish, and formal season is finally upon us, bringing with it the opportunity to get drunk every night of reading period at school-sanctioned events. But what fun would house formals be if you can’t use them to prove why your house is the best?
Since the angry emails, texts, and comments on Flyby’s Definitive Ranking of the 2015 Housing Day Videos only made me cry three times (okay, more like five...), we’re back with Flyby’s Definitive And Totally Not Arbitrary Ranking of the 2015 Spring House (plus Freshman) Formals. Please be nicer this time.
1) Quad Formal
Price: $25
Date: May 1
Location: The Quad
Theme: Wonderland
Comments: Three houses, 1 formal? Count me in. The Alice in Wonderland theme seems apt, because getting to the Quad feels like going down the Rabbit Hole, and every time I’ve been there, there are always some mysterious bottles that seem to say “drink me”... So take this chance to reunite with those friends from freshman year who got Quadded and you never saw again -- with all three Quad houses there, you’re bound to know a ton of people. Honestly, the only downside to Quad formal? It’s in the the Quad.
2) Lowell Formal
Price: $12
Date: April 30
Location: Lowell D-hall
Theme: Bacchanalia
Comments: As if the second-cheapest price of tickets and a theme that reminds us of togas and wine isn’t enough, Lowell’s formal always transitions into May Day. I can’t think of anything cuter than turning up till dawn and then waltzing by Weeks bridge to welcome in spring.
3) Eliot Formal
Price: $40 for two
Date: May 5
Location: Eliot Courtyard
Theme: Fête
Comments: Live swing band, Georgetown cupcakes, an ice sculpture. There’s a guest list. Suddenly, Eliot charging dues doesn’t seem so bad. It’s Fête. We know it’s going to be great. We also know that we aren’t in Eliot and can’t go unless we’re someone’s *special* guest.
4) Kirkland Formal
Price: $25 ($30 non-Kirkland)
Date: April 30
Location: Royale Nightclub
Theme: Royale Ball
Comments: Do you know what they call Kirkland formal in France? Royale Ball. Kirkland is clearly killing it -- formal at a Boston club (no thanks, I don’t want to get drunk in a D-hall, open bar or not), and you get a ‘free vintage Housing Day t-shirt’ with every ticket purchase. You go, Kirkland HoCo. Mainly for the free t-shirts.
5) Freshman Formal
Price: $25
Date: April 29
Location: Science Center Plaza
Theme: James Bond
Comments: I can think of a couple better uses of 25 dollars than getting drunk and awkwardly grinding on that kid from your Ec10 section in the middle of the Science Center Plaza. Namely, 3 Chipotle burritos with guac. Or a box of Franzia’s “Chillable Red” (no worries, the arsenic is included for free). Thanks again to the Class of 2017 for the location change -- love you guys! But, on the plus side, turning up next to the Yard means you save serious cash            not having to Uber there and back...more money for shaken-not-stirred Rubinoff martinis? And hey, James Bond may say you only live twice, but you only get to go to Freshman Formal once! (#YOGTGTFFO?)
6) Adams Formal
Price: $15
Date: May 1
Location: Adams D-hall
Theme: Masquerade
Comments: Props to Adams HoCo for choosing a really good theme -- not only are masquerades really cool (anyone know where I can get my hands on Jenny’s mask from that Gossip Girl episode?) but it also means you can make a complete fool of yourself and, hopefully, no one will know it was you. So go forth, wear a cool mask, and embarrass yourself in front of that cute senior you always see in the d-hall...they’re graduating anyways, so who cares?
7) Quincy Formal
Price: $20
Date: May 3
Location: Harvard Club of Boston
Theme: Q-ball: A Night on the Town
Comments: Extra points to Quincy for making their theme a pun. Expect many more penguin-themed puns regarding men in tuxedos. HoCo picked a great location with The Harvard Club of Boston: very swanky, very not-cubic or concrete. The downside -- transportation is only offered coming back to campus, so be prepared for a fun drunk uber/drunk T ride on the way there.
8) Dunster Formal
Price: $20
Date: May 2
Location: Dunster D-hall (At the Inn, not the construction site…)
Theme: Élan
Comments: To be perfectly honest, I thought that ‘élan’ was a type of French dessert, a theme that I would 100% support. But, after a quick Google search I have been informed that élan actually refers to either a Mexican alt-rock musician (notable hits include “Midnight” and “Al Lado Del Camino”), a sexual urge or desire, or a moose. I’m guessing at least two out of those three will be present at Dunster Formal. Clearly, it’s going to be a good time.
9) Mather Formal
Price: $10
Date: May 3
Location: Mather Sunken Courtyard
Theme: Spring Soirée
Comments: Mather tallies in at the cheapest formal, which is surprising, since you’d think they’d need to spend extra money on decorations to make Mather look pretty. But hey, for that price, as long as Soirée isn’t just Mather’s Housing Day video on loop, I’d be happy with pretty much anything.
10) Winthrop Formal
Price: $15 ($20 at the door)
Date: May 2
Location: Gore Courtyard
Theme: Arbella Ball
Comments: Winthrop formal is named after a boat. Maybe it’s a message to rising Throp sophomores (Thropmores?): at least you’re on the river! Could be worse! As a future Winthropian, I will probably be making an appearance. Does this mean I get to show up in my sexy sailor outfit left over from Halloween? All jokes aside though, there isn’t much information in the HoCo email about the formal itself, but I’m sure it will still be better than Freshman Formal. Or First Chance Dance, at least.
11) Leverett Formal
Price: $25
Date: May 2
Location: Stapleton Courtyard (McKinlock)
Theme: Luxe
Comments: The only question I have for Lev is: will there be a bunny petting zoo like on Housing Day? Because I’m not really sure what a Luxe theme entails, but I’m always down with bunnies. Lev also hired a professional live band (sorry, Intrinsics/Black Tie Affair)! Anyway, $25 seems like a lot to hang out in your House’s courtyard, but otherwise Lev’s formal seems like a good time.
Sections
Your finals are coming up and you are in the mood to make poor life decisions. Luckily for you, we have compiled a list of high-quality flicks you absolutely need to see before attempting to salvage what is left of your GPA. Besides, if you consider these films to be a somewhat educational and cultural experience, you will learn significantly more than you already have falling asleep in lecture all semester. As a professional courtesy, all of these films are indeed available via Netflix.
Spy Kids
“Spy Kids” is a Robert Rodriguez masterpiece involving child acting and CGI henchmen with enormous thumbs for appendages (talk about a thumb war). Nevertheless, the film is fully aware of its zany family-movie premise and flaunts it in giddy confidence. It makes you think about your wonderful childhood before pesky things like exams and responsibilty got in the way. If you like having fun, you will love “Spy Kids.” If not, please go back to Yale.
Bill and Ted’s Excellent Adventure
Do you even philosophize bro? This documentary featuring Neo and some other guy depicts the history behind Genghis Khan, Napoleon, and even Abraham Lincoln! In fact, it turns out that Socrates’ most noteworthy teaching is “All we are, is dust in the wind dude.” The film is an excellent exploration of deep things and stuff, and is sure to help on your Societies in the World final coming up. So consider this as research that just happens to destroy half your brain cells because it is so intelligent and expresses ideas as heavy as your workload.
Pumping Iron
Before Arnold Schwarzenegger became the Governor of California, he was a not-so-American hero. “Pumping Iron” is a documentary that inspired generations of bodybuilders and weightlifters to build their bodies and lift weights. While Arnie might not be going to any choppas or terminating people in this documentary, he shows us the psyche and mental strength required to pump iron (not the mineral). This is the most inspirational sports movie ever made, and is for those of you who already spend half their time in the MAC watching others work out.
The Babadook
This is a children’s film about family, which should not be mistaken for anything from the “Fast and Furious” franchise. In all seriousness, “The Babadook” is a chilling horror film that actually features sympathetic, smart, and complex characters. It also forgoes those cheap jump scares for a psychological terror that metaphorically embodies the grieving process. Prepare yourself for a real Primal Scream. Besides, it can’t be any scarier than actually studying for finals.
Noah
This film is pretty much historically accurate, and you might actually fall asleep watching this biblical yarn. Noah, with the body of a gladiator, shelters his family from God’s computer generated flood and adopts Hermione Granger. The film’s only crime is that Noah, played by the ever amiable Russell Crowe, did not have a single line to sing. This movie may be especially important for those HEB concentrators out there.
Sections
Classes have finally ended, and now we’re all basking in the glory of reading period, aka the most unstructured time you’ll have at Harvard.  Since minimal reading actually gets done during “reading” period, consider taking time out of your formal-hopping or your busy schedule of wasting time on Facebook to check out the VES Open Studios!
The reception is Friday May 1 from 5-7 p.m., but the exhibition will remain open in the Carpenter Center until May 28.  The theme of the Senior Thesis Exhibition component of the event is “The Distribution of Parts,” since it seeks to explore different sources of artistic inspiration and “hybridity” as an “integrated factor of contemporary life.”  Stop by if you want to soak up some culture before your Friday night festivities of crushing your pong opponents, or crushing your final papers.
