News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Forgetting is a habit, is yet another necessary component of the Dream,” writes Ta-Nehisi Coates in "Between the World and Me."
If you’re watching closely enough, the spirit of the debate surrounding Erika Christakis’s email mirrors the debate we had when Michael Brown was slain and left in the street for hours—or the debates we have each and every time a black life is stolen. These conversations all center on a desire to focus on the specifics of a case, instead of the broader picture. So, we ask questions like, “Was Michael Brown innocent?” and, “Was Erika Christakis’s email worthy of outrage?” while ignoring the circumstances that led to the outrage over both.
We ask these questions because it is easier to focus on Michael Brown’s “criminality” than it is to focus on the conditions that led to his confrontation with Darren Wilson. It is easier to focus on Erika Christakis’s email than it is to focus on the reality of campus life for students of color at American colleges.
The similarity between the coverage of the tragedy in Ferguson and that of the incident at Yale can be traced back to a kind of desperate myopia, exercised by those who can only look narrowly at symptoms, realizing that root causes and institutional arrangements are much too painful to consider.
These deniers are always desperate to maintain some semblance of order, some semblance of rationality in the face of irrational oppression and, as is the case at Yale, Mizzou, Ithaca, and many other colleges, the long-lasting, alienating effects of an American tradition of oppression. When desperation sets in, questions of institutional racism, of un-belonging at an Ivy League campus, of deeply unequal treatment, quickly get subsumed under the easily dispatched, obfuscating power of “unfair regulation of free speech” or “the coddling of the American student mind.”
This is not to say that these issues aren’t important; they are. Christine Lagarde absolutely should have been allowed to speak at Smith College. But the Lagarde incident differs in profound ways from the reaction to Christakis’s email, because students aren’t resisting Christakis’s right to freely express her point of view, but rather her and her husband’s misunderstanding of the real problems. And that’s the issue: The deniers seek to conflate real issues surrounding “coddling”—the kind of problems that President Obama rightly denounced—with the debates surrounding the creation and maintenance of safe and welcoming campus communities for students of color.
We take campus events as if they happened in isolation, viewed through a lens that is decidedly and deliberately narrow. Could you conceivably view these student protests at Yale as a reaction to just one email? Could you see this as merely a debate about a student’s right to choose his or her own Halloween costume? Could you see black and brown students as “crybullies” who have “weaponized [their] coveted status as...victim[s]” if we broadened our lens? These questions are merely red herrings meant to distract you from the questions that really matter.
Because the cold, hard truth of a college’s racial history is always there. It is built into the structures in which black and brown students live: Benjamin Silliman, the namesake of Silliman College at Yale, the locus of our "debate" about free speech, paid for his tuition to Yale by selling two slaves.
Black students and faculty are still massively underrepresented on our college campuses: Nationally, only 4 percent of full-time professors are black. The enrollment gap between white students and students of color has grown since the 1980s.
What this all means is that, in institutional and historical ways, blacks have been and continue to be marginalized and ostracized from and in institutions that were not built for them, but on them. And that is no small point.
When a senior at Yale yelled at Erika Christakis’s husband Nicholas Christakis, in what has now become a viral video, she wasn’t just expressing rage at one email, or his refusal to apologize, but instead, she was yelling, screaming, and kicking to be heard at an institution that doesn’t quite register black voices.
If only he wasn’t so desperate to ignore, justify, defend, she seemed to be saying, he might actually see why we’re upset.
By placing racial injustice on our college campuses in the midst of a debate about free speech, Christakis and others like him have tried to trick you once again. Because it’s not really about free speech; it never was. It’s not about one email. It’s not about one all-white party. It’s not about one university president. The deniers are providing answers to questions that weren’t asked, because the questions that have been asked, by marginalized students at campuses all across this country, are far too hard to answer.
“The answer is American history.”
But, as James Baldwin once explained, therein lies our task: “We, with love, shall force our brothers to see themselves as they are, to cease fleeing from reality and begin to change it.”

Nick F. Barber '17, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Mather House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was seventh grade, and I was walking to the bus stop with my friend. We were in a heated argument about a TV show, and I was frowning at something she was saying about one of the characters. We were in middle school, and this was serious business.
“Damn, sexy ladies!” A chorus of whistles followed. A group of men were sitting on the stoop across the street from us, wearing dirty denim and even dirtier grins. One of them looked directly at me. “Smile, sweetheart!”
Our conversation ground to a halt. We boarded the bus and sat next to each other, suddenly uncomfortable. I pulled my school skirt down past my knees, and she tugged at her shirt to cover the area where she would one day have cleavage. We exchanged glances, and in that moment, I saw my friend as the sexual object the men saw her as, and I felt like one myself, reduced to nothing more than a pair of tits and an ass.
I am far from the only woman who has experienced harassment at such an early age. Around 85 to 95 percent of women experience street harassment before the age of 17. Not only do most women first experience street harassment as minors, but they also continue experiencing it over and over again, until it becomes a normal part of their lives. Over 99 percent of women have experienced street harassment.
When a man yells, “Good morning, beautiful!” across the street at me and my friends, or when a group of teenage boys honks at us and whistles at us from their car, or when an old man sitting across the train from us smiles and licks his lips and rubs his crotch, we just breeze right by, continue our conversation, or look away—unfazed, or at least pretending to be unfazed.
Yet, despite affecting so many women, the extent of street harassment is often questioned. In a viral video, actress Shoshana Roberts is shown walking through New York City, wearing a simple T-shirt and jeans and minimal makeup, receiving endless come-ons, cat-calls, and demands. Many viewers didn’t see harassment, however. They saw men being polite, they saw men offering compliments, they saw a frigid bitch who didn’t have the decency to say “thank you” or flash a quick smile to the nice men complimenting her.
But there’s one problem. “Damn, sexy!” and, “Hey, beautiful!” are not compliments. If these nice guys just wanted to be nice, why weren’t they also complimenting other men? You’d be hard-pressed to find a straight man whistling after another man and telling him he looks great. Catcalls are not compliments; they are signs of ownership. Street harassment has nothing to do with politeness and flattery and everything to do with the idea that public spaces belong to men, and that when women impose their presence in a public space, their bodies belong to men too and invite critique and commentary. There’s a reason why the majority of women report feeling angry, annoyed, disgusted, nervous, and scared when catcalled. Those are not typical reactions to compliments, and there’s a simple reason why: catcalls are not compliments.
Part of the reason why catcalls are so distressing is because they are unsolicited and unwanted. But many people see things differently. Viewers of the viral video saw a woman wearing too-tight clothing and too much makeup, a woman begging for attention from men and then screaming harassment when she got that attention. After all, why was she even wearing makeup or fitted clothing if she didn’t want to draw attention to herself?
Here’s a theory. When women wear makeup or clothing, they do it to express themselves, to feel good about themselves, or maybe just because they want to and they don’t owe anyone an explanation for what they choose to do with their own bodies. Women don’t dress their bodies in the hope that a strange man on the street will whisper, “Oh, so sexy,” to them in passing, or give their ass a quick squeeze. Women don’t walk down the street waiting for someone to notice their taupe eyeshadow or skinny jeans. They walk down the street to get where they need to go, just like everybody else.
But at the end of the day, street harassment seems like small potatoes in a world where women are regularly beaten, mutilated, and raped. The catcalls are rude, perhaps even degrading. But harmful?
Yes, actually. Street harassment amounts to more than just a few passing remarks—it perpetuates the idea that women don’t control their own bodies. This idea is integral to a rape culture in which sexual assault is pervasive and normalized. And indeed, though most women experience street harassment in the form of catcalls or whistles, many women also experience groping, grabbing, having their paths blocked, being followed home, or even outright assault. A whistle or catcall is not a physical attack, but it reflects the same sense of entitlement over women’s bodies that could easily lead to one.
“Smile, sweetheart!”
No, I will not smile for you. I did not dress myself today to be a pleasing sight as you walk to work; I dressed myself to go somewhere. I am not walking on this street to look pretty for you; I am walking on this street because I have somewhere to get to. I do not owe you anything, not even a smile. The streets belong to both you and me, both men and women, and I will smile for myself and myself alone.

Nian Hu ’18, a Crimson editorial executive, lives in Mather House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Over the past few weeks, students of color at colleges across the country—from Ithaca to Yale to the University of Missouri to Harvard Wednesday—have organized protests against racial inequality on college campuses. Broadly, administrators should do their best to listen to these students’ concerns and respond to them. Over 150 years after the abolition of slavery and over 50 years after the signing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, racial bias still manifests in ways both implicit and explicit.
Explicit racism has run rampant in recent weeks at the University of Missouri, where we understand the impetus behind the successful calls to remove the university's president. The overt racism present on Mizzou’s campus—which included graffiti of a swastika and cotton balls left in front of a black cultural center—is distressing and unacceptable at any institution of learning. Students at Mizzou were right to stand up and speak out about the incidents and the administration’s inadequate responses to them.
Yet Mizzou is a specific case among many. Each instance of racial tension should be evaluated in its own context, just as the ways in which students choose to protest these inequities must also undergo scrutiny. Explicit racism like the kind we've seen at Mizzou is easy to recognize, but implicit racism is harder to diagnose. The possibility of confusing opposing opinions for something far more insidious means that in many cases—as at Yale—calling for the resignation of administrators is a disproportionate and unproductive response.
Certainly, it's worth assessing where our campuses are on issues of race and where we can do better. At Harvard, minorities still represent only 19 percent of the FAS faculty, and students of color still feel like their voices are not always heard by their peers or by the administration. These are problems we should notice and discuss but through measured discourse that identifies the real issues at hand and works to solve them. Some of these issues exist on campus. Others, from mass incarceration to racial profiling to achievement and income gaps, plague the country at large.
Students at Harvard and around the nation continue are uniquely poised to have discussions now that have too long been left off the table. With well-targeted efforts attuned to each campus’s and each controversy’s circumstances, they can succeed in setting their institutions on a trajectory towards a more just and more inclusive future.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Everything is ready. You trekked to the Murr Center for your ticket. You reserved your spot on the shuttle. You begged that random Yale kid you chatted with once in high school to let you sleep on their floor. You may have it all figured out, but you’re missing one key detail. What are you supposed to wear to the The Game?
FM is here to help with some basic pointers for the clueless collegiate.
1. Keep an eye on the weather. New Haven is no paradise any time of the year, but it’s particularly unappealing in late November. Chances are it’ll be cold, gloomy, and possibly even rainy, so check weather.com ahead of time and pack for every meteorological possibility just in case. You’re there to cheer for Harvard, not to complain about the cold. Raincoats and heavy jackets are encouraged. Just make sure that they’re not blue.
2. Layer up. Although you may get warm running between different tailgates in the morning, the stadium itself is guaranteed to be freezing. It doesn’t get colder than standing still in a giant cement and metal bowl for several hours, so seriously, wear layers. Start with a T-shirt and add a sweater or two with a heavy jacket on top. Your look may be reminiscent of the Michelin Man.
 3. Show some school pride. You may get judged when you wear your Harvard gear back home, and it may be just a little obnoxious to wear it head to toe, but this is the one day of the year when entirely pretentious is entirely acceptable. Rock that H sweater, own the Harvard-on-Harvard sweatshirt look. Bonus points for every crimson clothing item you’re wearing. Make sure everyone knows exactly what school you go to. Hint: It’s not Yale.
4. Practicality makes perfect. The tailgate beer you’re holding and the biting wind chill will only work against you, so at least try to keep your hands wam. Wear gloves. Fancy leather fur-lined gloves, if you must. It doesn’t matter. Comfy shoes with warm socks, a hat that covers your ears, and sunglasses are all necessities. Everyone’s going to look ridiculous anyway, so you might as well be comfortable doing it.
5. Jazz it up. Add a twist to your outfit, something to make you stand out from the riding boot and Barbour jacket-clad crowds. This is the day to wear those crazy pom-pom gloves, or that sparkly necklace, or the trendy sweater you’ve been too scared to wear anywhere else. Everyone will be too… busy… to call you out on it anyway.
Sections
We Should Get a Meal Sometime
Slippery slope
Good relationship starter
It’s a charged suggestion
Said frequently
Implies no commitment

We Should Get an Eel Sometime
Slippery animal
Good relationship ender
It has an electric charge
Said just about never
Implies a lot of commitment

Both
Never going to happen
Highly fishy
Spineless suggestion
Needs months of advance planning (and maybe a few Doodle polls)
Just might go swimmingly
Sections
When I was six years old, all I wanted was a yard.
My family had recently moved to the United States. We lived in a beige condominium in Bergen County, the most mundanely bourgeois county in New Jersey. It was surrounded by nothing but stretches of concrete. My parents, not too familiar with English themselves, wondered how they were supposed to immerse me in the English language. The answer came in the form of television, which became my nanny-turned-best-friend-turned-English-tutor. And so my parents parked me in front of a screen for hours on end, leaving me to try to make sense of moving characters whose words I could not yet decipher.
But I sat in front of that TV with a sense of purpose. I hadn’t fully puzzled out the true intention behind my parents’ encouragement of my 150th viewing of “Shrek,” but I understood that the words coming out of these people’s mouths were the same as those coming from my teachers’ and friends’ in kindergarten. At school there were some important issues to figure out: how to ask to go to the bathroom, or how to ask to trade the cheese slices in my Lunchable, the balanced meal my mother packed me every day for two years, for my lunch buddy’s juice box.
Soon enough, I noticed that there was a strange recurring image in the shows I watched. Americans had a thing, it seemed, for well-manicured stretches of grass in front of and behind their homes. Everything of importance took place on these stretches of grass: cookouts, playdates, developing friendships with neighborhood kids. I was born and grew up in the center of Seoul, a concrete jungle where the concept of any stretch of green beyond a flower pot was nonexistent. The idea of a “yard” was novel, and, even more importantly, became associated in my mind with some kind of quintessential American experience. I started thinking that if only my family could acquire one of these mythic “yards” for ourselves, we could have those truly “American” experiences.
My dad, too, was not immune to yard-romanticization. As soon as we moved into our first single-family home, a simple grey colonial complete with both a front and back yard, he made his virgin trip to Home Depot, embarking on what was to be the first of many spending sprees he called “cultural exploration.” To both his and my disappointment, the American-home-package that we had bought came with a lawn and a house, but not that “Americanness” we had been searching for. I had failed to read what would have been the fine print of the advertisement: “Stamp of American genuinity not included.”
Despite our well-manicured front and back yards, our interactions with our American neighbors—Bill, with his all-American swimmer daughter and Yorkie Bailey, and the old cookie-baking lady across the street whose hearing made her attempts to understand my parents’ broken English all the more difficult—remained awkward. The invites to the cookouts and the playdates did not come pouring in. Instead, we remained the nice, quiet Asian family on the street. And so, after only a few attempts at attaining his Don Draper dreams of muscled ’60s American wholesomeness, my dad put down the lawn mower and picked up his wallet, choosing to outsource instead. He started curling up with Korean dramas on the weekends as he did before our move, the “secret-to-my-birth-involving-my-long-lost-twin-sister” plot twists capturing his imagination much more than any American show ever would. I, on the other hand, threw myself into reading, disillusioned by what I once thought was the key to assimilation. I looked instead to gain proof of my own “Americannness” through language.
Eventually, I realized that what I once took to be the “American home” was a specific dream of American suburbia that was not meant for me. I joined the ranks of many kids who lived in between two cultures, a hyphen tenuously connecting what could not always be reconciled—for me, the words Korean and American. We dream of a different kind of American home. The yard with the white picket fence is not for us, so we look for other evidence of belonging.
I’m still on that journey; I am constantly seeking confirmation of my own genuinity as an “American,” some outside affirmation that I am meant to be in and of this country that I love. Though it has given me so many reasons to doubt that I belong here, America has also engendered in me, as she does in all immigrants, a hope that America and I are meant to be. The longer we are here, no matter how many times we are reminded of the ways we are different from those behind the white picket fences, the more we are convinced of a sense of destiny that sounds ridiculous when spoken out loud but makes perfect sense when spoken in the heart.
Despite encountering many flaws during my short time here, I marvel at the diversity at Harvard. I marvel at the many people I see achieving amazing things at this school, who, like me, are sure to have pursued some symbol of Americanism only to realize that those symbols were not made for them. But I’ve waited it out, as others like me have waited it out. And today, as I look out the window of Holworthy 16 while writing this piece, I realize that in a short two and a half months, I’ve come to find a real “home” in America. Funnily enough, this home has a yard, too. But this time, it’s a Yard in which I feel I have as much of a stake as anyone else.
Sections
Early Wednesday afternoon, I trudged wearily from Sever Hall to Radcliffe Yard. I did not make this journey voluntarily—if it were up to me, I’d spend my afternoon napping. But FM sent me out to investigate this mysterious site, and I took up the gauntlet.
What can I say? As soon as I arrived at the specified location to which I had been dispatched, my resistance melted. Suddenly, the strangest, most unfamiliar feeling washed over me.
I had the immediate urge to write a poem.
Again, let me emphasize how utterly unlike me this impulse is. I mean, I’m the person who wouldn’t be able to explain the difference between anaphora and alliteration if I were held at gunpoint.
But I’m taking a class on poetry, the sun was shining, the grass was green, and... What can I say? Radcliffe Yard just brought out all the feels in me.
So, without further ado, I present “Stopping by Radcliffe Yard on a Random Afternoon” (a loose and shameless adaptation of Robert Frost’s famous poem, “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening”):

Stopping by Radcliffe Yard on a Random Afternoon
By Miranda L. Ryshawy
Whose lawn this is I think I know.
The buildings feel unfamiliar though;
A helpful plaque reads: Founded 1879
And the sunlight sets the autumn trees aglow.
I felt awkward in a short span of time,
When I was ogled by a tour group in a line.
They departed from Agassiz House after a break,
And I then found a sight that was simply divine:
An abstract sculpture arcing like a snake.
At its striking geometry I do a double take.
I continue along the path’s gentle reach,
And discover an oasis so serene my heart aches.
The yard is lovely, but I take a seat
Because all this walking has me beat.
And my recon mission is complete,
And my recon mission is complete.
Sections
“What are you?”
I’m a little bit sweaty, and a little bit overconfident. Cue approachable smile lit up by the blacklight. I lean into his ear and press against his navy blue sweater, under the guise of the music being too loud. “I’M LEBANESE AND KOREAN.” He’s not Asian, so naturally “Lebanese” goes first.
“WOW, THAT’S SO COOL.” I pull away and throw my head back in a laugh instead of coming up with a response.
Sometimes, I’ll switch the order to “Korean and Lebanese” if I get an inkling of a certain fever. Or I’ll just say half-Korean, all depending on the read. This isn’t my first time at the ethnically ambiguous rodeo.
He leans in as a Pitbull song comes on. “IS YOUR MOM THE ASIAN ONE?”
That was a typical scene from freshman year. Thumping music over physical and conversational grinding in a dim, crowded room. Actually, that’s still the scene of junior year. While my weekends haven’t changed much, I no longer use my ethnic background as a flirtation tool. I now hesitate at race questions that arise as an icebreaker. It took a journey to get here, but I’m uncomfortable when the questions conceal more than just curiosity.
I don’t believe that it’s always offensive to ask people about their ethnicity. It’s fair to be curious about the impact their parents’ cultural background has had on their human experience. I’m only questioning why it so often is the first thing ethnically ambiguous people are asked during introductions, and what it implies when the asker is clearly trying to flirt. I also know friends who use the word “exotic” with innocuous intentions, to refer to an uncommon or diverse racial background. But the word is still worth exploring for its undertones.
I’ve been called “exotic” since childhood. It first came from adults making conversation with my parents. My sister and I wouldn’t respond, other than shyly hiding behind each other and looking up at our mother. We have the same elusive features: golden olive oil skin, curly black hair, alert round eyes, half-moon shadows. When we went to the Korean salon, the hairdressers would laugh at our mops of play-worn curls. There would be a show of taking out the big detangling brush just for me. They’d coo “ee-pu-da, ee-pu-da” at us when our hair was flattened straight. Pretty, pretty. We hid behind each other then, too.
In seventh grade, my friend’s mother gushed over my “exotic look.” I didn’t know what she meant, but she was such a sweet woman that I took it as a compliment. Actually, I still might take that one as a compliment. If you saw what I looked like in seventh grade, exotic is pretty generous.
Skip ahead to a wide-eyed 18-year-old immersed in the playground of Camp Harvard. I floated through a whirlwind of first introductions, first dining hall meals, and first dorm parties set to the backdrop of dark wood and red brick. When people had asked me “What are you?” in the past, it was only mildly annoying, much like how a tall person would react to constantly being asked for their height. But at college, the topic came up with startling regularity, either immediately or after a handful of encounters with someone. Sometimes they would call me exotic, and oftentimes it was from a boy at a party. I could feel their intrigue. I could see the way they looked at me, and I loved it. For the first time, I was interesting, I was appealing, I was an object of desire. Who cares exactly what fantasy I fulfilled; I fulfilled a fantasy! Even so, I never understood how they could call me exotic within the same conversation where I had said I’m from the mystical land of New Jersey.
What about me arouses exoticism? Is it my eyes, my hair, my body, my being? The word is elusive. It’s a foreignness you can’t place but somehow feel attracted to. In flirtatious conversation, it’s a substitute for “I’m attracted to your vague non-whiteness.” When you ask me what I am, when you tell me I am exotic, it feels like you’re trying to pinpoint me. If you look at what it’s typically used for, exotic is an object, like a carpet or a bird. Notice how it’s “what” are you, and not “who.”
Another half-Asian friend, skilled in the ways of these conversations, advised me to always mention my mixed race to the opposite sex. “Play up your strengths,” she said. And I would, because my heritage worked as a pickup line. The second a boy said, “So this is kind of an awkward question, but...” my ears would perk up and my heart would race with anticipation. I knew his intentions. I was the exotic girl he wanted me to be.
Last year, my sister and I tried out a Korean restaurant near our town in the suburbs. If you’ve never had it, Korean food has a mouthwatering sizzle to it, and a bit of a funk. Cooking infuses one’s home with heavenly aromas, or in some cases, fermenting death odors. The same could not be said for this Americanized restaurant. It wasn’t bad, I’ll give it that, but it wasn’t right. The Yelp reviews, of course, had been overwhelmingly positive.
At the next two tables were a young Asian man and his friend, and beside him a white family. The father leaned over to interrupt the neighboring conversation.
“Excuse me, are you Korean?”
My sister and I looked up from our watered down soondubu.
“Yes, I am.”
“Let me ask you something. What do you think of the Sony scandal with that new movie?”
Our eyebrows raised. The young Korean man laughed politely, embarrassed. “Oh, I don’t keep up with the news… I don’t have an opinion.”
“Oh, come on! You heard how the North Koreans hacked into Sony? I think Sony should still release the movie.”
“Yeah, people are saying that.”
“Are people in South Korea just scared all the time?!”
“No, no one takes North Korea seriously over there.”
My sister and I exchanged a look at this point. This man was making the most of his time in a “real” Korean restaurant by trying to talk to some real Koreans.
The man ended the conversation with a business card and a possible job offer, leaving my sister and I unsure about it all.
I knew that none of it really felt like a compliment. Was this the first time this man met a Korean person? Was this so foreign and exotic to him?
I knew that there used to be a time when I would be so excited for a stranger to ask me about Korea. To be recognized as a part of a culture I was always half-excluded from. In reality, there is a difference between curiosity and ignorance. What box did he put the Korean man into in that conversation? The conversation started with race, as if that was most important. I thought about how many conversations I’d had that started like that.
***
Earlier in the semester, before the leaves and my GPA had begun to fall, I was introduced to a very sweet freshman boy. Both of our groups were mingling outside of Winthrop, shouting and laughing after having left the same overcrowded gathering. This fresh-faced boy and I had just gotten past “What House do you live in?” in the “Harvard conversation starter pack,” when his voice raised in volume.
“So, like, what are you?”
“What do you mean?” My eyebrow and the corner of my mouth lifted, as if connected by a half-amused string.
“Like, what nationalities?”
I answered him and moved on without concern. I didn’t capitalize on his question, and I didn’t hate him for asking. He was fresh out of Opening Days, shirt sweaty with wonder and eyes giddy with hope. Hell, mere months ago he was dancing at prom, shirt just as sweaty. I knew my mother’s Korean heritage and my father’s Lebanese roots are beautiful and nuanced and intertwined in this person that I am. I didn’t need this kid to see me as anything more than the “exotic half-Asian girl.”
I let the moment go, walking away with an unsavory realization. I only need the rest of the world to see that I’m more.
Liana E. Yamin ’17 is a Human Evolutionary Biology concentrator in Adams House. She’s from the exotic part of the Mid-Atlantic. 
Sections
Harvard is an old institution, to say the least. We all know the story. What is not so well-known, however, is the history of the buildings within the Yard. It’s hard to imagine the hub of Harvard’s campus without the beautiful red-brick colonial structures (and Canaday, I guess) we recognize today, but things weren’t always this way.
Peyntree House, the first building ever used by Harvard College, was built by William Peyntree around 1633. Used to house both the College’s headmaster and its students, it was replaced in 1644 (becoming the first of a long list of headmaster’s residencies) and has long since rotted, leaving little physical evidence to attest to what it looked like. During the construction of the Red Line, small pieces of wood were once found just outside the yard by Dudley House. Brass plaques mark where the front corners of the house are believed to have been.
Then, in 1651, Harvard purchased a home from Edward Goffe. The “Goffe College,” as it was called, was located right next to the Peyntree House, albeit a bit closer to the modern-day CVS. Again, this two-story building served both as living quarters for staff and students, as well as space for cooking, eating, learning, and working. This, too, has since rotted away.
Next came the first iteration of Harvard Hall. Little exists to illuminate Harvard Hall the First’s appearance, but it is evident from student notes and other documents that the building was two stories and built from a combination of wood and brick. Students slept in closet-sized spaces with beds. This building, unsuprisingly, eventually fell down due to rot.
Harvard’s first completely brick building was known as the Indian College. It was built where Matthews Hall currently stands around the year 1655 to house Native American students who came to Harvard on a grant from the Episcopal Church and to provide more space for teaching.
Soon after the decline of Harvard Hall I in 1671, the college built Harvard Hall II. This stood three stories high and was known for its decorative roof balustrades (which were added in 1691), its many dormers, and its atypical architecture, which drew from styles ranging from Medieval to Renaissance to Jacobean. It burned down on January 24, 1764.
At the beginning of the 18th century (in 1719, to be exact), the first Harvard building that still remains standing, Massachusetts Hall, was built. However, its innards have been remodeled multiple times. In 1869, it was transformed into two large, 4-story lecture halls, and didn’t become the Mass Hall we know today until well into the 20th century.
Dane Hall was built to accommodate the law school in 1832. It became a nuisance to the construction of Matthews Hall in 1873. To remedy this problem, the College took it apart and moved it 70 feet south, piece by piece. It then burned down in 1918.
Gore Hall is, perhaps, the most famous building no longer in Harvard Yard. It was built in 1838 on the current foundational stamp of Widener Library. The building was shaped like a cross with small octagonal towers on each point. It was used as the College’s main library, and was considered one of the most beautiful buildings in the area. When Cambridge became a city in 1846, it was the feature of the city seal. It sank with the Titanic, so to speak­. Gore Hall was demolished to clear the way for Widener.
Appleton Chapel was constructed as the College’s main chapel in 1858, and demolished in 1913 to make way for Memorial Church.
Hunt Hall marks the latest demolition in the Yard. Built in 1895 to house the Fogg Museum of Art, this was another of Harvard’s more famous buildings, and was well known for its grandeur. It was torn down in 1973 to build Canaday.
Over the course of Harvard’s long history, the University has adapted to many changes, in all forms. The modern-day Yard offers some insight into that history, but it’s important to remember the changes we can no longer see as well.
Sections
Despite a full house at the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum last Wednesday, Ta-Nehisi Coates walked onto stage with very little pomp and circumstance.
The crowd was, in fact, the biggest the forum has drawn all semester, committee members said afterwards. That came as no surprise; Coates is the bestselling author of “Between the World and Me,” a national correspondent for The Atlantic, and a recipient of the prestigious MacArthur “Genius Grant.”
Still, Coates’s demeanor was both informal and unassuming. Despite his lightheartedness, though, he spoke with a distinct tone of graveness.
His solemnity was, perhaps, to be expected, given the recent surge in student-led protests at universities like Yale and the University of Missouri regarding issues of institutional racism and what protesters contend are hostile academic environments.
Coates described the historical relationship between African Americans and the United States as one of “plunder.” In his most recent book, “Between the World and Me,” Coates writes to his son: The “elevation of the belief in being white” was achieved “through the pillaging of life, liberty, labor, and land; through the flaying of backs; the chaining of limbs; the strangling of dissidents.”
Coates expanded on this notion during his address, stating that black criminality is quite literally written into the Constitution via the Fugitive Slave Clause. He cited disenfranchisement, segregation, and lynching as practices intended to enforce certain norms that enriched white folks while worsening the lives of tax-paying African Americans.
The result of this heritage, according to Coates, is evidenced by the pervasiveness of police violence. Coates implored the audience to question why certain offenses are arrestable in black
neighborhoods and not in the Upper East Side of Manhattan. When a young female student is dragged across the floor by a police officer, we shouldn’t ask what it was that she did, but why law enforcement was in the classroom to begin with.
The crowd was energetic. Audience members hummed solemn affirmations and snapped their fingers intermittently throughout the discussion.
Finally, Coates reached the subject of reparations, and his tone shifted to one of resignation. Decarceration, he thinks, is a pipe dream. In addition to being unattainable, he argued that it would be useless. Even if legislators did decide to drastically reduce the prison population to 1970s levels, formerly incarcerated African Americans would have no option but to return to impoverished communities that have been neglected for the past 40 years.
“It is not enough to just stop wounding someone,” Coates said. “You should actually have to heal them.”
Coates’s words stick with me. If a pattern of harm and subsequent neglect isn’t seen as an acceptable exchange between two individuals, why should it be viewed as an acceptable exchange between America and African Americans?
As a Hispanic female, I empathized with Coates when he spoke about fearing for his body. I was raised to be always be conscious of my own body and its vulnerability, taught to be suspicious of men, and trained to be fearful when walking alone at night.
In the context of race, the body takes on a whole new meaning. I’m left with Coates’s stark words playing over in my mind. “Racism is a visceral experience; it dislodges brains, blocks airways, rips muscle, extracts organs, cracks bones, breaks teeth,” Coates told the audience. “You must never look away from this.”
Sections
It’s never all that difficult to predict what Harvard will look like onscreen. Brick buildings, green quads, and extras in peacoats are all usually part of the visual equation. “The Social Network” is a recent and prominent example: Its opening sequence features Mark Zuckerberg (Jesse Eisenberg) running across the peaceful brick-lined expanse of what appears to be Harvard Yard and the Houses.
Spoiler alert: It isn’t.
Despite the Yard’s ubiquity in popular culture as a center of elite education, Harvard has notoriously closed its campus off to film crews for decades. “Commercial filming is not allowed anywhere on campus,” the Harvard Public Affairs and Communications website informs the general public. This forces directors to improvise workarounds: “The Social Network” was filmed in part at Johns Hopkins University and prep schools Phillips Academy Andover and Milton Academy. Other than a brief cameo in 2007’s “The Great Debaters”—featuring Sanders Theatre as the venue for the climactic debate—Harvard has largely kept itself out of the movies in recent decades.
Why has the school become so screen-shy? After all, the Yard is on full display in “Love Story.” The 1970 movie is quintessentially Harvard—it’s screened for every year’s incoming freshman class—and features Harvard locations from Tercentenary Theatre to the Bright Hockey Center. And the campus makes another appearance in “A Small Circle of Friends,” a movie about three Harvard students living through the turbulent protests of the 1960s.
Both of these film shoots, it seems, caused significant collateral damage. “My understanding of the folklore is that the proverbial straw that broke the camel’s back was the fact that in the late ’70s, lots of trees were damaged during the filming of ‘A Small Circle of Friends’ by use of fake snow,” Joe Wrinn, a former University spokesperson, said in a 2002 Crimson article.
Fake snow wasn’t the only problem. The film’s crew was only on campus for a week before being kicked off, after clashing with University officials over unwanted changes such as a fake anti-war memorial hung on Memorial Hall. “The University's action was totally predictable,” director Rob Cohen ’71 told The Crimson at the time. “The character in the film says, ‘The more things change the more they stay the same.’ How true.” Maybe his movie would have been better equipped to fight the power if it had gotten better reviews.
Ever since these experiences, Harvard has maintained its closed-doors policy towards filmmakers. Even “The Great Debaters” isn’t really an exception, as then-Harvard spokesman Kevin Galvin told The Boston Globe: “Sanders Theater is operated as a performance space and frequently rented out for concerts, presentations and other events.” The rest of campus, meanwhile—especially the Yard—remains insulated from the outside world.
Although the University’s rules aren’t absolute, they tend to be hard to circumvent without an inside connection. The 1994 film “With Honors,” for instance, was directed by an alum, Alex Keshishian ’86. “I wanted to dispel the clichéd image of a Harvard student. It's not really a bunch of people in blue blazers and ties," Keshishian told The Crimson in 1993. "And as an alum, I'm perhaps more sensitive to making sure that it's portrayed accurately." Accordingly, Keshishian returned to his alma mater while filming to conduct some “research” at undergrad parties, bringing his cast and crew along for the ride.
Directors without such connections are usually forced to choose from an established selection of faux-Harvards. The University of Southern California is an easily accessible option for nearby Hollywood; both “Legally Blonde” (which carted in fake leaves to impersonate New England in fall) and “The Social Network” were filmed there. And Wheaton College in Norton, Mass., is another frequent stand-in. It infamously hosted 1986’s “Soul Man,” which features a white student who dresses in blackface to win a diversity scholarship from the University.
Ultimately, though, there’s no substitute for the real thing. Fans of real, vintage Harvard in the movies can always rewatch “Love Story”—or simply take a walk around the Yard and enjoy what Hollywood is so eager to capture.
Sections
French philosopher Jacques Rancière coined the term “distribution of the sensible” to refer to how our thoughts and actions are limited to socially pre-selected ideas and sensations that lie in close proximity. Abstraction was unthinkable to the realists. Mired in the alimentary distribution of HUDS food, we forget the very senses of figs or anise.
When it comes to Cambridge bars, my distribution seems sensible: Shay’s to spot TFs drowning their dissertation despairs; Alden and Harlow when oolong tea cocktails justify the rowdy, glass-breaking HBSers. But with campus social culture having reached the all-time low of referenda colonizing Pusey Library, it seems time to shatter that distribution, to get out with a few friends, and rearrange the sensible.
A few questions are on my mind as we walk down Mass. Ave.: Do Cambridge bars facilitate inclusive communities? Do they require endless bureaucratic hurdles to sanction a single soirée? Do they post events on TheHub? Are there green grazing pastures for post-grad excellent sheep? Panegyrics preferred on Marcel Proust or Martin Heidegger?
Brick & Mortar
Our first stop is faux-speakeasy, in that it requires asking around for the precise location: above Central Square’s well-named Central Kitchen. A man at the door imposes power relations and social capital dynamics when he asks not only for my name, but for identification! I feel excluded. But once I take a seat upstairs, all is well: Tall glasses of water arrive in moments, proving the bar’s scrupulous adherence to DAPA training. I turn to the cocktail list, considering the “Alaska” and “El Niño,” but after worrying about regionalist and linguistic implications, I end up requesting the “Stepsister”: strawberry infused mescal, Santa Maria al Monte, lime, and chili bitters. I do this mostly to vex those around me by reviewing German vocab—“Die Erdbeere!”—so I’m disappointed when B & M reports they’ve run out of the principle ingredient. In exchange, they propose a mixture of habanero liqueur and cassis, which makes no sense to me, and I consider torpedoing their Q score for distributing a libelous syllabus.
But, I reason, the unexpected tincture might offer a transformational, rather than transactional, education. And, after reading Proust’s madeleine scene earlier today, I’m craving a gustatory activation of involuntary memory that reveals an essential identity beyond social construction. One sip of the bastardized-“Stepsister” certainly sends me back, but it rips my brain in half: Cassis is a Provençal summer, rising political conservatism and too-loud American tourists; habanero is Cancun spring break, rising BACs and too-loud American tourists. I like the drink, but am saddened by how it reaffirms that humans are collections of in-collapsable paradoxes. Crystal Stilts alternates with D’Angelo and the Vanguard, and we talk about how we’re getting old. Then “Hola’ Hovito” comes on, a well-heeled crowd starts to sway, and it’s time to leave.
Miracle of Science
“Wow, this is very different,” my friend says, as we enter the MIT staple with a distinct lack of menus and no water. Without pre-selected, delineated options, our sheep cardiac systems head into overdrive, and when the bartender asks what we want, we schedule an office hours appointment to complain about the unfair midterm question. Eventually, though, we spot a periodic table on the wall and make a beeline to memorize the information in the hope that simple knowledge will give us a sense of meaning in this arbitrary world. It turns out this is the menu: M stands for Porter and W is IPA.
Well, this is useless, I think. The whole point of science is that it is a self-affirming ideology that presumes an objective framework. I didn’t trek all the way to Kendall for more arbitrary signifiers that re-assert the absurdity of language. But going off the section rule that proposing a dialectic is the best way to approach any uncertain situation, I ask the bartender which is darker: the porter or dark lager. He parleys with pure Hegelian synthesis, shrugging, “The same.” Shit, I think, this place is smart. We’re asked once more for IDs, and I consider summoning the cassis-habanero incident to explain that in this dire cultural-culinary moment, even involuntary memory grants no singular, cohesive sense of self. But I’m distracted by an older woman in glasses eating a sandwich, gazing forlornly out at the street. Her grey hair serves as an impromptu napkin. If she’s learned to privately, tragically accept MoS’s logocentric demands and unmotivated linguistic symbols, maybe I can, too. "I think by January I’ll be ready to date again,” says one friend. “Those girls are the same ones dancing at the other place,” notes the other. It’s time to leave.
The Kirkland Tap & Trotter
Though the restaurant’s name promises a porcine ambiance, the maitre d’ offers us avian imagery instead: A blinding light emanates from a birdcage, behind which his aquiline figure screeches that we’ll have to wait 30 minutes for a dinner table. We show him the reservation, but he insists that evidence means nothing in a fraught, nihilistic world. “I’m worried about your system,” I say, preparing to explain that we’re all trapped in Foucauldian systems of power that co-opt our every action and leave no space for agency. “Yeah I worry about my system, too,” he shrugs, brilliantly executing the ironic self-criticism characteristic of late-capitalist institutions, against which critic and consumer alike remain powerless.
Baffled at these locales’ intimate knowledge of contemporary theory, I head to the bar whose ambiance features candles behind wine bottles, a distinct lack of cigarette smoke, a stone mermaid goddess that reminds us of Pablo Neruda’s house, a pig (aha!), and a deeply perturbing city limits sign. “Cambridge is not a city,” my friend explains, falsely presuming that a-priori definitions exist outside of syllogism and wills to power. “But a real city wouldn’t have that sign anyway because it's home-carved.” I start to worry that her ontological framework posits a reality.
What is real, though, is the impossible task of acquiring a drink. This bar is crowded, and I make a mental note to sign a petition for smaller section sizes. Eventually, we acquire a “Mystic ‘Fukuoka’ Sorachi-Hopped Saison” and a KTT “Crock” Toddy with Aged rum, black tea, spices, and Bertha’s Love. The first does not seem to have a sufficiently ritualized cultural history to claim the signifier mystic, but the second comes in a warm porcelain cup with clove-studded orange. Like the British Empire, I find myself distracted from massive injustice by tea. We sip slowly, ’til it’s time to head back to the sensible.
Sections
Ah, Thanksgiving dinner. The clatter of cutlery, the moans coming from your uncles as they try to stuff their fourth slice of pie down their gullets, the hungry look of the family dog as he watches you consume three entire birds in one sitting after he had to eat a small handful of dry kibble, and of course, the inquiring questions of your grandmother.
You had done your best throughout the meal to avoid the sweeping glare from her withered eyes, but when she crooned your name for the eighth time you forgot to pretend you couldn’t hear her over the family din, and she ensnared you from across the table. A novice mistake, you think, bitterly chewing your mouthful of stuffing. Normally, you don’t have to be so careful, because your cousin Marvin is such a loser and takes most of the grandmother ire off of your back. But that asshole couldn’t even show up for Thanksgiving dinner this year to save your skin. Classic Marvin. Never does anything right.
Grandma smiles wide, knowing her prey is within her grasp with nowhere to run. “So how’s school going, dear?” God, you think, why couldn’t I have a kindly old grandma like everyone else? This one baked you cookies once, but they tasted like rat poison and glued your mouth shut for an entire week.
To lie, go to A.
To answer honestly, go to B.
To deflect the question, go to C.
A 
“Gosh, Grandma!” You wax bullshit. After all, you’ve been the favorite for years. She’ll buy anything you sell her. “Where to begin? I’m totally not failing any of my classes, and I have tons of friends. Cool hip friends, you know? I go to the gym every day, and I’m part of so many exclusive social clubs on campus that I have to make a spreadsheet just to know where to go on a Friday night.”
“Sounds lovely, dear,” your grandmother cackles. “And do you have someone special in your life?”
If you totally are dating someone who’s definitely real, go to D.
If dating is beneath you, go to E.
B
“Not great, Grandma,” you shrug. Her eyes widen. “I mean, not bad either. I work out like, all the time,” you quickly add. She doesn’t buy it. “OK, I use the showers at the gym sometimes. I haven’t failed yet though. So that’s...probably coming down the pipe.”
Grandmother makes that tut-tut noise that you assume they teach you when your children have succeeded in procreating. “That’s a shame dear. At least you have...well, you have someone special in your life, I imagine? I hope your not wasting those genes I gave you.”
If you totally are dating someone who’s definitely real, go to D.
If dating is beneath you, go to E.
C 
“Sorry, what was that? Did you say what crazy nonsense has Marvin done this year? I mean, sure, I’m failing math.” Oh wait, you are failing math! Backtrack! “I’m...hailing cabs. All kinds of cabs. Because I’m going so many places. But Marvin’s probably, uh…” You turns to the table for help. “What’s Marvin up to these days?”
Continue on to G.
D
“Oh yeah, I’ve got a great squeeze,” you say, trying to put your imaginary significant other in terms she might understand. “We’ve been going out for months. Real close.”
“Hmm,” she taps her bony talons on the table. “And when will I be seeing some great grandchildren? I’m not getting any younger, you know.”
You swallow hard. You’ve come this far on the strength of your imagination, you can go the distance. “Sure, we’re definitely talking about it. Obviously, we’ve stayed chaste. We’ve held hands maybe once, tops. But poppin’ out a few kids is so on the agenda.”
“And what’s their name, dear?”
“Uh,” you mumble. “Well their name is. Well you know, how names, how they go.” Damn it brain! Think of a name! Any name! Why don’t you know any names anymore? “Geraldino,” you offer confidently. Grandmother arches a single, balding eyebrow. “Geraldino...Smith. Geraldino Smith. Yeah, that’s who I’m...getting...serious with.” Did she buy it? You break out into a cold sweat. Grandmother just stares back at you, her dead eyes piercing your soul.
To break under the pressure, go to F.
E 
“Grandma, please,” you verbally strut. “Dating is so last generation, you know? I’m focusing on me right now. Like what Netflix shows do I like to binge watch, and how many scalpals can I eat alone at the Kong on a Saturday night?” Woah, buddy, slow down there. This is getting too real.
“So um, yeah. Who needs love, right? Haha, not me that’s for sure.” You wipe a bead of cold sweat from your brow. “I mean, obviously I could get some. I could get lots! Of...hugs. That leave plenty of room for Jesus.” Good work, you sure saved that one. “We’ve established that I’ve been to a gym, so you know I’ve got it...going on.”
To break under the pressure, go to F.
To deflect the attention, go to C.
F 
“Alright fine!” Your voice pierces the family chatter, and all eyes in the room fall on you. “I’ve got nothing, OK? Is that what you want to hear?” Everyone is perfectly still, except Grandma, who nods slowly. “I can’t get above a C, and yes, I know the average grade is an A-. I’ve read the same articles you have. And the best social space I’ve been to in the last month is the freshman dining hall!”
“But come on people,” you implore the crowd, “at least I’m not Marvin right? Remember when he crashed Aunt Alice’s car? Or when he killed our middle school gerbil? Or when he threw up all over the table last Thanksgiving?” They murmur and nod amongst themselves. It had been the talk of the family for weeks. “And he’s not even going to college after the incident last year. So I’m doing badly, but not that badly! He didn’t even show up tonight.” You feel them start to come over to your side. You can do this! Grandma has no power here!
Continue on to G.
G
“Hey guys, so sorry I’m late.” Marvin swoops into the room, and you audibly gasp. He’s wearing what looks like a tailored suit and seems to have cut off his man bun and replaced it with literally any other hairstyle. He kisses a few stunned cheeks and then sits down next to Grandma. “We had a little accident in the car on the way over. And it’s a company car, so I wanted to make sure everything was OK. Though who am I kidding,” he leans into the table. “With my paycheck I could buy all the damn cars anyway.”
Company car? Paycheck? Wait, “we?” You are in awe.
“Oh, here they are!” Marvin says brightly, ignoring you. A beautiful looking woman enters the dining room, ushering four identically dressed small children before her. “Have you all met my wife Tanya? And our kids, Bill, Bob, Rob and Todd.”
“Great grandchildren?” Grandma croons. “What a pleasant surprise from my favorite grandson.” No! That used to be you! Dammit Marvin!
“Yeah, Tanya and I met at the tech company I’m running these days. Turns out that my rebellious spirit was just a cover for my brilliant mind after all. What are you going to do?” You and Marvin lock eyes across the table. You son of a bitch, you think hard at his cocky smile. But he just turns to grandmother and schmoozes. “But enough about my rampant success. How are you doing, Grandma?”
You silently finish your stuffing.
Sections
Former Hollis Professor of Divinity Harvey Cox invited an unconventional guest of honor to his 2009 retirement party in Harvard Yard: a large dun cow named Faith.
Curiously nosing the cameras of news office and Harvard Magazine reporters, wet black nostrils coming within inches of expensive lenses, Faith garnered attention from tourists and students alike.
Faith’s invite was a conscious and educated attempt to call attention to a previous version of the Yard whose traces, Cox believes, still run below the campus today.
“We don’t call it a campus, we call it a yard, because it had that function as a place to shelter domestic animals from wild beasts,” Cox says. “I think that’s a part of the lore which is interesting, and makes it a more enjoyable place to be.”
According to Cox, as of 2009, whomever holds the Hollis Professorship of Divinity—endowed in 1721—is still contractually allowed to graze their livestock in the grassy spaces of the Yard, a vestigial policy dating from a time when the Yard was literally that—a barnyard or grazing ground for the livestock of the Harvard community.
Cox hoped the unconventional party would inspire reflection on traditions of the University, “so that we’re constantly made aware of the history and traditions of lore surrounding Harvard Yard.”
“I wanted to keep it alive and keep it in people’s minds,” he says.
Cox’s anachronistic retirement soiree brought a long-forgotten part of the Yard’s past into close contact with its present. Tourists, undergrads, and a small army of Harvard press swarmed around Faith and Cox. Cameras and cow formed a juxtaposition that spoke as much to the modern-day Yard as it did to the Yard of old.
While in many ways the Yard today is a result of hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of small decisions and alterations made over the University’s 379-year existence, in the past 20 or so years, the management of the Yard has centralized to an unprecedented extent.
At the same time, a multitude of Harvard tours (all claiming an authoritative take on the history of this venerated space), protesters crusading to reclaim and politicize the campus, and students who make the space their own simply by living in it, all have claims on the Yard.
And yet, there are also stories lost, stories of the enslaved and excluded, silenced in the space under the elms. Many of the most important stories are still underground, literally and figuratively.
Within the confines of the Yard, past and present continuously interact in unexpected ways, calling into question what gets told and how it gets told, what gets lost and why it gets lost.
Also, what’s the deal with the chairs?


“In a sense, the landscape of Harvard Yard is timeless; it ... reflects the accrual of interventions which have shared a common set of spatial and aesthetic intentions through time.”
— Master Plan for the Harvard Yard Landscape, 1993
While the modern Yard may seem like it’s been around since the College’s founding, the current layout reflects nearly four centuries of careful decision making and shifting purpose.
The first piece of land owned by Harvard in the space that now constitutes the Yard was a few acres in the northwestern corner where Harvard Hall, Stoughton, and Hollis now stand. Harvard’s first buildings stood on a few acres of land that now hold Lehman Hall, Grays, and Matthews. Harvard added land piecemeal; the University did not own the entirety of what we now consider the Yard until a land acquisition in 1835 on the far eastern side of the Yard, where Lamont, Sever, and Robinson now stand.
From its founding until around 1901, when construction began on the famous fence surrounding the Yard, there was no clear boundary between the Yard and Cambridge. The completion of the fence in the 1930s created the clearly delineated Yard we know today.
Trees and foliage, a crucial part of the Yard’s bucolic vistas, were planted in a mostly ad hoc fashion for the vast majority of Harvard’s existence, according to botanist and Graduate School of Design Professor Peter Del Tredici. The wineglass-shaped American Elm predominated, becoming a hallmark of the Yard’s aesthetic.
Today’s lush scenery, lovingly adorning Admissions brochures and postcards, is perhaps its signature. Though the trees today seem ancient and permanent, in the 1990s they were in danger of dying out.
The old and shady American elms in the Yard had been dying off since the mid-century arrival of Dutch Elm Disease, a beetle-spread fungal blight which Del Tredici went so far as to call a “crisis.”
Today, few American elms remain, and those that do are “very pampered,” according to former interim College dean and fungi enthusiast Donald H. Pfister.
According to Del Tredici, the Facilities office had tentatively been addressing the problem since the ’70s and ’80s, doing some work that included stopgap replantings, but there was a vacuum in decision-making about long-term landscape planning. A clear vision seemed necessary.
Enter Michael Van Valkenburgh. A well-known landscape architect, Van Valkenburgh convinced then-University president Neil L. Rudenstine to secure funding for a committee in the early ’90s, according to Del Tredici. The committee—comprised of landscape experts and Harvard facilities maintenance staff —was tasked with developing a “Master Plan for the Harvard Yard Landscape.”
The plan—an overstuffed binder leaking architectural drawings and bulleted lists of proposed Yard-modifications—is exhaustive.
While mostly utilitarian, the plan’s language occasionally skews poetic, describing the Yard as a “majestic landscape” admirable for its “frugal elegance.” But within this beauty lie nodes of danger. “The shrubs at the base of Emerson Hall have become large and create an unsafe area due to the potential of people hiding unseen within the masses of foliage,” the plan warns. Luckily, the remedy for shrub lurkers is simple: Remove the bushes and “plant a single Silverbell (Halesia carolina) east of the Emerson Hall doorway.”
Van Valkenburg is the mastermind behind the modern Yard, a character looming larger than life in our interviews, savior and visionary of Dutch descent pitted inexorably against the spread of Dutch elm disease.
The most recent, and indeed controversial, addition to the Yard is also a Van Valkenburg design: a conspicuously colorful set of chairs spread out across the Old Yard when the weather is warm enough. One of the first acts of Drew G. Faust’s presidency, the Common Spaces Committee set out in 2008 to revitalize the campus and convert it into a more student-friendly space.
Their immediate impact idea? Chairs. In the Yard. Lots of them.
The brightly colored metal chairs, which History Professor Jill Lepore describes as “upscale Ikea items,” can now be found scattered across the Yard in warmer months, an invitation for all to sit and talk. For the first time in a long time, an intervention disrupts the otherwise grandiose historic aesthetic of the place, but that’s very intentional.
“We’re saying, ‘You know what? This is 2009, and here’s what we’ve done in the 21st century on the campus responding to what we think are the desires and needs of the community who make up Harvard Yard today,’” says Lizabeth Cohen, a Common Spaces Committee member and Dean of the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study.
The 1993 Master Plan is pretty unequivocal about this. While the plan laments the “few benches to be found in the Yard,” it cautions that adding any other benches “is not recommended.”
The chairs are not a hit with everybody.
“I just walk in[to the Yard] thinking what the statue of John Harvard thinks with all those parti-colored chairs, it’s all I can do,” says Visual and Environmental Studies professor John R. Stilgoe. “If we were going to have chairs we could have had wrought iron, if we were going to have metal. I hate those chairs.”
Lepore likes the chairs, but understands the controversy. “The campus had assumed this iconic status that no one wanted to interfere with,” Lepore says. “Basically it had become a postcard, and if the picture on the postcard didn’t match what people saw when they came, they would be disappointed.”


“Say John Harvard on three! One... two... John Harvard!”
— Dan Fayen, Crimson Campus Tours
Trademark Tour guide Eli J. Kresta ’16 has about 10 people on his tour. Sporting his straw “Harvard” hat, he leads his group around the Yard practically bursting with fun facts.
He does a good job. He’s conversational, funny, accessible, everything you might want from a student tour guide. One string of Widener-related Titanic puns (“So Harvard told Mrs. Widener, ‘Whatever floats your boat’... I’m gonna let that one sink in…”; “So I guess you could say the aboveground part of Widener Library is really the tip of the iceberg”; “Harry [Widener’s] heart can go on and on and on”) is a particular hit.
After the tour, a couple from Cambridge, England, say they chose Trademark because they “wanted to see [Harvard] properly, we wanted to know the history,” citing Harvard’s prestigious reputation as their reason for visiting.
When Van Valkenburgh penned the Master Plan in 1993, Harvard had not yet become the tourism Mecca that it is today. The Harvard Information Center, which today oversees Crimson Key tours as well as their own, didn’t even run tours until the late 90s. In 2014, the Information Center gave tours to 45,000 visitors, a number they’re expected to surpass this year and that does not include Admissions Office tours and the myriad other private ones running through the Yard.
These hundreds of thousands of feet pounding their way through the Yard have changed it just as surely as the Master Plan has. As so often is the case, the botanists are particularly appalled by the changes.
For Del Tredici, all those tourists don’t mean revenue for Cantabrigian small businesses or the strengthening of Harvard’s worldwide brand. Rather, they mean pernicious amounts of soil compaction.
Increased pedestrian traffic has tamped down the soil of the Yard, damaging the grass and foliage by starving the soil of nutrients. Furthermore, because asphalt and compacted soil can’t absorb as much water, more of it needs to flow into drains of a constant diameter, creating a pooling effect that Stilgoe, in turn, blames for the increased prevalence of knee-high rubber boots amongst undergraduate women.
But the impact goes both ways. The Yard and the tourists each leave their stamp on the other. To an extent these guided visits to the Yard compress Harvard history flat enough to fit on a postcard.
Lepore takes issue with the quickfire, fun-fact themed tours, likening each anecdote and joke (“That night Harvard Hall burned down, and the entirety of John Harvard’s library was lost—save that one book”) to a bead on a necklace. You could add more beads, but that isn’t the point. “Historians don’t think that way. So, any kind of a place that is a collection of facts is going to have a kind of lifelessness to it,” Lepore says. In being distilled into a series of snapshots, the Yard loses something.
Stilgoe is similarly dissatisfied with tours that compact Harvard’s history into humorous, bite-sized pieces. While he dubs the Crimson Key tours “classy,” he’s less enthusiastic about the privately run Trademark Tours, which he calls “offensive,” wondering aloud why the University would allow a for-profit company to operate “on its own soil.”
It’s not an absurd question. Why would an image-conscious university like Harvard allow others to explain its history to the outside world?
While Info Center Customer Service Coordinator Kendyl Maher-Trumble declined to comment on Stilgoe’s remark, Daniel Andrew ’07, who founded Trademark Tours in 2006, gives a relatively simple answer.
“We’re great for Harvard’s brand,” Andrew says. According to Andrew, Harvard wouldn’t be able to satisfy the vast demand for tours alone, despite the Information Center having recently increased their number of daily tour offerings from four to seven.
“We’ve been an amazing partner to the University,” Andrew says. “I think most people at the University who do think about that stuff are actually really happy with Trademark Tours.”
Although student tour guides like Cameron K. Khansarinia ’18 tout the benefits of the tours in providing a view of Harvard that isn’t “a huge PR campaign,” the Information Center’s tours operate under the purview of Harvard Public Affairs and Communications, the arm of the Harvard bureaucracy that shapes press releases, runs Harvard’s news organ, the Gazette, and serves as a watchful liaison between reporters and Harvard administrators.
Like the carefully curated sequence of trees and triangles of grass outlined in Van Valkenburgh’s masterpiece, tours of the Yard are a way for Harvard to shape the image that ends up on the postcard, the frontlines of the University’s interaction with the outside world. Management of the physical space is obvious in every inch of the Yard, but there is also an inadvertent editing of stories at work.
So, what bits of Harvard’s centuries-long history don’t make it onto the script?


“So we say, ‘If you touch the foot for luck, wash your hands for even better luck.’”
— Daniel E. Hughes ’18, Trademark Tour Guide
For all of the playful, somewhat irreverent jokes in Trademark’s arsenal, one piece of Yard lore is notably absent. Trademark tour guides tend to dance around the issue, employing a variety of vague stock phrases to gently discourage the practice.
Still, few tourists hesitate to give John Harvard’s foot, good luck charm by day and urinal by night, a rub.
As the sun sets on the Yard and tour groups cease their constant trickle through Harvard’s gates, the Yard is home to a different kind of foot traffic.
Between the hours of 12:30 a.m. and 2:30 a.m. on Saturday, Nov. 7, the statue saw its usual weekend visitors.
12:45 a.m.: Six students surround the statue. A solitary soul ascends the pedestal, straddles Harvard’s leg, and relieves himself onto the statue’s left boot. He returns to his cheering comrades and sees us lurking nearby. “Touch it!” they yell. We do not. The foot glistens.
Over the next hour and a half, three more students, one man and two women, repeat the feat. For women, the process is a little harder, requiring an awkward squatted tangle with the statue’s limbs.
The last woman’s attempt is interrupted twice by the appearance of Securitas guards, driving toward the statue languidly enough to allow her to hop down and walk away, a chase in slow motion. Finally, on her third attempt, she completes the task.
While it’s easy to write off these undergraduate hijinks as symptomatic of the immaturity of modern college students, there’s nothing new about Harvard students acting like idiots. The misconception likely arises from history’s understandable failure to document the seamy underbelly of undergraduate nightlife. But a second historical record exists underground.
“Whatever you don’t want to see the light of day is going in the trash; it’s not exactly what you’re going to feature in your written history,” says Patricia Capone, a curator at the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology.
Indeed, deep below Harvard Yard a plethora of hastily discarded items tell a shadow story of vices and extravagances indulged in violation of Harvard student guidelines throughout history. Discarded wine bottles and tobacco pipes (both smoking and drinking were heavily restricted by seventeenth century College laws), along with diminutive medical flasks, paint a picture of widespread revelry.
All this and more—shards of crockery, hunks of animal bones, and huge mounds of trash—shows up in biennial archaeological digs of the Yard, conducted for the undergraduate class “The Archaeology of Harvard Yard.” According to Diana Loren, another Peabody curator, who along with Capone has taught the course in the past, the vast majority of the Yard that lies unexcavated could hold still more revelations.
If the contents of these hidden wastes seem surprising, they actually dovetail quite well with the illicit tomfoolery of student pranksters of the past—for instance, it’s not difficult to imagine alcohol and heady tobacco smoked out of elegant pipes fueling the acts of the “Med Fac” society. Founded in 1818, the society terrorized Harvard for a whopping 87 years, painting red penises on the John Harvard statue, blowing up the water pump outside Hollis (the current pump is a reproduction), and even setting off explosions in Sanders Theatre.
In a similar vein, a food fight between freshmen and sophomores at University Hall in 1818 and its subsequent disciplinary action led to a protest at the Rebellion Tree, a long since deceased elm in front of Hollis (perhaps another victim of the infamous Dutch Elm disease). The protest in turn prompted the writing of the “Rebelliad,” an epic poem about the incident (composed by the founder of Med Fac): “When Nathan threw a piece of bread,/ and hit Abijah on the head./ The wrathful freshman in a trice/ sent back another bigger slice/ which being buttered pretty well,/ made greasy work we’er it fell...” and so on.
Still, besides occasional mentions of the 1818 food fight, these incidents are far from well-known, seldom appearing in tours. The image of a buttoned-up past pervades the lay perception of Harvard.

“While watching locals, students, and visitors line up for the bus outside of Wadsworth House on Massachusetts Avenue, we can also imagine the lives of Titus, Venus and the other slaves who worked for members of the university and knew its students.”
— “Harvard and Slavery: A Forgotten History”
There’s often a darker bent to what gets left out of the tours.
The fact that two Harvard Presidents (Wadsworth and Mather) owned slaves; that the University’s growth in the 19th century was partially due to large slave trading benefactors, and that Harvard was home to Louis Agassiz; one of the fathers of scientific racism, is little-known and rarely announced to visiting tourists.
“There’s a marker outside Wadsworth House that says, like, ‘Home of the Harvard presidents, also George Washington was here for a little while,’” says Caitlin G. Hopkins, a History and Literature lecturer. “All right, those are the things that we want to remember about Wadsworth. But there were slaves at Harvard in the 1630s. You know, they’re here for a very, very long time, and that’s not something that is obvious from commemoration and the history of the Yard.”
Hopkins points to two modest gravestones in a secluded corner of Cambridge’s Old Burial Ground, the only physical commemoration to the many slaves who lived and worked in the Yard during the 17th and 18th centuries.
For Hopkins, who worked on the 2011 Harvard and Slavery project spearheaded by History professor Sven Beckert, the headstones and Harvard’s traditionally abolitionist reputation sit uncomfortably with the University’s past. The problem, says Hopkins, lies partially in the story Harvard tends to tell about itself.
“I think that Harvard is still not very good about talking to the outside world about slavery at Harvard, about Harvard’s not-really abolitionist legacy,” she says.
The headstones in the burial ground belong to two young women: Cicely, a slave to the school’s minister, and Jane, who served the college’s steward. Invisible in many histories of the Yard, Jane and Cicely would have served undergraduates, lived and worked in the Yard alongside them. And, as Hopkins points out, the Burial Ground likely holds the bodies of more slaves, unmarked and lost in the history of the Yard.
While Cecily and Jane are among the more tangible examples, indirect connections to slavery also abound. The project uncovered evidence that Harvard invested in a slave ship as well as revealed that many Harvard men bought slaves after graduating.
The Yard’s complicated racial past doesn’t end with the introduction of black students. On a drizzling February night in 1952, two freshmen sent shockwaves through the College by igniting two crosses in front of Stoughton Hall, which was at the time home of 11 black students. While the student body and administrators condemned the KKK symbol, the perpetrators were not expelled, claiming the cross-burning was nothing more than a prank.
Nothing in the neo-Georgian architecture of the Yard would indicate Harvard’s checkered racial past. The Slavery Project’s report claims that “part of the difficulty of remembering slavery on Harvard’s campus is that Cambridge’s historic buildings provide few public clues to their complete history.”
For example, the stories of women, long excluded from the Yard, are likewise often lost in the greater Harvard history.
1943 marked the beginning of fully coeducational classes at Harvard, but women were prevented from entering Lamont Library until as late as 1966, and weren’t allowed to actually live in the Yard until 1972. The stories of Harvard Yard, then, are necessarily often ones which take place on a male-dominated stage.
In 1911, even the most seemingly progressive of Harvard men were in favor of limiting women’s access to the Yard. That year, the Harvard Men’s League for Woman Suffrage, a redundantly named league of students formed “for the purpose of bringing speakers on the Suffrage question before the students,” invited radical British suffragette Emmeline Pankhurst to speak in Sanders Theatre.
In appealing against the Harvard Corporation’s strict rules against female speakers on campus, the Men’s League wasn’t opposed to the Corporation’s rules on women speakers per se—generously acknowledging that “whereas the most eminent lecturers on almost every topic—political, philosophical, artistic, scientific, or historical are men”—they took issue with the ways the policy targeted their group specifically: While “no other organization would be handicapped by the rule, the leaders of the Woman Suffrage movement and of the opposition to it, that is to say, all those best qualified to speak on the subject, are women.” Unfortunately, said the Men’s League, women would have to be consulted.
“There’s a lot of stuff I don’t talk about on the tour,” Hughes says of the history of women in the Yard.
Instead, what people know about the history of the Yard is created by the stories told on tours and the pictures printed in brochures.
“The Yard can feel pretty bland pretty quickly without the stories,” Andrew says. “They’re pretty, all the buildings, but they don’t really have any meaning without stories.”
Yet tours often gloss over or ignore contentious parts of Harvard’s history. In some ways, it’s hard to blame them. Visitors, especially the huge volume of international tourists who visit the Yard each year, are probably not coming to Cambridge expecting or hoping to hear a sober recounting of a cross-burning in the Old Yard. There’s a reason the humor-heavy straw hat tours have been so successful and garnered such positive reviews.
Jim Henle, a contributor to the Harvard and Slavery project and a staff member at Northwest Labs, can understand why darker elements of Harvard’s past might not make it into tours and physical commemorations in the Yard.
“Everybody wants Harvard to be the shining star of American History, right? I mean, it can make some claims,” says Henle. “But slavery and the oppression of black people is part of that history, and it has to be included to have a real picture.”

“Harvard was founded by dissenters...Heresy has long been in the air.”
—James Bryant Conant, 1936
If the Yard’s history can’t be addressed in its architecture and isn’t being addressed through its tours, Henle believes it can and has been addressed through protest.
Last year, in the wake of the controversial decisions not to indict police involved in the deaths of Eric Garner and Michael Brown, the Yard saw “die-ins” in front of Memorial Church and the John Harvard statue as well as protesters clad in surgical masks with the words “I Can’t Breathe” written on them. While these sorts of protests were seen nationwide, Henle argues that their presence in the Yard implicated Harvard’s past in particular.
“The Black Lives Matter thing—a lot of it is a sense of outrage and the need to inject reality into the mythologies that are around us,” says Henle. “Things are not OK. People are being killed; it’s a continual event. Myths are great and everything, but you also want reality. I think to include Harvard’s role in all this is important.”
Harvard Yard, especially in the last year, has been the site of major protests. Though Black Lives Matter, along with the College’s other high profile protest movement, Divest Harvard, has been tied to much larger national movements, organizers including Robert Rush ’18 maintain that it means something different to protest in the Yard. When we speak to him, he’s sporting a black hat and black sweatshirt—which he explains are a show of support for the student protests at Mizzou and Yale.
“To protest in the Yard is very different than to protest in Boston, because in Harvard we are very much a bubble,” Rush says. “When you protest in the Yard and you bring it on campus...you’re disrupting people’s natural routine.”
Rush says protest in the Yard implicates more than just students, pointing to the tourists witnessing the protesters. He imagines them asking, “Is this really the place that’s on the brochures, or is there more to the picture?”
Indeed, during the 2011 Occupy Harvard protests when the Yard was closed to people without Harvard ID cards, Trademark tours adjusted their tour route and material, incorporating the history of protest and progressive movements at Harvard as well as explanations of the protest.
Organizers of Divest Harvard, a student group devoted to lobbying administrators to withdraw investment of the University’s endowment in fossil fuels, speak of the Yard with similar gravity.
Benjamin Franta, a Ph.D. candidate in Applied Physics at Harvard’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and involved with organizing the protests, says that demonstrating in the Yard is important because it allows for “control of the space.”
“Control of space is one way to control a narrative, one way to control messaging,” Franta says.
Divest and Black Lives Matter are far from the first activist groups to recognize the power to be found in the Yard as an icon, and the potency of shattering that iconic status. In their six-day blockade of Massachusetts Hall last April, dubbed “Heat Week,” activists drew on the tradition of protests from the 1999 Living Wage occupation of Massachusetts Hall to the 1986 Apartheid Divestment demonstrations.
On April 15, 1986, upset by Harvard’s hedging over the question of full divestment from Apartheid South Africa, the South African Solidarity Committee, or SASC, erected a number of “shanties” in front of University Hall. Seeing no need for subtlety, they added a 15-foot tall “ivory tower” to the shanties, making clear the University’s involvement.
The shanties, though not approved by the University, were tolerated by it, and some supportive faculty members went so far as to teach classes class in the structures. They became part of the University landscape until planning for the 1986 Commencement exercises rolled around. Despite a request from the dean, SASC refused to remove the shanties. The ceremonial processions of the 1986 Commencement Exercise snaked by University Hall shantytowns, a combination of 17th century ritual and 20th century protest.
Though seizing headlines and “control[ing]” the narrative are, of course, goals of any sort of protest, few places evoke the iconography and historic weight of Harvard Yard. For though the Yard is a symbol of establishment heft and elitism, it’s also home to a near-constant tradition of dissent.
While these modern demonstrations loom largest in recent memory, protest has been part of the Yard for centuries, though often in a more inwardly-focused way. For example, in the Great Butter Rebellion of 1766, irate students protested the serving of dangerously rancid butter at the College.
As Harvard has globalized, so have its protests. Student uprisings about spoiled butter and tyrannous tutors have given way to demonstrations about worldwide social ills.

Protests that have inserted themselves into the functioning of the College and disrupted the Yard’s carefully manicured image beg the question: Who owns Harvard Yard?
The answer is, however, a difficult one, and varies depending on who you ask.
For Stilgoe, a self-described holdout of “Old Harvard,” there is a good reason for staunch defense of tradition in the Yard: It belongs to “the statue, and the dead,” especially at night.
Franta says that the Yard is a contested space, a shifting ownership, but he’d like to see it claimed by “the people who want to use it to help the world.”
Andrew has yet another answer: “I think the Yard is owned by the Harvard community,” he says, including the businesses of Harvard Square in that definition.
While representatives of HPAC initially declined to comment on the question of who owns the Yard, they later sent us an email statement asserting that Harvard “strive[s] to maintain a sense of openness and accessibility, and we continuously review how we can best balance the needs of our faculty, staff and students with those of our visitors.”
But for Rush, these assertions may ring hollow. When asked who owns the Yard, Rush is somber. He adjusts his hat, repeats the question to himself, and looks away.
“I think you can find your answer in the structure of the buildings, and in the way that the campus is set up,” says Rush. For him, the fact that centers of “inclusivity” like the Women’s Center, ECHO, and the BGLTQ office are set up in the basement of buildings speaks for itself.
His is an inverse definition: “Inclusivity doesn’t own the Yard.”
Ultimately, the Yard, when you get down to it, is just a collection of mostly-brick buildings and a cluster of fungi-ridden trees.
Onto this patch of ground are projected a conglomeration of separate Yards that don’t lend themselves easily to a single interpretation.
But Pfister says if you stand on the steps of Memorial Church before winter strips the trees bare and look quietly for a bit, you begin to notice something.
“Stand there and look out, especially if you’re there mid-day or so. There’s so much traffic, people moving around, and because of this canopy and so forth, you see it all,” he says.
“If you kind of squint a little bit, when you’re up there on the steps, you know, you have the trees, and you think those are kind of the pillars holding up the roof, and the roof is this canopy of green. It’s kind of cool to think about. We call it Tercentenary Theater, and there it is, suddenly it’s this huge room.”

News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

UPDATED: November 19, 2015, at 1:21 a.m.
Dozens of students and Harvard affiliates gathered in the Science Center Plaza on Wednesday afternoon and marched to Porter Square to meet with demonstrators from Tufts to rally in support of black student activists on other college campuses, where mass protests against racism have erupted in recent weeks.
Protesters, who began their rally around Harvard Yard at 3:30 p.m. after some students walked out of their afternoon classes, were joined by top Harvard administrators, including University President Drew G. Faust and Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana. Neither Faust nor Khurana joined the crowd as they began to march down Mass. Ave. chanting “Black Lives Matter,” “This is what democracy looks like,” and “We have nothing to lose but our chains.”
Beginning with a number of poems, songs, and spoken word performances at the Science Center Plaza rally, organizers called on fellow students to provide support for peers at other institutions like Yale and the University of Missouri at Columbia, where controversies have instigated debate about the experience of students of color there and how administrators have responded to allegations of racism.
“I think we’ve got a lot of work to do,” Faust said in a separate interview, “and I look forward to working with the community of students and others to make sure everybody at Harvard feels included.”
At the conclusion of the rally near Harvard Yard, students began to march up Mass. Ave. chanting “Black Lives Matter,” “this is what democracy looks like,” and “out of the classroom, into the streets.”
In Porter, the Harvard activists merged with a significantly larger group of protesters from Tufts. Several Tufts affiliates arrived carrying a banner that read “We are the Three,” a reference to data from the federal government that say only 3 percent of Tufts undergraduates are black.
While the speakers from Harvard voiced largely the same themes in Porter Square as they did at the Science Center, activists from Tufts had sharper criticisms, reciting more pointed chants and reading a list of nine demands for their administration.
Among the demands were increases in black representation among undergraduates and faculty to 13 percent, increased funding for Tufts’s Africana Center, and an end to “racial profiling” that they claimed was perpetrated by the Tufts University Police Department.
Robert Rush ’18, an organizer of the event, said Harvard organizers had no intention of making demands.
“Our conversation at Harvard was surrounded around the idea of solidarity,” said Rush, emphasizing that the demands formulated were “solely Tufts’.”
Event organizers praised Harvard administrators’ commitment to creating an inclusive environment.
Earlier in the day, Jay M. Harris, the dean of undergraduate education, had told faculty members of the planned walk-out and march in an email, encouraging them to inform teaching fellows.
“I am writing to let you know that many of our students plan to leave their classrooms today at 3:15 in a show of solidarity with Black students nationwide,” Harris wrote. “We know that many of you will want to join with our students in these challenging times.”
For her part, event organizer Olivia M. Castor ’17 said, “The administration was supportive and extremely thoughtful because they understand the importance of having an inclusive environment.”
Rush agreed, saying, “What really shows how well the event went was the attendance by some administrators, which shows that Harvard is moving in a direction that is the right one.”
Harvard attendees, by and large, appreciated the opportunity to connect with students at Tufts.
“Seeing all the students of Tufts University walking down to meet us at Porter Square—it was just really heartwarming to see that feeling of connection that was universal in the crowd as we were walking down the streets,” said Asia T. Stewart ’18, who heard about the event from through her involvement with the Association of Black Harvard Women. “I think it’s time for our voices as black students and students of color to be heard across campuses, and especially across Harvard.”
After the rally at Porter, some Harvard and Tufts students debriefed at an off-the-record event at the Student Organization Center at Hilles, an opportunity, organizers said, to put together plans for future activity.
Across the country, allegations of racism at peer schools have prompted protests that have spanned days. At Yale, students have held a number of highly attended marches, prompted both by a student’s claim that a male student had said his fraternity’s Halloween party was for “white girls only,” and a separate email from Erika L. Christakis ’86, who oversees a residential college at Yale alongside her husband Nicholas. In an email to her college’s residents, Christakis—who is a former master of Harvard’s Pforzheimer House—challenged an earlier message from Yale administrators advising students not to wear culturally insensitive Halloween costumes, and some students responded with outrage.
At Mizzou, students have also protested incidents involving racism and have criticized the response from the university’s officials. Timothy M. Wolfe, the Missouri system’s president, as well as Mizzou’s chancellor, said they would step down under pressure from protesters last week.
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at meg.bernhard@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meg_bernhard.
—Staff writer C. Ramsey Fahs can be reached at cfahs@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @ramseyfahs.
—Staff writer Ignacio Sabate can be reached at ignacio.sabate@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ignacio_sabate.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Complete with branded party hats, cupcakes, and balloons, the Harvard Innovation Lab celebrated its fourth birthday on Wednesday with public tours and treats.
The i-Lab was founded as a place for students across the University’s schools to collaborate on entrepreneurial projects and learn about innovation, managing director Jodi Goldstein said.
“The first four years were really about proof of concept and validating our hypothesis that ‘if we build it, they will come,’ and now we’re really focused on scaling and impact,” Goldstein said. “We want to make sure that we reach 100 percent of Harvard students interested in entrepreneurship and innovation.”
Attendees said the i-Lab has become a gathering space for students to gain experience and receive advice in entrepreneurship.
Zaki Djemal ’15 has been working at the i-Lab since its inception in 2011, when he was a freshman at the College. In that time, he said he has been part of several startups, and currently serves as CEO of tradr, an application he described as a “Tinder for products.”
“When I work here, I feel like I’m part of something,” he said. “As an entrepreneur there’s so much uncertainty in everything you do. You have no idea what’s coming tomorrow or a week down the line, and having an embracing place cannot be underestimated.”
The birthday party drew students from the University’s various schools to visit the i-Lab, located near the Business School in Allston.
“Sometimes it’s really hard to get out of the Harvard Business School bubble, and the thing about this space is that it draws lots of different kinds of people,” said Snigdha Sur, a Business School student who attended Wednesday’s event. “It helps you open up your world again.”
Staff at the i-Lab said they have seen their events—including the birthday celebration—bring in Harvard affiliates new to the i-Lab.
“People who don’t normally come over here are getting engaged,” programming coordinator Jocelyn E. Krauss said. “A lot of the College students that are here think it’s the happiest place on campus.”
Goldstein emphasized that, as the i-Lab celebrates its fourth year, its continued commitment to education is part of what distinguishes it from similar organizations elsewhere.
“Many of these places at other universities are about spinning out companies and other commercial ventures. We don’t care,” she said. “We’re really about education. We want to make sure that any Harvard student, no matter what you do with your life, we help you become an innovator.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Robert and Myra Kraft Family Foundation has pledged to donate $20 million to Harvard Business School to endow a fund to support research and the advancement of precision medicine. 
The donation, announced Wednesday at a precision medicine conference at Harvard Medical School, comes as part of the University’s ongoing $6.5 billion capital campaign, which has raised more than $6 billion two years into its public phase.
Precision medicine centers on providing customized care based on individual variability in genes, environment, and lifestyle. The Kraft donation will specifically target increased use of the human genome in tailoring individuals’ prevention of and treatment for disease. The fund will be known as the Kraft Endowment for Advancing Precision Medicine.
“The Kraft family has long been a standard bearer in Boston’s business and philanthropic communities,” University President Drew G. Faust said in a statement. “Beyond that, I am very proud that this gift gives new impetus to the role of greater Boston as an academic and commercial hub for this all-important work.”
The Business School will collaborate with the Broad Institute and other Boston institutions. The Business School is also well on its way to meeting its $1 billion fundraising goal for the capital campaign, having passed the 86 percent mark as of June.
Two pilot research projects will start in the next few months as part of the gift: a “precision trials challenge” that will attempt to use precision medicine techniques to address the significant time and cost incurred during clinical trials, and a pilot which will use crowdsourcing contests to “solve and scale precision medicine solutions for clinical and commercial use.”
“At heart, many of the challenges facing the advancement of precision today are business challenges,” Business School Dean Nitin Nohria said in a statement. “We are honored that the Krafts, who epitomize Harvard Business School's mission of educating leaders who make a difference in the world, see the potential for HBS to work with world-class organizations like the Broad.”
At 15 percent of the University-wide $6.5 billion fundraising drive, the Business School’s goal is the second largest of Harvard's schools, behind the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ $2.5 billion campaign. Robert K. Kraft owns the New England Patriots football team, ranks among the “Forbes 400” richest Americans, and graduated from the Business School in 1965.
—Staff writer Ivan B. K. Levingston can be reached at Ivan.Levingston@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @IvanLevingston.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Twice a year, Harvard University Dining Services employees carefully isolate all of the uneaten food from every tray returned to each of Harvard’s 14 dining halls in a week-long food audit. They weigh the uneaten food after all non-edible waste, including bones and fruit peels, is removed. The food is then composted.
This process is repeated during lunch hours every day for a week so that HUDS estimates how much food the typical Harvard undergraduate wastes while eating in a dining hall.
Based on the spring 2015 food waste audit data, the average student wastes 1.38 ounces of food per meal, according to HUDS spokesperson Crista Martin. Extrapolating from this data, the best estimates suggest that Harvard undergraduates in total leave about 223,647 pounds of uneaten food on trays each year, she added.
The consequences of food waste are not limited to the Harvard’s dining halls. Organizations, including Food For Free, a non-profit organization based in Cambridge dedicated to reducing food waste and providing meals to emergency food programs, look to connect people with an excess of food with others in need of it.
“There is a tremendous amount of food waste at the retail or university or bulk level,” said Sasha Purpura, executive director of Food For Free. “That’s where we’re able to come in and try to solve the problem.”
Organizations across the campus and area, from Food For Free to HUDS, have been working to reduce the prevalence of food waste, yet it still remains a pressing issue, they say. The problem is compounded every time a student places leftover food on a motorized tray return system, moving waste out of sight and out of mind.
THE WAY THE COOKIE CRUMBLES
Food waste on campus tends to come in two primary forms: food left over in the serving area and food left on student trays.
It used to be be the case that all leftover food had to be composted at the end of each meal. However, Chapter 94 of Massachusetts General Law has changed in recent years and now protects organizations that donate food to non-profit organizations from civil liability, provided it meets certain standards.
These revisions make it possible for Harvard to donate leftover food from their serveries. As a result, HUDS began donating leftover food from the serving area to Food For Free starting more than a year ago, according to Martin.
“As long as we kept it according to food code regulations, and could reasonably assure safety, then we may donate it if it’s to a good cause,” Martin said.
Food For Free uses the food it receives from HUDS in a variety of ways, Purpura said. Some of it goes straight to shelters and meal programs. Some is donated to organizations like Bread of Life in Malden, Mass., which uses the food to make meals for homeless people, who often do not have access to healthy food options.
Harvard’s donations to Food For Free amounted to about 45,000 meals that otherwise would have been wasted last school year, according to statistics on the HUDS website.
“We’ve been collecting food from over 40 food donors, and we’ve been doing it for over 30 years,” Purpura said. “Harvard has actually been the absolute strongest in being a true partner versus having us just pick up food.”
APPLES AND ORANGES
Part of the challenge for HUDS lies in both providing enough food for everyone and minimizing the amount of wasted food, goals that are often conflicting.
HUDS uses a predictive technology called FoodPro to determine how much of a given meal item to produce. Chefs in each dining hall record how much of each item they produce and how much is left over at the end of the meal in the database. Based on analysis of that data, HUDS tries to cook only as much as they estimate will be consumed, according to Martin.
“For every single item we serve, we would note how much of the item we prepared, how much we served, and therefore how much was left,” Martin said. “It’s a way to control preparation as closely as possible.”
However, this predictive technology needs to be balanced with ensuring that an adequate menu offering is still available for all students regardless of the time they walk into the dining hall. “Our goal is that, at the end of the meal, when you walk in, you should still be able to pick from what was on the menu for that day,” Martin said.
However, exact predictions on how much will be consumed during a given meal are impossible. “Invariably, there will be things left over,” Martin said.
A more difficult problem arises with food waste left on student trays after meals, which cannot be donated.
Adams House has one possible solution for reducing food waste. The House is piloting a “selective tray service,” which began at dinner on Oct. 8. Trays are now kept in the back of the serving area instead of the front.
Thomas C. O’Brien, unit manager for Adams dining hall, told Adams House residents in an email last month that making trays less easily accessible “reduces food waste as trays tend to make it possible for diners to take more food than they are able to eat.”
The hope is that students think more carefully about their food selections and come back to the servery if they need more, rather than pile a lot of food that might go to waste onto their trays, according to the email. The experiment is still in its trial phase, and data about its impact on food waste is not yet available, according to Martin.
FOOD FOR THOUGHT
Extrapolating from the statistics provided by HUDS, by the time Harvard undergraduates leave school as seniors, they each will have wasted more than 100 pounds of food at the tray return.
Annenberg sees higher per person food waste than the upperclassman dining halls, according to Martin. Yet for students at Harvard, food waste is often not a particularly pressing issue.
“It’s definitely not the biggest issue to me personally,” Anna M. Raheem ’19 said. “But if we have food waste it’s important … to use it in a way that’s productive.”
Others felt that the situation in Cambridge brings the issue of food waste to the forefront of their minds. “I think about [food waste] a lot especially now that we’re in Cambridge, and I see a lot of homeless and hungry people,” Monica E. Reichard ’19 said.
Students interviewed said they believe students would be less likely to waste their food if the dining halls had signs as reminders to avoid food waste or displayed statistics about food waste.
The Office for Sustainability is working to address this side of the food waste issue through its undergraduate Resource Efficiency Program.
“We’re trying to get students to be more aware of food waste,” said Kelsey Grab, who coordinates the program.
One of the REP’s projects to reduce food waste is the Clean Plate Club event, organized by student representatives of the program. During the event, representatives hand out stickers to students as they enter the dining hall, reminding them to be conscious of food waste and aware of its consequences. These awareness-raising programs have helped to reduce the amount of food wasted in dining halls, according to Grab.
“Food waste is an issue all over the world,” Grab said. “It’s an issue that everyone’s trying to tackle.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Chemistry and Chemical Biology professor Daniel G. Nocera discussed his vision for the energy infrastructure of the future on Wednesday night in the Science Center.
Nocera, who left the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to join Harvard’s faculty two-and-a-half years ago, said his vision for the future is fundamentally “anti-engineering.”
“This is why I had to leave MIT,” Nocera said to laughter from the audience. “There are a lot of engineers and I wanted to destroy the grid.”
Nocera described today’s energy infrastructure as “unsustainable” because it delivers energy via expensive power plants that roughly half the world cannot afford to build. His mission, he said, is to develop a new energy source to serve as the base unit of a more cost-effective system.
“If McDonald’s had a business model of the way we build energy systems, they would only make one large hamburger and we would all drive to it and take a bite out of it,” Nocera said. “What I’m going to do is try to build little hamburgers and then hand them out to everybody.”
Nocera has, in part, accomplished this goal. He has constructed his hamburger—an “artificial leaf,” as he calls it—that can convert sunlight to hydrogen.
The hamburger delivery system, however, is missing.
“[W]e’ve made a great fuel that there’s no infrastructure in your daily life to accept,” Nocera said.
Investors currently have no motivation to fund a hydrogen infrastructure because people are not demanding it, according to Nocera. He added that the impetus is on consumers to effect meaningful change.
Physics professor Melissa Franklin, who introduced Nocera before his speech, said she was disappointed with attendance at the event.
“I wish more students had been here,” Franklin said.
Titus Jahng ’12, who returned to campus for Nocera’s lecture, agreed. Jahng, now a mechanical engineer, said that watching a similar lecture as an undergraduate “basically directed” his career path after graduation.
“I became excited about…engineering…because of talks like this,” he said. “[They’re] very important.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and former Crimson editor Linda J. Greenhouse ’68 gave the second of three lectures in her series “Just a Journalist: Reflections on Journalism, Life, and the Spaces Between” on Wednesday.
In her lecture, titled “Stories,” Greenhouse argued that the media’s overemphasis on objectivity diminishes its ability to present issues accurately.
Greenhouse said there are several disturbing trends in the way stories are currently reported. For example, she described the way that journalists distance themselves from their work through tactics such as putting something they believe to be true in the words of someone else.
According to Greenhouse, an even larger problem is the use of what she calls “‘he said, she said’ journalism,” where reporters juxtapose oppositional views, even if the issue cannot be divided neatly into two sides or if one of the views has no merit.
“Presenting two sides without further explication or context…inevitably poses a sense of balance or equivalence,” Greenhouse said. She used the example of the debate over the vaccination of children, saying vaccination opponents who have no scientific basis for their claims about the danger of vaccines are often given equal voice in coverage of the topic.
In contrast, Greenhouse said that the media “rose to the challenge” of covering Carly Fiorina’s statements about Planned Parenthood during a recent Republican presidential primary debate. Instead of trying to create balance, the media made clear that the statements were false.
While noting the repeated use of the same sources to provide the opposing viewpoint on an issue, Greenhouse questioned the media’s reliance on the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation for sourcing. “How does this small organization…manage to get quoted so frequently and paraded as the voice of law enforcement on several different subjects?” she said. “[The leader of the organization] is simply doing a job that the media desperately wants him to do.”
The lecture series is sponsored by Harvard’s Graduate Program in American Studies. In his introduction to the talk, Harvard Law School professor Kenneth W. Mack praised Greenhouse’s deft reporting on the Supreme Court, coverage for which she is well known.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s 9 a.m. Saturday morning and many students are still asleep, but Crimson Emergency Medical Services chief Tom B. Leith ’16 is already dressed for work. He dons a white polo shirt with the iconic red caduceus, black cargo pants, and equally dark combat boots. Eerily realistic infant-sized CPR dummies are strewn across the main room of CrimsonEMS’s headquarters on Holyoke Street, right above Clover restaurant, but Leith doesn’t seem to notice.
He first became interested in becoming an emergency medical technician before college. “When I was a senior in high school, one of my friends told me about a summer EMT class,” Leith said. “I really enjoyed my training and spent a gap year working at one of the ambulance companies.”
Leith is now a longtime veteran of the organization. After his gap year, he served as a teaching fellow for CrimsonEMS’s first EMT training course during his freshman fall and went on to join the organization’s board the following semester.
While many students may not recognize that some of their peers are acting EMTs, CrimsonEMS looks after nearly every facet of social life on Harvard’s campus. From the sidelines of the Harvard-Yale football game, to behind the DJ booth at First Chance Dance, to late night ambulance ride-alongs in the streets of Cambridge, CrimsonEMS is on duty. 
TOOLS OF THE TRADE
CrimsonEMS is Harvard’s student-run first responder organization. The organization’s mission is twofold: to provide medical services and to train new EMTs. They perform stand-by services at athletic events on the intramural, club, and varsity levels, as well as at other events sponsored by the Office of Student Life. In the case that something goes wrong at these events, according to Leith, CrimsonEMS “provides immediate first aid and then helps arrange transport to the hospital, generally staffing around 24 hours worth of events per week.”
The action that CrimsonEMS sees at these events varies depending on the sport or activity. According to Leith, a rugby game might yield eight to 10 patients, while the largely attended Harvard-Yale Game around 30. At events such as this year’s freshman First Chance Dance, Leith added, CrimsonEMS sent eight people to the hospital, mostly for alcohol intoxication.
The second goal of the organization is to train new EMTs and Harvard affiliates in simple first response tactics. All CrimsonEMS members are Massachusetts-certified at the EMT-Basic level.
The EMT training process is rigorous, requiring a heavy time commitment of 15 hours every week for the semester, according to Leith. The course covers the basics: first aid, CPR, heart-attacks and other medical emergencies, as well as pre-hospital trauma life-support, emergency vehicle instruction, and hazmat training. For students, Harvard University Health Services subsidizes the normally $800 price tag. The group has a standing membership of 40 to 55 undergraduates, from freshmen to seniors.
While Leith and the other officers teach some of the training courses, additional courses and support are provided by the Cambridge-based emergency medical response company Pro EMS, which allows CrimsonEMS trainees and EMTs to do ambulance ride alongs, providing them with a more hands-on experience.
LINE OF DUTY
Once they have finished the training course, CrimsonEMS members typically work about one or two shifts per month. Many CrimsonEMS members, both current and past, look fondly on their experience. Several undergraduates explained their varied motivations for joining the service. For some, it tied into their pre-med goals, while others expressed a desire for practical ways to give back to Harvard.
“It comes down to wanting to help people and stepping up to serve our community in the best way we can and being able to use the training we receive to actually save lives,” said Annelie E. Herrmann ’18, a current EMT.
Though the training process was demanding and the nature of the work itself high-risk, Herrmann considers the experience worthwhile.
“We got to learn a lot of interesting skills that we will be able to use immediately,” she said. “I’ve definitely met some of my best friends here too.… I really looked forward to [training] every week.”
Among those “retired” from CrimsonEMS is Brett M. Biebelberg ’16, who joined the program in its first year of training courses. Biebelberg, having already received an EMT qualification in his hometown of Springfield, N.J., helped with training and participated in a few ride-alongs with the Pro EMS ambulances. He mentioned the excitement and “adrenaline rush” that goes hand and hand with providing emergency medical services.
“There’s this unmatchable feeling of not only knowing that for a certain period of time, the 16 hours on shift, you are entrusted by your community to respond to an emergency,” he said. “It’s exciting. It’s scary. It’s intimidating, but after the fact it’s satisfying to say ‘I did something positive.’”
For Evan R. Komorowski ’18, a current member, the motivation to join the group stemmed from his childhood. “There was always was a great respect for first responders in my community growing up as a kid, which really motivated me to join CrimsonEMS,” he said.
The weekly commitment of 15 hours for a full semester of training proved rigorous, but also relieving from collegiate life, Komorowski added. “It was welcome departure from homework in every day classes because learning how to apply a tourniquet is so different from other school work,” he said.
Sophia M. Emmons-Bell ’18, CrimsonEMS finance officer, said training with the organization shifted her perception of possible careers in medicine. “On this campus being pre-med you feel like there’s one track to go down,” she said. “This experience made me realize there are actually a million different ways you can take your interests.”
One of the challenges that many former and current CrimsonEMS members expressed was a perceived detachment between them in their roles as EMTs and their classmates. Emmons-Bell said when she is in her CrimsonEMS uniform, she feels distanced her from her peers and that there is an increased degree of responsibility placed upon her.
“You are both a student and someone who is responsible for other students during your shift at a party,” Emmons-Bell said. “I was wearing my uniform and there was a huge disconnect between me and the other students.”
Part of the satisfaction CrimsonEMS members say comes with their work is the fact that they willingly give up their time, putting on a uniform for the social event, rather than partaking in it.
“The EMTs from CrimsonEMS who are willing to dedicate time to be on hand for football games and at dances are acknowledging that they are not the one’s who are going to be having fun at the football game,” Biebelberg said. “They have sort of dedicated their time as on duty, on call, and ready to respond, and so in that way it is very much a selfless activity.”
GOING FORWARD
In the coming years, CrimsonEMS hopes to improve its outreach and first aid education efforts beyond the current crop of EMTs. One example among these education programs is the CPR training that the organization offers for official certification.
Leith stressed the importance of this qualification.
“The most important factor in a cardiac arrest is how quickly you respond to it,” he said. “Even if it takes emergency services two minutes…it still makes a world of difference if someone has been doing CPR on the cardiac arrest victim,” he said.
Organizationally, Leith also highlighted several areas of future growth, such as expanding the number of opportunities to treat patients and serve the campus. There are also plans to develop the Pro EMS ambulance ride-along training.
Going forward, Leith also hopes to improve CrimsonEMS’s partnerships on campus. “I hope to form new relationships with more organizations and find new chances to serve the campus and be there for patients,” Leith said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When high school senior Landon Patterson was elected her high school’s first-ever transgender homecoming queen earlier this fall, more than just her family and friends showed up. The Westboro Baptist Church came to demonstrate against her, but Patterson was bolstered by the support of her mother and her cheerleading coach, and Patterson’s high school community rallied against the protest.
Patterson shared her experiences coming out, transitioning, and ascending to high school “royalty” at the inaugural lecture in the Graduate School of Education’s “Out Front! LGBTQ Leaders to Learn From” speaker series Wednesday in Askwith Hall.
Patterson, a current high school senior from Kansas City, Mo., who spoke on her experiences coming out as transgender, emphasized the importance of a supportive family and school community in empowering her to transition. During the talk and panel discussion that followed, Patterson shared the personal confusion she had felt during adolescence regarding her gender identity.
“I began to realize I wasn’t normal,” Patterson said. “I wanted to play Barbies.”
Patterson said that due to social pressure and consistent bullying at school, she initially came out as gay. She had never heard the term “transgender” until inspired by a YouTube personality, Gigi Gorgeous, who herself came out as transgender. Crediting in particular her mother and cheerleading coach, who were both there for the talk on Wednesday, Patterson stressed how lucky she felt to have been accepted as a woman by those around.
The Ed School’s QueerEd, a student-run group which promotes the inclusion of BGLTQ issues in education, helped to sponsor the talk.
“Landon is an example of a courageous student,” said David A. Hay, co-chair of the organization.
“Unfortunately the story you are about to hear is the exception in our country and not the norm,” Hay said during his introduction, referring to the support of Patterson’s community that resulted in her election as high school homecoming queen.
The night concluded with a question-and-answer session featuring Patterson, her mother, and her cheerleading coach. Many audience members asked questions regarding the impact Patterson’s high school administration had on her transition. One challenge Patterson said she encountered was inadequate accommodation for transgender students in the design of her high school’s bathroom facilities.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: November 19, 2015, at 3:36 p.m.
Before the voting period in the Undergraduate Council’s annual presidential election comes to a close on Thursday evening, undergraduates have the chance to weigh in not only on which students should lead the College’s student government next year, but also on two questions at the end of the ballot.
One of these questions, student-proposed referenda that purport to measure the pulse of the student body on central campus issues, asks voters whether students should have greater input in Harvard’s sexual assault policies, something student groups have advocated for the past several years.
The other, though, is an unconventional take on recent debate about campus social life: whether or not Pusey Library, which holds University archives dating back more than 375 years, should be turned into a “freshmen-oriented social space.”
Several current UC representatives maintain that the likelihood that Pusey Library will ever become a freshman party space is low, but the question still made the ballot. Indeed, proposed referenda must garner 670 student signatures to make the ballot or earn the UC’s endorsement, and the UC checks successful questions for bias, but they do not enter a formal vetting process to ensure their feasibility.
As a result, if they garner enough support, questions that ask students to vote on measures that are far from actionable—even joke questions—can make it to the voting box. Some students say that leaves open the potential for students to propose less-than-serious referenda.
PUSEY LIBRARY AND BREAKFAST MEETINGS
This year’s election cycle alone has featured proposed and successful referenda that are feasible to varying degrees.
Many students acknowledge that the Pusey Library referendum, which made the ballot after a majority of the Council voted to endorse and fast-track it earlier this month, may not be feasible. UC representatives debated the measure for about an hour before they voted to endorse it, with Cabot House representative Cameron K. Khansarinia ’18 calling it a “crazy idea.” Winthrop House representative Daniel R. Levine ’17, a former Crimson news writer, called the library a “treasured academic resource” that should not be vacated to provide students with a place to unwind.
Even though representatives approved it by a wide margin, skepticism for the referendum question did not end at the meeting. At a debate between UC presidential candidates at the Institute of Politics on Tuesday, running mates Shaiba Rather ’17 and Daniel V. Banks ’17 made clear that they have doubts about Pusey Library’s proposed transformation, even though they both voted for the question to appear on the ballot.
“No, we ought to find spaces that are in the Yard that are more feasible,” Banks, who is running for UC vice president, said when asked if he supported acting on the referendum.
Another question, which does not appear on this year’s ballot because it failed to meet the 670-signature requirement, planned to ask students if Harvard should add a provision to the student handbook to ban students from joining male final clubs.
Some legal experts have said Harvard administrators, who have become increasingly critical of final clubs, could reasonably argue that it is within their rights to enact such a policy. But as originally conceived, the proposal was less specific, and questionably feasible: An earlier version asked if Harvard should “reclaim administrative control over final clubs.” Jordan T. Weiers ’16, who submitted the question to the UC’s Rules Committee, said he changed its wording because “the University’s authority to do the previous question was murky at best.”
Another proposed question that failed to earn the signatures necessary to make the ballot sought to ban students from holding meetings at breakfast time, something neither the UC nor Harvard likely have the power to do.
SOME REALISTIC, SOME NOT
No matter how serious or realistic they are, though, those questions would have appeared alongside a referendum looking to improve Harvard’s approach to preventing campus sexual assault had they all garnered the requisite signatures. And had more than half the student body voted in this week’s election and a majority of voters had supported them, they could have become the official stance of the UC.
Jessica R. Fournier ’17, a member of the anti-sexual assault advocacy group Our Harvard Can Do Better, said it may have taken important attention away from the group if the breakfast question made the ballot alongside the sexual assault policy referendum. That question, submitted by Julia R. Geiger ’16 on behalf of Our Harvard Can Do Better, asks students whether or not meetings of Harvard’s sexual assault policy task force, which includes no students, should be open to all interested College students.
The referendum process and the fact that unrealistic questions could conceivably get through it can at times reflect students’ uncertainties about the power of their student government, she said.
“I think it displays a certain amount of cynicism from the student body about what the UC is capable of achieving,” Fournier said. “I don’t think that cynicism is always misplaced.”
The Council’s Rules Committee chair, Brett M. Biebelberg ’16, acknowledges that the referendum proposal process leaves a window open for unrealistic questions to make the ballot. Still, he suggests that adding a feasibility clause would take agency away from undergraduates in what he sees as a fully “student-driven process.”
“Part of the rationale of there not being a process for determining which questions are viable or feasible is that it would involve the UC or some other body making a subjective judgement on what should or should not be on the ballot,” said Biebelberg, who is responsible for overseeing the referendum process.
The procedure for getting questions to the ballot has evolved over the last few years. The Rules Committee has previously worked alongside the Institute of Politics’s Public Opinion Project to screen questions’ wording for neutrality, for example, but the UC now does that itself. Students now may also submit statements either in favor of or opposition to ballot questions.
Other students acknowledge that referenda are often more symbolic.
“Referenda in general are a way of students putting public pressure on the administration, in a way that rarely happens [in meetings],” Geiger said. “Administrators get really scared when they see a lot of students voting for something.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Undergraduates are planning to rally outside Massachusetts Hall on Thursday and demand additional Title IX training, call for more funding toward sexual assault counseling resources, and share personal stories about sexual violence on campus. 
The rally follows a campus-wide response to the University’s sexual misconduct survey that showed that 31 percent of female undergraduate seniors surveyed had experienced some kind of sexual misconduct during their time at Harvard. Students have also recently published op-eds about campus rape.
Organizers said these recent events demonstrated a need for more students to describe their experiences and call for changes to Harvard’s undergraduate Title IX policies, which are currently under scrutiny as the College faces an ongoing federal probe.
“There’s really a great need and demand for a forum in which people can tell their stories,” said Megan G. Jones ’16, an organizer for the rally. “These are stories that Harvard community members, particularly administrators, need to hear.”
Rally organizers said they are requesting four demands: mandatory yearly sexual assault training for undergraduates, an increase in funding of 50 percent to Harvard’s Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response, additional uniform training for Houses’ sexual violence response tutors, and that the three initiatives be implemented by the start of the spring semester.
Viviana I. Maymi ’16, who penned a recent op-ed in The Crimson called “Here’s How I Was Raped,” said administrators must bolster OSAPR funding to hire additional sexual assault counselors. Last year, University President Drew G. Faust accepted recommendations from a University sexual assault task force that increased OSAPR funding and doubled its staff.
Organizers also call for increased mandatory training both for the House’s sexual assault and sexual harassment tutors and undergraduates. Incoming freshmen currently attend a workshop about consent, but many undergraduates, including anti-sexual assault advocacy group Our Harvard Can Do Better, have pushed for a shift to mandatory yearly training. All three tickets in this year’s Undergraduate Council presidential elections called for yearly training required for undergraduates.
Andrea Ortiz ’16 also argued that the expertise among the College’s Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment tutors can vary among Houses, and that administrators should increase the number of training hours.
“Having uniform training, compassionate training, for every single SASH tutor across the board.... having many more hours and many more consistent conversations is what we really need,” she said.
Maymi said the organizers have called for the changes to be implemented by the end of winter break to emphasize the urgency of the proposals. Steven E. Hyman, chair of the sexual assault prevention task force and a former University provost, is also expected to release a report of recommendations around that same time.
“These are things that can happen without the extremely detailed and nuanced policy changes that the task force is going to suggest to Drew Faust,” Maymi said.
University spokesperson Tania deLuzuriaga wrote in an emailed statement that the presidential task force has solicited the thoughts of many students and that “expanded resources and training are among a number of potential recommendations currently under discussion.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Crimson complied with a subpoena to turn over a “narrow” span of traffic logs to its website on Wednesday after one of its reporters received an emailed threat that referenced the unfounded bomb scare in and around Harvard Yard earlier this week.
Investigators delivered the subpoena to The Crimson’s offices at about 6:30 p.m., several hours after one of the paper’s reporters contacted the Harvard University Police Department about receiving an emailed threat late Wednesday morning.
That email referenced the bomb threat that Harvard police received on Monday and included an additional threat. In an email bearing the subject line “Harvard Bombing Confession,” an unidentified sender implied involvement in the Monday’s bomb scare and threatened unspecified actions if The Crimson did not publish the message. The sender, using an email client often associated with underground websites known as the “dark web,” also threatened action if the federal authorities failed to solve a cryptic message.
The sender signed the email in what appeared to be a false name.
Crimson President Steven S. Lee ’16 refused to share the contents of the subpoena and did not comment on what range of web access information the legal document requested, though he described the span as “narrow.”
It is unclear whether the subpoena relates to Monday’s threat at Harvard, which targeted four buildings and shut down the Yard for hours. Lee said the subpoena originated from the District Court of Massachusetts and referenced the Federal Bureau of Investigation, but did not specify what the web access requests pertained to. He stressed that The Crimson did not transfer any information concerning sources or reporting to law enforcement.
“In general, we would object to giving up information about sources or giving up confidential information we might have gathered from our sources through our reporting—any editorial documents that are produced during the writing, editing, and publishing phases of our processes,” Lee said.
HUPD spokesperson Steven G. Catalano wrote in an emailed statement late Wednesday that an investigation into the unfounded bomb threats was “active and ongoing.”
The anonymous email raised further questions about the threat that led to Monday’s closure of the Yard and the evacuation of four buildings. Those four facilities—Harvard’s Science Center and Sever, Emerson, and Thayer Halls—were also evacuated after several Harvard affiliates received a bomb threat in December 2013. Authorities named then-College sophomore Eldo Kim a suspect in that case within a day and later charged him, but they have yet to release details of any suspects potentially responsible for this week’s threats.
Kim no longer appears in the Harvard College directory and has entered a pretrial diversionary program.
Lee said he was legally obligated to follow the subpoena request, to the best of his knowledge, and that the document commanded that The Crimson either appear in court on Thursday with the requested information or provide the data immediately. Lee said he sought legal advice from The Crimson’s retained counsel, but would not comment on those conversations.
Law enforcement officials did not mention any further investigatory steps that would relate to The Crimson, Lee said.
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

Despite playing a Massachusetts (2-0) team with a short bench and several players in foul trouble, Harvard (1-2) had its late rally come up short in a 69-63 home loss. Junior forward Zena Edosomwan led the way for the Crimson a career-high 18 points and 15 rebounds, but it proved not to be enough as Minutemen guards Jabarie Hinds and Trey Davis combined for 37 points.
GAME OF RUNS
In a first half dominated by turnovers, fouls, and missed jump shots, neither Harvard nor UMass was able to take a lead greater than six points. The Minutemen went into halftime holding a four-point edge but appeared to put the game out of reach as the second half began.
Often deemed the most important segment of the game by Harvard coach Tommy Amaker, the first four minutes after halftime were dominated by UMass.
“We are always concerned with the defense being away from our bench and not having the energy from our coaches and our players that are helping our guys on the court,” Amaker said. “It happens a lot, I don’t know what it is. [They] got the double-digit lead and they had us playing an uphill battle the whole way. I just thought that was the key stretch of the game.”
Before the game reached the first media timeout of the second half, the Crimson found itself down 12 following an 8-0 Minutemen run. After forward Zach Coleman hit his only field goal of the night, the UMass lead mushroomed to 15, the largest of the game by either team.
Junior guard Corbin Miller hit a three to quiet the pro-Minutemen crowd that had taken over Lavietes, however, as Harvard began a run of its own. The charge was spearheaded by an experienced and defense-oriented lineup for the Crimson.
Sophomore guard Andre Chatfield, who saw limited minutes in Saturday’s loss to Providence, joined Miller in the backcourt in an attempt to slow down Davis, who had suddenly taken over the second half.
“We kind of shed our ‘shooters’ for a minute and we were just going to see if we could get stops and we were able to do it,” Amaker said. “We thought we could just score the other way and it helped us a little bit and allowed us to kind of inch our way back into it.”
The guards were joined by Edosomwan, captain Evan Cummins, and senior Agunwa Okolie, the team’s three most experienced players. The veteran lineup willed the Crimson to a 15-4 run and cut the UMass lead to two with two and a half minutes remaining in the contest.
However, turnovers and easy baskets for the Minutemen down the stretch allowed UMass to sneak out of Cambridge with a six-point victory.
“Guys have been in those situations before, and... with that experience comes confidence,” Edosomwan said. “We were just locked in, and it was a really great run. Being in this program for years, learning from the older guys, I think guys kind of just take things from the years before. It always starts off with our defense, which is big for us, and then kind of letting the rest happen.”
POWER OUTAGE
After combining for 47 points and 114 minutes in Harvard’s first two games, freshman guards Tommy McCarthy and Corey Johnson were nonfactors for the Crimson offensively on Tuesday. The duo combined to go 1-for-18 from the field and sat next to each other on the bench as Harvard attempted to claw back for most of the second half.
“It’s very unfortunate,” Amaker said. “[I] just can’t believe so many open shots that we had that we just didn’t make. Pretty tough when you shoot it that poorly from guys who are supposed to be our shooters. ... I just thought that we weren’t very good on the offensive end with those two tonight.”
Johnson was one of the bright spots on Saturday and converted eight of his first 15 collegiate three-point attempts while his backcourt mate had accumulated most of the team’s minutes at point guard.
While the duo looked composed in breaking the Minutemen’s full court press, McCarthy turned the ball over five times and Johnson could not find his stroke once the team established itself in the halfcourt set. On the evening, the Crimson’s starting backcourt combined for just 11 points
“You kind of brush yourself off and we come back and we look at it, learn from it, and try to get better from it,” Amaker said. “For young guys, that can be hard. It’s a tough pill to swallow, tough lesson, but they’ll bounce back.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As Harvard and Yale get set to play the 132nd edition of The Game this weekend in New Haven (2:30 PM, NBCSN), it’s worth racking our memories for the last time that the Bulldogs (6-3, 3-3 Ivy) have defeated the Crimson (8-1, 5-1).
After all, Yale come oh-so-close in last year’s matchup, but ultimately dropped its record-tying eighth straight game to Harvard, 31-24, on a 35-yard touchdown pass from senior Connor Hempel to junior Andrew Fischer late in the fourth quarter.
Perhaps it fared better the year prior? Unfortunately, the Crimson won that one, too. And the one before that. If Yale falls to Harvard again on Saturday, the Crimson will have maintained the longest winning streak by either side in the history of The Game.
In fact, tracing your fingers through the history books to find the last time Yale won brings you to the year 2006, a different world in which Justin Verlander was a rookie and the Edmonton Oilers made the Stanley Cup Final.
On November 18 of that fateful year, Yale (8-2, 6-1) snapped a five-game losing streak to Harvard (7-3, 4-3) with a dominating 34-13 victory at Harvard Stadium. Sophomore running back Mike McLeod ran for three touchdowns and 87 yards on 34 carries. Meanwhile, the Crimson’s starting quarterback, junior Liam O’Hagan, was pulled early in the second half after completing just seven of 15 passes for 53 yards and an interception.
With the win, the Bulldogs clinched a share of the Ivy League title, tying Princeton atop the standings. The 2006 title is the last one Yale has captured to date.
This weekend, Harvard takes the field in position to clinch at least a share of the 2015 Ivy title, even after last weekend’s 35-25 upset loss to Penn. The Crimson sits atop the standings with Penn and Dartmouth and has won or shared the Ivy championship for five of the eight seasons since 2006.
Since 1875, Yale leads the all-time series over Harvard, 65-58-8, but the Crimson’s most recent eight-game winning streak over its most storied rival still looms large.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Four minutes into the second period and still scoreless, the No. 9/8 Harvard women’s ice hockey team earned its second power play of the night against University of New Hampshire. Capitalizing on the team’s numerical advantage, the Crimson’s offense dominated the ice, with four players contributing shots on goal in just two minutes.
But Harvard could not find the back of the net, and the score remained tied at 0-0. After a shot from UNH freshman defenseman Jenna Rheault, saved by Crimson co-captain Emerance Maschmeyer, Harvard took control of the puck and raced it back to the other side of the rink. A scuffle ensued in front of the net, and sophomore forward Lexie Laing managed to slip the puck past freshman goalkeeper Kyra Smith 10 minutes in the second period. The goal gave Harvard a 1-0 lead, earning Laing her second goal of the season.
The Crimson (6-1-1, 5-1-1 ECAC) went on to defend its five-game win streak, dominating UNH (2-12-0, 2-7-0 Hockey East), 4-0, at home on Wednesday. Senior Miye D’Oench led the team in scoring with a goal and two assists while Maschmeyer recorded her first shutout of the season.
The Crimson did not find its footing until the second period. By the end of the first period, UNH had recorded 12 shots compared to Harvard’s 10, and had won eight faceoffs to Harvard’s seven.
“UNH was ready to play from the first puck drop,” Harvard coach Katey Stone said. “It took us a little bit of time to get going. The first period really looked like both teams sorting it out, and they had a lot of very good opportunities.”
Maschmeyer, who is currently ranked third in the Crimson record books in saves recorded, kept Harvard in the game and thwarted UNH’s offensive plays. With UNH on a power play going into the second half, the Alberta native secured three consecutive saves to give the Crimson time to regroup its offense.
“Sometimes you need a little bit to get you firing on all engines and you’ve got to play good defense in the meantime,” D’Oench said. “Emerance was huge for us, so we weathered that storm and came out strong in the second period.”
Just minutes later, sophomore forward Haley Mullins got ahold of the puck and slid it across the face of the goal to freshman forward Grace Zarzecki, who found the back of the net for the fourth time this season.
With two goals under its belt, the Crimson played the rest of the game with the confidence that it lacked in the first period. By the end of the second period, Harvard turned the tables to lead 22-21 in shots and 20-10 in faceoffs.
“As the game went on, we started to tighten up our game and recognize what they were giving us. We took advantage of space behind the net, and then all of a sudden the defense would open up,” Stone said.
The Crimson scored again just three minutes into the third period. After a few successful consecutive shifts, Mullins stripped the puck from a defender and passed it to D’Oench, who tucked it into the net. D’Oench ended the game with three points, one goal and two assists, marking her third straight game with a goal.
“We spent some time regrouping, we made some adjustments and I think that helped a lot,” Stone said. “They ran a 2-1-2 in the neutral zone and I think we started to skip a pass and that made a difference for us.”
The final goal of the night came off a power play at 15:33 in the third period. Mastel and D’Oench passed the puck back and forth, before Mastel snapped it to senior forward Jessica Harvey. Harvey nudged the puck in for a decisive 4-0 shutout.
By the end of the game, Harvard led UNH in shots, 37-26.
“Getting that power play goal was a huge confidence boost for us, and going forward we just want to be better on power plays. The power play is all about creativity and working with who you’re out there with, and it ended up working well tonight,” D’Oench said.


Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Both benches held their breath as UMass’s Cierra Dillard released a shot from outside of the arc. The ball hit one side of the rim, then the other, then fell into the waiting arms of a Harvard player. The Crimson bench erupted in celebration as the buzzer sounded to seal a nervy win for Harvard women’s basketball (1-1, 0-0 Ivy) over the University of Massachusetts (1-1) on Wednesday night.
The Crimson overcame some inconsistent play early on and survived a late push from the Minutewomen to pick up its first win of the season at Lavietes Pavilion, 67-65.
Although Harvard managed to eke out a win, it struggled all night to find stability. In a contest that saw 13 lead changes and 32 collective turnovers, the Crimson’s play was characterized by dramatic ups and downs.
“Every single time we ran our system, we got really good looks and really good scores,” Harvard coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said. “We’re just not consistent or patient enough.”
However, Harvard’s erratic play belied consistent shooting, especially from its veterans. Senior Shilpa Tummala racked up 17 points to match her career-high total. Tummala also added five rebounds and four assists to help lead the Crimson to the win.
Co-captain AnnMarie Healy brought the team some stability as well with 18 points of her own on seven of 12 field goal efforts. The result marked the 25th game in which the senior tallied double-figure points for Harvard.
Propelled by the strong attacking play of its seniors, the Crimson came out firing. A pair of treys from Tummala and a basket from Healy put Harvard up by six early in the first quarter.
UMass reacted quickly, though, and shifted to a double-team style of defense. The change stifled the Crimson’s offense and caused a string of attacking errors from Harvard.
With the Crimson’s offense struggling, the momentum shifted UMass’s way. Led by freshman guard Bria Stallworth, who tallied a game-high 19 points on the night, the Minutewomen evened the score before pulling away in the second period for their biggest lead of the night, a six-point advantage.
“Basketball is a game of lead changes and momentum swings, so that comes with the game,” Tummala said. “I think the huge part for us as a young team and what we saw today is that we’re capable of staying consistent no matter what.”
Tummala regained her shooting touch at the end of the first half as she drained another three-pointer to start a 6-0 run for the Crimson, but UMass held firm and sent Harvard back to the locker room two points behind, 29-27.
The Crimson picked up its offensive play in the last two quarters to outscore UMass, 40-36, in the second frame. Nonetheless, Harvard was still troubled by dramatic ups and downs in its play, this time in the backcourt. The Crimson committed nine second-half fouls after giving up just four in the first period and could not seem to keep UMass off the boards.
As the clock wound down, the teams traded the lead back and forth, with neither squad ever leading by more than four points.
Freshman guard Madeline Raster converted only one of six field goal attempts on the night, but her lone bucket was perhaps the most important of the game. Holding a slim, two-point lead, Raster brought the ball up to the key. Off the pick from Healy, Raster broke the defense and laid up the ball for the four point lead and what would turn out to be the game winning shot.
The Minutewomen mounted a furious counterattack and were within a shot of the win after two missed free throws, but came up just short in the final seconds as Harvard secured its first win of the season.
Although the win came against a non-conference opponent, it’s a promising result as the Harvard as the team heads into a series of games against tough opponents.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Professional Football Hall of Famer Larry Allen, Sr., has never won a game of Madden. For years he has been competing against his son, Larry Allen Jr., to no avail. Oddly enough, skills on the actual playing field don’t necessarily translate over to the world of virtual reality.
Allen, Sr., has a Super Bowl ring, though, and not one generated by a computer screen. He also has a gold jacket and a bust in Canton. The former Cowboy and 49er is one of the strongest men to have ever put on an NFL uniform, as well. He was recorded at benching 705 pounds and squatting 905 pounds.
That being said, Allen, Jr., holds his own on the football field. The 6’4”, 285-pound sophomore out of Danville, Calif., has started every game this season for the Harvard football team. Allen, Jr., plays offensive guard for the Crimson, the same position his father played in the NFL for 14 years.
Yet this connection isn’t what defines the father and son. Rather, playing video games, watching horror movies, and listening to Metallica and Jimi Hendrix are what bring the Allen men together. The younger of the two loves to read, World War Z and The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy series being his personal favorites.
He plays guitar as well, with four in his collection. Bookended by a younger and older sister, Allen, Jr., developed a special bond with his father. The two men love to spend time playing Madden and 2K, and the Saw series is a personal favorite.
Even so, football is a major part of the two men’s lives. Growing up in Dallas with a dad who plays for the Cowboys is a double-edged sword. Like every kid in the heart of Texas, Allen Jr., has been spoon-fed football since a young age. Born right when his dad started playing professional football, Allen, Jr., was raised in an NFL family.
“As a kid, he was fortunate enough…to see my whole career,” Allen, Sr., says. “He was two years old when we started, so he was around the locker room and all the guys.”
And there are perks to that. Hanging out in the locker room, Allen, Jr., was able to meet some of the greatest players of all time like Emmitt Smith, Michael Irvin, and Troy Aikman. However, meeting the greatest defensive player of all time, Lawrence Taylor, made even Allen, Jr., speechless.
“I saw him from across the room,” Allen, Jr., says. “He was talking to Jerry [Jones] then he talked to my dad. It was the first time I was awestruck in front of someone. Just a truly legendary player.”
In addition to going to all the Cowboys’ home games and meeting the players, Allen, Jr., was given an opportunity not many other young football players are afforded: his coach was a professional football player.
“I wanted him to play, and loved watching,” the elder Allen says. “He was around a lot of Cowboy players growing up, so he loved football…. I coached almost every year with him.”
But there’s another aspect we don’t really think about. There are so many perks to having a football-playing father, we forget about the weeks away from home the 11-time Pro Bowler would spend. We forget that for the last month of every summer, Allen’s father would leave the family to go to training camp. We forget that eight of the 16 games are played hundreds of miles away across the country.
However, the importance Allen, Sr., and his wife place on family and education seem to have resonated with the younger Allen. The family is very close-knit, going on vacations around the country, among other things. The values instilled in the Allen children don’t go without notice, either.
“[The Allens are] just a great family,” says Crimson football coach Tim Murphy. “They value education, they value family, they value character. [Allen’s] identity isn’t tied up in football, it’s tied up in being a good person…. They came to Harvard to get the best education possible. The bottom line is he’s a kid that, in a very unassuming way, really loves football. He’s a really tough, physical player, but his nature is very laid-back.”
Allen, Jr., was fortunate enough to have someone living in his house who knows how to achieve the goals every young kid who puts on pads has. Since he was young, he was instilled with a mentality not many others have. However, it wasn’t solely focused on football. As evidenced by his admittance into Harvard, Allen, Jr., has translated this mentality to the classroom. He was a National Achievement Scholar, Scholar Athlete of the Year, four-year honor student, and a member of the chess club in high school.
“One thing that my parents…really wanted me to focus on growing up was academics,” the younger Allen said. “When they realized I had some potential, it was something they really wanted me to do well. My dad grew up in a hard situation; football was one thing that helped him get out of that. He always tells me, ‘You have to have something else.’ And it’s not like this a secondary something else, this is the best school in the world. It’s a priority to do well here.”
As with almost any football player, Allen, Jr., would love to play in the NFL. However, his career path will in all likelihood vary from his father’s. The younger Allen is considering concentrating in biomedical engineering in order to give new life to people suffering from various disabilities, including building a robotic hand similar to the one made for Luke Skywalker in Star Wars.
“I actually didn’t really know I wanted to be an engineer until junior or senior year of high school,” Allen, Jr., says. “One of the…things that sealed it for me was someone, a family friend of ours, who was an engineer…sent me a bunch of stuff to try to help me decide what I want to do…. He sent me videos of people hearing for the first time, seeing for the first time. It just blew me away.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For a team that brought in seven new recruits this past season, it was still the seniors that brought home the victory for the Harvard women’s basketball team (1-1) Wednesday night at Lavietes Pavilion. The Crimson’s three seniors combined for 41 points in a nail-biter 67-65 win over the University of Massachusetts (1-1).
UP AND UNDER
In a game that featured 13 lead changes, the Harvard offense seemed to finally come together on Wednesday night. While the Crimson only managed eight assists in a loss to Maine last Friday, the team dished out 21 against the visiting Minutewomen.
Coming into the fourth quarter down 45-46, Harvard matched UMass point for point in the dwindling minutes of the matchup. With nine of the 13 lead changes coming in the final quarter, the Crimson’s first win of the season was a gritty affair.
“It was back and forth and back and forth,” said senior Shilpa Tummala. “I think the one thing we weren’t was fearful of anything. We were playing the game full on no matter what happened. I think that as a young team sometimes we can get rattled and we didn’t do that and that was huge for us.”
Rotating out freshman Sydney Skinner, Nani Redford, and Madeline Raster at guard spot, head coach Kathy Delaney-Smith saw the rookies combine for eight assists and 12 points. With the rookie guards playing big minutes for Harvard, Delaney-Smith is taking time to ease them into her system.
“The worst thing we can do right now is over-coach,” Delaney Smith said. “We have some talented kids so we lose the skillset they already have, we lose the instincts they already have if we over-coach it.”
While the freshmen are starting to get comfortable in the rotation, the Crimson’s three seniors—AnnMarie Healy, Shilpa Tummala, and Kit Metoyer—were the story of the night. Scoring 29 of Harvard’s first 31 points and scoring all of the Crimson’s buckets in the second quarter, the three seniors are quickly becoming the backbone of Harvard’s offense.
BREAKING THE PRESS
After finishing the first period with a five-point lead, the Crimson struggled to get to the basket in the second quarter. With UMass double-teaming and pressing throughout the second half, the Crimson turned over the ball eight times. Of the Minutewomen’s 29 points in the first half, 18 came off turnovers from the Crimson.
Despite the difficult second quarter, Harvard managed to stop the bleeding in the second half of the game.
“I think our coaches did a really good job of telling us to use ball fakes, [and] our guards did a really good job of listening,” Tummala said. “It’s a mid-game change up, so it’s really huge that we have freshman guards that are capable of molding their games in the middle of the game and being able to implement those passing fakes mid-game without causing turnovers.”
Turning the ball over only four times and making big shots, the three rookies scored some big points for the Crimson down the stretch.
“There was some good stuff there, but I don’t know if it was drawn up,” Delaney-Smith said. “I’d like to say I could take credit for that but no. It was just young kids playing confidently and aggressively.”
Even as the squad adjusts to the new freshmen, Delaney-Smith is still working out different lineups. As a result of player turnover and injuries in the past two seasons, Delaney-Smith is still trying different rotations.
Despite coming in as a guard, Tummala has played at the four spot for the Crimson’s first two matchups. Playing in the post for the first time in her career, Tummala tied a career-high 17 points while adding five rebounds, four assists, and three steals.
“We got the ball inside; that and our defensive help and rotation was the best so far this year,” Delaney-Smith said. “Our rebounding was good, to be honest. The point of emphasis for us was getting the ball inside.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
On the fateful day of November 21st, we shall all march down and trod on the uncivilized swamp of Connecticut. Our hearts are filled with pride, our spirit pumped, and our livers conditioned to produced enough ADH enzymes to last for several hours. Here at Flyby, we have carefully mixed a few drinks to  get you through the weekend.
Pre-Game:
Veri-Harvard
1.5 oz. of tequila sunrise
1 oz. of random school pride
Garnish the drink with stripes of unfinished psets
Listen up, my dear fellow patriots. To fight against the “blue devil” of Connecticut, we must all make some personal sacrifices. This is a drink made especially for those “Lamonsters”. I know it’s hard, but forget that pset due Monday morning. It’s Friday. Who needs to do work on a Friday? This blissful ignorance will give you the best time of your life (that is, until Sunday evening).
Tailgate:
Go Harvard
1 can of Beer
4 oz. of School Pride
3 dashes of bitterness against Yale
2 oz. of your red face paint
Most of your voice
By the time the tailgate starts, most of you will still be so intoxicated that you won’t even notice what you’re drinking. With enough spirit and pride, bad beer can carry you for at least three hours before the actual game. This is a great time to talk to that particularly cute gal or guy in your math class and bond over your mutual hate of Yale. Your half-dissolved face paint can be the confident booster. If anything goes wrong, definitely blame it on the face paint.
On the ride back: 
YUCK, I feel sick
1oz. of vodka
2 dashes of bitter
1 oz. of dry humor
2 tablespoons of regret
We win the game again. We just beat Yale by like 1,000,000 points. Yale sucks! Yale sucks! As you are happily chanting with your fellow students, a sick feeling will suddenly creep upon you: Shoot. I didn’t do any homework.
Sections
Hey, Harvard. There are just eight more days of classes, so get psyched for finals. In more relevant news, today is the anniversary of the Gettysburg Address.
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
Get ready for a cloudy day today with temperatures in the low 50s and a chance of rain in the early evening.
IN THE D-HALL
Lunch:
Teriyaki Chicken pizza
Egg fried rice
Korean style tofu with sesame glaze
Turkey and cranberry sauce in the sandwich bar
Dinner:
Cider glazed ham
Rosemary and garlic roasted chicken
Garlic mashed red potato
Winter vegetable stew
Pumpkin pie (yum)
Biscuits and pound cake with toppings
ON FLYBY
Meet the Scooterers of HarvardCome on, we all get jealous of them as they scooter past us to class.
Love it or Hate it: Iced Coffee in the WinterVery contentious.
Radiate: The Harvard-Yale TinderAn app for meeting new friends this weekend.
Dear Dartmouth, Here’s Some AdviceWe have some advice for you about the housing system #youareverywelcome
ON FM
Anatomy of a Harvard Yale OutfitYou may have it all figured out, but you’re missing one key detail. What are you supposed to wear to the The Game? FM is here to help with some basic pointers for the clueless collegiate.
Harvard Yard, UncoveredWithin the confines of Harvard Yard, past and present continuously interact in unexpected ways, calling into question what gets told and how it gets told, what gets lost and why it gets lost.
IN THE NEWS
Students Rally in Support of Black Activists at Peer SchoolsDozens of students and Harvard affiliates gathered in the Science Center Plaza on Wednesday afternoon to rally in support of black student activists on other college campuses, where mass protests against racism have erupted in recent weeks.
Harvard i-Lab Celebrates Four YearsComplete with branded party hats, cupcakes, and balloons, the Harvard Innovation Lab celebrated its fourth birthday on Wednesday with public tours and treats.
HBS Receives $20 Million Gift From Kraft FoundationThe Robert and Myra Kraft Family Foundation, Inc., has pledged to donate $20 million to Harvard Business School to endow a fund to support research and the advancement of precision medicine.
UC Candidates Debate Free Speech and Final Clubs at IOPDebating at the Institute of Politics on Tuesday, candidates in the Undergraduate Council’s ongoing presidential election weighed in on recent debates about race relations at peer schools and the role of Harvard’s final clubs on campus.
Fitzsimmons Voices Concerns About Common App AlternativeWeeks after a consortium of more than 80 colleges and universities said it would release an application platform to rival the Common Application, admissions experts and Harvard officials are skeptical that the new portal will actually make higher education more accessible to under-resourced students, as the group claims.
EVENTS
If you’re interested in 3-D printing at Harvard come to this introductory session at Harvard Hall 103 at 6:00 p.m. There will be pizza and the chance to have your creation printed. RSVP at http://goo.gl/forms/z1EbkvDkAs and download Fusion 360 before the event.
The Harvard-Radcliffe Orchestra is putting on a concert with pieces by Prokofiev, Ravel, and Rachmaninoff in Sander’s Theatre at 8:00 p.m. Tickets are available at the Harvard Box Office, from HRO members, online, and at the door for $10/15 for students and $20/25 for adults.
Stand with Sexual Assault Survivors: Harvard Rally for Action is today at Massachusetts Hall from 2:00-4:00 p.m.
DAPA and The Center for Wellness are hosting Beyonce Glow Yoga, glow in the dark flow yoga set to Beyoncé songs, in Harvard Studio 74 from 9:00-10:00 p.m. Make sure to RSVP online.


