News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s 8 p.m. and you’ve just walked out of your first Ec 10 midterm. You may have blanked on some of the long answers or messed up part b, which then messed up part c, d, e, f, and then the rest of your 35 point question. You’re frustrated. As you’re walking out, five first-year boys yell loudly how they had just been “totally raped by that test.”
Stop.
You rack your brains for a definition of rape and search it on your phone just in case. Google tells you: “Rape is defined as unlawful sexual activity and usually sexual intercourse carried out forcibly or under threat of injury against the will usually of a female or with a person who is beneath a certain age or incapable of valid consent.”
You turn around to clarify the definition for these confused first-years and see one of them carrying a water bottle with a “Consent is Sexy” sticker on it.
Stop.
You are so confused by these two minutes that by the time you manage to wrap your head around all the cognitive dissonance, they’ve made it into their Holworthy dorm and are now out of sight. You walk back to your House, members of whose HoCo almost two years ago created a Housing Day video with female bodies in bikinis wearing boar heads while dancing around a male rapper, and you go to bed.
It’s been another long day at Harvard College.
*****
Despite the fact that every town hall meeting on the sexual assault survey has ended its dialogue with the topic of final clubs and the need for them to go co-ed, this is not about final clubs.
This is about college students who still think rape happens in a dark alley at 2 a.m. when you’re walking back from Felipe’s, instead of in your own dorm room with a perpetrator who is an acquaintance, or even a friend.
This is about those college men who are liking Facebook statuses, articles, and pictures advocating for the end to rape culture, but can be found a few hours later making degrading jokes and "rape" comments with their all-male blocking group.
You may not be in a final club or a fraternity; you may have a consent sticker on your laptop; you may even openly claim you are a feminist, but we have a lot of work to do if you think you can slap on a sticker and share some articles without deeply reflecting on other sexist actions you may not know are even sexist. The fight to end rape culture on this campus should not only be a fight against final clubs, but should also be a fight against the very language and hook up culture that portrays women as objects, encourages men to assume women who flirt with them are always asking to get laid, and allows first-years to joke about how they “just got raped.”
Sexism is generous. People from all gender identities, backgrounds, and ideologies can equally partake in the continuance of rape culture. The problem occurs when it becomes easier to point fingers at institutions like final clubs and fraternities rather than pointing fingers at ourselves.
One staggering statistic from last spring's sexual conduct climate survey reports that 46.6 percent of student respondents had witnessed a drunken person heading for a sexual encounter. Of that 46.6 percent, 79.8 percent of the bystanders did nothing to address the situation. Meaning, 79.8 percent of students who witnessed a questionable sexual encounter did not take a few seconds to ask either party if they were aware of what was happening and wanted it to continue. Hey, sticker boy—bystander intervention beats Facebook likes in the fight against rape culture, just so you know.
Campus dialogue by students and administrators fails to address the core issues of rape culture. The same way that body cameras are a necessary step to stop the killing of black bodies in the United States, final clubs going co-ed is a step forward in creating a more gender equitable campus culture. There is no denying that. However, making cops wear cameras will not end the mass incarceration of black and brown bodies. Making final clubs co-ed will not bring an end to sexual assault; it is just another battle in a much longer war for gender equality.
Yes, they are single sex organizations with a high number of sexual assault cases, but shortly after the last club goes co-ed, we will be in for an unpleasant surprise: Rape will still happen at Harvard.
I have learned two things through my experience with gender discrimination and sexual assault. First, rape exists because of sexism. Second, sexism exists in every nook and cranny you could possibly imagine.
It is time for everyone—college students, tutors, professors, feminists, and final club members—to think about what rape culture really is and how it is not confined to the mansions along Mt. Auburn St. It is time for Harvard administration to have mandatory bystander intervention in all of the Houses. It is time for all parties to require two or three sober party officers dedicated to ensuring a safe space whose contact information is readily accessible for partygoers—a policy Sigma Chi already uses at its parties . Finally, it is time for us to have conversations with friends about why our language can sometimes indicate troubling understandings of what rape really means.
Maybe when all of this happens, a “Consent is Sexy” sticker on your water bottle will actually merit a smile.
Andrea Ortiz ’16 is a Social Studies concentrator living in Kirkland House. She is the director of PBHA’s Athena Gender Empowerment Program.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Sunday, the Undergraduate Council passed a resolution to place a referendum question asking whether Pusey library “should be transformed into a freshman-oriented social space” on this month’s UC election ballot. While this question is assured consideration by the student body, three other questions proposed by students are currently gathering the 670 signatures required to secure a ballot spot. These questions ask whether the College should essentially prevent membership in all-male final clubs, whether the administration should open sexual assault task force meetings to students, and whether students should stop having breakfast meetings.
When they vote for UC President, students will have the opportunity to vote yes or no on these referenda. If more than 50 percent of the student body votes, and the referendum receives majority support, then the administration has a mandate to acknowledge the result and consider the proposal.
The UC referendum process has the potential to bring about significant change, or at least to bring important issues to light. Neither the Pusey proposal nor the breakfast question, however, is serious enough to merit inclusion on this year’s November ballot. It's particularly troubling that the UC, with its power automatically to place an item on the ballot with a two-thirds vote, has given the former a rubber stamp at the expense of questions that actually deserve space and thought.
The biggest problem with a change to Pusey is a limitation we have pointed out in previous editorials—namely, that underage students are not able to consume alcohol in College-sanctioned social spaces. This issue severely curtails Pusey’s viability as a social space, particularly one that could plausibly compete with existing ones that do allow for alcohol consumption, such as final clubs and fraternities.
Furthermore, the feasibility of the proposed plan is also debatable. Even UC representatives have raised this concern: Student Life Committee Chair Oliver W. Kim ’16, an inactive Crimson editorial editor, said he has tried and failed in years past to turn parts of the Pusey Library into a student nap space. Moreover, the referendum makes no mention of what to do with the books and collections currently in Pusey. As none of these logistical details have been discussed yet, the chances of this referendum influencing the administration are low indeed.
The Pusey proposal is also largely unnecessary. The College is already in the midst of creating a new social space on campus with the renovation of the Smith Campus Center. Set to be ready in 2018, the new campus center is designed to be open at all hours and feature a network of meeting rooms and common spaces. Much like the proposed Pusey social space, the new campus center would face limitations on alcohol consumption, but it is close to the Yard and easily accessible to freshmen. With the College already creating a social space on campus that freshmen can easily use, radically transforming an existing library and key academic resource seems unnecessary and redundant.
Lastly, placing the proposal to turn Pusey into a social space on the ballot detracts trivializes the serious issue of social space and inclusivity, and—along with the breakfast meetings ballot question—distracts from the two more serious referenda. The questions demanding more student input on sexual assault policy and asking the administration to ban membership in final clubs revolve around real issues. Whatever their outcome, they have the potential to guide the UC’s role as an advocate for student opinions. Both are far more meaningful than transforming Pusey into a social space or seeking to limit the times at which students organize their own meetings.
Ultimately, the UC referendum process must focus attention on major issues, and not waste time on ideas that are infeasible and unnecessary. This year, two of the referendum questions have failed to meet that standard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“I’m sorry—this is a stupid question—but I was confused about question six. Could we do that one again maybe?”
For the longest time, I didn’t understand what I was apologizing for. Was I sorry for asking a stupid question? Was I sorry for wasting my teacher’s time?
“I’m sorry, but can I just say that I think the first proposal was better than the second? I could be totally wrong; I have no idea. Just throwing it out there.”
Was I sorry for not being sure if I was right or not? Why do I keep saying “I’m sorry, but..."?
I am not alone in this. Alexandra Petri recently wrote about this phenomenon in the Washington Post, calling it “Woman in a Meeting” language. A well-known Pantene commercial depicts women apologizing unnecessarily in various situations. Amy Schumer addresses this in a humorous skit where a panel of successful women spend the whole time apologizing for increasingly ridiculous things.
The message is clear. While men are able to deliver their opinions and ask their questions in a blunt and straightforward manner, women often equivocate, apologize, and frame everything they say in vague language.
This is only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to speech differences between the sexes. However, these differences are not always what you would expect. For example, there is a commonly-held idea that women talk a lot and men don’t talk as much, embodied in the stereotypes of the strong, silent man and the chatty, nagging woman. You may have even heard a frequently-cited claim that men only speak 7,000 words a day, while women speak 20,000.
It turns out that those figures were based on unreliable data from a secondary source—in other words, they came from nowhere. Actual scientific studies have shown that men talk just as much as women—about 16,000 words per day. It does not appear to be true, therefore, that women are biologically wired to be more talkative than men, and that men are wired to be less talkative. In fact, there is little evidence that biological differences have a significant impact on behavior and speech. On average, men and women talk about the same amount.
But when it comes to the workplace or the classroom, men talk far more than women do. A study showed that women speak only 25 percent of the time in professional meetings, with men speaking nearly three times as much. And a study of Harvard Law School classrooms found that men are 50 percent more likely than woman to speak during class at least once, and 144 percent more likely to speak voluntarily at least three times. What's more, even during one-on-one conversations or conversations with friends, men have been documented to interrupt women an average of 2.6 times per three-minute conversation. How do we explain these speech differences, then, if there is no compelling biological reason?
Simply put, men and women have been socialized differently. Socialization is the concept that society expects different attitudes and behaviors from boys and girls, and that boys are raised to conform to the male gender role and girls are raised to conform to the female gender role.
In our society, girls are socialized to be polite and reserved, while boys are socialized to be funny and outspoken. The socialization begins at an early age. In elementary school classroom discussions, when boys call out answers they are more likely to be listened to, while girls who shout out answers are usually instructed to raise their hands. Parents interrupt girls twice as often and hold them to stricter politeness norms. We tell mischievous boys that they’re just being boys, but we tell misbehaving girls that they should act more ladylike.
Socialization doesn’t stop there. Society continues to enforce these standards of behavior. Women who speak firmly and directly are often viewed as “bitchy” or “aggressive.” Jennifer Lawrence recalled an incident when she gave her opinion in a straightforward, no-nonsense manner and a man working for her reacted, “Whoa! We’re all on the same team here!” And studies have shown that male executives who speak more often than their peers are deemed more competent, while female executives who speak up are considered less competent.
Is it any wonder, therefore, that women apologize before they speak? When women say “I’m sorry, but...” we’re not apologizing because we’re not sure if we’re saying the right thing—we’re simply trying to be the polite ladies we were socialized to be, downplaying our own power and softening our own voices so we are not deemed bossy, aggressive, or incompetent.
For the longest time, I didn’t understand what I was apologizing for. But now I know. We have been socialized in a society that encourages women to feel ashamed for taking up space and speaking their minds. Every time I said “I’m sorry, but...” I was apologizing for having an opinion, for using my voice, for existing.
And I’m not sorry anymore.

Nian Hu ’18, a Crimson editorial executive, lives in Mather House. Her column runs on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Dear _____ [student whose name I don’t even know],
I hope you _____ [are doing well/know I don’t really care about how you’re doing]. I have received your request asking for a letter of recommendation for _____ [medical school/Goldman Sachs/moving back in with your parents]. They would be ______ [lucky/screwed] to have a such a _____ [hard-working/lazy/over-privileged] student like you. It is great that you are planning your summer so _____ [far in advance/last minute]. I am well aware that you ______ [are passionate about this field/have never opened my textbook/only got into this school because the library is named after your grandfather].
However, I am currently very busy _____ [writing a book/running for president/taking Buzzfeed quizzes]. Since _____ [I am so busy/I simply do not want to/you slept through every lecture], I unfortunately must decline to write a letter for you. Perhaps, if _____ [you had given me more notice/you ever handed in a problem set on time/I actually knew who you were], or if you hadn’t _____ [given me such a bad Q score/used my class to Facebook stalk the guy you hooked up with last weekend], I might have been able to help you. That said, I _____ [am certain/highly doubt] you will find someone to write you an excellent letter. I wish you the best of luck _____[finding someone bored enough to actually write you a letter/convincing your future employer you didn’t lie on your resume/moving back in with your parents].
Best of luck, _____[what’s your name again?]
Professor _______
Sections
I’ve always felt about pop art as I feel about theoretical physics: The reasoning behind it eludes me, but I can objectively appreciate its importance. Call me a philistine, but there doesn’t seem to be a natural progression from technicolor soup cans to art. Thus, like “string theory,” I heard the name “Corita Kent” once in high school and promptly forgot what it referred to.
When I decided to attend the opening celebration of “Corita Kent and the Language of Pop,” I was prepared for a modest evening of quietly picking at fruit platters and nodding at kitschy canvases in feigned comprehension. However, the curators of the Harvard Art Museums had something else in mind.
As I was ushered into the lobby of the museum, I was taken aback by the amount of movement. One third of the room was dominated by Harvard’s popular student band, the Intrinsics, who played an eclectic combination of popular 1960s music and contemporary hits with an obvious ’60s influence. I took a moment to bask in their rendition of the lyrical genius that is “American Boy” and wonder, “What did ever happened to Estelle?”
The event had drawn a sizable crowd, and with a majority chatting, tipping their heads back in laughter, or bopping around to the music, it almost seemed as though I had wandered into a very sophisticated and well-lit concert.
Before I could make my way to the gallery proper, I was drawn —like a child to a shiny object or an outlet—to the sight of hors d’oeuvres. The spread was simple and unembellished, consisting of items that could have been plucked straight from the kitchen of an average American.
On one table was a cereal bar, stocking fan favorites from Lucky Charms to Cinnamon Toast Crunch, accompanied by a plethora of candy toppings and different flavors of milk. It was a pastel smorgasborg of sugar that would have lived up to even the wildest of childhood dreams. It made me want to eat more cereal than is advisable for any adult person! And I did!
By the time I arrived at the other table of food (rife with rainbowed vegetables and strips of Wonder Bread inside of something pasty), I was becoming concerned about having to be rolled through the gallery. Luckily, a responsible friend came to my rescue and guided me up several flights of stairs, to the exhibition.
The work itself did not depart very much from what one would expect of a pop art exhibition. Alongside the art of Corita Kent was also the artwork of her contemporaries, such as Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, and Jim Dine. Many of the pieces were indeed minimalist and kitschy, exploring the subjects of modernism and consumer culture in bright, bold colors. On the other hand, a few of the works were quite intricate and complex, overlaying passages of text with other words and phrases, all oriented in different directions and superimposed on images such as flags and landscapes.
In my opinion, the pieces were ostentatious, and some gaudy, easily drawing the viewer in. The ones with clear political or social messages were interesting, although trying to decipher and interpret all of the artwork quickly became an exhausting task, given the extent of wacky fonts and migraine-inducing neon. After perhaps 30 minutes of gaping at canvases that simply read, “tomato,” “hotel,” or “clear sky,” in block letters, I was ready to make my exit.
Unfortunately, no Corita Kent-inspired, pop art revelation was undergone. I still don’t really understand the hoopla surrounding pop art, but I do understand that this isn’t important. I leave the event with a newfound appreciation for the genre, a development influenced only in part by the watermelon Pop Rocks distributed to me as I departed from the warm glow of the museum.
Sections
Staaag.
I dart behind a tree in Harvard Yard, hoping that it will provide some cover in the gloom of early evening. Leaves crunch under my boots and threaten to trip me up, but I step careful.
Staaaag?
The bodies in the dark get louder and closer, and I’m honestly, ridiculously, a bit scared. Their weapons are fake, but in the dark it’s hard to tell.
STAAAAAG!
I break free and run, yelping in spite of myself, as a pack of students smeared in blue paint chase behind, all yelling for my blood. I’m towing the line between fake-scared and real-scared, ironic running and holy-shit-how-did-I-end-up-in-Lord-of-the-Flies running, and my principal thought is that I want to avoid being ceremonially slaughtered and eaten, screw the renewal of energies for the coming winter.
But let me back up.
I first heard about the Harvard Radcliffe Science Fiction Association’s annual Halloween Wyld Stag Hunt through a friend who enjoys seeking out these kinds of willfully bizarre experiences. Oh, God, I thought to myself as I clicked past the email calling for volunteer prey, what poor idiot is going to get roped into that? Enter me, said idiot.
The Stag Hunt is a celebration of the changing season, a ritual steeped in vaguely pagan and new-agey ideas about the renewal of energies in preparation for the coming winter. Self-proclaimed “out-of-shape” members of the science fiction club dress as pict hunters, early medieval tribespeople who used to inhabit the plot of land that is now Scotland. The hunt falls somewhere between an initiation, a Halloween party, a parade, and voluntary hazing; against my better judgement, I volunteered.
So Saturday night found me gamely (pun very much intended) applying some eyeliner to non-eye parts of my face in an attempt to look deerlike. A triangle-ish nose? Freckles? Should I do something with my hair? What even is a “wyld stag?”
I was surprisingly pleased with the results until we arrived at the pre-hunt costuming session, where one of the SGFA picts looked at me with a frown. “What’s on your face? Is that for this?” he gestured to the other club members, who were in the process of affixing leaves to their hair and taking practice brandishes of largish foam weapons. I said that it was, lamely and apologetically adding that it had been a rush job. “Oh. Well…you do look vaguely like a mammal,” he conceded. I decided not to point out that none of them exactly looked much like picts: The costumes ranged from a tall pink warlock, completely unrecognizable in flowing robes and silvery hair, to swirling black skirts to elaborate dresses.
The stag hunt was proving to be about as non-threatening as an event which advertises an end in ceremonial execution can be. Or at least, it was non-threatening, until we walked out of Eliot into the chilly night.
We had been armed with a map of the route, from Eliot through the Yard and back again, which included a few squig gly areas which we were to interpret as free reign to dodge and hide accordingly. I was absurdly worried about getting lost in the heat of the chase, which proved not entirely unfounded.
We left Eliot in a slow procession, walking with just slightly quickened steps a few paces in front of the SGFAers. One of them started yelling. They all did, then we were running, screaming down Dunster Street and into the shelter of the dark of the Yard, the snickering irony of the whole situation suddenly gone. We terrified some tourists, who were unprepared for the sight of shirtless screaming picts outside of Lamont. I gave myself shin splints for the first time since high school track. Our chase took us zig-zagging through the corners of the Yard and back through the square to Eliot where the four of we stags hugged each other against a tree before being rather anticlimactically prodded slightly with foam swords. “You should fall now,” someone said. We did.
The Wyld Stag Hunt is patently absurd, and all it takes is a second of self reflection to realize this and become overwhelmed by the inherent silliness of the whole thing. But there’s also something else, something a little magical about abandoning good sense and self consciousness in the name of something more primal. As I ran through familiar streets made half-menacing by the threat of being overtaken by screaming Science Fiction Association members, I felt the kind of gleeful terror which hadn’t been a part of my Halloween for a very, very long time. If Halloween is about a liberation from our daily selves, a giving in to the atavistic fear of the night and the cold and the dark, then the Stag Hunt is the perfect way to spend Oct. 31. After all, if we can’t dress up and scream wild on the streets on this one day of the year, when can we?
Sections
Nestled in a building of glass and chrome is what appears to be a Victorian era collector’s room. The theme of the exhibit is obvious: Wispy tentacles undulate across the muted blue wallpaper, the hanging vintage prints are decorated with umbrella-like forms, and the glass cases display slabs of rock which I am told are jellyfish fossils. (It took me a moment to realize what these were because jellyfish don’t have bones.)
This is my introduction to “The Trouble with Jellyfish,” the newest experiment at Le Laboratoire in Cambridge. Le Laboratoire, a Paris-based think tank founded by David A. Edwards, a professor of the practice of Biomedical Engineering, is an intersection of art, design, and science. This particular exhibit, which will be open until January 2, is a collaboration between installation artist Mark Dion and marine biologist Lisa-ann Gershwin. Together, Dion and Gershwin explore the effects of jellyfish blooms on marine ecosystems.
The space beyond the collector’s room is designed to look like an old-school classroom. In a video projected on the wall, an enthusiastic Gershwin outlines the problem. Blooms, or enormous swarms of thousands of jellyfish, are disrupting human enterprises and natural ecosystems. Jellyfish blooms have recently become notorious for clogging power plants and fishing nets. Within the animal kingdom, jellyfish hold a peculiar role: that of both competitor and predator. Jellyfish eat fish larvae and compete with fish for food, making them a “double whammy” threat to fish populations, according to Gershwin. If the current magnitude of blooms continues, the species could potentially alter the ecosystem significantly.
Jellyfish, however, are not the only ones to blame. Destruction of coral reefs, introduction of new species in different waters, and other forces also interrupt ecosystems, often creating new habitats for jellyfish blooms to develop in the process. Gershwin compares this phenomenon to over-fertilizing gardens: Because of human intervention, weeds (jellyfish) begin to pop up everywhere.
Other exhibit offerings include SNL-style advertisements that satirize the jellyfish’s threat to humanity, an interactive installation that allows visitors to experience low-oxygen respiration as jellyfish do, and a mock storefront for a fictional business called Bloom Bakery. According to my tour guide, Bloom Bakery was conceived by some of Edwards’s students at the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. Two students from the professor’s “How to Create Things and Have Them Matter” course imagined a bakery that substitutes jellyfish collagen for eggs, and Dion translated their idea into a tangible reality, complete with a glass case filled with clay baked goods and the slogan “Good for you, good for the Ocean” painted on the wall.
Installed in a jellyfish-printed wall is a fish tank, outlined by a wooden circular frame. The hundreds of jellyfish inside it appear to create a glowing, animated painting. The delicate forms ebb, expand, and drift, seeming blissfully unaware of any trouble they are causing.
Sections
What if we told you that there’s a secret Harvard beneath your feet? We didn’t believe it either, but we were wrong. A system of underground tunnels connects nearly every building on Harvard’s campus, including freshman dorms, libraries, and upperclassman houses. No matter where you are on campus, the tunnel system runs beneath you.
The tunnels were created to house the steam pipes that carry Harvard’s main utilities, but they’ve also been explored by many adventurous souls over the years. They range from 10-foot high grand hallways to tiny crawl spaces and in some places, even allegedly contain art work or decorations. Rumored to actually travel through Weeks Bridge, the tunnels barely miss a spot on the grand campus tour.
Entrances to the tunnels are hard to find and even harder to access. For a select group of Harvard undergrads, though, the secrecy and inaccessibility of the tunnels are the reason they’re interesting at all.
Described in simple terms by member Kevin E. O’Donnell ’16-’17 as a “group of people who like to try to find entrances to roofs and tunnels,” this unofficial student group finds thrills in reaching the unreachable parts of Harvard’s campus.
“The group is experienced in all sorts of activities, such as lock-picking, wall-climbing, and general breaking-and-entering,” O’Donnell says. “We never steal or break things. The reward is the simple fact that you found a way around a wall.”
One night, completely by chance, O’Donnell discovered a tunnel entrance mistakenly left open in the basement of his dorm. The door was open, but a gate separated O’Donnell and his freshman roommate, Crimson editorial editor Eyck A. Freymann ’16-’17, from free reign of the tunnel.
“It’s huge. One of the main tunnels under the Yard is like 10 foot ceilings, 10 feet wide, lights, and it just goes and goes,” Freymann says.
Once, unsure exactly where they were or what they were about to discover, the friends, accompanied by an innocent prospective applicant, accidentally tripped a silent alarm and alerted the Harvard University Police Department of their location. The officers arrived within 10 minutes, and the boys explained that they’d stumbled upon the tunnels by chance. The cop excused them without any penalty.
Though this exploration was short lived, the accidental encounter made one thing very clear: From that night onward, the boys were hooked. The thrill of uncovering secret spaces was something they’d pursue long after that night. The prospective applicant, on the other hand, was so shaken by the experience that he didn’t even apply to Harvard.
Exploring the Yard’s basements with O’Donnell, we get an inside look into the secret world his group inhabits. O’Donnell delights in the cryptic mystery of his adventures, answering, “I cannot confirm nor deny” to half of our questions and answering another few with nothing but a knowing smile.
We poke around various basements for a while, hoping for a stroke of luck, ultimately ending up in a lot of storage rooms but no secret tunnels.
Instinctively examining every basement room we step into for cameras, O’Donnell often pauses with a finger to his ear, apparently listening, before silently beckoning us forward. It’s clear that, although the group is driven by the fun of the experience, its members are smart and experienced in the art of sneaking around.
According to O’Donnell, another member of the secret group accessed the tunnels after his friend was assigned to write a Harvard Gazette article about haunted sites at Harvard. The member convinced Harvard administrators that a tour of the tunnels was necessary to research the article, and the two students were able to explore the twists and turns of the elusive tunnel system without fear of setting off alarms.
The tunnels and Harvard’s other closed-off spaces may be shrouded in rumors and secrecy, but for O’Donnell and Freymann’s group, it’s not just the mystery that keeps them coming back for more.
“This group is based on nothing more than your ability to think outside of the box. And break into shit,” O’Donnell tells us, pride and honor obvious in his voice.
“It’s not based on how cool you are or how attractive you are or how well you can sing,” he says. “It’s based on one thing, which is your sense of adventure and fearlessness.”
For the members of this group, the spaces they discover hold almost a sacred meaning. The roofs of buildings, the secret tunnels, everything behind locked doors provides the group with a sense of unity and belonging. It’s not just about the gratification the group derives from their adventures, though.
“You don’t want people to break into buildings? Create good social space,” O’Donnell saus.
The tunnels may be Harvard’s biggest mystery, but for a select few adventerers, they can exist as more than just rumor. The tunnels connect not only Harvard’s buildings, but also these students. “As long as there are students, there will be people who want to break in,” Freymann says.
Sections
A young woman wearing a shaggy, red, tendril-adorned hat cradles a glass of beer next to us, nodding along to two men dressed in navy sweaters. Across from her, a blue-haired lady claps in earnest beneath orange streamers. A man wearing a neon green dinosaur onesie holds his costume’s accompanying hat while bopping along to the fading bass. Masks and carved pumpkins, empty mozzarella stick containers, and half-filled bottles lay strewn around the bar.
We’re at the Queen’s Head Pub on the Thursday of Halloweekend, and it’s clear that the people here—freshmen and grad students alike—are getting into the holiday spirit. We, on the other hand, prepare for a sober evening ahead. Parking ourselves at a isolated table near the bathrooms, we observe and smirk from afar.
Patrons flock to the pub for the band, Foxpack, playing later, or for drinks with friends to pre-pre-pre game, or even just to Skype their parents (as we observed in one unabashed student wearing headphones in a corner booth). Chris, the neon dinosaur, who graduated from the pub in 2009, informs us that a Harvard Korean Association party creates the majority of the revelry.
We take turns weaving in and out of the swarms that are taking up more and more space: A middle-aged woman throws her hands in the air, shrugs, then proclaims, “I don’t want to write a reactionary thesis.” Her listener—a bearded man with, sadly, no bun—gives a sympathetic wince. Near the stage towards the back of the bar, about 10 gray-haired friends huddle around a FedEx box. Another group plans their flights for a trip to Vancouver, sharing a bowl of fries, single-minded and oblivious to the squealing girls behind them circled over an iPhone screen. A few feet away, a competitive game of table shuffleboard draws a crowd.
Every now and then, we stumble upon a lone person, isolated from the crowd, agonizing over a laptop screen or a stack of annotated books—perhaps parsing through Foucault or Heidegger. The strain of midterms and theses is palpable. As one woman, gesticulating with wild frustration, exclaims, “The Harvard archives just aren’t enough for what I need!”
Others seem unsatisfied, too. A woman in bold red lipstick complains to her date about the day’s disappointing Snapchat video filters. He sips his drink, gives her a knowing pat on the shoulder, and reassures her that there will be new ones tomorrow. Another lady laments, “All I have are sweatshirts!” Our mild concern turns to jealousy when we realize her lifestyle has, up until this point, allowed for a solely cozy wardrobe.
As we frantically record notes of our surroundings, a woman grabs a glass (conveniently sitting at the table next to us for some time) and downs it in one long, bitter swig. It’s questionable as to whether the beer is hers or if, in an effort to avoid the line at the bar, she has decided finders are indeed keepers.
As the night winds down and we prepare to depart, we approach a woman with arms outstretched, face in a mock-pout, squealing, “You’re leaving?!?” We were touched by such a gesture for the two isolated typists and leave, with the woman’s companion trailing behind us, blowing an air kiss back at her friend.
Sections
As I walked across a quiet Harvard Yard, I looked up to see the lit Memorial Church steeple and a waning moon behind it. With Halloweekend looming in the temporal distance and having missed my annual viewing of “It’s a Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown,” I was in desperate need of some ghoulish festivity. As I entered the dark and crowded church, the audience was already enraptured by the haunting sound of a powerful organ.
My second trip to the annual recital by the Harvard Organ Society, this year held on October 29, did not fail to put me in the Halloween mood. This year, the event added a special reading by Kirkland House Master Tom Conley of Edgar Allen Poe’s “The Raven.” It was creepy. It was kooky, mysterious and spooky. Some might say altogether ooky. But what gave me the chills was the improvised accompaniment by the assistant university Organist at Memorial Church, Thomas M. Sheehan. With no sheet music to rely on, Sheehan was guided only by the classic Poe tale. He followed the action of the story with dissonant chords, sometimes quiet and creeping and sometimes deeply trembling.
Around me were couples, families, and groups of students supporting their friends. An older gentleman in front of me sat with his back against the side of the pew, facing the center aisle, with his eyes closed, just listening. Though there were seats available, students sat in clusters on the floor with nary the glow of an iPhone screen in sight. In the college environment where Halloweekend is typically filled with costume stress and mischief, it was refreshing for me to take a break for some good old-fashioned spookery.
Although the crowd began to thin around midnight, I stayed until the end and was not disappointed. Sitting in the dim church, watching the people around me soak in the piercing, tumbling sounds of the Harvard Organ Society, as the final piece came to a booming, angry crescendo, I was at once filled with festive Halloween energy.
Sections
Terrified by impending concentration declaration deadlines? Overwhelmed by questions of purpose and identity? Scrabbling desperately for a one-and-done guide to a major life decision? Look no further. Through a process of extensive field research, FM learned everything about 10 potential departments. Below, we summarize.
1.Government
“My sticker. Your bumper. 2036.”
2. HDRB/OEB/HEB/MCB/CPB
“The acronym stands for ‘pre-med.’”
3. Economics
“I still run out of BoardPlus in October, but at least I feel bad about it.”
4. Computer Science
“<b> I have a start-up </b>”
5. Mechanical Engineering
“I could make the Annenberg water machines go faster. I just choose not to.”
6. Earth and Planetary Sciences
“Most Likely to Own a Tent”
7. Classics
“C’mon, guys. Hoc est utile.”
8. Visual and Environmental Science
“You call it ‘Naked Undergrad Chanting Nonsensical Poem.’ I
call it ‘Senior Thesis.’”
9. Theater, Dance, and Media
“I watched the sixth season of ‘Glee’––and I liked it.”
10. Folklore & Mythology
“I know ghost stories that make small children cry.”
Sections
(Biological) Organs
Literally evoke a visceral reaction
Housed in small spaces
Squishy
Keep your ears functioning
Have a lot of tissues
(Musical) Organs
Figuratively evoke a visceralreaction
Housed in grandiose spaces
Shiny
Blow your ears off
Make you reach for tissues
Both
Present in churches (because your body is a TEMPLE)
Involve a lot of pipes
Produce beats
Include nodes
Require specialists to repair
Probably work best without clogs

Sections
I spend the week leading up to my interview with Ambassador Wendy Sherman, America’s chief negotiator on the Iran deal, negotiating the terms of our meeting. The ambassador’s office and I come to the following deal: I will have exactly 15 minutes for a Q & A, including the time it takes to photograph the ambassador. I must send over the topics I will cover in advance. I must also accept the fact that there will be another person in the room, who looks and acts exactly like Tom Hagen, Don Corleone’s consigliere.
The 15 minutes go by in what feels like less time than it takes to say: “I haven't asked a single tough question yet, have I?” I'm escorted out. I leave Sherman’s office completely discombobulated. Shirt stained with sweat. Hair a mess. I feel failure: I didn’t ask her about any specifics of the Iran Deal.
But then, I have a realization. I’ve learned everything I could have hoped from the ambassador, even if I didn’t break any news: Don’t ever negotiate with a nuclear negotiator, unless you’re looking for a verbal ass kicking.
Fifteen Minutes: What brings you to Harvard this semester? Why did you choose to come here?
Ambassador Wendy Sherman: I came here A) because I was asked to, but more importantly, it’s a chance to really reflect on the last four years as under secretary for political affairs. I traveled to over 54 countries, and obviously spent many, many days in Vienna on the Iran nuclear negotiation. I was thoroughly exhausted and needed to reflect on what I had done, and this is an extraordinary environment in which to both decompress and reflect, and hopefully bring some contributions to the students here.
FM: How do you think that ISIS and the enemy of your enemy is your friend thing that developed helped bring Iran to the table?
Sherman: I don’t think ISIS brought Iran to the table. I think what brought Iran to the table was the overwhelming sanctions, and a desire not to be isolated from the international community. The sanctions never stopped Iran’s nuclear program. In 2003, they probably had 164 centrifuges; when we began negotiating, they had 19,000 centrifuges. So, it never stopped the program, but it did bring them to the negotiating table. And the entire Security Council was behind the isolation of Iran for fear that it was developing a nuclear weapon. I think President Hassan Rouhani’s election created a shift in Iran and President Obama made some very calculated and very smart decisions about how we approached the Iran negotiation, and I think his leadership has been fundamental to that.
FM: I want to get into the behind the scenes aspects of the negotiations. Obviously, there are huge cultural differences between America and Iran, so I’m wondering: How did you connect with the Iranians outside of the negotiating table? What was some common ground you found that you think might have enabled you to negotiate and understand one another?
Sherman: Well, the negotiations under Foreign Minister Zarif were all held in English. When we had negotiations with Jalili, they were all in Farsi from their side and English on our side, through translators, which always makes it more difficult. So, [conducting negotiations in English] helped immensely. We spent an enormous amount of time with each other, so you get to know each other. The lead working negotiator for Iran, Abbas Araghchi, and I both had grandchildren during this time, so we’d share videos of our grandchildren. It created some humanity; it didn’t mean that we changed our national positions or that the underlying mistrust disappeared—it did not. This agreement is based on verification and monitoring, not on trust.
FM: How do you convince the people on the other side of the negotiation table that you’re serious and that there’s nothing to worry about?
Sherman: We are a democracy. People have a right to speak their mind. We explained this to the Iranians, and that we had to have a deal that was good enough to be sustainable and could manage all of the politics we have to face. They, of course, came back to us and said: We have… hard liners, we have the [Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps]. We have politics too, so we have to have a deal we can sustain on our side. So, we went back and forth on this on both sides of the equation and the reality is any negotiation, any negotiation, has to withstand the politics in any country who is sitting at the table. And it has to be sustainable and meet those interests in a way that make it durable.
FM: There’s a live campus issue right now that has a lot of Harvard students very divided, and that’s the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Putting your negotiator hat on, what are steps students could take on both sides of that issue to maybe work together and seek a solution? How does negotiating from sides that are so differing in their beliefs ever really happen?
Sherman: Unless the leaders themselves want to create peace, it’s not going to happen. Everybody knows what the elements of an outcome, a fair outcome, could be. There’s not a mystery around that. But there has to be the political will to do that, and it has to be in the interest of Mahmoud Abbas and Bibi Netanyahu representing their populations to do this. And there are some things outsiders, including the United States, can do to support coming to an agreement, but at the end of the day, the leaders themselves, the people themselves, have to make that difficult decision, and they don’t seem to be there right now.
Sections
“Yes, good. But what are you going to do with your life?” My grandfather, my Dada, leans forward and smiles at me from across the low coffee table that he bought almost 40 years ago.
I am a squirming 7. I don’t have an answer. It wasn't because I had never heard the question before. Every time I see him, he asks. On his couch while my grandmother is making tea, while we pee next to brawny white dudes at our first baseball game, when he brings me a Shirley Temple at Shreedhar Uncle's wedding when I am 8.
And then, about a year ago, we are in Widener Library. I am 19 and tall and somewhat confident. Widener's marbly grandeur booms with self-importance. There seems to be no need for justification or purpose when you have a Widener, a Memorial Hall, the bricked, embalmed embodiments of privilege at every turn.
My grandparents have made the trip to see the Promised Land, a place whose name tumbles out of their mouths like a wave, salty and distant and frothy. Haar-wv-aar-d, the -d flipping through and touching the top of their mouths and then receding.
They aren't coming from afar. On Friday nights, they sit on the edge of a parking lot that was a cornfield when they first moved in, and split a bean and cheese quesadilla from Taco Bell. My dad and uncle went to B.U. But they feel as if they’ve arrived. We’ve arrived. All of us.
When they find out that yes, I am going to Harvard, my Ba calls. “In America, we came here for this.” My grandfather wants to know what the hell I'm actually going to do with all this outrageous access. I still don't know. He picks up the phone. “You are going to do what all of your ancestors never got to do."
I sometimes think of the ancestors at inconvenient times. My mind is reeling at Noch’s and I think of the black-and-white portrait of Jentilal. I put off writing a response paper and think of graveyard shifts at 7-11, selling scratch tickets and cranberry juice to teenagers getting drunk out of Gatorade bottles. I’m sitting in the Lamont poetry room, putting off going to section.
There are the kids who have always dreamed, no matter their circumstances, of going to Harvard. There are others who try to justify their legacy heritage, who know they are worth the formals and “access to world-class faculty.” Then there are those of us whose families try to bend the arc of their history towards Harvard and boat shoes and summers by seas bounded by sandy cliffs.
I’ve arrived at the end of the arc. The questioning has mostly ended. My grandfather thinks that, in some serious way, I’ve made it. I’m on the path. My grandparents, Indian and white, do worry that when I declare History and Literature, the arc will bend back in on itself and snap like a wishbone. I’ll be sitting in a seminar on postcolonial theory and walk out into a Gujarati village or a Nashua funeral home. In reality, I walk out into plush carpeting and quiet chatter about Derrida.
There is always the danger here at Harvard that I’ll be insulated from their anxieties and dreams. My Ba walks into the Eliot dining hall and breathes a sigh of relief. She walks up to a dining hall worker who is clearly Indian. “They can eat all day if they need? And you give them more.”
She smiles, “Beta, I don't need to send you food. You can never be hungry.” She has been worrying since I got here that the d-halls are Dickensian gruel factories. I get a package every month with unsalted almonds and granola bars. “They have many calories and make the brain work,” she says.
There is an overabundance of anxiety, but usually not on a meaningful scale. We stay up until 4 a.m. to finish p-sets and scrounge money to buy new expensive shoes for a consulting interview. When I see my grandparents, I am reminded of all the small choices to spend blood and effort and life to ensure that I worry about MLA formatting or overscheduling my social calendar.
They remind me to worry about myself when I am 65, when my grandchildren are going to college, when I have a job and a home.
We walk up four flights of stairs to my room. My Ba and Dada are exhausted. “This is such an old building. Why is there no elevator?” My grandfather leans against the wall. My grandmother whispers that she should have worn a sari; she feels underdressed. We are here and out of breath and wondering where to find a bathroom. We are here.
Sections
When Esteban M. Guijarro arrived at Harvard in 2011, he might’ve appeared to you like this: thin, of average height, with a short mess of curly black hair and a dimple in his left cheek. Maybe you would’ve guessed that his metabolism went too fast or that he was still growing. Sometimes, he’d look pale to the point of yellow. Mostly, though, he would’ve struck you as a typical bright-eyed Harvard freshman.
The truth was that Guijarro had a problem. He had been struggling with an eating disorder since 2008, when he failed the mile test at his all-boys high school (the time limit had been nine minutes and 40 seconds). In Guijarro’s mind, it was the first time he became conscious of his body.
By freshman year of college, Guijarro was 60 pounds lighter than he’d been in ninth grade, but virtually nobody commented on his weight. He did fine in school, interacted with friends, and went to parties on the weekends. Meanwhile, his problem quietly worsened.
You might’ve known that he ran 10 miles almost every day (to Boston University or North Station and back), but he wouldn’t have told you that he usually skipped lunch and took small dinners from Annenberg to go. You wouldn’t know that he started to use drinking on the weekends as “an excuse for purging,” he tells me, four years later.
His priority at Harvard, he says, wasn’t to be a student. “It was like, ‘OK, how can I run this 10 miles a day? How can I avoid certain foods or certain meals at Annenberg?’”
At the end of his first semester, his eating disorder and other mental health issues came to a head, and Guijarro “hit rock bottom.” He admitted he had a serious problem, left school, and immediately applied to treatment centers to address his anorexia. After a year and a half away—two months of which were spent in an inpatient treatment center—he returned to Harvard, fully recovered.
***
We don’t hear a lot of stories like Guijarro’s at Harvard. In fact, we’re not used to hearing narratives about eating disorders, about fat shaming, about binging and purging, much at all. In recent years, however, there’s been a movement to de-stigmatize the issue of mental health on campus. In February 2013, students rallied for mental health reform outside of Massachusetts Hall; in September 2014, the Freshman Dean’s Office opened a 24-hour Serenity Room in the basement of Grays Hall to help mitigate students’ stress levels; today, students post daily to the Facebook page “How Was Your Day Harvard?”, a social media campaign started this past September to promote mental health awareness on campus and online.
But discourse around body image issues is still, for the most part, quiet. 
Harvard students live and eat together in an ultra-residential community, but there’s a marked reluctance to talk about disordered eating and body image concerns. Although peer counselors on campus try to increase awareness around these issues, some students do not take advantage of the counseling services Harvard offers and many think that the University could do more to further discussion.
Carl E. Rogers ’16 explains it like this: It wouldn’t be out of the ordinary to hear a friend say, “Wow, I’ve felt really down in the past week.” He would be surprised, however, to hear the conversation go like this: “I ate so much last night and made myself throw up because I felt so terrible about myself.”
Numbers can speak louder than words. According to statistics from the National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders, 91 percent of women will diet at some point during college; the onset of eating disorders is most likely to come about when patients are between the ages of 16 and 20; about 50 percent of people with binge-eating disorders (which can co-exist with binge-drinking) are male.
So why is body image a topic that, many students say, is stigmatized at Harvard?
Students who have experienced eating concerns or are involved in advocacy networks agree that Harvard is neither a body positive nor negative space. On campus, that means that students aren’t actively trying to change how people relate to their bodies, nor are they explicitly creating a hostile environment around the issue. It’s net neutral, because most of the student body isn’t talking about it.
But for Kathryn M. Klingle ’17, the lack of discussion around body image issues breeds an unintentionally negative climate. “Because Harvard isn’t actively trying to change the stereotypes and change the way we talk about body image,” she says, “it ends up reinforcing ideals” about beauty.
Guijarro, who is currently on leave from the school for issues unrelated to body image, believes that Harvard is a “body ignorant space.” Others say, too, that there are pockets of body positivity and disorder awareness on campus—like the peer counseling group Eating Concerns Hotline and Outreach, or ECHO, for which Guijarro was a counselor and Klingle currently is—but the overarching norm is silence and complacency.
Heidi M. Hurst ’15-’16, an ECHO co-director, likes to think of body image as always relevant to students, because we “all have a relationship to our bodies.” As we move through the world, we possess some concept of how we look doing so. 
“Everyone’s thinking about [their bodies], always,” Lindsey M. Hagberg ’17, a varsity softball player, suggests to me earnestly. “Everyone has a full-length mirror in their dorm room.”
The particulars of students’ relationships to their bodies are highly individual, no doubt. But college is a unique time—bodies are changing, constant comparisons are being made, and serious issues can take root for some. What’s more, students’ perceptions of the campus culture regarding body image are mostly unanimous: The issue hangs heavy, but unacknowledged, in the air.
Harvard Yard is buzzing at 12:03 p.m. on a Monday in October. A sea of bodies pours out of the lecture halls and classrooms and traipses over crunchy orange and red leaves. Students are mostly indistinguishable, but appear notably put together: They’re wearing polos and sweaters and knee-high brown boots. Dark-wash jeans and loafers and circle scarves. Hair is washed and combed, appearances clean-cut; it’s not unlike a J.Crew catalogue.
Leaf through any magazine or watch any television show, and you will likely be met with America’s standards for what’s beautiful or attractive. The women will be skinny, toned, delicate; the men will be the epitome of masculinity—muscular and strong. And while Harvard might be a bubble in some senses, many students say their peers resemble these larger societal ideals. Students still hold the “normative, white, and western standards of what beauty is,” W. Powell Eddins ’16 says.
Cass M. Hastie ’18 would say that everyone blends together because of the physical standard we impose on each other. “We pride ourselves on being diverse, on being the best and the brightest, but we’re not accepting of what people look like,” Hastie asserts. She feels that students are often “stigmatized if they don’t look like the typical Harvard student, which is thin, tall, and athletic.” 
Some students cast aside their inherently diverse backgrounds in order to fit in appearance-wise. For Guijarro, the idea that such racially, socially, and geographically distinct students “end up conforming” to a specific standard is deeply “puzzling.”
“For someone to feel beautiful on campus, it goes back to people feeling like they belong on campus,” says Paige R. Woods ’16, a member of the Association of Black Harvard Women. The standard is probably “someone who’s white,” in addition to someone who’s thin, Woods says. She cites “Gossip Girl” (“maybe not blonde hair and blue-eyed, but someone who fits into that structure”) as a framework in which the general public thinks about the stereotypical student here.
Harvard can also be a place of extremes. Karen M. Maldonado ’18 says that, as Harvard students, we all exhibit some degree of “perfectionism.” We “like to be good at things and do well,” and this can end up manifesting in what we want our bodies to look like and how we treat them.
For Hurst, that’s not necessarily specific to Harvard, but perhaps indicative of elite colleges in general. She wonders if students at Princeton, Yale, or Columbia don’t feel similar pressures. “It’s part of that all-encompassing myth,” she explains. The perfect student can do well in classes, juggle extracurricular activities, find time to work out, and “can look really good, too.”
Rogers says that myth isn’t necessarily far from reality. “We have so much pressure to achieve perfection in all aspects of our lives, and the fact that I have maybe seen one [student] who I could classify as significantly overweight in my four years here definitely speaks to that,” he tells me. These visual markers can lead his peers to feel the pressure to be as “in shape as everybody else,” Rogers adds.
These pressures can be even greater for students whose extracurricular pursuits are inherently physical.
Lia F. Kaynor ’17 dances in the ballet and modern companies on campus and is no stranger to the pressures that her art can bring about. Dance, she says, is a “bubble” in which one is surrounded by “mirrors, eyes, and judgment.” But at Harvard, the companies are, in her experience, “a lot better than other places” in the greater Boston area in terms of the culture around body image.
Hagberg explains that sports bring about changes in athletes’ bodies, especially at the collegiate level. Before coming to college, she’d never incorporated weight training into her workouts; when she began lifting as a part of varsity softball practice her freshman year, she noticed the number on the scale rising. “I was strong,” she says, “but in my head, I was like, ‘Oh no, I’m gaining weight.’”
Nowadays, she hears freshmen saying the same things in the training room. Over the past two years, Hagberg has come to love to see what her body can do. She just wishes “there were more of an acceptance of being strong instead of being thin.” It doesn’t make sense to her that society’s ideals for what’s attractive should seep into athletics, too.
Within the first weeks of arriving on campus—just a couple of months ago, now—Laura L. Doherty ’19 was confronted with the term “The Freshman 15.”
The Freshman 15, she says, is a very real phenomenon—if not visually manifested, then verbally so. “Every week, I hear someone talking about it,” she tells me. “The biggest concern is the Freshman 15.”
Annenberg is the bastion of the Harvard freshman experience: Stained glass windows and “Harry Potter”-esque chandeliers loom above the 1,600 freshmen who are encouraged to dine there for every meal, with unlimited swipes in and unlimited quantities of food at their disposal. Annenberg can pose its own set of social anxieties—who to sit with?—and also the more obvious one: What to eat?
Some of her friends, Doherty says, made a vow at the beginning of the year to “only eat salads at Annenberg, because they don’t want to gain the Freshman 15.”
Doherty played sports in high school and never used to worry about what she ate. She still loves her body, she says, but now that she’s on campus, she can’t help but think about how things might change. “Even I am conscious of, ‘OK, I really shouldn’t eat this because this isn’t good for me and I don’t want to gain the Freshman 15,’” she explains.
Maldonado experienced a similar anxiety her freshman year. When she came to Harvard, her biggest fear wasn’t how hard Expository Writing would be or if she’d get along with her roommate. She says it’s “crazy” to think about now, but a year ago, “the biggest, scariest thing” she could imagine was a change in her body.
Maldonado’s body did change, she says, as do many other students’. College often represents the first moment in which students have total reign over their lifestyle habits. They lose the routines they had in high school; maybe they stop playing a sport, snack later into the night, or no longer have a parent reminding them to eat a balanced dinner. It’s easy for students to gain or lose weight, because so many unprecedented factors emerge. Plus, Harvard is a place with seemingly limitless food—not only in the dining halls, but also at Brain Break, entryway study breaks, and club meetings.
Annenberg may seem like a unique experience, but Harvard’s dining and residential system doesn’t change much after freshman year. Unlike many universities in the United States, the vast majority of Harvard students will live and eat on campus for all four years. Students eat alongside each other day after day, where they’re all confronted by the same foods.
Most students trickle into breakfast around 9:30 a.m. (if they eat breakfast at all), head to lunch at noon, and eat dinner around six o’clock. Students “can see what everyone else is eating,” Rogers suggests. “If someone is going in either direction—too much or too little—then there’s even more focus on that, or it’s even easier to see.”
The problem goes further than that, though. “It also means that sometimes people feel weird, like, ‘Oh, that person didn’t eat today. Should I feel bad that I did eat? Should I feel guilty that I went to the dining hall and had lunch at one o’clock?’” Klingle says.
Many recall last year’s “traffic light” labels, a senior thesis project that consisted of labeling food in some dining halls with colored dots. The dots signaled the nutritional value of each food—red dots for the unhealthiest, yellow and green for healthier options. For students with existing eating concerns, Guijarro says, it had the potential to incite “fear and shame.” It also invited comparisons in diet. Guijarro remembers sitting with a group of friends who joked about someone else’s plate of food. “They were like, ‘Oh, wow, you got a lot of red dots on your plate,’” he says.
Indeed, it’s inevitable for students to compare themselves to others in college. Holly Gooding, assistant professor of pediatrics and medicine at Harvard Medical School, explains it in terms of coming-of-age: “[A college student] is trying to become their own person, and they’ll often look to peers to try to figure out who they are,” she explains. “In a college environment, that is often heightened by a residential living environment where everybody sees what everybody else is doing.”
It was a Friday night, and Doherty and her friends were getting ready to go out. One of the girls, who Doherty says fits into society’s standards for “what’s skinny and beautiful,” stood in front of a mirror. She whined, “Oh, my God, I look so fat in this shirt,” to the others. Doherty looked to another friend, who “made this face and then looked down. You could tell that it made her uncomfortable.”
Conversations about appearance are ubiquitous in daily conversation, and they often follow a specific form: Students talk about their own bodies negatively and give others superficial compliments. It breeds a “weird dichotomy,” Hagberg says; it’s a way of talking around the issue and also implicitly making comparisons to others. She explains it like this: If she and a friend were eating cake, she could say, “Oh, I shouldn’t be eating this, but you’re totally fine [to eat it].
Most students don’t give these comments a second thought. I’m so fat today. I have to lift today. I can’t go out looking like this. I wish I were as fit as you are.
Bryn Austin, a professor at the School of Public Health, says there are real implications for this kind of “fat talk,” as she terms it. Even though it’s directed towards yourself, people are “sending a message that the fat on their body matters more than anything else,” she says.
It can also cause students to reflect more on their own bodies. “When I hear someone fat-shaming themselves, it makes me more self-conscious about what I’m doing or eating or wearing,” Hagberg says.
Hagberg wishes these conversations revolved around what we can do with our bodies, not how they appear. “I would just love not to hear ‘Oh, you look so thin today’ ever again,” she says. The superficiality of that statement can cause people to focus even more on attaining or living up to that ideal.
“You hear the phrase ‘You are goals’ all the time,” Doherty says. “Like, when someone’s either eating healthy or exercising a lot, it’s like, ‘Oh, girl, you are goals.’”
In addition to physical appearance, conversations at Harvard often revolve around “being healthy,” occasionally to the point of worrisome excess. According to Hastie, students praise each other for working out and eating a “healthy” carb-free meal of salad and chicken for dinner.
The medical community has just recently started recognizing “orthorexia,” or an obsession with being healthy, as a serious body image concern. “It’s this idea that you’re taking something about your relationship with food and with your body to an extreme,” says Hurst, who believes it’s an issue at Harvard.
As a freshman, Rogers, who’s now a senior, discovered how much he liked eating. There was an abundance of food, and he realized that he possessed, for the first time in his life, total control over how much or how little he ate. He took advantage of the former and overate “a ton.”
This caused Rogers to feel guilty, so he would “take measures to make sure [he] felt better.” Those measures involved making himself throw up, especially after going out on a Saturday night. It happened every couple of weeks, maybe more, he says, depending on how much he’d eaten earlier that day. 
Concerns around body image aren’t “just a girls’ issue,” Hastie says. At Harvard, and in society as a whole, men struggle with their bodies just as much as women do—but it’s not necessarily something that they always feel comfortable verbalizing.
The crux of the issue lies in an emphasis on traditional masculinity, says Olivardia, who has spent his career studying body image issues in men. It is the driving factor for what’s physically acceptable for men, and it also imposes restrictions on what men should or shouldn’t say about their bodies.
Rogers suggests that there’s a marked difference between how straight and gay men approach the issue. As a gay man, he can talk more openly about his perception of his own body, he says. He worries less about living up to some ideal of masculinity, “because I’m already not a ‘real man’ by society’s standards,” he says.
Eddins, who now identifies as genderqueer and prefers female pronouns, struggled with her masculinity and body up until recently. Earlier on in Eddins’s college career, she “worked out like crazy” and drank protein shakes but had a hard time putting on muscle. “I’ve had a very hard time dealing with this,” Eddins tells me. “It’s not something that I can hide.”
Despite their muscular physiques, many male athletes have a fraught relationship with body image as well. In 2014, The Crimson published an article that explored the relationship between athletes and their bodies, particularly those whose sports imposed weight restrictions, like rowing and wrestling. Many of the male athletes interviewed for the article expressed a discomfort with how their bodies appeared; a football player voiced how his teammates “‘stick out like a sore thumb’” on campus. They discussed feeling pressure to cut weight, and occasionally, to bulk on fat and muscle to the point of uncomfortable excess.
At a certain point, habits around eating and exercise can verge on obsessive, regardless of whether they’re involved in athletics or not. Binge eating has a higher incidence in males than any other eating disorder, partly because it is easier to hide, Olivardia explains. Nationally, about half of the people struggling with binge eating disorders are male; Olivardia says this number might even be higher for college-aged students. Many of Rogers’s and Guijarro’s concerns around body image, for example, were manifested in binging and purging behavior.
What’s more, men’s disorders go undiagnosed more often than do women’s. Guijarro says that silence and lack of awareness by his peers around his eating disorder prolonged the time he waited before seeking intervention.
“What I find most upsetting is that if I were a female, truthfully, I don’t think I would have gotten away with [anorexia] for as long as I did,” he tells me. “If I were a girl, frankly, and I had lost 70 pounds…and looked like a stick with jaundice, people probably would’ve said something a lot sooner.”
When Rogers’s habit of binging and purging began to feel compulsive, he stepped back and realized his relationship with food had spiraled out of his control. “I eventually started seeing a counselor at the [Bureau of Study Counsel] which was great, because I didn’t really want to talk to friends about this,” he says.
In cases like Rogers’s, it was only when his disorder began to dictate certain aspects of his life that he admitted that something needed to change. In general, this is how the medical community considers whether someone is at risk to develop a diagnosable disorder, Olivardia says.
But there are gray areas. “On campus, there’s a lack of education around what eating concerns and body image issues and concerns with exercise look like,” Hurst says. “There’s not a discussion of what’s too much.”
Maldonado says that when her concerns with her body started taking up a lot of “brain space,” she talked it over with the proctors in her freshman entryway. They provided a supportive ear and helped put into perspective the idea that bodies do change in college. 
But neither the BSC nor proctors are necessarily prepared to address students’ body image issues; the BSC’s mission is more general—“to support students in their learning, growth, and development” and not to serve as an official service for eating and body image disorders—and proctors don’t receive formal training on how to counsel someone with body image concerns, says Cori Tucker-Price, director of residential education for the Freshman Dean’s Office and a proctor in Wigglesworth.
Tucker-Price explains that proctors are informed about the signs associated with eating concerns (weight loss, excessive exercise, etc.) as well as which resources to point students towards if they do come forward with an issue. But she also has some ideas of her own to help mitigate the anxiety around body image that can arise freshman year. She’s hoping to roll out a program next semester—she thinks that events for freshmen about “healthy eating, body image, and working out” could help combat some of these issues.
Gooding says that, in general, there are “great treatment modalities” in the realm of counseling around body image issues at Harvard. Students with eating concerns are generally pointed towards Harvard University Health Services’ Counseling and Mental Health division, which houses a team of clinicians who specialize in eating disorders and body image issues.
Conversations between clinicians and students provide “support and education” for how students can change their “thoughts, feelings, and behaviors in order to improve their quality of life,” Jenna Stark, a licensed clinical social worker at Counseling and Mental Health, wrote in an email. Treatment varies from student to student; depending on their specific needs, they may also be referred to Nutrition, Internal Medicine, or other UHS departments as well.
Michelle Gallant, a dietician at UHS Nutrition, explains that body image concerns “often arise in nutrition sessions,” so nutritionists take “an individualized approach to both eating disorder recovery and weight concerns.” Nutritionists utilize “the health at every size approach,” which advocates for healthy behaviors rather than focusing on numbers on the scale, Gallant wrote in an email.
Despite these resources being available to them, most students interviewed did not seek help from UHS for their eating concerns.
Hastie meets me under the white lights inside Clover Food Lab on Holyoke Street. Outside, the sky is turning navy and the air, chilly. Hastie’s cheeks are flushed pink after rushing through the cold from class, but she’s excited to talk as soon as she sits down. She is, by now, used to telling others about her former eating disorder.
Hastie struggled with anorexia for two years of high school. On a typical day, she would wake up hungry and weigh herself. She’d stand in front of a mirror and spend the next 10 minutes grabbing at areas of her body she was uncomfortable with—generally, she’d pinch the skin around her stomach or face. She’d do 100 sit-ups. At the worst of it, she would skip breakfast and go to school, where she’d eat a snack bar and apple for lunch. She’d be irritable because she wasn’t eating; she lost a good number of friends during this time. Maybe she’d eat a veggie burger with no bun for dinner. Her parents were worried. She’d work out. At the end of the day, she’d crawl into bed and be unable to sleep because she was starving. Her hair started falling out; her nails looked blue. It would all repeat the next morning.
“A typical day was pretty scary,” she tells me, wide-eyed. “I was very alone.”
Thankfully, Hastie says, her family was there to support her and find help. She worked with a doctor, a therapist, a psychiatrist, and a nutritionist who put her on a regimented meal plan. She relapsed once, about three months after her initial recovery, but a summer program at Brown motivated her to move past the disorder.
At Harvard, she very rarely has a “bad day” in terms of her relationship with her body. But without her parents’ backing and the resources she had before coming to college, she doesn’t know where she would be today. “I had that foundation before I came to college,” she says. “But a lot of people who come to college don’t have that same support system when they’re on their own.”
Within the first weeks of coming to campus, Hastie told her Peer Advising Fellow that she was interested in helping students with stories like hers. That’s how she became a peer counselor for Eating Concerns Hotline and Outreach.
ECHO was founded in the late ’70s as the second peer-counseling group on campus, after Room 13. It’s always had the same focus on eating concerns, eating disorders, body image, and exercise. Counselors’ work falls into two categories: They staff a hotline, open from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m. seven days a week, as well as an office, which is open 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. every Sunday through Wednesday. They run events, workshops, and poster the campus weekly. No concern is too big or small for someone to seek out ECHO, says Rivka B. Hyland ’16, one of the group’s co-directors.
Staffers (there are currently 13) undergo 40 hours of training each semester, which consists of general peer counseling lessons (“what it means to listen to someone, what it means to validate for any kind of concern,” Hyland explains) and also special instruction regarding eating disorders, treatment, exercise, and nutrition. 
ECHO counselors recognize that this is a sensitive subject, so they approach it in a number of ways. The group’s Instagram account, run by Hastie and Alana M. Steinberg ’18, a Crimson multimedia editor, positions itself in opposition to “thinspo” and “fitspo” accounts (which extol the virtues of restricted eating and excessive exercise). It posts body positive messages and quotes, such as “Less inner thigh doesn’t necessarily equate to more inner peace,” twice a day. “It’s about saying, ‘It’s OK to not be fine, and people are here for you. You’re not alone in this,’” Hastie says. “I think social media is very powerful in that sense.”
A recent Tuesday—Oct. 20—was a blisteringly cold fall night, the kind that reminds you that winter is really coming. Regardless of the chill, about 30 female students made the trek to the Geological Museum to take part in the ECHO-sponsored event “Beauty Redefined.” The presentation, led by Lindsay and Lexie Kite, twins with Ph.D.s in the study of media and body image, has traveled all over the country.
While the room wasn’t quite filled to capacity, audience members were passionate about the topic—several asked questions, ranging from how to talk to their friends about the issue to the recent rise in plastic surgeries. By the end of the presentation, most of the cookies, strawberries, and ECHO stickers at the front of the room were gone, too.
ECHO sponsors other types of events as well. Several weeks before “Beauty Redefined,” ECHO held an “intuitive eating” discussion in the small dining room of Lowell House, where Gallant spoke to a small group of students, male and female, about how to “eat mindfully” and listen to what their bodies need and want. Similar workshops are scheduled for the future.
Some students, though, wonder if ECHO is under-utilized. “I think that the fact that ECHO exists and has signs everywhere is great, but from what I understand, it’s not used a whole lot,” Rogers says. “Again, no one wants to show weakness.” 
Despite the amount of work they contribute, even some counselors feel that students don’t take advantage of the resource. Hastie says that she’s “so glad that ECHO exists and that we have mental health services,” but she doesn’t think that students “are taught that it’s normal and OK to seek services.”
Many ECHO counselors express that they want the group to play a bigger role on campus. They’ve been trying to lead a program during freshman orientation for some time now, Hurst tells me.
When I talk to Doherty, a freshman who has recently gone through orientation, she notes the lack of a body image-specific program during Opening Days. While the school addressed mental health in terms of depression and anxiety, as well as sexual harassment, assault, and the abuse of drugs and alcohol, “nobody came up to us and said, ‘By the way, body image is something that you might also think a lot about,’” she says. Dean of Freshman Thomas A. Dingman ’67 confirmed in an email that there is not a specific program centered on body image during orientation.
Due to confidentiality rules, ECHO counselors can’t release any specific information about the amount of calls or visits they get. “But one thing I do want to say,” Hurst tells me, “is that students do struggle with these concerns.” There wouldn’t be an entire peer counseling group dedicated to body image concerns, she says, “if it weren’t a problem on campus.”
Hyland agrees with other students that “the sense of diversity of what it means to be healthy and what it means to be beautiful” can get lost at Harvard. But she has “also experienced it getting found.”
Indeed, pockets of body positive spaces, like ECHO, do thrive on campus. For Woods, her “pro-black” community at Harvard completely dictates her experience with body image. She says that she surrounds herself with people who will support her idea of beauty; groups like the Kuumba Singers and the Association of Black Harvard Women have been “home” to her, because she’s comfortable in her skin there. “You’re getting people who are like, ‘You’re a tall, thick woman, I’m a tall, thick woman. Here is this blazer, here is this dress that will look great on you,’” she says.
When Lydia E. Burns ’16 joined the women’s rugby team her freshman year, her already healthy relationship to her body only improved. Being part of the team “has given me a lot of confidence in how I use my body,” she says. “In the way that I love looking in the mirror and seeing muscle and knowing that translates to something larger than myself.” The team, she says, is a unique space in terms of “female strength and positive body image.”
Burns was one of the photographers involved in “Rugged Grace,” a series of photographs borne out of an article that one of the players, Brooke H. Kantor ’15, was writing for the Harvard Political Review. The photographs, which now survive on a Tumblr page, capture members of the team in sports bras and spandex with encouraging words and phrases written in Sharpie across their thighs, stomachs, and arms (“squat master,” “so strong,” “fighter!”). The project garnered national media attention: It was featured on “Good Morning America” and in Glamour Magazine.
The project at first seemed like “kind of an awkward thing to ask of people,” Burns says, but once the women got to their makeshift set, “there was this weird sense of togetherness and almost therapy.” Burns describes the scene with a wide smile. Teammates jumped in and out of the camera’s frame; they wrote feverishly on each other’s bodies and yelled out compliments, celebrating one another’s and their own strengths; there was lots of laughter. It was, Burns remembers, “a time-warp sort of space, where we were just in this zone together.”
How, then, can the positivity of that kind of “time-warp sort of space” inform conversations around body image and disordered eating at Harvard? How can the “stigma,” that so many students speak of, be erased?
When I ask students what can be done to change Harvard’s culture of body image issues, I’m met with silence, sharp intakes of breath, or, “Let me think about this.” Because body image issues are so pervasive in society, students say, it’s not easy to think of any readily tangible solutions for Harvard’s campus.
A few moments after the silence or breathing or thinking, most students land on the same solution: The only way to de-stigmatize the topic is to talk about it. Body image concerns start, and end, with language. A lot of the issue, Guijarro says, “is a question of the silence that perpetuates the shame and the isolation and the embarrassment.”
When Hastie was struggling with her eating disorder, she wished there were different modes of talking about eating concerns and greater sensitivity to the topic. “I feel like everyone could be doing more to talk about it and not just treat us like we’re ‘damaged goods,’” she says.
Harvard—and other universities, Austin says—also needs to change the manner in which bodies are discussed. “There’s more that could be done to address weight stigma head on, to address fat talk, to create supportive environments where body shame is not the norm in conversation,” she says.
Woods would love to see a space on campus that brings people from various social and cultural groups into conversation with one another to celebrate diversity of appearance. That way, students can ask each other what they love about themselves, what’s important to them, and what challenges they face.
It’s a beautiful fall day when Kaynor, the dancer, and I meet. The leaves are burnt orange and shaking a little in the wind—that mythical Indian summer. Gold flecks sparkle on Kaynor’s eyelids and neck. She participated in a yoga and dance event in Central Square that morning, where body glitter was abundant.
We’re sitting in the Yard, and even though November is just a couple of days away, there’s no need for a jacket. When I ask Kaynor how students can create a more body positive campus, she’s quick and confident to answer; the glitter is dancing on her face. “Every person you talk to can identify in some way with these issues, which is why it can be so hard to figure out how to tackle,” she tells me. “But it can also be really empowering to realize you’re not alone.”
Kaynor is enthusiastic about the important change that will arise if we “have a conversation, but really have a conversation” about body image. Her emphasis via repetition is telling—we have to fight the urge to fill these conversations with superficial language, she says. “Real, deep discussions” are key to making any kind of difference.
And maybe the issue won’t hang so heavy in the air—it doesn’t seem to now, in the golden afternoon sun—if we just jump in.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Hutchins Center for African and African American Research is hosting this fall a photography exhibition that displays previously buried archival photographs of black subjects in late 19th century Britain.
“Black Chronicles II,” as the exhibition is called, is the continuation of a similar project looking to address the absence of cultural diversity in the Victorian historical narrative.
Organized by a London-based arts agency in conjunction with Getty Images’ Hulton Archive, the photographic project features more than 100 recently unearthed portraits of missionaries, dignitaries, servicemen, and unidentified sitters. Thirty of them—the ones that capture the African Choir, a group that toured Britain in the late 19th century—were printed from the original negatives and are being presented for the first time in over a century, according to the exhibition’s web page.
Francelle Carapetyan, a photographic researcher who visited the exhibition on Wednesday, said that she felt the portraits were “overwhelmingly poignant.”
“The expressions of some of the sitters just sort of nail your heart,” she added. “To think that these have not been seen in over a hundred years makes you realize that the world is full of archives of this kind. It’s a brilliant exhibit.”
Debbie Needleman, also a photographic researcher and Carapetyan’s colleague, agreed.
“I love the scale of them, the size that they’ve made them,” she said. “There is something so powerful and really just extremely poignant.”
The photographs are accompanied by notes printed on the wall above them that stress the importance of archival photography in illuminating the lives of people marginalized in history.
Another feature of the gallery is the audio recording of a 2008 keynote lecture on colonialism and cultural memory by Stuart Hall, a late cultural theorist to whom the exhibition is dedicated.
The installation, which is displayed at the center’s Ethelbert Cooper Gallery of African and African American Art, launched in September and will stay open until December.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following Tuesday’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences discussion about the future of the College’s General Education program, faculty members and undergraduates continued the conversation on Wednesday at the last Committee on Undergraduate Education meeting of the semester.
In town hall meetings over the month leading up to Tuesday’s FAS meeting, the Gen Ed review committee vetted tentative proposals for significantly lowering the number of courses required by the program and changing its quantitative reasoning requirement. A spring interim report from that committee deemed the program “failing on a variety of fronts.”
On Wednesday, faculty and students discussed another option for the revamped program, according to Undergraduate Council representative Scott Ely ’18, who attended the meeting. That option would require students to take four courses that might resemble Gen Ed courses and three distribution requirements in each of the College’s three divisions—Sciences, Social Sciences, and Arts and Humanities—and one mathematics-based course, he said.
Paul Bamberg, a senior lecturer on Mathematics, questioned whether streamlining the program would increase enrollment numbers in certain courses to the detriment of other classes.
If the revamped Gen Ed program required students to meet certain distribution requirements that overlapped with concentration requirements, for example, many students may gravitate to the same courses to “kill two requirements with one course,” Bamberg said.
Other considerations discussed at Wednesday’s meeting included the transition process for students whose plans of study depend on the Gen Ed program as it now stands, Ely said.
Stephanie H. Kenen, the director of the Program in General Education who attended the meeting, afterward declined to comment on the Gen Ed transition, calling it “premature because we don’t know what the final proposal is going to look like” in an email.
Ely said he feels “generally positive” about what the administrators discussed and that his ongoing goal is to make sure that the UC’s Education Committee will have more input in the transition process.
Following the Gen Ed discussion, CUE meeting attendees talked about joint concentrations and their mandated theses and the possibility of counting for credit certain one-credit or two-credit courses, Ely said.
Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris did not respond to a request for comment.
—Staff writer Melissa C. Rodman can be reached at melissa.rodman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @melissa_rodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Speaking to a large crowd at the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum on Wednesday, History professor Niall C. Ferguson discussed the biography and political ideas of Henry A. Kissinger ’50.
Ferguson, who published the first volume of a biography on the former secretary of state in September, said last month that he will leave Harvard for Stanford’s Hoover Institution after what he said has been “12 wonderful years.” He plans to continue working on a second biographical volume on Kissinger as he moves to California.
At the event Wednesday, Ferguson said Kissinger’s private papers revealed that the former secretary of state and Harvard professor was very different from both what he expected and what previous historians had found.
“The key point about this book is that it’s certainly not the Henry Kissinger you’ve come to expect,” Ferguson said, adding that, even though he expected Kissinger to be an “American Machiavelli,” he realized that he was very idealistic during his early political career.
Answering a question on the parallels between Ferguson and Kissinger’s lives from event moderator Mary Sarotte, an associate at the Center for European Studies, Ferguson said his research was also motivated by an interest in Harvard’s history and the University’s role as a source of appointments in the federal administration.
“I think it was partly being here [at Harvard] that inspired me to do the book,” he said. “I was partly trying to teach myself about Harvard.”
Ferguson also spoke about the impact that Kissinger’s background in history had on his foreign policy ideas. The former secretary of state approached international relations as “applied history,” Ferguson said.
Simone E. A. Abegunrin ’18, who asked Ferguson about Kissinger’s potential views on the Iran nuclear deal after Sarotte opened the floor for audience questions, said the event helped her understand that Kissinger is “a human” and had “complex beginnings.”
Sarotte, whose work on the end of the Cold War relates to Ferguson’s research on Kissinger, said in an interview after the event that “it’s great to talk about historical themes with a broad audience.”
Abegunrin, referencing Ferguson’s departure from Harvard, described the University’s loss as the broader community’s gain.
“I’m grateful that we do have people like him, that we have this historical knowledge that can carry on this knowledge tradition outside of Harvard’s campus,” Abegunrin said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: November 5, 2015, at 10:57 p.m.
After a divided discussion on Wednesday, the Graduate Student Council ultimately voted to stand in support of Harvard graduate students involved in an effort to unionize.
The unionization effort, which first went public in April, heard some of its first signs of public student opposition at a Graduate Student Council meeting last month, although University President Drew G. Faust has been a vocal opponent of the student unionization movement for several months.
But despite that pushback, the student movement is gaining steam; organizers have made a website and partnered with the United Auto Workers Union to solicit prospective members as their counterparts at peer institutions undergo similar efforts. While Harvard administrators say a union of graduate students would alter the relationship between professors and their students, student organizers maintain that it would allow them to use collective bargaining in negotiations.
 On Wednesday, the graduate student government body approved a resolution, 38 to 4, asserting that the work of the Harvard Graduate Students Union—what student organizers are calling the effort—is “complementary to the role of the Graduate Student Council.”
The resolution passed after the Council waited to vote on an earlier draft after its October meeting, per regular procedure.
During Wednesday’s hour-long debate over the resolution, Dawn M. Graninger, a graduate student in Astronomy and the student government at-large representative for the natural sciences, proposed an amendment to alter the resolution’s wording in support of members of the Graduate Students Union, instead of the movement at large.
Graninger’s amendment, which was adopted into the final language, says the student government “stands in support of graduate student workers of HGSU-UAW,” but not the unionization movement itself.
The room of Council members and other graduate students was split on the issue, voicing both praise and criticism of the resolution. Students in favor of supporting the unionization effort and its members said they saw significant support for the movement throughout their respective departments.
“I think that all of us who have… joined already in the union effort would really appreciate this kind of statement of support from the GSC,” said Ellora A. Derenoncourt, a graduate student in the Economics department.
Some students in opposition of the resolution, meanwhile, argued that voting on it immediately would be premature, suggesting that they needed more time to fully understand the unionization effort.
Marissa E. Grunes, a graduate student in the English department, said the decision to sign a union card—used by unionization movement organizers to gather support, is not a whole-hearted symbol of approval of a potential union.
“I’ve spoken to people in my department who have signed the cards and who continue to have reservations,” she said. “There is a large population of people who are not sure.”
The Council’s representatives from the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, who said at the meeting that their constituents at SEAS needed more time to understand the unionization proposal before voting on the resolution, moved to postpone a formal vote until February.
But both this motion and one to postpone the vote until December failed in two votes, both with 14 in favor and 23 opposed.
—Staff writer Jalin P. Cunningham can be reached at jalin.cunningham@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JalinCunningham.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Architects in charge of the upcoming renovation of Winthrop House have tweaked their construction plans so that a five-story addition will closer resemble the rest of the Neo-Georgian residence, rather than be built in the more contemporary style as previously planned.
In February, Harvard detailed its plans for the addition to Gore Hall, one of two buildings that comprise Winthrop, a River House set to undergo renovation in 2016-2017 as part of Harvard’s more than $1 billion House renewal project.
Architects plan to build the addition, dubbed “Winthrop East,” on the corner of Mill and Plympton Streets to house 46 additional beds and eliminate the need for overflow housing. In original renderings, Winthrop East followed a contemporary style in contrast with Winthrop’s otherwise old-fashioned and brick facade.
Plans released this week update the building with a Neo-Georgian style exterior. The update to previous plans come in response to recommendations from students and administrators who weighed in on the original designs, according to Elizabeth R. Leber, a partner at Beyer Blinder Belle, the architecture firm involved in the construction.
“The exterior changes are a reflection of a desire by many in the Harvard community to see a building that was more clearly sympathetic to the Neo-Georgian river Houses,” Leber wrote in an email.
According to Winthrop House Co-Master Ronald S. Sullivan, Jr., the latest renewal plans also include a significantly larger fitness room, a multi-purpose arts and design room, and a two-story grille and student center. He also said the changes follow feedback from students.
“The changes were a result of a very healthy give and take between students, architects, and the community,” Sullivan said. “It’s indicative of the very best of what this process could be.”
To gauge students’ feelings on the renewal plans, administrators convened a committee of about 20 students, who met three times last February and twice again last month, Leber wrote.
Administrators updated Winthrop residents on the plans on Tuesday at a closed town hall-style event. Jennifer F. N. Kizza ’16, a Winthrop resident and a member of the student feedback committee, said students raised similar concerns on Tuesday that had previously come up in the smaller committee discussions.
“Will we have back-gate swipe? Will we have sinks in the rooms, given that we have hallway bathrooms?” Kizza said, referring to her peers’ concerns. “But overall, I think students had a similar sentiment of wanting to maintain Winthrop’s House spirit.”
Other students involved in the feedback process praised the update to the planned addition.
“I was very pleased,” said Marlee A. Ehrlich ’16, Winthrop House Committee co-chair. “I think that it looked really great from the sketches that we saw, and I think it was really important that the architect and renovations committee really listened to the students’ opinion.”
—Staff writer R. Blake Paterson can be reached at blake.paterson@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BlakePat95.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University professor Henry Louis Gates, Jr., said he first became interested in genealogy the day he buried his grandfather, known in the family as “Casper” due to his light skin tone.
“I wanted to figure out how someone with my phenotype could have descended from a man, my grandfather, who looked so white,” Gates said. “I was hooked on genealogy from that day.”
Gates’s love of the subject led him to establish a genealogy and genetics summer camp for middle school children, for which he recently received a $335,000 grant from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. Gates also won a $304,000 grant from the National Science Foundation to develop college-level courses in biology with a focus on genealogy and genetics, according to the Associated Press.
His experience as host of the popular television show “Finding Your Roots” inspired the summer camp. In the show, Gates combines his passion for genealogy with the science of DNA-based ancestry tracing to unearth the family history of American celebrities.
Nina G. Jablonski, an anthropology professor at Penn State University, collaborated with Gates on the summer camp project. The camps will consist of three two-week sessions, Jablonski said, and participants’ DNA will be tested before the camp begins in a process supervised by their parents and guardians.
Students will then interview relatives and create a family tree, according to Gates. They will use census data to trace their ancestry back for decades, in addition to taking various measurements of their own bodies, including height and weight. At the end of the program, participants will use information gathered throughout the two weeks to graph and display their scientific findings.
“We’ll give them a variety of fun and beautiful ways to depict their results so that they have a lasting memory of being able not only to master their own data but to create a visual that they can, in turn, use to teach others,” Jablonski said.
The camps will be held at Penn State University and the University of South Carolina next summer and at the American Museum of Natural History in 2017. College courses will be offered at Spelman College, Morehouse College, and North Carolina A&T State University, the AP reported.
Gates said he hopes these programs will help to reverse what he termed a “negative” trend in education, in which he said many students attending under-resourced public schools consider history and science “alien” concepts.
“We have a huge percentage of kids in poor black neighborhoods for whom science is anathema,” Gates said. “So what we want to do is show them it can be fun, it can be interesting, and it can teach you something about yourself.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
William D. Nordhaus, an economics professor at Yale, headed a panel discussion at Harvard on Wednesday and proposed a club model to combat climate change that would require countries to pay a fixed amount for their carbon emissions and penalize non-participants through trade sanctions.
The panel, held in a packed Science Center lecture hall and moderated by Kennedy School of Government professor Sheila S. Jasanoff ’64, was co-sponsored by the Harvard University Center for the Environment, the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, and the Graduate School of Design. The talk was part of a lecture series on science and democracy organized by the Kennedy School’s Program on Science, Technology, and Society.
Nordhaus said his proposal relies on the idea that countries will be more apt to reduce their carbon emissions under a “club model.” He suggested an international treaty in which countries “move into agreements that they want to be in, not ones they are forced to be in.” These agreements are effective, Nordhaus argued, because nations are voluntarily joining them for the benefit of global public goods.
After Nordhaus introduced his club model, three other panelists joined him on stage to weigh in on his proposal. The panelists included Kennedy School professor Richard Zeckhauser, Physics professor David Keith, and Michael Grubb, a professor from the Institute for Sustainable Resources at University College London.
While Grubb and Keith supported Nordhaus’s proposal, Zeckhauser presented some issues he had with the club model. He cited “not so nice” countries that could easily retaliate against trade sanctions as one problem and said policies like tariffs tend to get out of hand.
He added that major economic players such as the U.S. have a larger role to play in combating climate change, something not accounted for in the club model.
“The United States foot dragged on climate policy… by economic precincts we should have been a big contributor, not a reluctant contributor. I would propose that what we should do is recognize at the outset that the United States is going to have to do more,” Zeckhauser said.
Several audience members said they found the discussion interesting.
Marta Marello, a researcher on energy efficiency at Boston University, said the talk was thought-provoking because it discussed climate change from an economic standpoint, but doubted the viability of some of the ideas proposed.
“There were some great ideas, but they’re probably not going to happen. Especially with countries like the U.S., who’ve dragged their feet for so long,” Marello said. “Why would they jump onto something now? Great in theory, but in practice, how is this going to happen?”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last year, the Harvard men’s soccer team needed a win against Columbia to maintain a chance at the Ivy League title. But with seven minutes left in the game, the score remained 0-0. The Crimson had failed to register a single shot on goal.
But all it took was one shot from then-junior forward Tim Schmoll in the 84th minute. With a 1-0 victory over Columbia, the Crimson moved to within two points of conference leaders Princeton and Dartmouth.
This time around, Harvard’s fate is not as clear-cut. The Crimson lost a chance to tie Dartmouth for first place in the conference when the Big Green eked out a 1-0 overtime win against Harvard last week.
“We really wanted to win that game so we could put ourselves in the driver’s seat of the Ivy League,” co-captain Mark Ashby said. “But since we lost, anything can happen.”
With only two games remaining in the season, the Crimson (7-6-2, 3-2 Ivy) will need to win both for a shot to even tie the championship title. And Dartmouth (9-4-1, 5-0), now five points ahead of the pack, would need to lose both its next games.
But the team will travel to New York City this weekend to face the Lions with as much energy as ever.
“Despite the fact that we’re not as in control nearly as much as we were before, we definitely haven’t given up on the season,” Ashby said. “Even if mathematically we didn’t have a chance, the type of guys we have on the team still wouldn’t give up.”
Columbia (9-4-1, 3-2) is currently tied with Harvard for third in Ivy standings.
“Having played Columbia a bunch of times, they’re always a very technical, very sound team,” senior forward Jake Freeman said. “They rarely come into a game without bringing the fight and energy that they need to compete.”
The Lions boast an overall win percentage of 0.68, slightly higher than the Crimson’s 0.53. The team has won three of its past four games, while Harvard is coming off two consecutive in-conference losses.
“We’re going in against Columbia hoping to get a win, with the same mentality that we have going into every game,” Freeman said. “We’re pretty confident as a team. We’re not really dwelling on the losses that we’ve had.”
Harvard will have to thwart Columbia’s leading goal-scorer, sophomore scoring threat Arthur Bosua. The 6’3” forward singlehandedly contributed two of the team’s past five goals, and leads the team with four goals this season.
Another contributor to Columbia’s attack is Andrew Tinari, a junior midfielder who currently has four assists and two goals to his name. In the Lions’ most recent game against Yale, Tinari and Bosua both contributed a goal.
On the other side of the ball, the Crimson likely will not be able to rely on a one-shot-wonder for the second year in a row. Freeman leads the team with five goals, three of which have been game-winners.
“I feel responsible as one of the goal scorers, so I want to focus on trying to get guys into position to score goals or myself in position to score goals,” Freeman said.
Harvard’s offense will have to get past Columbia senior goalkeeper Kyle Jackson. Jackson has recorded six shutouts this season, a career high.
“We know it’s going to be a close game, really tough fought all the way through,” Freeman said. “We’ll need to start shooting and trying to get those goals in early.”
The Crimson’s senior goalkeeper Evan Mendez will pose an equal threat in the other net. Last year, the New York native secured seven saves to shut the Lions out. This season, Mendez has logged four shutouts and holds a save percentage of .762 in conference.
“Whether or not we can make it [to the NCAA tournament] or whether we can take the Ivy, we really just want to take it game by game…. We just want to keep it on goal, keep it simple, and hopefully it’ll pan out well on Saturday,” Freeman said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Heading out into the icy tundra of the Charles River Basin can be no easy task during the month of November for even the most experienced cold weather New England sailors. But for two members of the Harvard Sailing team, junior Juan Carlos “Juanky” Perdomo and sophomore Taylor Ladd, that undertaking has taken even more getting used to.
Perdomo and Ladd, hailing from San Juan, Puerto Rico, and St. Thomas of the U.S. Virgin Islands, respectively, grew up racing in the warm ocean breezes of the Caribbean, not the biting chill that accompanies Boston winters.
When first encountering these types of conditions, both were somewhat unsure how to exactly tackle the problem at hand. Initially, the duo did not know how to fully prepare themselves and needed to learn the ropes from teammates better acquainted to the cold. But there was only so much they could do. Cold-weather sailing was a relatively foreign endeavor they were unable to fully relate to until they themselves experienced the numbing pain for the first time.
“Back home, we could sail year round in 70-80 degree weather,” Ladd said. “One thing I had to learn was how to dress effectively to keep myself warm in 30 degrees…. [But] at a certain point, there’s only so much you can do to stay warm and keep your mobility, so what’s probably most difficult is being able to perform while still cold.”
Ladd had to learn that lesson the hard way.
But frigid weather is not the only difference between their college racing life and their Caribbean sailing careers. Back home, both of these sailors raced in Olympic-style events that mainly consist of two to three approximately hour-long tilts per day of racing.
On the competitive college scene, however, teams sail much shorter races, typically lasting just 15 or 20 minutes, and individuals compete in about eight to 10 of those contests on any given day of a regatta. These shorter races are quite different tactically than Olympic-style ones, as they require additional decisiveness and situational awareness, as well as constantly focused attentiveness.
“In college it’s really important to stay focused during the entire day,” Perdomo said. “You can often times be on the water for six to eight hours racing nonstop, which makes it easy to zone out from time to time and have poor results. Also, in short courses, speed is not as important as it is in Olympic sailing and results are more influenced by good decision making and starting technique than by sheer boat speed.”
Both sailors agreed that college regattas also require further versatility. One needs to understand the various intricacies of many different modes of competition. No longer are these racers just sailing one type of boat throughout the entire year with fairly similar conditions for each race, as is the norm in the Caribbean. Instead, they must adapt to sailing in different bodies of water with variable environments, while racing in multiple types of boats throughout the season.
According to Ladd, “you have to adjust to the boats you’re sailing each weekend, the conditions in each place …[depending on] whether you’re sailing on a river, lake, or ocean, and [use] local knowledge about the venue.”
The winds in these types of events can also be quite erratic, leading to further complications when setting and executing race plans. Unlike Perdomo and Ladd’s high school regattas, which were typically set far offshore where there tends to be consistent breezes, the Crimson’s regattas are rather close to shore, leading to more fickle winds while racing.
As a result, the two have been required to think on their feet much more often throughout the course of a regatta than they had in the past. But it seems as if having been forced into quickly and completely shifting their tactical styles to adjust to the conditions has allowed both these racers to become more well-rounded sailors.
“The wind here in New England is not as consistent as it is back home,” Perdomo said. “It’s usually not as strong and changes direction very frequently, which makes it complicated to sail well tactically. Looking back, I think this difference has been a big boost for my sailing because it has helped me improve in conditions I had been weak at before college.”
Obviously, adapting to these major shifts in sailing methodology did not occur overnight. Both individuals required time and practice to adjust to the faster pace of racing and life at Harvard in general. Learning experiences and slight setbacks peppered their freshman seasons.
Looking at how they are handling themselves now, however, one would assume they had been racing under these circumstances throughout their entire lives. Both sailors have become stars on the Crimson sailing team.
Ladd recently became the first Crimson sailor to qualify for ICSA Women’s Singlehanded National Championship since 2008, while Perdomo placed first at the NEISA Men’s Singlehanded Championship in late September to qualify him for the ICSA Singlehanded National Championship for the second time.
The drastic change in these sailors’ environment has not been a barrier to success. Having to acclimate to sailing life in Cambridge coming from the Caribbean gave Perdomo and Ladd perspective and experience that provides an added edge. They each came out stronger from their own personal trial by fire.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Rounding out the fall portion of its season, the Harvard men’s golf team took a trip to sunny Southern California to compete in the Gifford Collegiate Invitational hosted by UCLA. At the end of three full days of play, the Crimson came away placing 13th out of 15 participants.
Harvard was the only Ancient Eight squad making the trek to the La Costa Legends Course in Carlsbad, Calif. The Crimson was joined at the tournament by a pair of top-25 opponents. Stanford came into the event ranked fifth in the nation, while Texas A&M entered at No. 25. Seven additional schools in the top 50 were also present, including No. 26 South Florida and No. 28 UCLA. However, unranked Washington came out on top at invite’s conclusion, shooting a -6 to best the Cardinal by nine strokes.
“This was as strong of a field of teams as we’ll be seeing in a regular season event ever,” Harvard coach Kevin Rhoads said. “If we really played at the top of our game, I thought we’d finish a little bit better than we ended up, more towards the middle of the pack, but I thought it was pretty good in general.”
The course played at par 71 over its 6,996-yard duration. The invite was the first 72-hole event the Crimson has competed in since its season-opening tilt at the Doc Gimmler in September, as well as its first weekday tournament of the year. Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday each featured a full 18 holes of play. Harvard played its best round as a team on Tuesday, combining for a score of 293, nine strokes over par.
“I think we played okay as a team, but each of us could’ve done better,” Harvard sophomore Hale Furey said. “It was a solid showing, but there’s definitely plenty for us to improve on going forward.”
At the end of the second day, the Crimson was positioned tied with No. 25 Texas A&M as the 10th place team at the event, just ahead of Wisconsin. But in round three Harvard was only able to combine for a 301, better than only Marquette and San Jose State, falling back to 13th.
“Overall, I think the course played really tough over the three days,” Furey said. “The greens in particular were a lot faster than what we’re used to in the Northeast, and the pin placements on different holes were challenging and made shots really difficult and tricky at times.”
On the individual side, Harvard was led by juniors Daniel De La Garza and Robert Deng. Both players shot a 219, putting them six-over-par and tied for 24th place overall. De La Garza’s third-round 71 was the best individual round score for a Crimson player and good enough for even par. Freshman Aurian Capart finished at +13, tied with 49th-ranked Thomas Lim of Oregon for 56th overall. There was a three-way tie for individual champion, with Chris Babcock and Corey Pereira, both representing Washington, joining Stanford’s nationally top-ranked Maverick McNealy at -4.
“Everyone had their stretches where they played really well over the course of the tournament,” Rhoads said. “The guys were really motivated coming in because of the quality of competition, and I think they’ll use the experience they gained here to move forward and play well in the spring half of the season.”
Moving forward, the Crimson will take a four-month hiatus from tournament play, with its next invite coming over spring break in March. Then, Harvard will begin its second half of the divided season and continue its quest for an elusive Ivy League Championship.
“Right now, we’re all going to take a two-week break from golf to just be normal students and enjoy Harvard for a bit,” Furey said. “Then, most of us will go home and play a lot of golf over J-term and come back ready and motivated for the spring season to start.”
—Staff writer Jed Rothstein can be reached at jrothstein@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Congratulations! You’ve made it through a moderately temperate week. If you’re thinking these past few days were cold, don’t be afraid of what lies ahead. Flyby has created a list of what not to do if you’re from a warmer climate:
1) Do not be afraid to bundle upYou could run the risk of looking #unfashionable, but staying warm is always important, especially once flu season rolls around again. Master the art of layering and keep a light sweater in your bag just in case. Have fun with accessories: hats, scarves, gloves, earmuffs, face masks– nothing is off the table, especially if they have a Harvard logo on it (stepping up your school pride game in anticipation of Harvard-Yale). It’s also not a bad idea to keep some hand warmers lying around.
2) Do not believe that the sun is an indication of warmthThe sun may be out and shining, but that can still mean strong windchills. Ask friends that have already left the dorm about the weather, or even better yet, Flyby brings you the weather every morning.
3) Do not stay inside when it first snowsAs much as everyone complains about the copious amounts of snow and freezing temperatures, the first snowfall is undeniably beautiful. The entire world is enveloped in a sheet of white, how jolly and festive and magical. Go out and enjoy the winter wonderland: start a snowball fight, build a snowman (and then reference Frozen in your Instagram caption), and sled down the steps of Widener. And if you’ve grown up with snow all your life, there's still a spectacle for you: go out and people-watch all the warmer climate people who are oh so incredibly excited.
Sections
Every semester, Annenberg holds its class-wide freshman dinner, where eager first-year students may invite the faculty member of their choice for an evening that very accurately portrays what it’s like to eat everyday at the Berg (read: roast beef and apple crisp are indeed not the usual menu items, dear professors - as much as we wish they were). This is a night that shouldn’t be missed, so if you find yourself terrified at the idea of having to invite a real adult to a real dinner, read on for tips on how to approach the night:
Step 1: Picking the Person
The first thing to do is decide what classes in which you’ve actually paid attention. If you sleep through your psychology class and you invite your psych professor, chances are that dinner is going to end up like your first “chaperoned” date did: awkward and silent. Remember, the person you ask to the dinner doesn’t have to be a professor. So pick a professor, TF, preceptor, or anyone else that is involved in a class or organization that you are passionate about.
Step 2: Extending the Invitation
You have a few options with this one. Every freshman received a handy-dandy card, which has room for your information and the details of the event. This is a great way to avoid repeated human interaction pre-event with your professor. Email is another minimal-contact option. The most personal option is to approach your invitee in person. Recognize that this person is in fact human. So don’t be scared. People love being invited to events that other people aren’t invited to. #finalclubs
Step 3: Dealing with other people that invited the same person
This is the moment your Hunger Game skills will finally come in handy. Kidding (sort of). If this happens, and it’s bound to with popular professors and TFs, just suggest you all go to dinner in a group. That may even make the dinner more enjoyable because it won’t be on you to carry a conversation, and you won’t be forced to have terrifying flashbacks to the many, many alumni interviews you went to pre-college.
Step 4: Picking a time
If you’re free the entire time Annenberg will be open for the dinner (no, your scheduled time to watch reruns of Glee doesn’t count as ‘busy’), you should let the person you invited pick the time for dinner. But if you do have something that conflicts, make sure you let them know from the get-go so that they can plan for it.
Step 5: The Dinner
Now this is the most important step of the process. You must actually show up to the dinner. And plan to be there 10 minutes early because you know you’re going to be running late. Dressy attire is recommended for the event so this would not be the time to show off your newly purchased sweatpants. If you’re not feeling creative about what to say during the dinner, Flyby has you covered.
And that’s it. It’s not always easy having grown-up interactions with people, but with Flyby’s guide, you’ll be just fine.
Sections
On November 5, 1939, Parker Brothers introduced Monopoly to the world, and family game night has never been the same.
IN THE DHALLS
Lunch:Teriyaki Chicken with Scallions and GarlicGrilled Cheddar Sandwich with Tomato and Red Onion
Dinner:Community Night — Diced PorkSpanish Style Roasted ChickenSuccotash with Edamame
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
Shockingly, it’s going to be another beautiful day in Cambridge. 70º and mostly sunny (at least until the sun sets before dinner).
ON FLYBY
How To: First-Year Faculty DinnerHey, freshmen– we're looking at you.
Flyby Winter Survival GuideCold weather is here, it'll probably stay forever, we love to complain about it– here are some tips to survive it.
A Review of El Jefe's TaqueriaWe all have wondered whether or not we should step every time we walk by it– well, we have the verdict.
ON FM
Body TalkWhile discussions about mental health often occur at Harvard today, many students say issues around body image and eating disorders remain in the shadows. Those affected suffer, for the most part, quietly and unsure of whom to turn to for help.
Halloween Organ RecitalMy second trip to the annual recital by the Harvard Organ Society, this year held on October 29, did not fail to put me in the Halloween mood.
Roofs and TunnelsThe tunnels may be Harvard’s biggest mystery, but for a select few adventurers, they can exist as more than just rumor. 
IN THE NEWS
Council Votes To ‘Support’ Students Involved in Union EffortAfter a divided discussion on Wednesday, the Graduate Student Council ultimately voted to stand in support of Harvard graduate students involved in an effort to unionize.
Gates To Establish Genealogy Summer Camp With GrantGates’s love of the subject led him to establish a genealogy and genetics summer camp for middle school children, for which he recently received a $335,000 grant from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. Gates also won a $304,000 grant from the National Science Foundation to develop college-level courses in biology with a focus on genealogy and genetics, according to the Associated Press.
Students and Faculty Weigh Options for Gen Ed OverhaulFollowing Tuesday’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences discussion about the future of the College’s General Education program, faculty members and undergraduates continued the conversation on Wednesday at the last Committee on Undergraduate Education meeting of the semester.
Ferguson Discusses Politics and Kissinger BiographyFerguson, who published the first volume of a biography on the former secretary of state in September, said last month that he will leave Harvard for Stanford’s Hoover Institution after what he said has been “12 wonderful years.” He plans to continue working on a second biographical volume on Kissinger as he moves to California.
Architects Update Plans For Winthrop Renewal AdditionArchitects in charge of the upcoming renovation of Winthrop House have tweaked their construction plans so that a five-story addition will closer resemble the rest of the Neo-Georgian residence, rather than be built in the more contemporary style as previously planned.
EVENTS
Gallery Talk — Lynette Roth will be discussing Shahryar Nashat’s works in the Art Museum at 12:30 p.m.
Global Health, Humanitarian, & Human Rights Fair — Stop by the OCS between 4 and 6 p.m. to learn about various opportunities in the field.
How Nature Can Save Us — M. Sanjayan will be speaking at the Museum of Natural History at 6 p.m.
The 2016 Yardfest Survey closes tonight — make sure you vote (for Fetty Wap)!


Sections
Up until junior year, I had never really bothered to pay the Market in the Square much attention. The place reminded me more of a grocery store where my hipster cousin would go buy his food for the week rather than a place where I would consider going for a midnight snack after studying or a night out. However, after countless outings to 60 Church Street at any time of the day (24-hour service, my friends) I can’t help but say that the Market is one specialty wrap away from your heart.
Ordering
Head over directly to the deli where you will see a black menu with white and gold lettering with every possible combination of cold cut wraps, sandwiches, paninis, and salads. Thankfully, section has taught us to skim for the important stuff (or we just say TLDR) and my eyes landed on the natural beauty that is S9– the Grand Canyon. Preparation time takes around 5-8 minutes (scientific observations, everyone) but this goes by fast when you explore the items on the shelf.
The Taste
The Market has a few tables and since I had no interest in going back to my stat pset, I grabbed a Nantucket Nectar and began to inspect the Grand Canyon. Fairly thicker than your Felipe’s burrito, the S9 was simply irresistible. The fresh tinge of avocado, the warm chicken with rich mozzarella, even the somewhat randomly wild cucumbers make a sublime combination. Each bite was only better than the last one and even though I tend to devour food like no other, I had to pause in between bites to fully savor the impressiveness of the Canyon. Perhaps a bit less Russian dressing would be better, since it left my fingers sometimes dripping with dressing. This small detail is however dwarfed by the mouthwatering creation that had disappeared in front of me.
Conclusion
The Market has become one of my favorite go-to eats and ranks amongst other casual restaurants in the Square. While it may be a bit pricier than other places, the assortment of items and the succulent specialty wraps are sure to make you come back for more.
Oh, one more note: Rigo
Rigo is the guy that works the cashier from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. almost every day. He became somewhat of a Snapchat celebrity about a month ago when I saw him hoverboarding (is that a verb now?) around the Market with some other Harvard students. “I have been working here for the past six or seven years now,” he tells me. “I had put a video of myself on the hover board and some of the guys in the College saw it and then came by to see if they could use it.” I ask him jokingly if he plans to rent it out to students, to which he laughs and says, “No, I don’t think so, but you’ll probably see me around 5 a.m. going around the Market on this thing.”
Indeed we will, Rigo.
