Sections
This year Harvard further detailed its plans to move parts of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences to North Allston. Additional improvements will be made to athletic facilities already across the river. Here at FM, we’ve come up with suggestions for additional projects that we think Harvard could actually use in the barren tundra of Allston. All ideas are pending approval.
A Harvard Stadium without a 10 foot drop
Nothing says “Go Harvard” like a broken leg. The tradition of storming the field after The Game is tarnished by having to drunkenly descend a concrete wall. Jumping down into a friend’s arms isn’t a good option either, because that’s just twice the casualties. Save us the trouble, Harvard. Don’t make the stadium a death trap.
Replica of John Harvard
Located in an abandoned parking lot, the exact replica of the John Harvard statue would divert tourists away from the Yard. The decoy statue would cause tourist groups to gather in a crowded frenzy without being anywhere near you on your way to class. Never again will you have to be questioned about your SAT score, or power walk in front of their photo to assert your dominance.
Four CVS’s
For those days when you’re feeling a distinct lack of available drug stores, a series of four CVS stores in Allston will fill that gaping void. Three in the Square didn’t really do it for me. Let’s shoot for one building where each floor is a different CVS. Not different floors of the same CVS, but a different CVS store on each floor entirely. Bring back the self checkout. I want to buy my overpriced laundry detergent in peace.
Indoor Waterpark
Give me one good reason why not. Liability? Wrong. There isn’t one. Let a little loose and get a little wet in conditions only slightly more sanitary than Mather Lather. The waterpark will feature towering attractions of impressive speeds that drop faster than your GPA in midterm season. Let me hit you with some ideas: the Weeks Foot Bridge—a 20 foot cliff dive where you land on your friend. The Quad Shuttle—slide down to the Quad in 25 minutesflat, but you have to share a tube with last weekend’s hook-up and make small talk. The Final Club Tube—no one can actually go in and it’s completely in the dark. The Lamont Lazy River—leisurely drift down a river of tears while doing a pset. The options are endless.
The Mega Quad Deluxe 2.0
As those in a walkthrough triple N-4 cupboards will attest, we could use some more rooms on campus. But if you think the Quad is far, just imagine living in a dorm in Allston. Therefore, Drizzy Faust and crew should design it to be the most unreal housing in Cambridge. The Mega Quad Deluxe 2.0 will feature subsidized Uber service, spacious common rooms, and an indoor waterpark. The waterpark is happening. It’s happening and we’re doing it, Dean Khurana.
Sections
After days and days of statistical regression and mathetmatical analysis, FM is here with your 2014-2015 trend results. From classes to take to apps to delete, here’s the official buy, hold, and sell of the academic year.
Buy
Allston Real Estate
“Serial”
Lottery Tickets
CS50
Bruno Mars
Felipe’s
Settlers of Catan
Fogg Museum
Sell
Tinder
Freshman Formal
Felipe’s Margaritas
Jessie J
Smith Campus Center
Man Buns
Crimson Cash
EOM
Hold
Isis as a Name
15 Hottest Freshmen
“Fifty Shades of Grey”
Carly Rae Jepsen
PTP
Larry Tribe
Yik Yak
Sections
Our favorite childhood game has relocated from the playground to Harvard Yard. “Duck, duck, goose” has turned into a different form of entertainment on campus—pointing out “Duck boots, duck boots, Canada Goose” in the wintertime. A part of the seasonal uniform, a Canada Goose jacket typically costs about $845, with some of the most expensive nearing $1,700. Is it worth the investment? Should the funds be put toward something else? Have no fear, FM is here. We’ve put together some alternative ways to spend your cash.
FOR FANS OF A SUPERIOR GOOSE
On college campuses across the globe, there is only one kind of goose that is more beloved than the Canada Goose. It is far more comforting, and keeps your body warmer as well. Though not an ingredient for cooking liver, this goose will do serious damage to your liver. Hailingfrom France and weighing in at a whopping 80 proof, we’re talking about none other than Grey Goose. At $40 a liter, for the price of a Canada Goose jacket, you can buy 21 liters of Grey Goose. This translates into about one liter for each week of the school year. If those figures don’t have you rethinking your investment, we don’t know what will. FM recommends reusing fall jackets for winter, pocketing a flask (or a few), and braving the cold Canada Goose-less.
FOR THE FOODIES
Perhaps the Canada Goose patch isn’t enough to seduce your all too distant, all too near section love. Maybe you look a little bulky under all of the layers. Don’t worry—you can ditch the jacket and still woo the person of your dreams. After all, they say the quickest way to someone’s heart is through his or her stomach. If you’re still yearning to stick to the luxurious goose theme, order foie gras for yourself and that someone special. At $66 for two in the Cambridge area, you can go on 11 goose-filled dates. But realistically, with that Math 21a pset and Expos paper both coming up, the only relevant dates are due dates. So while awaiting those deadlines, treat yourself to JP Lick’s a total of 188 times, 200 Tasty Burger hamburgers, or 633 Insomnia cookies. Then, maybe ask your mom to order your jacket in a size up.
FOR THE ANIMAL LOVER
There’s no way to investigate Canada Goose without considering the real deal—Canadian Geese. FM needed to know if it could possibly purchase a whole farm of Canadian Geese for the price of a single jacket. After delving deep into the strange world wide web of waterfowl information, we found that Canada geese are in rare supply at most farms...and that people put diapers on their goslings. But that’s a story for another time. At $11 per gosling, a goose farm is indeed feasible, even if the Tannery and J.Press cannot supply. For the cost of one parka, we can buy 76 geese—not a bad trade off. In terms of housing our geese, we’re sure Faust will be fine with good Old Harvard Yard. Geese are practically lawnmowers— think of the amount we’ll save on landscaping.
Sections
We can’t believe another year’s almost over, leaving us with another crop of memories to wistfully recall on graduation night over laughs, tears, and cocktails. For all you nostalgic seniors—and for everyone else looking to reminisce with friends about the year’s ups and downs—here are some of FM’s picks for drinks to cap off 2014-15.
The Gerald L. Chan Commemorative Cocktail
3 oz Rémy Martin Black Pearl cognac
1 tsp. edible gold shavings
Gerald L. Chan made history this year by making the largest single donation in Harvard’s history—$350 million dollars—to the Harvard School of Public Health. After dropping $350 million, is this cocktail too much to ask? Why no, it isn’t. For best results, sprinkle the gold leaf in a dollar sign pattern on top.
The Stillman
4 oz. Everclear
1 oz. absinthe
3 oz. Red Bull
(Side note: Apparently it’s illegal to sell Everclear in Massachusetts. Who knew? But if you can get your hands on the main ingredient here, that just makes everything more exciting.)
Things got pretty tense this year when Harvard announced plans to close Stillman Infirmary, and it looked as if we might lose our access to 24-hour care. But—hallelujah—things worked out, and we don’t need to worry about our ability to live dangerously on Friday nights. Great to see you again, UHS friends!
The Jessie J
2 pieces Double Bubble bubblegum
1 tbsp. syrup
4 oz Smirnoff
This year’s Yardfest headliner is sweet. Like, really sweet. In fact, her newest album is named Sweet Talker. With a twist of bubblegum flavor, this drink strikes the perfect combination of sugary pop and blackout-level booze that should sum up Yardfest this year. Get ready, because you’ll be drinking a lot of these.
Sections
Anne T. and Robert M. Bass Professor of English Louis Menand will not travel far for his sabbatical next year. His office will move exactly 0.1 miles—a two-minute walk, according to Google Maps—from the Barker Center to Widener Library.
“I’m going to stay here, because the best library in the world is across the street,” Menand tells me. We’re sitting in his current office in the Barker Center; it’s gray outside. If Lamont weren’t in the way, I’d probably have a view of Widener from the window.
Menand’s excited for the big move, because the library is “fantastic,” he says, with virtually limitless resources. It’s also apparently “incredibly clean”—an attribute Menand seems to value, judging from his un-cluttered desk and tightly packed, tidy bookshelves.
The sabbatical will afford Menand the time to finish a book about the Cold War period. The project’s been in the works for the past 10 years, ever since Menand taught a graduate course at Princeton about cultural events of the 1960s. In the class, he contrasted something particular to the ’60s, like Pop Art, to art in the ’50s. The comparison helped show students the “revolutionary and radical” aspects of the latter decade, Menand explains. At the end of the course, Menand posed a question to the students: He was considering writing a book about the ’60s, and would they be interested in it?
“They said no,” Menand confesses with a laugh. Instead, his students were interested in the “strangeness” of the ’50s, a world of art, music, and ideas that seemed particularly distant from our current mode of thinking.
“I realized that the way that people think today is pretty much the way people thought after the ’60s,” he explains. “You can’t really understand the ’60s unless you understand the ’50s, and you can’t understand the ’50s unless you understand the ’40s. So I realized it was a Cold War story. Politics is part of that story, but I was more interested in what got written and said [during the era].”
At Harvard, Menand used to teach a General Education course called Societies of the World 23: “Art and Thought in the Cold War.” It’s no longer running; it got too big and “crazy.” When enrollment grew to 300 students, Menand had to hold lectures in the Science Center, which he didn’t like. But that class did allow Menand to explore a lot of the issues his book will consider further.
“It takes a while to get the airplane down the runway and into the air,” he says of putting the book together. “And once it’s in the air, it pretty much gets you to your destination. It took me a while to feel I knew enough and to get a feel for the kinds of things I wanted to write about, just to get comfortable with the subject.”
He’s written about a third of the book so far. For Menand, the researching, reading, and absorption of information are the most time-intensive aspects of the process. He doesn’t start writing until he’s done all the reading. “I like to let the material pickle in my brain for a little while,” he says, motioning to his head. “Then I just start writing and it comes out, because it’s been sort of organizing itself in my subconscious.”
Menand wears rimless, circular glasses, speaks quietly but with feeling, and has a full head of almost white hair. In addition to knowing how to teach, he certainly knows a thing or two about writing. He was a poetry major at Pomona College, enrolled in Harvard Law School afterwards, and hated it. He transferred to Columbia, where he received his Ph.D. from the English Department. He became a professor, and later, a journalist. His first gig in journalism was as an editor at the New Republic in 1986. He’s since become a staff writer for the New Yorker and a contributor for the New York Review of Books.
Menand hasn’t written poetry since college, so I ask if it was law school that killed his creativity. “I lost it,” he laughs. “Totally.” But this isn’t to say he’s not passionate about the writing he does now. “I don’t write creatively at all; I just write critical prose,” Menand says. “But it’s funny because it feels like writing creatively. That is to say, I feel very fulfilled by producing critical prose and putting myself into it. It’s still the same feeling I had when I was in college and writing poems.”
Menand doesn’t have a favorite magazine piece he’s written—they’re like children, he jokes—but he does have a favorite book of his published quartet. It’s the well-received “The Metaphysical Club,” and it’s the book Menand feels “God wanted me to write,” he says.
It’s hard to label Menand a writer or a professor: He’s really both. He’ll teach three days a week, and on the others he’ll prepare class materials, go to meetings, and work on his own projects. He responds that he “like[s] them both, honestly,” when I implore him to pick a favorite of the two. “They’re not totally different, but they’re fairly different. I think I’m more comfortable now in the academic world. I think I’ve gotten more intellectual and weird. Less magazine-y,” he says with a chuckle. This past year, Menand has particularly enjoyed teaching Humanities Colloquium 10.
Lecturing faculty members teach all of the sections for the foundational class, and students, mostly freshmen and sophomores, apply to get in. His favorite book to teach during the course is “Ulysses,” but “students don’t always like it,” he shrugs. “It’s hard for them; it’s a long book.”
Menand’s passion for interacting with students, and his love of literature and art and culture, is palpable. “I tend to think that the humanities are something that are relevant to everything else that you study, and that we should think about what we teach in that spirit,” he explains. “This is part of the world, and that part is the world of meanings. We figure out what things mean.”
While Menand says that he’ll miss teaching, breaking up his routine will be valuable, and he anticipates returning with fresh ideas in fall 2016. Plus, pining for campus is something Menand won’t have to worry about.
We end our conversation where we started it, talking about Widener. “I rarely see undergraduates in there—when I see them, they’re probably lost and trying to get out of the stacks,” he chuckles, opening his eyes wide. “Students should go in there. It’s just unbelievable what they have. I feel incredibly lucky, also with the Houghton [Library], to be able to sit there and have all this stuff. It’s like having 12 million books in my apartment.”
“Really,” he says, as I’m packing up to leave. “You’ve gotta use the library.”
Sections
On a slow, gray Friday afternoon, the feet shuffling across the concrete tiles of the museum’s courtyard match the muffled rhythm of the rain falling outside. They move in concentric circles, in and out of the arched columns that border the room. Two clipboard-holding tour guides mark the center; around them, murmurs rise and fall in shallow waves. Light—somehow, on this sunless day—shines through the museum’s glass ceiling, forming narrow prisms over visitors seated at the metal tables of the café.
Nearly five months after the opening of the renovated Harvard Art Museums, Chief Curator Deborah Kao and Director of the Division of Academic and Public Programming Jessica Martinez are thinking about light and sound.
“Now that the building is open and people are in it, I think about the way that the architecture creates a centripetal force of ideas,” says Kao. “You can feel it—the light coming through becomes more than that, it becomes a kind of energy.”
According to Martinez, that energy ideally should break the barrier between visitors and the art displayed on the walls. “I like it when I go into the galleries and it’s really loud,” she says. “Some of the students are like, is it alright to talk in this space? And I’m like, no, raise your voices!”
When Kao first worked on design plans with architect Renzo Piano—who oversaw the renovation and combination of the Fogg, Busch-Reisinger, and Sackler Museums in one space—she hoped that the building’s physical spaces would suggest openness and transparency.
Now, the museums, which often serve as workspaces, classrooms, and research labs for Harvard students and faculty, have become a hub of social and academic activity across disciplines. Six months after its opening, the Harvard Art Museums have become a central location on campus; their leadership has also reimagined its pedagogical role within the University.
Today, Martinez pats down her curly hair as she pulls out a seat from one of the museum café’s metal tables. It’s been a busy day for her, and she hasn’t yet gotten lunch. Before sitting down, she waves to a few friends and colleagues. Martinez says that she’s been surprised by how much of a social space the courtyard has become—and how that’s bled into the museums’ larger atmosphere.
“It’s a crossroads,” she says. “One of the things we saw at the opening that we didn’t expect was students coming out of galleries and meeting old friends.”
This afternoon, the café has been filled to capacity. Some of the patrons merely sip coffee before the start of a tour, but most look ready to settle down for the afternoon with laptops and books. Like Martinez, many greet friends weaving through tables or stepping out of the gallery’s archways.
“It’s a very social building,” says Kau. “Wherever you are, you’re not far from being able to reorient yourself back into the courtyard, so you see people gathering and engaging.” The courtyard sits between the collections of the three combined museums; on our right, visitors stroll into the Fogg Museum’s Wertheim Collection, containing 43 works by Monet, Renoir, Seurat, and van Gogh. To our left, porcelain vases from ancient Korea mark the entrance to the Sackler Museum. The courtyard, Kau believes, has become a place where the once-separate museums intersect in thought and dialogue.
This intersection is not merely architectural. It comes as part of a larger vision of the Museums as an interdisciplinary space, one that emerged alongside programs like Harvard Thinks Big and the recent effort to increase interschool collaboration. Kao says that now, it feels strange to think about the old museums. “There are so many intervening years, and an intervening administration,” she says. “The past feels like a different country. It was such a different moment in the history of the institution [of Harvard].” The museums closed for renovation in 2008, at the start of University President Drew G. Faust’s tenure.
“[The interdisciplinary focus] is certainly a trend on this campus,” says Martinez. She waves her hand up at the high, glass-paneled ceiling, and the balconys of the Museum’s fourth floor. “In our Lightbox Gallery on the fourth floor, we’re starting a conversation with faculty in astrophysics. We’re asking how they think of deep space and the role of light.”
While projects like the Lightbox Gallery start as conversations between faculty and museum staff, other interdisciplinary collaborations launched in the past six months began in the classroom. We take the elevator to the third floor, and enter a room with wood-paneled floors and white walls. Behind glass cases, pieces of art seem unconnected by time or place; Japanese woodblocks sit below gold-bordered Renaissance panels, a Greek bust next to a large, wooden chair (once the seat of Harvard’s presidents, Martinez explains).
Next to the entrance, a sign provides explanation by way of a course list: “Adam and Eve,” the “Humanities Colloquium,” “Tangible Things,” and the “Einstein Revolution;” mostly Gen Ed courses, and a few art history seminars.
In this space, the University Research Gallery, professors pull pieces from the museums as classroom sources, and students can curate their own exhibitions as final projects. Now, glass barriers demarcate wall space for different classes, but Martinez says that she hopes that by the end of the semester, the boundaries of art—and discipline—will become less clear. The Rothko exhibit is just down the hall.
In a room next door, light reflects off of glass-ceilings on to a shiny white rectangular table. Windows look out over the brown façade of the Carpenter Center, and a Mac rests in the room’s corner. Besides the computer, the room is empty, but that’s not usually the case. The museum uses this room, and a few others on the third floor, for seminars and sections; here, students can view (and sometimes touch) works of art that have been taken off of the walls.
It’s a quiet space, one of the few in the Museums. Martinez wraps her arms around her chest. “It’s great to have time alone with works of art,” she says. “You get the sense of the work as an object, a material presence, and a life that started way before it got to the museum.”
Since the Museums’ reopening, undergraduates have entered the space not only as students and visitors, but as tour guides and board members. The Museums run a program through which 15 undergraduates lead regular tours of the museums, interpreting collections through the lens of their own disciplines.
“We really wanted students to understand that they have ownership of this museum,” says Kau. “We wanted to put students in the position of being interpreters, and being ambassadors.”
We end the tour where the museums began, in front of an extended “word portrait” by contemporary artist Felix Gonzalez-Torres. The work—words in light blue that span across the balcony, over a row of bronze, marble, and clay busts—was the first displayed in the museums.
Gonzalez asks museums who display his work to add to the portrait (most list donors’ names, Martinez says); the Harvard Art Museums had nine tour guides contribute to the piece. As we walk away from the piece, the words fade into tiny blue dots. Outside, the rain lets up, and light plays across the white walls.
Sections
On Jan. 19, a photographer named Brandon Stanton stopped a boy named Vidal Chastanet on a street in New York City. In a conversation that Brandon later recorded on Facebook, the photographer asked Vidal whom had influenced him most, and Vidal cited his principal, Ms. Lopez.
“How has she influenced you?” Stanton probed. “When we get in trouble, she doesn’t suspend us,” Chastanet explained, according to the Facebook page. “She calls us to her office and explains to us how society was built down around us. And she tells us that each time somebody fails out of school, a new jail cell gets built. And one time she made every student stand up, one at a time, and she told each one of us that we matter.”
Stanton is the man behind Humans of New York, a popular blog that currently boasts over 12 million fans on Facebook. Since 2010, Stanton has made it his mission to share the stories of countless New Yorkers by snapping their photographs and turning their quotes into captions.
As far as his Internet fans know, Stanton rarely follows up with the individuals he photographs. But something about Chastanet’s praise of Lopez must have stayed with him, for Stanton decided to pay her a visit. At Mott Hall Bridges Academy, which is located in Brownsville, Brooklyn, Stanton discovered a passionate principal with an extraordinary commitment to her at-risk students.
Leveraging the power of the Internet, Stanton struck out to help Lopez further her mission. On Jan. 22, he launched an Indiegogo campaign with the hope of raising $100,000 to send MHBA sixth graders on a yearly trip to Harvard. Lopez and her team believed that a trek to Cambridge could be just the kick the kids needed to pursue higher education. Within 45 minutes of the fundraiser’s debut, HONY readers blew past Stanton’s initial monetary goal. By the time the fundraiser closed, 51,465 people had poured $1,417,834 into the campaign—enough money to fund years of visits to Harvard, a summer enrichment program for MHBA students, and a scholarship fund for a graduating student in Chastanet’s name.
Stanton, Lopez, and Chastanet have had the opportunity to do an impressive amount of traveling since the smashing success of HONY’s fundraiser. On Feb. 3, the gang flew out to Los Angeles to appear on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show.” On Feb. 5, they met with President Obama in the White House. And on April 2, they joined MHBA’s sixth-grade class on that very well-funded trip to Harvard.
During the visit, Harvard President Drew G. Faust, Harvard College Dean Rakesh Khurana, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid William R. Fitzsimmons ’67, and Congresswoman Katherine Clark talked to the 200 students about dreaming big and going to college. Stanton, as always, had his camera on hand, sharing pictures of the trip on Facebook with the thousands of supporters who made it possible.
Sections
Fogg Opens; Senior Makes Vague Promise To Go
Freshman Accidentally Swipes Left on Crush; Alone For Rest of College
CVS:Starbucks Ratio Briefly in Equilibrium
Ben Zauzmer Predicts Two More Months of Winter
New Felipe’s Opens; Too Far to Walk Now
Snapchat Geofilter Thinks I Live in Allston
Isis Club Renames Itself Al Qaeda; Membership Skyrockets
Dining Hall Worker Loses Lottery: Can’t Graduate Without SPU Class
Malia Obama Visits; Doesn’t Tip HAHVARD Tour Guide
Jesse J, “Bang Bang” Singer, Deemed Too Pro Guns; Deval Patrick to Perform at Alternative Yard Fest
Spee Apologizes For Insensitive Invitations,“Our Bad, Bitches”
Stillman Shortens Hours; “Students Can Seek Treatment At Tasty Burger”
Chris Pratt Named “Parks and Rec” Man of the Year; Aziz Ansari Unaware
The Crimson Contractually Obligated To Publish David J. Malan’s Name Every Month; Done
Administrators Ban Student-Professor Relationships; Grade Inflation Ends
Harvard Hit by Snowpocalypse; Global Warming’s Not Real
Currier Ten-Man Mistaken For A Party Suite, EOM
Shitty Alcohol Found to Contain Anti-Freeze; Somehow Shittier Than Previously Imagined
Uptown Funk Goes Downtown to Allston; Never Completes Construction
Ivy Finally Releases Second Episode; Announces Third Episode for 2037
Drew Faust Refuses to Fundraise For Boston 2024; Fundraising For “Peasants And Plebes,” She Says.
Capital Campaign Starts Selling Krispy Kreme.
New Emojis More Diverse, Grandma Still Racist
Sections
Befriend a barista at the Barker Center café. -MARINA MOLARSKY-BECK
Become a barista at the Barker Center café. -NICOLE J. LEVIN
At any given moment, there is more free booze and food on this campus than you will encounter in the next five years of your life. Figure out where it is. - PETEY E. MENZ
If all your friends are from the same place, or do all the same things, you're doing it wrong. Make friends with people you admire, even if they seem way cooler than you. The same goes for taking classes with professors you admire. Take them to faculty dinner. When amazing people come to campus, or to the Harvard Book Store, go. Don't take a class unless you genuinely want to know about 75 percent of what's on the syllabus. It's okay not to do all the reading, all the time. You will usually regret being on Facebook during class, and also it's distracting to others around you. Be wary of any class that has a cult following; try a seminar instead. Remember that rejection is inevitable; so is occasional sadness. Eat Sunday Sundaes and fro-yo whenever possible, and surround yourself with people who remind you why you're here. -AMY L. WEISS-MEYER
There is no such thing as objectivity. Breathe in the fact that what you think you know is almost always skewed towards your experience, which is a great excuse to go out and socialize and kiss near-strangers. Listen. Talk it out. Act on the things, the issues, and the people you care about. Open up. Lighten up. Treat yourself to a slice of pie at Petsi or a midnight picnic by the Charles. Keep a journal. When the time comes, you can rip out some of its pages and start all over again. - VALERIA M. PELET
Be kind. Make out. Fall in love with your friends. Respect your sexual partners. Value pleasure. Harvard is a terrifying machine that churns out elites and most of us never quite feel like we belong here. That’s okay. There are only two people on this campus who feel like they totally belong at Harvard, and they are currently drinking scotch in the Porcellian. So honor that feeling of vulnerability. Honor that vulnerability in others. Honor the voice in you that says that this place can be better, and find other people who feel the same, and love them, and make things with them, because Harvard is also yours and also mine and also a magical playground where we build better worlds. Show up. Don’t be a dick. May all your wine be four dollar. - REINA A.E. GATTUSO
Today’s lesson covers the game called “odds.”
Step 1: Ask a friend: “What are the odds that you’d ______”
Step 2: Friend responds with a range: “1 in x”
Step 3: On the count of three you both say a number in that range.
Step 4: If the number’s the same, they have to do it. - LIBBY R. COLEMAN
Sections
Massachusetts was effectively founded by Puritans, and that’s pretty clear in the state’s blue laws and other legislation related to alcohol. The sale of alcohol on Sundays was mostly prohibited until 2004 and happy hours have been banned since 1984. Thus, there’s not much of a bar scene in Harvard Square (unless you consider dodging Kennedy School students at Daedalus fun).
But change has arrived in the form of Felipe’s receiving its much touted and awaited liquor license. With my U.S. Passport Card (for those of us who do not drive) and a fellow over-21 friend in hand, I hit the bar at Felipe’s to see if the Square’s favorite burrito joint can grow up into a hub of nightlife.
Margarita
There are two kinds of margaritas in this world: those that come in fruity flavors, frozen and sugary sweet and usually as big as a Slurpee, and the ones that are effectively chilled glasses of tequila with a hint of citrus. The one made for me at Felipe’s for roughly $6 plus a tip is definitely the latter—perhaps aggressively strong with a thick salt rim. The initial shock and awe of being served something in a real glass quickly wears off upon tasting the drink. I get hints of alcohol, other alcohol, and more alcohol, and am left wanting something more in the taste department. Still, there’s something inherently festive about a margarita.
Sangria
In the interests of diversity, my friend orders a glass of sangria because it is the only other mixed drink advertised at the time. She is a senior, and next year, she’ll leave me for greener pastures in Washington, D.C., so despite the fact that we are in a fast food establishment our time together feels precious and mature. Much like the margarita, the cocktail’s name is more of a suggestion and a concept. What arrives is a cold glass of red wine cut by orange slices and ice cubes. Yummy, but a bit past the mark.
Beer
After a wild Friday night at Harvard (read: a lot of Taylor Swift sing along), my friend and I return to Felipe’s, this time sporting an additional party. Because it’s near last call, they can only serve beer. Eager to test their ability on the tap, we buy a round of Dos Equis drafts and head upstairs to the much expanded seating area. It’s still too cold for the roof to be open, so we settle for a big table in the back. Over beer and nachos, we laugh and share stories in a state of suspended animation. There’s nowhere we need to be, enough pico de gallo to go around, and the promise of warmer weather in the air.
Sections
1. Snow
The climate change deities may not have gotten the memo, but the first day of spring was technically March 20; so honestly, the whole arctic- tundra-thing has been wildly inappropriate and unappreciated. Please get your shit together, Mother Nature.
2. Being Quadded and Then Having People Apologize To You For Your Being Quadded
Excuse me, but have you insensitive souls ever heard the phrase, “adding insult to injury?” Because that is what you have done. If you feel that badly about my exile to the Quad there are better ways of showing it like, I don’t know, showering me with gifts of food and alcohol.
3. Spring Break Only Being a Week Long
It seems a little ridiculous that Harvard allocates over a month for winter break and only one for spring break. How are we supposed to visit Instagram-worthy sites, party with our friends at state schools, see our families, AND keep up with classwork in only a weeks time? Answer: We can’t. We need more time.
4. The Underwhelming Yardfest Reveal
Given the enormity of Harvard’s endowment, it may be assumed that the school can afford to put on a better spring concert than it currently does, especially in comparison to our fellow Ivies. Not to hate on Jessie J or anything, but it’s probably safe to say that everyone is at least a little bit jealous that UPenn got Kesha AND Kygo for this year’s Spring Fling. Come on, Harvard—do better.
5. Multiple Midterms
You say “midterms”, I say “cruel.” You say “multiple midterms,” I say “cruel and unusual.” So why do so many math, science, and econ classes have them? These anxiety-inducing exams were a common reason that many students watched sun rise from Lamont in March. Make it stop. FYI, they’re only really midterms if they occur once in the middle of the term. Every other Tuesday doesn’t count.
6. The Patriarchy
Throwback to that time last month when the Spee sent out controversial invitations to a “Playbear” party with a link to a YouTube video featuring scantily clad women. (Cue Kenan Thompson singing “What’s up with that?”) Dean Rakesh Khurana agreed that it was sleazy and objectifying, and it made many people very mad this March.
7. Relocating Freshman Formal
This year, Freshman Formal is being held at Harvard for the first time since at least 2007. Obviously, nothing says “swanky" more than the illustrious Science Center Plaza. I supposeeveryone will just have to pre-game a little harder. Shoutout to Harvard kids of years past for getting too sloppy for us to be invited back to any nice venues!
8. The Person You Hooked Up With in February Continuing To Ignore You
“Was it not good for them?” “Was it something I said?” “Do they even remember me?” So many questions, so few answers. Maybe because your former hook-up seems to be running away from you every time you see them in the dining hall. Oh well. Here’s to another month of awkwardly avoiding eye contact and contact in general!
Sections
1. Ancient Near East 136: ‘Sibling Rivalries: Israel and the Other in the Hebrew Bible’
You had so much fun last year coasting through Hebrew Bible that Harvard thought they’d help you out with that religion concentration you’re totally working on and offer up a sequel. Segues nicely into another new course, “Religion 1400: Introduction to the New Testament.”
2. Visual and Environmental Studies 179f: ‘Furious Cinema: 1968-1979’
An overcompensating followup to last year’s “shockingly under-enrolled” course “Milquetoast Cinema: 1968-1979.”
3. Philosophy 150: ‘The Philosophy of Probability’
This fine offering explore the big questions: How should I choose among my options? What should I believe? Does it make sense to believe in God? In President Faust? How long can I procrastinate on this essay and still get inflated to an A-? How many times this week can I get Kong before my friends judge me? If I pay tuition but never register do I just...live here for a semester?
4. Expos 20.283: ‘Surviellance: Leganand Ethical Issues’
Real talk prof, can the government see my dick pics?
5. Anthropology 1185: ‘The Talking Dead: Archeology of Death, Burials, and Commemoration’
57% of disappointed admissions looking to get in on the ground floor of “The Walking Dead” sequel.
6. SCAND 50: ‘Becoming Scandinavian’
If you see the Canada Geese replaced with horned helmets you’ll know who to blame.
7. English 195m: ‘Money’
If this class isn’t Harvard clickbait, I don’t know what is.
8. Religion 1444: ‘God and Money’
Religion Department, don’t think I don’t see you piggybacking on English. This class exists to discourage the idea that Religion is not a lucrative major — They say the meek shall inherit, amirite?
Sections
Last year, The Crimson reviewed “Victorian Secrets,” the Hasty Pudding Theatricals’ 166th production. They deemed the jokes “trite and not funny.” This year, The Crimson's review, which appears below, was written by former FM chair Petey E. Menz, who should in no way be confused with the Petey E. Menz who cowrote the book for “Oops! ...Madrid it Again,” HPT’s 167th annual production.
Wow. Who knew theater could be this good? This is on the level of Shakespeare, Stoppard, and last year's HPT production, which was written by the same team of Brian J. Mendel, Petey E. Menz, and Ian D. Nightingale. What a trio! I'd say that they've come a long way since last year, but maybe the world just caught up to them. Is this where corrections go? The Crimson would like to issue a correction in last year's review: trite and not funny should have read "not trite and funny, and life-changingly good." The Crimson regrets the error. But anyway, wow. A+ acting, jokes, music, jokes, technical effects, jokes, jokes, and doesn't the name "Petey" look really nice on the program? Five stars all around.
Sections
The humanities can feel like the ugly duckling of the academy these days, but the problem may have less to do with branding and statistics than word choice. When people like Deleuze and Guattari start asking, “Why can’t we be the pink panther? The pink panther imitates nothing; it reproduces nothing, it paints the world its color, pink on pink; this is imperceptible itself, asignifying, making its rupture, its own line of flight,” it’s reasonable to think the whole field might be off its rocker. But then again, grandiose rhetoric-befuddling contradictions are the beauty of the discipline. So take a breath, relax, and relive the humanists at their linguistic bests.
“The 20th and 21st centuries have both gone very quickly and very slowly.” —French professor
“Some of those analytic philosophers do something that seems impossible: They make Nietzsche boring.” —History professor
“You’re Dante exploring the Inferno on your own.” — Literature professor lamenting undergraduates with no knowledge of the canon
“This writing would be awesome…if it were shorter and about something else.” —Workshop student
“I feel like I should offer a course on the fraud complex at Harvard.” —French professor
“What I like about sophism is you can make any claim as long as you have the example to support it.” —Literature professor
“Reading this is the next best thing to reading Hegel’s phenomenology. You can go pages and pages without spotting a concrete noun” —Literature professor on Rousseau
“There is no outside of the cave…that rocked your world.” —History professor on Plato
“All these words have names.” —Literature professor
“The images were so fun, but I had no idea where I was in either space or time.” —Workshop student
“Even at Harvard, the student population is part of the national population.” —Arts and Humanities administrator
“It’s just a fairytale dressed up as realism” —Literature professor disparaging “Pride and Prejudice”
“That’s the most vanilla ice cream interpretation in the whole book.” —Literature Professor on Freud analyzing his own dreams
“The term’s use has become quite promiscuous, but I guess that’s the fate of all terms.” —History Professor
“My interpretation is that the space he is in…is life…as in all the plays.” —English professor
“Looking back, I was trying to figure out why I was a water balloon filled up with sorrows.” —Creative Writing instructor
“You’re bringing in two extra dimensions now, and we’re already playing three dimensional chess.” —Literature professor
“Historians pay their dues by reading through freezing, massive archives. Ethnographers pay their dues by getting malaria.” —Literature professor
“For the sake of the conversation, let’s arbitrarily cut the baby in half.” —Workshop instructor
“In my sleep he shows up and talks to me. Not a lot. I’m not that crazy.” —English professor on Samuel Beckett
“The way a Buddhist might say ‘ohm,’ Lukács would say reflection of reality.” —Literature professor
“I can remember asking in elementary school, what about women? And they just laughed at me.” —French professor
“There’s a structure….there’s a phenomenon…oh god all my words are taboo now…there’s a thing…even that one!” —Panicked undergraduate
“There were a lot of long words like civilization and archaeology and sand.” —Workshop student concerned with loquacity
Sections
When we’re old and grey, we’ll reminisce about it. And even though most of us will only live in Cambridge for these few years of our lives, we’ll take pride in it. Because we survived, damn it. I’m talking, of course, about the record-breaking winter: 108.6 inches of snow, the most since Bostonians started keeping records in 1872.
MOST MONEY SPENT ON WINTER CLOTHING
First, some bought Canada Goose jackets. Then, they purchased actual geese feathers, to layer under jackets on those sub-zero days. When Cambridge started to look like Winterfell, they shelled out for animal pelts. Finally, they emptied their bank accounts for a last resort: portable igloos ($1,000 for a two-room suite).
MOST DRUNK PEOPLE ON SUNDAY NIGHTS
This winter, an email announcing that classes the next day would be cancelled felt like the Times Square New Year’s Eve ball drop: anticipation, then excitement, then revelry. Study rooms in Lamont Library turned into party suites. The portable igloos came in handy for arctic-themed parties.
THE LEAST ESSENTIAL YOU’VE EVER FELT
Each email from Stephen Lassonde, Dean of Student Life, also reminded us that we are absolutely non-essential. Not only did these reminders prompt minor existential crisesacross campus, they also warned us that should our non-essential toes step outside, we’d risk death from slippery ice, windchill, or snow banks.
Sections
There have been some pretty major sightings at Harvard this year. And no, we don’t mean the turkey—although we have heard tell of him clucking (strolling? gobbling?) around the Quincy courtyard. We’ve had visitors! Given the winter we had, it’s pretty lucky that we tricked anyone into coming at all. Even so, celebrities, dignitaries, and other noted public figures ventured to Harvard—that is, they willingly left places that are NOT Harvard and came to a place that IS Harvard, and buried in 10 feet of snow. FM is impressed. Below, a brief account of some of this year’s most exciting and memorable guests.
JOE BIDEN
The Vice President himself, tailed by an army of Secret Service, showed up in full force last October. A few lucky lottery winners received pat downs from said Secret Service members before watching Biden deliver an engaging talk on US foreign policy with Russia, and beyond, at the IOP.
AMY POEHLER
It was pretty much impossible to miss the comedian and movie star’s visit this January. Seriously, if you didn’t see her you might be living under a rock. A full-on parade, complete with free food and drag queens, announced her arrival on campus before she received the Hasty Pudding Woman of the Year Award.
BRANDON STANTON
The creator of the Facebook page Humans of New York deserves extra points: He actually visited twice! In February, he delivered a talk at the IOP about his role as a UN Ambassador. And this April, he returned to tour the campus with a massive, and massively adorable, group of Brooklyn middle schoolers in tow.
SETH ROGEN
The celeb stopped by the IOP to make fun of Kim Jong Un. Also, but less importantly, to discuss the role of comedy in politics and promote his movie “The Interview.”
KEEGAN-MICHAEL KEY
This February, the comedian did improv with the Immediate Gratification Players as their “Player of the Year.” The highlight of his performance: the not one, not two, but three kisses he shared with IGP performers, in front of a packed Science Center lecture hall.
Sections
It’s official: The Faculty of Arts and Sciences recently approved the creation of a concentration in Theater, Dance, and Media. While students have previously been allowed to pursue a secondary concentration in Dramatic Arts, a formal degree program has been a long time coming—in 2007, University President Drew G. Faust commissioned a Report of the Harvard Task Force on the Arts, which ultimately called for “changes in the undergraduate curriculum to make arts practice a more important and accessible dimension of both General Education and departmental courses in the arts.”
Of course, the Great Recession hit the following year, Harvard’s endowment shrank, and like hot breakfast in the Houses, plans for increasing academic programming were put on hold. But now, in 2015, Harvard’s finances have bounced back (well, almost, we haven’t quite topped the Vatican’s endowment…yet…if only we had the Pope instead of Faust), and the time is right to catch up to Yale, which boasts an illustrious Drama program both for undergraduates and graduates. As professors and administrators shape the coming concentration, FM suggests some things we’d like to see come declarations in the fall.
A Campus in NYC
Columbia is currently expanding uptown, and Cornell is building a new tech campus on Roosevelt Island, so why can’t Harvard have its own stake of the Big Apple? All of the HUDS apples have bruises and holes in them anyway; it’s time we get a bigger and better one. We should also keep all the old ones just in case, like when we got a new CVS across the street from an existing one. We anticipate SEF funding for Broadway shows as field research and maybe a fourth CVS in the Square.
Celebrity Professors
We can’t learn how to be stars without some role models, now can we? I’m talking Kanye. Beyonce. That actress who sang the Frozen song—Adele Dazeem. Splurging on some famous names as adjuncts has got to be cheaper than actually giving someone tenure (and the benefits that come with tenure), right? Jaden Smith doesn’t have a high school diploma yet, but we expect him to run the Media classes on Twitter. But when he comes to visit for prospective employment, reassure him the Smith Campus Center is named after him—it’ll keep him happy, and us in Willow’s good graces. Hair flip emoji. Swerve.
Drew Faust and Rakesh Khurana on “Dancing with the Stars”
After we hire all of the celebrity professors, let’s turn some of the current faculty into actual stars! (See, admins, we’re thinking frugally.) It takes two to tango, so let’s use two top leaders. She can school him in the history of dance, he can help her make it big in the biz. Together they can wow the judges, and we can all learn a thing or two. What would be a concentration in performance without a little competition to keep things interesting?
A Course in How To Hide Your True Facebook Self from Relatives and Employers
Social media is a beast that sprouts new heads before you have a chance to befriend the last (virtually, of course). Some of these heads will be an employer, and they are not happy with your drunk selfie at Taco Bell at 4 a.m., no matter how proud you are of the fact that you made it to Taco Bell in that state, at that hour (don’t worry—we’re proud of you. Send us a Snap. It’s less lasting). Your aunt in Colorado, whose friend list is composed solely of nine close relatives of yours, is also particularly unenthused. This course, taught via Skype by Mark Zuckerberg and TF’d by each class’s resident Facebook group troll, would teach you all the tricks of Facebook’s privacy policies in order to let you crowdsource the maximum amount of debauchery for the smallest number of repercussions. All, that is, except for your 2007 statuses regarding your love for Disney movies and whines about how “everyone sucks. seriously.” Those deserve to be seen by the world, if only to remind us how literally everything becomes better after middle school.
An Urban Dance Course
This new course should focus on the discipline of dance that involve you, the sidewalk, your favorite playlist, and all the uncomfortable people trying not to stare. How does one walk efficiently down the street while dancing? A greater question may be, how does one walk without dancing? An inefficient urban dancer might arrive to class 15 to 20 minutes late because of clanky movement and unnecessary frills. Mouthing the lyrics while dancing will also be covered because it’s really hard to do two things at once. Britney Spears struggled with dancing and lip-syncing and so do we. If you truly master this course, you will be able to streamline the dance-walk process to just walking in time with the music.
Open Air Theater
Harvard theater has long hosted all its performances inside. But in order to incorporate theater into the lives of all Harvard students, the department should have its performances in the Yard or Science Center. When winter comes, the performances can’t stop. Theater can’t be stopped. Artistry can’t be stopped. Besides, what’s a better day to get an audience than a snow day? In the winter, the audience’s pathos will be strong as they watch the actors trudge around the waist-deep snow trying to reach each other for a heart-wrenching kiss. Winter is a cold and lonely time, devoid of kisses.
Sections
Depending on whom you ask, Divest Harvard hasn’t done anything yet.
“Divestment will be the culmination of our work,” says Talia B. Rothstein ’17, the group’s current co-coordinator.
From Syracuse to Stanford, Hampshire College to the University of Maine, some schools across the nation have divested endowment funds from fossil fuel companies. Harvard’s administration hasn’t followed suit, but activists continue to raise the visibility and stakes of their protests.
In the past year, members of the student-led movement Divest Harvard have conducted sit-ins, undertaken a fast, and filed a lawsuit against the University, demanding that Harvard—whose endowment totals more than $35 billion—divert assets away from fossil fuel investments.
The tactics of civil disobedience used by Divest Harvard this year are similar in many ways to those used by student-activists in the 1980s, who sought to compel Harvard’s divestment from investments in apartheid South Africa. In response, Harvard instituted “selective divestment,” reducing South Africa-based investments by $230 million between June 1986 and January 1987.
The university has not yet even partially supported the group’s demands, but the circle of activists has continued to expand. “Last spring we had six [people willing to risk arrest],” says Chloe S. Maxmin ’15, a co-founder of Divest Harvard. “During [Harvard Heat Week] we have dozens.”
Divest Harvard’s more recent, higher-profile actions have also garnered media attention from outlets including The Boston Globe and The New York Times. The group has continued to figure out how to work with their raised profile. During the spring of 2014, debates about ramping up activity wracked the group.
“We were ready to escalate but couldn’t figure out how…. There was lots of internal debate,” says Maxmin. The group kept planning over the summer, attended the People’s Climate March in September, and jumped back into action in late October.
The group held a four-day fast to raise awareness for their cause. The event was structured explicitly to allow for multiple levels of engagement, from fasting to attending a series of talks to listening to the Cantab Cowboys jam during the kickoff event.
“The fast was a way to provide a more inclusive way for people to get involved,” says Maxmin. The events helped draw the attention of groups like 350.org, an advocacy group led by former Crimson president Bill E. McKibben ’82.
“An organizer from 350.org called us just before spring classes began. Bill had a proposal for us. We both wanted to put the machine behind it,” says Rothstein. The group’s coordinators and others texted and planned directly with McKibben throughout the winter and spring. The plan for increased action wasn’t spontaneous, but long in the works.
Divest started planning Heat Week with 350.org and college alumni shortly after McKibben’s organization contacted the group.
Divest’s on-campus work continued as well. In November 2014, seven Harvard student activists filed a lawsuit against the University. The complaint called for Harvard to immediately divest from direct investment in coal, oil and gas companies, and to phase out other investments containing fossil fuel stocks.
According to the complaint, Harvard Corporation’s investments violated its “special obligation and accountability to the future, to the long view needed to anticipate and alter the trajectory and impact of climate change.”
The complaint also stated that Harvard Corporation’s investment in fossil fuel companies contributes to the diminishment of the plaintiffs’ education and will physically threaten the Harvard community in Cambridge.
The Harvard Corporation filed for the lawsuit to be dismissed, and it was on March 17. The group has told The Crimson that they plan to submit an appeal and bring the issue back to the courtroom.
The group was busy planning a visible direct action while pursuing legal recourse. Their occupation of Massachusetts Hall was originally planned for December, but postponed due to the high level of activism following the non-indictment of Daniel Pantaleo in the death of Eric Garner.
On Feb. 12, Global Divestment Day, more than 30 students occupied Massachusetts Hall, an academic and residential building in Harvard Yard that houses the offices of University President Drew G. Faust. Once inside the building, students lined the hallway, displayed a banner, and planned for a rally the next day. Though those without University identification cards left around 5 p.m, some students remaining spent the night in Massachusetts Hall. The building is also a residence hall for 14 freshmen.
When asked if the protest disrupted student life in the building, Massachusetts Hall resident Charlie A. Gibson ’18 responded, “It honestly did not really change anything. We actually come in through the side doors.”
“We live on the fourth floor, and I went into the bottom floor of Mass. Hall for the first time about a week ago.”
[This issue went to press in the middle of Harvard Heat Week, which was scheduled to run from April 12 to April 17. As of press time, the group had held a launch event, began a blockade of Massachusetts Hall, and conducted a surprise four-hour blockade of University Hall. Bill McKibben led a group of Divest-affiliated alumni, who blockaded the alumni relations office the night of April 13.]
Sections
1. HUDS Hummus
Just doesn’t live up to the dipping of Brain Break pita chips.
2. No More Q-Guide Difficulty Scores
Just because we no longer know that ER18 practically has a 0.05 difficulty rating, doesn’t mean we don’t know.
3. Deval Patrick as Commencement Speaker
Oprah will always be the only Commencement speaker in our hearts.
4. The 9:50 a.m. Quad Shuttle
Drives away when it’s still empty, sticks around forever when it’s full.
5. The Taco Truck
It’s not even a truck! And with Boloco, Felipe’s, Qdoba, and Chipotle on the scene, it does not stand a chance.
6. The Dunster Renovations
N-1 for some juniors? What is this, Kirkland?
7. Donald Pfister’s Campus Presence
Where is he? Donald Pfister, please emerge out of your underground mushroom dwelling and tell us what to read!
8. SPU Options
The Energetic Universe? More like the lethargic universe...
9. Talking about the Weather
Are you cold? Are you bummed that it’s still snowing? No, please go on.
Sections
All good things must come to an end, and as summer break approaches, it’s time to say good-bye to some of our visiting faculty. FM asked a few of these professors toshare their thoughts on teaching and living at Harvard.
Philip J. Deloria, Carroll Smith-Rosenberg Collegiate Professor, Department of History, University of Michigan
Harvard courses: “American Indian History in Four Acts; An Introduction to Issues in American Indian Studies: Black Elk Speaks”
1. Favorite and least favorite aspect of Harvard: I’ve enjoyed an amazing network of support, from the libraries, the Peabody Museum, the History Department, and programs like the Harvard University Native American Program and the Committee on Ethnicity, Migration, and Rights, among others. On the downside, who would have thought that winter in Boston would be more challenging than winter in Michigan?
2. Favorite food in the Square: Since I’m in Robinson Hall, I love to sit at the tables in the atrium at the Fogg Museum... close by, and the food is really good!
3. Piece of advice for students: Can I have two pieces? The first would be: Now that you know that American Indian people are absolutely central to both the past and present of the United States, you have to find ways to act on that knowledge. And the second would be: Paying unnaturally close attention to everything is not just a methodological admonition. It’s a way of life!”
Paul A. Cantor, Clifton Waller Barrett Professor of English and Comparative Literature, University of Virginia
Harvard courses: “Shakespeare and Politics”
1. Favorite and last favorite aspect of Harvard: My favorite aspect of teaching at Harvard is the quality of the students. It means that I can pitch my lectures higher and probe the subjects deeper. My one regret is that there are fewer opportunities to interact with students today, compared to when I was an assistant professor in the 1970s. The house system was more vibrant then; I, in fact, lived in Lowell House the six years I was an assistant professor, and had much more contact with students. I very much enjoyed speaking at a dinner in Kirkland House just last night.
2. Favorite food in the Square: I confess to a hankering for the fried rice and shrimp with lobster sauce at the Kong—a taste developed way back in the 1960s when I was an undergraduate.
3. Advice for students: My advice would be to focus more on your college studies and stop worrying about saving the world and building your resume. These may well be the best years of your lives, if you’ll take advantage of the opportunity to open yourselves up to the world of the liberal arts, and especially literature, art, music, and philosophy. And, above all, learn from your classmates—they’re the best thing about Harvard.
William R. Johnston, Professor of History, East Asian Studies, and Science in Society, Department of History, Wesleyan University
Harvard courses: “Japan and the Atomic Bomb in Historical Perspective
1. Favorite and least favorite aspect of Harvard: My favorite aspect of teaching at Harvard is the resources. The collections of books, manuscripts, and maps—the range of available information in Hollis and in the various databases is astounding. I always loved walking the stacks in Widener, and still do, but the digital resources and “Get It” options through Hollis make otherwise obscure materials quickly available both for classroom use and for research alike. I also like talking with the students individually, which gives me an opportunity to get to know them and help them with their work. There are many other resources that have been put to very good use—there are people in the administration who are working hard to do the most good possible. And who are succeeding. My least favorite aspect is something that friends here had told me about before, which is the tendency for students simply to go for the highest paying jobs upon graduation rather than look for ways in which they can make a positive contribution to the world around us. They are very bright and hard working but I’m astounded how many step immediately into Wall Street and other finance jobs. I keep looking for the students who want to work for Partners in Health or to take on the problems of climate chaos and environmental deterioration but haven’t found many yet—although I assume they are around.
2. Favorite Food in the Square: I’m a great fan of Santouka. Pretty much the best ramen I’ve had outside Japan, and I’ve eaten a lot of ramen there. Happy that Charlie’s is still there. Also like the kale salad at Tory Row. A brew? Still like John Harvard’s Brew House.
3. Advice for students: The one bit of advice I hope my students might absorb is to guide their lives based on principles of compassion, empathy, generosity, and openness to a broad range of ideas. And cultivate your curiosity. It is a big and wonderful world, while also one in which we, as humans, face an unprecedented crisis with the reality of climate chaos and environmental destruction. We need to work together to address those problems.
Adam Hosein, Assistant Professor, Department of Philosophy, University of Colorado
Harvard courses:" Philosophy of Law," "Moral Theories"
1. Favorite and least favorite aspect of Harvard: I’ve really enjoyed teaching at Harvard. It’s been a pleasure to interact with students in class, where I’ve found them very thoughtful, but also to learn a little bit about other aspects of their lives, for instance during office hours and at faculty dinners. I’m often impressed by what they do outside of class. Here’s something I posted on Facebook for my friends a little while back (obviously, the first line is tongue-in-cheek): “What’s with undergrads these days? One of them told me this morning about his extremely creative and socially useful startup. And later another told me about her successful efforts to help develop an entirely student-run shelter for at risk youths. Both of these activities would’ve conflicted with my rigorous extracurricular schedule at 19 of reading novels in bed.”
2. Advice for Students: The classes I teach are mostly about morality, including the morality of public policy and law. My goal isn’t to get students to adopt any particular view, but to have them understand and argue with a range of theories. What I hope they’ll take away is not any particular bit of advice but a general disposition to think independently about the major moral questions of our time.
Sections
You know those moments when you’re reading something and you just…zone out? What in the world are these words before you? We at FM have tried our best to answer this question, and have maybe zoned out a few too many times ourselves in the process.
1 | What are you?
A. An economics concentrator
B. A direct descendent of Adam AND Eve. Talk about legacy!
C. A Homo Erectus
2 | When are you reading this?
A. 11:30…fashionably late, that is.
B. Five minutes before your interview.
C. T-minus 24 hours until the deadline
3 | Where are you?
A. Sigma Chi all day everyday.
B. Space is all relative, because Einstein or something.
C. The depths of Widener.
4 | What are you wearing?
A. Snapback and polo button-down, brah.
B. Double-breasted suit with a folded handkerchief.
C. The same coffee-stained sweatpants you’ve had on for three days.
5 | Why are you here?
A. To get lucky.
B. I’ve wanted to be here since I was born. No, longer. I’ve wanted to be here since conception.
C. Read my proposal.
If you answered mostly A’s, you just used this article as a coaster for a 40.
If you answered mostly B’s, you’re a high school junior thinking that if you read Harvard publications you are more likely to get admitted.
If you answered mostly C’s, you’ve mistaken this article for something relevant to your thesis.
Sections
SWAI
We live in Boston, for God’s sake. It’s directly on Massachusetts Bay, which boasts one of the most vibrant fishing industries in the U.S. Instead, Harvard University Dining Services decides to periodically serve up this rubbery dish. Really, HUDS, why swai?
PRINTING AND LAUNDRY COSTS
There is something so frustrating about paying money in order to do a problem set or write a paper. With a multi-billion dollar endowment, we think Harvard should be able to front this one.
And the laundry machines, which are probably about 50 years old and paid off by now, are priced at $1.25 a load. To justify laundromat prices, Harvard should at least replace them with more efficient washers.
THE TITLE OF HOUSE MASTER
There are so many other possible titles instead of “House Master”: head of house, chair, principal. As a new member of Leverett, I was relieved that Howard Georgi and his wife called themselves “chief ” and “coach.” House Master is already phasing out of Harvard lexicon—it’s time to make it official.
MALE FINAL CLUBS
With the recent controversial email sent by the Spee, it is clear that the current structure of male final clubs should become a part of Harvard’s past, not its present. Discussions need to be had in order to create more inclusive social spaces for students.
Sections
This year has seen a continuation and expansion of efforts by Harvard groups to recognize, accommodate, and spread awareness about preferred gender pronouns through workshops, discussions, and the use of PGPs at club meetings.
Van Bailey, director of the office of BGLTQ student life, stresses the importance of respecting pronoun preferences in creating gender inclusivity. “I absolutely support a community-driven and centered model that creates safer spaces for all genders, including using pronouns that people request and align with their identities,”
Bailey wrote in an emailed statement. “It’s critical to use them in all spaces and to assume a person’s gender based upon their presentation or expression.”
One such effort is the Undergraduate Council’s “Side by Side” program, launched in March, which aims to “normalize” the conversation around gender diversity and reach out to groups who are traditionally less involved in gender inclusivity movements, according to Side by Side founder and UC representative Michelle S. Lee ’16.
“I wanted to emphasize, ‘How can we make Harvard a more safe and inclusive place for all genders?’” says Lee, an inactive Crimson news editor, who was inspired in part by gender imbalances that she observed in the UC.
The campaign, which kicked off with panel events with a number of speakers including Bailey, also features an ongoing outreach effort to student groups on campus. In these meetings, “Side by Side” representatives work with club and group leaders to create a set of pledges and goals to make those groups more gender inclusive.
Some of those pledges, Lee says, include starting meetings and introductions with discussion of preferred gender pronouns and attending the Women’s Center’s Gender 101 workshop and iLab’s gender inclusivity campaign.
“We’ve been able to hear a lot of voices who aren’t normally involved, and I think that’s in the spirit of allyship,” Lee says of the campaign, which has so far expanded to include more than 40 student groups.
Lee also emphasizes the importance of introducing the concept and practices of preferred gender pronouns to freshmen at the start of the year, a philosophy which has been embraced by the Peer Advising Fellow program. According to Ellie N. Bridge ’17, after going through gender inclusivity workshops and lectures themselves, PAFs are “strongly encouraged” to incorporate PGPs into entryway meetings with freshmen, especially early on.
“I think the efforts that we’re making are really, really important in being all-inclusive,” Bridge says. PAFs are encouraged to include their own pronouns at the start of entryway meetings, “just sort of making it part of your introduction.”
Even if freshmen find introductions with notes on pronoun use a little awkward or unusual, the impact can be more than worth it, Bridge says. Introducing freshmen to PGPs creates a “comfortable environment,” she says, for students who prefer nonbinary pronouns. It also gives students who haven’t previously been exposed to the concepts of nonbinary gender and preferred pronouns the opportunity to see those things in action.
“It’s not just about the people who are using unconventional forms of gender pronouns,” Bridges says. “It’s important to them, but it’s more important to normalize that for people [who] live their lives assuming the world exists in male/female. It’s about normalizing that spectrum.”
Jarrod R. Wetzel-Brown ’17, a PAF, also points to the program’s mid-year and endof- the-year surveys, which include a diversity of gender options for participants and ask if freshmen feel that their PAFs have respected their preferred pronouns.
“We think it’s important to make sure everyone feels included, and the very limited barriers of gender don’t impose themselves on students and make the students feel oppressed in an academic environment,” says Wetzel-Brown.
But full incorporation of preferred pronoun use still has a long way to go. Bridge says that the efforts of the PAF program, while positive, generally don’t extend beyond the first weeks of the school year.
For Wetzel-Brown, repetition of the PGP introduction at every study break, and, ideally, in the classroom, would be key steps in “streamlining the process the whole year through.”
And, says Lee, fully normalizing a spectrum of gender pronouns will take time.
“Understanding that some people may not want to be identified as ‘he’ or ‘she,’ and they should definitely still be respected and not have to feel like they’re uncomfortable, is something that’s not going to happen overnight,” she says. “It’s sometimes difficult to bring up, but I think if there are individuals who are empowered to step up it will eventually become more comfortable to more and more people.”
Sections
Good afternoon, fellow students, fellow parents [gesture to stomach and wink], professors, and fellow Former Massachusets Governor Deval L. Patrick ’78. There are some important people here in the audience that I would like to point out. One of them is my mother, and one of them is Abe Liu pretending to be my mother. Abe, this speech is for you [wink to imply that I’ll be waiting in Widener after my speech].
I’m here today because I know that we are all a little anxious about graduating and I thought that I might help demystify the future—the great unknown. I have here my very own pack of Tarot cards. You’re welcome, Folk and Myth concentrator! I didn’t want your education to seem totally useless.
I will now perform a reading for the Class of 2015. But first, we must summon the spirits. [Pull out flask and turn to Class Day Speaker—can it be Tina Fey, please?] I’ve been rude, Tina, would you like a sip from my flask? No? Well, then. Here is our card of the day, our future [pull card]: The King of Death. Oh. This one must be for Yale. I’m kidding; it’s for all of us. But let’s try another. Hmmm…. Okay, let’s see: The Devil, The Hanged Man, Judgment, Instruction Booklet, Cabot House. Oh. Wait. This one looks good. The Knight of Pentacles. Let’s go with this one. What does this mean? Let’s consult the spirits [struggle to open flask, take a gulp. It’s juice!].
According to the spirits [and www.BiddyTarot.com]: The Knight of Pentacles sits upon a plough horse in the midst of a field, engaged in the often toilsome, routine efforts required to realize the dreams of his heart. He carries a single gold coin. Okay, so the future’s not too bad. We all have a single gold coin. Ladies, we only have 78 percent of one. And we’ve also got a horse. Again, ladies, only 78 percent of one. It’s not going to win the Kentucky Derby, but hey, I bet it can “Lean In.” [Alt: But hey, that’s a lot of meat!]
Plus, we’re all employed! We’re all farmers! So I was right, Gail, from Office of Career Services, you can get a job without even applying. But you were also right, Gail, from Office of Career Services, my resume had numerous, glaring typos. That was a good catch. [Alt: Scream hysterically for 20 seconds.]
[Looking at empty wrist, pretending to have a watch.] Okay, time’s up. That will be roughly $240,000 for the group reading. No. I don’t take Board Plus. I don’t care how many Odwalla bars you’re going to have to buy. Okay. Fine. Since I’m feeling generous, why don’t you guys all just “owe me”? Just off the top of my head, here are some requests:
I would like someone to fix the broken elevator in the Ridgely swing space, preferably before I move out. I would like one of you to cure cancer. And I would like one of you to reintroduce Polio via a highly effective anti-immunization campaign, and then I’d like for two of you to cure it again, falling in love as you work together to fight America’s most crippling disease for the second time. Now, I want a fourth person to convert his or her story into a dramatized five-part period show that will run on HBO. I will star.
I could go on. And I will. One of you needs to perfect time travel so that I can relive Freshman Formal. I’ll need a second person to come with me so that I’ll have a date. Preferably one of the 15Hottest, but I’ll take anyone in the top 35. A couple of you should start lying to the Bureau of Labor Statistics so that unemployment doesn’t seem so bad. As for the environment, don’t worry about it. Class of 2016, this is all on you, suckers!
I know it’s a lot to ask. But there are about 1,600 of you. So if you all just divvy up the work and take one problem each, it should be totally manageable. It will be just like Ec 10 again. I will seduce my TF, and he will report me to my Freshman Dean. For the record, Ben, TF-student relationships are totally fine; the administration just “frowns upon them.” Also, if your “fiancé” really did love you, she should have been cool with it. But I digress, these favors are important; not just for me, but for all of us. They will make the world a better place. You can trust me—I know. I go to Harvard.
You see, it’s just like the reading said. We are all farmers. We are all slowly plowing the land of the great unknown, planting the genetically modified seeds for our future children, polluting the Gulf of Mexico with our pesticide overuse.
[Switch to a British accent to sound smarter.]
And the world might be full of cards we don’t quite understand: Death, The Devil, B+. But we have our gold coin, and we have most of our dead horse, so eventually, we’re going to toil, we’re going to work hard, and we’re going to fix my elevator.
Or at least, you guys are. Because, as a leader, I delegate.
So thank you, Class of 2015, in advance. You have to do all these things now, because I already thanked you, and I’m not taking it back [cry to elicit sympathy from the captive audience].
But before I go, as a token of my gratitude, I would like to leave you all with a little gift—some words from the people who have had the greatest influence on my time here at Harvard: Das Racist, the three-man musical group who performed at Yardfest our freshman year and which has since broken up.
“I’m at the Pizza Hut. (What?) / I’m at the Taco Bell. (What?) / I’m at the combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell.” That’s from their 2009 hit song, “Combination Pizza Hut and Taco Bell.”
I don’t know how this is at all relevant to our lives or graduation, but I like it, and I’m pretty sure that section kid can come up with something.
Thanks again, Class of 2015. Congrats! I hope that lots of distant relatives send you very generous checks. You all deserve it. Especially me. I worked hard on this speech. [Flip off Senior Class Committee and angrily knock down podium.]
Nicole J. Levin is a Government concentrator in Dunster House. She’s seeking employment and can start anytime.
Sections
Dearest ladies, distinguished gentlemen, and men who are not members of the Porcellian Club: I’m going to spit some veritas for you seniors out there reading FM by the fireplace.
Everyone, from relatives to friends to strangers on planes, has told me that college is the peak. It’s the best life will ever get. Yet I don’t think they realize how many boyfriends I had in kindergarten. That was my peak. Jonathon, if you’re reading this, I never stopped loving you. Meet me at the playground on June 1 at noon.
I’ve also often heard the phrase “College is the best four years of your life.” And so you might ask, is there really nothing to look forward to? Though it may seem like these were the best days of our lives, we’re still so young. Our greatest accomplishments are not in the past. For those who are graduating summa cum laude, you need to be summa cum quiet. It’s not that big of a deal.
We are only just beginning. Think about it this way: If life were a 24-hour day, we’re probably at like 6 a.m. We still have 20 alarm snoozes and four meals ahead of us. In short, unless we’re on a crew team, we’ve barely even begun.
To prove my point, I would like to take a look at Harvard when it was also 22 years old.
Back in 1658, 22-year-old Harvard was pretty much a start-up. It only had a handful of employees, very few customers, and no women. It was tainted by its early beginnings, when John Harvard stole the idea of a school from the Winklevoss twins.
Young Harvard seemed aimless, with low expectations and strange rules. In 1658, when asked where they went to school, Harvard students would say “Harvard,” and people would ask, “Where?” Students would have to legitimately explain, “It’s a school near Boston.” And back then, John Harvard only needed to donate a few hundred pounds to have the school named after him. Harvard now has higher standards. I know people who gave that much for Senior Gift and can’t get even a doorknob named after them.
Back in the 1600s, Harvard graduates, limited in their options, were forced to choose between becoming a lawyer, minister, or witch hunter.Nowadays, we can go to a magical land called grad school or an even more magical place called my parent’s basement to “work on my novel.”
Harvard didn’t have things together until it was at least 150, so we have plenty of time. Even at almost 400 years old, Harvard still makes mistakes: Taking chickwiches off the grille menu, only having Korean BBQ once a week, and not recognizing the 13th upperclassman House, Lamont Library. Because really, what’s a House if it’s not a place where you sleep every night and bathe yourself in the sink?
Even over the four years I’ve been here, things have improved. We have a new CVS and the Kong has a new waitress named Judy. Professors continue to passionately improve their classes to better serve their students. Just take Greg Mankiw’s latest edition of “The Principles of Economics.” They fixed that typo on page 80.
It’s the best it will be until next year when it can be purchased at the low, low price of 309 dollars. If there’s anything I’ve learned here, it’s that it’s never too late to start fresh. Just go by “Harvard Time” and you can be seven minutes, or years, late to anything. Really, planning ahead is so Expos.
Even more, it’s okay to make mistakes. Just don’t make the same one as all your other classmates on a take-home final. If there’s one thing I’ve learned at Harvard, it’s that as long as you can convince the world that you’ve tried, failure will always get you a B+.
What I’m saying is, don’t say no to new opportunities. Maybe you studied economics, computer science, or chemistry here, but youdon’t have to do that for the rest of your life. Folklore and Mythology concentrators, you know what I’m talking about.
Treat life like a great brain break. Try a little bit of everything and keep coming back for more. Mix crispy rice and Marshmallow Mateys. Get dangerous—add vanilla soy milk.
Get funky—put organic peanut butter on it, you freak. The results will be rich and you probably will be too. Don’t be too hard on yourself if you make a mistake and, I don’t know, put pita bread in the toaster, and it gets stuck and things catch on fire, and you forget how to unplug the toaster.
Just take a deep breath; no one is there to see it except you. Just walk away. It never happened.I’ve often asked myself: How is Harvard going to exist without me? How will it go on? But then I remember: I am non-critical personnel.
When we step out into the world, there will be pressure on us to accomplish incredible feats.
Like at graduation: Fitting four duffel bags into our car’s backseat or sustaining a full conversation with Grandpa. The years ahead will also probably demand a lot from us all. I know we can do it. Like drunk Thetas at Harvard-Yale, we stand on the shoulders of those who are older than us.
Harvard has been a special place where it’s possible to engage in important debates about God, stem cell research, and whether a dress is blue and black or white and gold. We’ve all found communities here. Some joined acapella groups. Others did Crimson Key. I know I found my people through Dean Pfister’s book club.
I know I’ll miss it here. I’ll miss my group texts with roommates about dinner plans and with HUPD about the best street on which to get mugged. I’ll miss the Harvard-specific terminology that students say, like concentration, secondary, and blocking group. For example, “Libby, you can’t join our blocking group.” I won’t find these wonderful terms anywhere else. Though in the end, it really doesn’t matter what anyone calls things, right Isis Club?
Harvard was a great experience, but college shouldn’t be the best four years of your life. It ought to be the worst four years of your life. We still have plenty to look forward to, like the 100th edition of “The Principles of Economics.”
Onwards and upwards!
Libby R. Coleman is a History & Literature concentrator in Kirkland House and a former FM Chair. College might turn out to be the worst five years of her life. Sup, super seniors!
Sections
My blocking group specializes in dumb ideas. Not the type of dumb ideas that actually get executed and ruin your life—“Hey guys, let’s drive drunk!”—but lofty dumb ideas, ones that would ruin your life in spectacular fashion if you could actually figure out how to do them.
Freshman year, one blockmate became obsessed with something he called the gauntlet. This referred to the act of eating a burrito from Felipe’s, a few slices of pizza from Noch’s, a sandwich from the Market in the Square, and a large sandwich from Al’s, all over the course of one night.
There were no rules about which order you had to eat these in, but it was generally agreed that Al’s would come first, since it closed before all the others. This was also why nobody ever ran the gauntlet—it only seemed like a good idea well after midnight.
On the morning of Housing Day, before we found out which house we’d been sorted into, my mother sent me a text that read, “Did you find out which house you’re in yet? I had a dream it was Grigsby House.”
The blocking group found this hilarious, and there soon came a plan to found a new house. Grigsby’s identity was fluid, but we agreed that it would feature N-7 housing, and that it would have a very close relationship with Noch’s. Sometimes it was in the alley across the street from Noch’s—sometimes, we decided, it would have to be in Noch’s. Sometimes Noch’s was just the dining hall. Sometimes the Noch’s guys were the House masters. When the Harvard Square Theater closed down, we debated whether or not that would be a good place for Grigsby House. Instead, we moved into Kirkland without incident. Grigsby Youth became the name of our eight-man rap group. This also never came to fruition.
Our sophomore year, we fiercely debated how best to utilize our N-1 eight-man suite: It had three common rooms and four bedrooms, two of which were walkthroughs. We all agreed that maximizing common space was more important than privacy. We debated putting a ping pong table in one common room, then decided a pool table would be a better idea. At one point, we discussed making one of the common rooms a pool. One roommate suggested that we put all the beds in one common room, barracks-style. “What if someone wants to have a friend over?” another roommate asked. “Well, we’d have smush rooms, obviously,” came the reply. We ended up with two common rooms, neither of which had a pool table, a ping pong table, beds for any purpose, or pools.
One night at dinner that year, we were discussing G8 countries (that fall, someone would propose that the eight of us go as the G8 countries for Halloween) when one blockmate, while browsing Wikipedia, discovered that one G7 finance summit had been held in Iqualuit, the capital of Nunavut, Canada. Iqualuit has a population of about 7,000. It has only been a city since 2001, and was originally founded as an Air Force base. Its climate is classified as arctic. Naturally, we found its choice as a host city hilarious, and quickly resolved to journey there at some point.
This never happened, although we did go to Montreal for a weekend over one spring break. That was almost as dumb of an idea.
Petey E. Menz is a joint English and History of Art and Architecture concentrator, as well as a former Arts Chair and a former FM Chair. This is his senior thesis.
Sections
How’s it hanging? Welcome to this, the glossiest issue of Fifteen Minutes, a publication that Maia once drunkenly described as “the weekend magazine of The Crimson.” She holds up well. We colored each and every page of each and every copy of it with our own Crayolas. Bailey ate the yellow-green crayon and Cordelia broke the green-yellow one. Sorry, Juliet Nelson—we’ll reimburse you.
This issue is supposedly the Year in Review, so I guess we reviewed some things this year. You’ll find a thoughtful selection of events and farces of 2014- 2015 from A-Z. Literally. Like, actually literally. Literally, this is a book that goes from A-Z with just a few interruptions. You can use it to teach toddlers the alphabet, as long as you’re cool with them thinking there are extra letters and photos in thealphabet.
If you’re looking for lots of laughs, check out our style guide for looking like a Franciscan monk. That’s for the letter F. Here’s a tip: Tonsures. Just kidding, there’s none of that, because Bailey’s worried about going bald. But if you are looking for the funnies, we’ve got those in store.
We’ve also got the tears, the fears, the tears for fears, the blues, and even the mean reds. Especially the mean reds. For something more serious, we have a lot of photo spreads, so you can practice your poker face whilst perusing them. For something even more serious, a map of Snapchat geofilters.
It’s broken 60 degrees in Cambridge, so bundle up and wear a hat. Don’t forget sunscreen! Your mom says thank you.
Bon amie, belles de nuit! Peace up! A-Town Down,
Cordelia F. Mendez and Bailey M. Trela
Sections
Happy Monday, Harvard! That’s right, we’re halfway through reading period already. Pretty scary to consider how much time you’ve wasted stalking your crush’s formal pictures on Facebook and how little time you’ve spent studying for that final you need to ace to make up for your poor midterm performance (or is that just me?). Luckily, you still have time to change your ways! If you closed Netflix instead of watching “just one more” episode, you could probably finish the reading you’ve been pretending you did since the beginning of the semester. May the odds be ever in your favor.
IN THE D-HALLS
LUNCH:
Chicken Fingers
Farfale with Italian Sausage and Kale
Tofu Parmesan Sub
DINNER:
Chicken Marsala
Shrimp with Fettucini
Multigrain Rotini with Peas and Mushroom
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
Today should be sunny with a high of 82º — perfect weather just in time for us to stay inside studying for a week straight.
ON FLYBY
Movies to Watch Instead of Studying for Finals — Our official recommendations
IN THE NEWS
Report Says Gen Ed Program is 'Failing' on Many Fronts — “A report reviewing the status of Harvard College’s Program in General Education states that the program is currently “failing” in many ways to achieve its initial goals, “occupies no place in the College’s identity,” and lacks general and financial commitment from both the College and University.”
College Appoints Full-Time Title IX Coordinator — “Emily J. Miller will serve as the College’s first full-time Title IX coordinator, according to an email Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana sent to undergraduates on Friday.”
EVENTS
The Women Sheriffs of Wall Street — Elizabeth Warren, Sheila Bair, and Mary Schapiro will be speaking in Memorial Church Sanctuary at 10am.
Building a New Nepal — Prashant Jha, associate editor of the Hindustan Times is speaking about what it will take for Nepal to rebuild after the earthquake in CGIS South S050 at noon.
Milton J. Rosenau Lecture: Professor Sir Michael Marmot — Sir Michael will be talking about health equity. 4pm in Kresge G2.
Corruption: The Unaddressed Elephant on the Global Stage — A lecture hosted by the Herbert C. Kelman Seminar on International Conflict at 4:30pm in CGIS South S020.
One Room Tenants — The Harvard Film Archive will be screening One Room Tenants at 7pm.
“Tangible Things” — Professor Laurel Thatcher Ulrich will be talking about the history contained in objects. 7pm in the Harvard Ed Portal.
