News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last month, Taylor Swift released the music video for “Wildest Dreams,” her latest single. The video catches Swift in an ill-fated romance, but it also finds her perpetuating an ill-conceived, exclusionary, and deeply exploitative ideology.
Swift, playing a '50s starlet in a period romance, romps across an African savanna teeming with wildlife but notably devoid of Africans. This is a perverse colonial nostalgia. The landscape, the sunset, the moment—they belong to her. “Colonialism was neither romantic nor beautiful,” Ugandan activists Viviane Rutabingwa and James Kassaga Arinaitwe wrote in response to the video. Swift glamorizes colonialism even though “the [European visitors] depicted by Swift and her co-stars killed, dehumanized and traumatized millions of Africans.”
But Taylor Swift is not the only one advancing colonialism and white supremacy. Many of our interactions with sub-Saharan Africa retain a disturbing colonial tinge. Africans will represent nearly 50 percent of the world’s population by 2100, six of their economies are among the 13 fastest growing in the world, and a middle class is emerging. Africa is changing. We haven’t, but we must.
The West’s reflexive attitude towards sub-Saharan Africa centers on a white savior complex that tasks white Westerners with “fixing” or “rescuing” people of color. As the Nigerian-American author Teju Cole describes, the white savior complex satisfies “white egos [and] the emotional needs” of white people, dismissing Africans as primitive and denying them “agency… in their own lives.” It is a permutation of the primary justification for colonialism: that white colonists were “civilizing” the world. Cole writes: “The white savior supports brutal policies in the morning, founds charities in the afternoon, and receives awards in the evening.”
The white savior complex is also an empirical disaster. Farmland is abundant in sub-Saharan Africa, but aid programs send food instead of promoting cultivation. (Foreigners and foreign companies, meanwhile, snap up land and force out small farmers.) Famous buy-one-give-one companies, like Toms shoes, have flooded markets with free, mainly Chinese-made apparel, harming East African shoe-making sectors and other industries. And animal giving programs, like the celebrated Heifer International, promote heavy meat consumption even though homegrown alternatives—like Teff, Ethiopia’s protein-packed grain—are much more sustainable and efficient. The imposition of ill-fitting Western solutions is devastating.
Meanwhile, our economic interactions preserve the injustice of colonial relationships. “The wealth of the West,” Richard Drayton summarizes, “was built on Africa’s exploitation,” and this exploitation remains entrenched. Foreign-owned companies abuse African workers and African environments, enrich cruel leaders who are not democratically elected, and take home massive profits. Western companies have also imposed Euro-American principles of urban planning. If burgeoning African cities want investment, they are forced to forgo their own, tailor-made ideas and conform to visions of hyper-Western skyscrapers. American economic policies, like the African Growth and Opportunity Act, have only facilitated the neocolonial relationship whereby companies extract what they want from Africa, impose loaded Euro-American standards of modernity, ravage land, and ruin lives.
Geopolitically, we continue to treat sub-Saharan Africa as though it were a satellite to be controlled. China’s recent investments in African infrastructure and natural resources are troubling because of their often exploitative, imperialistic nature—but the media have framed them primarily as threats to Western influence. In China’s Second Continent, Howard French writes that China’s state-run companies frequently refuse to hire African workers, instead relying on Chinese migrants. As such, aid projects like highways and stadiums don’t reduce unemployment or transfer skills to Africans. When Africans are hired, they are frequently underpaid, harassed, and denied the protective gear that migrant workers are given for mining and chemical work. Western leaders insist that their anxiety over Chinese expansion comes from these exploitative business practices, but aid projects funded by the U.S. are contracted out to the abusive Chinese companies, too. We are fixated on colonial power and control, but Africa is not ours to fight over.
Africa does not belong to the West. Africa does not exist to fulfill a colonial fantasy of galloping wildebeests and a gallivanting Swift. It does not exist to absolve American guilt or to satisfy our thirst for oil. It does not exist for America or China to control it.
Africa belongs to Africans, and they are the ones solving problems through effective and ingenious innovation. It belongs to Africans, who demand justice and win change. It belongs to Africans, who redefine modernity. The West has got to progress beyond colonial entitlement and exploitation, because Sub-Saharan Africans are building a future far beyond Taylor Swift’s “Wildest Dreams.”
Ted G. Waechter '18, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Quincy House. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Next week, work will begin on Harvard Campus Services’ latest project—the paving of part of the Malkin Athletic Center Quadrangle to create more parking spaces. In reaction to the loss of approximately 4,000-square feet of the Quad, over 500 students have signed an online petition asking Campus Services to halt their plans. Much of the opposition stems from residents of nearby Houses who cherish “one of the nicest green open spaces on campus” and from club sports teams, such as the Harvard Horntails Quidditch team, that use the Quad as a practice field.
Despite the concerns, it is clear in examining the details of the Campus Services’ plans that the scheduled work will not significantly hurt students’ ability to use the space recreationally or even competitively; in fact, the landscaping change may even prove to be an improvement in the long-term. However, this issue symbolizes the larger trend of differing priorities between the administration and students, and the lack of emphasis that the administration has placed on student input.
The landscaping aims to increase the utility of the Quad without severely compromising the green space. Though the online petition claimed that a third of the MAC Quad would be paved, Campus Service in fact intends to convert only a tenth of the Quad into eighteen parking spaces for senior faculty members. This proposed extension of the existing parking lot would convert the steep slope that currently exists on the edge of the Quad, rather than the flat grassy land in the middle. The slope as it currently exists is barely suitable for sports or social events. Moreover, after increasing parking spaces, Campus Services also plans to re-grade the Quad so that it is less prone to flooding—an issue that has prevented its use in the past—and add new sidewalks, lighting, bike racks, and sidewalks to improve accessibility. In short, though the planned work will undoubtedly be inconvenient over the coming months, the long-term effects of adding the new parking space may end up substantially improving the state of the Quad.
Nevertheless, the reaction of students—and the discontent expressed by residents of nearby houses—demonstrates the recurring issue of the administration ignoring student concerns in its decision-making. The MAC Quad is a shared space used primarily by various students and student groups; altering its landscape is a matter of direct consequences to the undergraduates at the College. It would have been judicious to collect student feedback before moving ahead with the plans.
It is unfortunate that Campus Services' plan was kept away from students only to be discovered through rumors. The petitioners make a good point that the biggest problem with the landscaping is the secrecy with which it was planned. And while the current plan bodes well for the future of the MAC Quad, the responses voiced against it highlight the necessity for the administration to solicit student feedback in its projects. This incident underscores the need for the administration to be more communicative with students—they too deserve a say in the future of their university.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Call it the crimson wave, Aunt Flo, or cousin red—call it anything but what it actually is. Menstruation, the process by which the body sheds the lining of the uterus through the vagina, is all too familiar to any woman of childbearing age. That “time of the month” is an inconvenient and unpleasant, but also natural and universal, phenomenon.
Unfortunately, despite affecting roughly 50 percent of the world’s population, menstruation comes with a heavy stigma. In the past especially, there were many taboos surrounding a menstruating woman’s behavior. For example, people used to believe that drops of menstrual blood could kill plants and animals. In ancient Rome, Pliny the Elder wrote that "bees left the hives, mares miscarried and corn... withered at the touch of a menstruating woman." People also used to think that beer, wine, vinegar, milk, and jam would become spoiled if touched by a menstruating woman.
Things didn’t get much better though. As recently as the 1930s, scientists were trying to prove that menstruating women produced menotoxins, or poisons, in their menstrual blood, perspiration, saliva, urine, and tears. Professor B. Schick first came up with this concept in 1919, proposing that this was the reason why menstruating women supposedly caused wine to spoil and flowers to wilt at their touch.
Thanks to this stigma, women used to be—and in some places, continue to be—forced to leave their homes and spend time in isolation whenever they experienced their period. In many developing countries, girls as young as 10 must spend their menstrual cycles in an animal shed built outside their homes. This practice often causes girls to miss school, contributing to the phenomenon of uneducated women in developing countries. In Africa alone,  one in 10 girls "misses school when she has her period because of lack of information and inadequate facilities."
While the physical ostracization of menstruating women is no longer a reality in countries like the United States, the stigma of uncleanliness and shame lingers. Recently, Kiran Gandhi, drummer for M.I.A. and Harvard Business School graduate, decided to run a marathon on her period, without a pad or tampon. She had trained for months for this marathon, and had unexpectedly gotten her period the night before. She decided to run the marathon anyway, citing comfort as her primary reason for forgoing a pad or tampon. During the marathon, she freely bled into her athletic leggings.
When the story broke the news, the entire world recoiled in disgust. Even though the menstrual fluid was contained in the runner’s leggings, only leaving stains in her crotch area, people derided the runner as unsanitary, cited public health violations, and ridiculed her as disgusting and shameless.
Marathon runners often urinate as they run, unwilling to waste a precious second, and this is seen as understandable; yet, when this runner menstruated as she ran, unwilling to wear a pad or tampon that would cause painful chafing throughout the course of a long run, it was seen as disgusting and radical.
Why the enormous backlash? Kiran Gandhi said it herself best: “As I ran, I thought to myself about how women and men have both been effectively socialized to pretend periods don’t exist... Because it is all kept quiet, women are socialized not to complain or talk about their own bodily functions, since no one can see it happening.”
She has a point: In our society, periods are seen as something that should be hidden. Advertisements for pads and tampons are intentionally vague and misleading, showing montages of frolicking women and demonstrating pad absorbency using mysterious blue liquid. Seventeen magazine publishes “period traumaramas” where girls share embarrassing stories about their periods—apparently, the worst thing that can happen to a teenage girl is getting your period around your boyfriend or dropping a tampon in front of your crush. Kotex sells pads with specially designed rustle-free wrappers, so even other women in a public bathroom don’t have to know you’re on your period. In our society, menstruation is so stigmatized that we essentially pretend it doesn’t even exist.
The stigma of menstruation is not only physical, but also psychological. Women on their periods are not only dirty and repulsive, but also moody and hysterical—according to experts on female physiology like Donald Trump, at least. The controversial presidential hopeful insinuated that Megyn Kelly was menstruating during the GOP debate. On an interview with CNN’s Don Lemon, Trump said, “There was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever.” Though he later insisted that he was referring to her nose, it is obvious that he was implying that she was on her period while questioning him in what he perceived as an overly aggressive manner.
This is not only an unfair assumption that invalidates women’s emotions and reactions as mere hormonal impulses, but also a line of thinking that prevents women from being taken seriously in their educational and professional pursuits. In 1981, a survey of Americans found that over half of the respondents thought that women were more emotional while menstruating, and about a quarter of the respondents believed that women cannot function normally or do their work as well while menstruating. However, studies found that there is no evidence of premenstrual or menstrual decline in women’s mental or physical performances.
Nevertheless, the stigma of menstruating women as being hysterical harpies persists. It is this stigma that caused Newt Gingrich in 1995 to declare that women are unfit for combat because “females have biological problems staying in a ditch for 30 days.” It is this stigma that caused cartoonist Pat Oliphant to portray Hillary Clinton as weepy and weak in the face of terrorists. It is this stigma that caused Marc Rudov to point to PMS and mood swings as the main downsides of having a female president.
This stigma even puts the health and lives of women at risk. In the past, women who expressed any range of symptoms—including sexual desire, loss of appetite for sex, and a “tendency to cause trouble”—were often diagnosed with “hysteria,” a diagnosis no longer recognized by medical authorities today, and forced to enter an insane asylum or to undergo surgical hysterectomy.
Even now, doctors often do not take women’s complaints of pain as seriously as men’s complaints. Women under 55 are "two times as likely as men in the same age group to die after being hospitalized for a heart attack [...] in part because doctors often ignore or minimize women’s complaints when they do speak up." Women are often dismissed as “hysterical, dramatic, or crazy,” a dangerous stereotype that could even put their lives at risk.
The period stigma sucks. It’s annoying to constantly have your thoughts and emotions dismissed as hormonal impulses, it’s irritating to devise methods of bringing a tampon into the bathroom without anyone noticing, and it’s embarrassing to be shamed for having unexpected period leaks on your clothing or bedding.
But the period stigma has much more far-reaching consequences. It means that women are not taken seriously in the workplace. It means that women are not seen as competent leaders. It means that Megyn Kelly is seen as a hormonal bitch on her period rather than an intelligent reporter brave enough to ask the tough questions to Donald Trump. It means that Kiran Gandhi is seen as a disgusting unladylike rebel rather than a woman who wanted to run a marathon with her family and friends and just happened to have her period that day. The period stigma shames women for their natural bodily functions and for their thoughts alike, making women feel just as uncomfortable in the workplace as they do in their own bodies.
Sure, periods can be messy and annoying and always seem to come at the most unexpected times, but they are also a reminder of the incredible capabilities of the female body. Instead of pretending they don’t exist, we should be bonding over an experience that half of the human population undergoes every month. Period blood, after all, consists of eggs and uterine lining prepared for a potential developing baby—the apparatus used for making life. Personally, I don’t find that gross at all. I find it pretty miraculous.

Nian Hu ’18, a Crimson editorial executive, lives in Mather House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We’ve all done it: Sitting in one of the candy-colored chairs in the Yard or barely making it to class (even on Harvard time), we pop on a pair of headphones. We crank up that one song—the soundtrack to our Ivy League angst, the one we secretly sing to in our underwear when no one’s around, the one to which we can’t help walking at least a little in time. With classes just getting into full swing, FM yanked headphones out of unsuspecting ears in all corners of the Yard. Here’s what Harvard’s listening to:
"Knee Socks" by The Arctic Monkeys
Sophomore boy: “It’s upbeat, and I need that in the middle of my day. Sometimes I listen to EDM in the Yard, but today is too beautiful for that.”
"One Read Thread" by Blind Pilot
Sophomore boy: “This is a song that I listen to when I’m going from place to place. It has a really travel-centric theme for me.”
"Cecilia and the Satellite" by McMahaon
Freshman boy: “It’s a sad song, but the beat is not too slow.”
"El Carratero" by Buena Vista Social Club
Sophomore boy: “It reminds me of growing up. This is the kind of music that was played in my home.”
"Ex Factor" by Lauryn Hill
Junior Girl: “The song is just really powerful. It reminds me of my childhood, when I listened to ‘The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill’ endlessly. It really resonates with people of color.”
"Me and Julio Down by the Schoolyard" by Paul Simon
Junior boy: “It reminds me of my home, England. I’ve listened to this song at least 10 times in the past 24 hours. Stephen Colbert and Paul Simon also performed it on ‘The Late Show’ with Stephen Colbert recently.”
"No Diggity" covered by The Lowkeys
Sophomore boy: “I was in the process of auditioning for the Lowkeys...So, yeah.”

Sections
“Some people say that this place looks like a hospital,” the person seated beside us suggests cautiously. It is 3 o’clock on a Wednesday, and we are sitting at a table for five in the corner of the Pforzheimer dining hall. Our host, John D. Bowers ’18, has prompted us to think about the space around us. “Yeah, I really don’t like this room,” another participant adds bluntly, and the nervous tension around the table breaks.
For the next two hours, Bowers facilitates a conversation by asking provocative questions and sharing a few riveting stories of his own. After gently mocking the aesthetic qualities of the Pfoho dining hall, we turn to more personal storytelling. Bowers opens the conversation with a crowd-pleasing prompt for group commiseration. “Tell us about a time when you felt like the universe totally screwed you over, a time when you felt impossibly unlucky,” he begins, prompting airport horror stories and tales of mysterious illnesses in foreign countries.
This is Tea with Strangers, an organization that facilitates casual conversations amongst groups of strangers, with the goal of creating intimate communities in large cities.
“Our world is so anchored on the idea of, ‘How are we special from everybody else? And how is everybody else other?’” explains Ankit Shah, who founded Tea with Strangers. Shah created Tea with Strangers as a “goofy project” six weeks before his graduation from the University of Pennsylvania. He thought it might be a way to meet new people on campus.
Even though Shah saw his project as “goofy,” he has since developed a lofty mission statement. “If you’ve taken any classical economics class, the assumption...is that we are rational, self-interested agents,” Shah says. “My hope is that...with Tea with Strangers, we can create this world that is even more rationally others-interested, because there is much more to be gained when you care about others before you care about yourself.”
Organizing a tea is simple. A host, an affiliate of Tea with Strangers, picks a location and a time, and up to six people use the organization’s website to sign up for the event. Those seven then have a two-hour conversation over tea. Afterwards, they part ways, no strings attached.
After Penn, the “the tea experiment” traveled with Shah to California. “The Bay Area iteration was similar in that it was just me [running it],” he recalls. “Instead of saying, ‘I have six weeks left,’ it was ‘I just moved here.’ There are 8 million people in the Bay Area and I literally knew about four.”
Since then, the operation has expanded to 14 different cities and universities around the world. At venues in London, Nairobi, and elsewhere, communities of hosts now lead teas. Bowen Lu ’16- ’17 launched the Harvard chapter of Tea with Strangers. Lu attended his own first tea during his gap year in San Francisco. According to Lu, the experience was “unstructured but so vulnerable,” with participants speaking about politics and religion. Hooked on the Tea with Strangers experience, Lu returned to campus last spring hoping to recreate that “atmosphere of vulnerability.”
Lu launched the Harvard chapter to improve a campus social experience he sees as a “twoway funnel.” He had observed that freshmen arrive on campus eager to meet other students, but quickly shut themselves off from new social experiences. By senior year, the funnel opens up again. “They realize that, ‘Wow, my time is coming to an end here. There are so many people I haven’t met,’” he says.
“Why isn’t there an avenue to continually meet new people in this community of fantastic people?” Lu wondered at the time. Through Tea with Strangers, Lu and other campus hosts hope to help make the Harvard social experience more like a cylinder.
“I see the host’s role as definitely a facilitator, and not a leader,” Lu says. “Being a host is being a participant, an attendee of the tea time.” Yet, Lu says that it is the host’s responsibility to ensure that everyone is a present and comfortable member of the conversation.
Shah agrees, noting that hosting a tea requires a keen sense of social situations and a deep desire to bring people together. “A good host is someone who assumes trust, who assumes friendship with a person before they’ve met,” Shah says. While Shah vets potential hosts with these guidelines in mind, he stresses that the inclusivity fostered during a tea extends to the host selection process.
“I think there is not a single person that can’t be a fantastic host,” he says. “At the end of the day, being a great host is just listening. And it’s paying attention enough to ask a question because you actually gave a shit.”
At the Pfoho tea, the second ever hosted on campus, the conversation has taken a distinct turn. We move from telling stories to questioning the function and existence of luck, and whether events that occur are predetermined or happen by chance. We wonder if people simply believe what they want to believe because it would be too existentially distressing to think otherwise, and if believing in luck is a mere coping mechanism in a universe that we will never fully understand. We talk about books that have changed us and books that haven’t changed us. We imagine ourselves as the protagonists of the movie “Limitless,” faced with the possibility of unlimited intelligence and speed.
“What are your names again?” asks a participant across the table. The group shares a laugh. It is five o’clock, the end of our two hours together, and we realize how much and how little we know about one another. We don’t know each other’s concentrations or extracurricular affiliations, but it feels like we’ve become familiar with the inner workings of each other’s minds. We know what matters to each other, and what makes us tick.
“It’s weird that after this, we’ll all probably be strangers again,” adds another tea-time guest. There are general murmurs of agreement as we realize what an unusual experience this has been. Our host describes the two hours as “ephemeral.”
With waitlists piling up in venues around the world, Tea with Strangers is looking to expand its reach. In addition, Shah is interested in strengthening bonds within existing host communities. He hopes to create “an echo chamber of good intention,” where constant feedback will allow hosts to make teas even more inclusive, and thus encourage attendees to open up and get to know one another.
To Shah, a primary goal of Tea with Strangers is to make participants realize how similar they are, rather than dwelling on differences. “‘Strangers’ is so ironic,” he says. “Because there is no such thing.”
Sections
Claire Messud is the newest addition to Harvard’s creative writing faculty, and an acclaimed novelist, speaker, and lecturer. Her novel, The Emperor’s Children, was a New York Times bestseller. In 2002, she was awarded the Guggenheim Fellowship for Creative Arts. She lives in Somerville with her husband, fellow Harvard English Professor James Wood. She leads two fiction workshops.
FM: What first made you want to become a writer?
CM: Oh, that should be an easy question, but I think the honest answer is that even when I was a kid, I loved stories, and so when I realized as a child that stories were written by people, I said I wanted to do that.
FM: What inspired your first novel, When the World Was Steady (1995)?
CM: So, my first novel … started as a bunch of short series as a senior project in college. I was writing stories about a family, about a set of characters, and then I went to graduate school eventually. I started again. I didn’t use the stories that I had, but I was still writing with those characters. Those are the characters who became the characters in my first novel. So, you could say I started it in graduate school, or you could also say I started in college.
FM: What did it feel like to finish your first novel?
CM: You know, in a funny way, I always wonder if anything is ever finished. You always feel like you could change more, you could keep working, and at some point you have to let go of it. It’s a combination of amazement that you actually managed to do it and some fear that you should keep working on it. It’s a whole bunch of different emotions, but … [it was] thrilling it was to feel that I had finished it, and then to give it to other people to read. That was an exciting experience.
FM: Have you ever experienced “writer’s block”?
CM: You know, I think we all do. Everybody who writes at some point is going to have trouble with it, and the trick is really just not giving in. I was told there was a course at community college on overcoming writer’s block, where they just locked you in the room and gave you a pen and paper, and said you couldn’t come out until you had written 10 pages.
FM: Your most recent novel, The Woman Upstairs, draws on allusions to Henrik Ibsen’s, A Doll’s House. Which other works have influenced your writing?
CM: I think lots of different things. I always think that when you are writing fiction, it’s like being a magpie. You pick up little pieces from one place and fly off and pick up pieces from another place. There’s certainly references to Ibsen, but I didn’t reread Ibsen. I wasn’t trying to write some riff on Ibsen. […] Dostoyevky’s Notes from the Underground was on my mind. There were a lot of other things that I’m not thinking of right now, but it is always a funny combination. I think a lot of it is unconscious. A lot of it we are not aware of, until afterwards, and then you make up a story about what you were doing.
FM: Does The Woman Upstairs have a central message?
CM: I don’t know that I was trying to get a message across particularly... There were different things I was trying to explore, and one of them was... the question “What does it mean to be an artist?” Who decides who is an artist and who is not an artist? Are there different challenges for women who try to be artists than for those who are men? I think the biggest thing I was trying to tackle was the interior life. My character is somebody who lives on her own, who has a very rich interior life, [but one that] doesn’t [often] break the surface, [or show in] interactions with other people. I mean she has interactions with other people, but there are things she thinks or experiences [that] she doesn’t tell anyone [about], which I think is the case for all of us. That’s what it is to be human. There’s the life outside and there’s the life inside. So I wanted to try and write about the inside.
FM: How do you handle criticism from editors, critics, and the public?
CM: Well, I think different criticisms affect you in different ways. At this point, I have some people close to me, who I think of as my first readers. And they also know me well. From them I want the crucial truth and I want to know what’s not working, and what their thoughts are. I don’t want [them] to just pat me on the back. I think when you have a relationship where you trust somebody in that way, and you know that they have your best interest [in mind], they really want your book to turn out... the best it can… Criticism is a gift. It’s something that somebody is giving you [with] attention, and time, and thought. I feel like sometimes it hurts, but I try to receive it as a gift. And then there are other people who you feel like… have an agenda... I think you just have to learn not to pay too much attention.
FM: Do you collaborate with your husband, literary critic James Wood?
CM: He is one of my first readers… He is usually the first reader, and I always laugh and say that it’s hard for him and not for me. I just want [him] to be [both] my loving husband and my best critic, so I want him to tell me the truth and tell me he loves it. He has to figure how to make that work.
FM: Your husband is also a Harvard professor. What is like working with him in an academic setting?
CM: It’s all brand new. I’m sharing his office for these few weeks, until the one that I’ll be in is ready. I found myself today wanting to tidy it up, but I can’t because it’s not my office, it’s his office.
FM: What have been your most memorable teaching moments so far?
CM: I think just the thrill of it. I teach two workshops… Each class has met once. [But] in the space of a couple of hours, [you have] the wonderful discovery of such interesting young voices. [Students have] such different experiences, such passion, such intelligence, and such senses of humor, too.
FM: What is it like to teach and write at the same time?
CM: I think... the type of energy that goes into teaching and the type of energy that goes into writing are similar. Even though one is about… a conversation and the other is about being alone. It is sort of interesting to find the balance between the quiet and talking time. Both use a sort of creative part of the brain.
FM: Can creative writing be taught?
CM: That’s a good question. I think that it used to be said that it can’t be taught. In some way, there are things that can’t be taught, but you can teach how to be a better reader. How to be more observant both in life and on the page, and how to almost live in the world in a slightly different way... to see almost anything as potentially part of your fictional world. I think it’s a combination of reading and writing and looking at different elements of fiction, of what goes into making fiction, characters, setting, point of view, trying by looking at other examples and seeing what is effective and why.
FM: What brought you to Boston?
CM: We came here for [my husband]. He was taking a job here. It was a long time ago. It was 2003, but we love it here, and it’s actually where I went to high school. There’s actually some nice circle about coming back.
FM: What do you do in your free time, if you have any?
CM: What do I do in my free time? I like to read, I love to read. I love movies. I like bike riding. I like eating.
FM: So where are your favorite place to eat in Boston, or Somerville?
CM: You know, one of them is Sarma. Do you know of Sarma? Very, very tasty.
Ana Sortun is the head chef. Oleana, tasty, right? Have you ever been?
FM: Yes.
CM: Do you know of Sofra Bakery. Those three are all hers. Sarma is sort of casual. It’s meze with sort of small dishes, you eat too much by the end, but it’s yummy.
FM: Any last thoughts, or comments, or spontaneous outbursts?
CM: It was such a pleasure to meet you. I don’t think I have any. Spontaneous outburst? Live Life to the Fullest! No.
Sections
Move-in’s done. Freshmen are finally settled. And we all have one question: Who made the best of the worst housing on campus?
In search of the answer, we scoured the Yard and spoke to the people who live there. Here’s what we found:
The Room: Holworthy 12
The Crew:
Isaac M. Grafstein. New York, NY.
J. Miguel Undurraga. Los Angeles, CA.
Thomas (Conor) D. Finn. London, UK.
Austin W. Dawson. Chilton, Wisconsin.
We walk into the room and Undurraga is fluffing pillows while Grafstein cuts up a baguette. We tell them the photographer isn’t coming today—they both exhale.
The room is inviting and mature. Wood floors. Brick walls. Warm light. We sit on the couch to talk, something this group is used to.
“We have a bit of an intellectual vibe going. We like to sit and have real discussions and debates,” Grafstein explains. “Miguel is very opinionated. For instance, he supports the wrong presidential candidates. As does Austin. As does Connor.”
They’re also foodies. “We like to eat a lot,” Undurraga says. And they eat well. “I go to the farmers market on Tuesdays and get inspired by local produce.” Last week he prepared a three course meal for the room in the Holworthy basement (with wine pairings for each course). The menu?
First course: seared ahi tuna tataki
Second course: local hand dived scallops on a bed of Spanish chorizo and baby spinach
Third course: pan seared New York strip with a medley of mushrooms (shiitake, cremini, oyster, and baby bella—if you were interested)
The gang puts just as much thought into their decor as they do their meals. The centerpiece of the room, a $20 coffee table they bought in the Yard, looks like it’s straight out of Architectural Digest because of their personal touches.
Resting on it are Harvard classic editions of the Origin of Species and a collection of Ralph Waldo Emerson essays. There’s a globe (reminds them of Atlas Shrugged). Mints (to entertain guests). A plant (their fifth roommate, Sexy La Plante). And chocolate (86% dark). Undurraga, who collects original editions of Time Magazine, also displays the 1960 November 16th edition featuring JFK and the bicentennial issue with Thomas Jefferson on the cover.
Looking for another reason to visit Holworthy 12? “We’re all very good looking men,” Grafstein says.
Don’t know about you, but we’re sold.
The Room: Wigglesworth F-31
The Crew:
Katherine V. Harrison. Atlanta, GA.
Veronica S. Ma. New Canaan, CT.
Amy R. Tsao. Cambridge, MA.
Vanessa E. Lopez. Brownsville, TX.
Wig F-31 is any girl’s college dream room. They have the string lights. They have the matching bedding. The mismatched-yet-cohesive pillows. The artfully arranged succulents.
But a cozy, bohemian paradise wasn’t always the plan.
“We came in thinking that we were going to have the chicest, most modern, cool dorm room and then we got here and were like, shit, all we can do is cozy,” Harrison tells us.
“And we ran with it,” Ma says.
The problem was the layout. The rooms were small, and as Harrison describes, “the ceilings are somewhat oppressive.”
But looking at the result, it doesn’t seem that this really got in the way. And, if you get the chance to explore the room more closely, you’ll see that there are some gems you’d never expect.
Take their detailed Turkish rug, for example. Harrison found it in the back of a donut shop in Michigan. Some other unusual finds include drawings by Ma’s boyfriend, Harrison’s handmade watercolors, and wrapping paper-turned-posters (bought for $2 at an art store, sold for $25 at Urban Outfitters).
From our visit, we can tell these roommates share more than just a bedroom. Ma and Harrison keep all their sweaters, mixed, in a wicker basket. Maybe it’s for the “aesthetic.” Maybe for the space efficiency. Either way, it seems like proof that design can bring people together.
The Room: Hurlbut 401
The Crew:
Erik B. Fliegauf. Hopkinton, MA.
James (Ethan) Pardue. Nashville, NC.
Jason K. Thong. Oak Creek, WI.
Peter Liu. Los Angeles, CA.
Luke T. Kramer. Houston, TX.
Rodrigo E. Cordova. San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Our final stop takes us all the way to the Union dorms, “Upper But” to be specific. The boys agree that while the name is the worst, their dorm is one of the best.
The first thing we notice: There is a lot of space. To put it in perspective, their in-suite bathroom is bigger than a Straus double (unfair). Jealousy aside, the common room is the focal point. There’s an inviting couch, two comfy armchairs, and large windows that fill the space with natural light.
The couch itself was a project. Fliegauf explains, “We had to bring this giant couch up four flights of stairs which took about six people. We had to unhinge that entire door.” That’s commitment.
On the wall behind the couch is a world map decal. “I love maps and wanted that international feel for Hurlbut 401,” Fliegauf says. Orange stickers mark the hometowns of guests and places the gang has visited themselves.
We also notice a Harvard banner resting above the fireplace. “My parents bought this before I was born,” Thong tells us. We can’t decide if this is optimistic and encouraging or terrifying and intimidating. He got in, so we guess it doesn’t matter.
One last thing worth noting—this is a room full of artists. Thong is a printmaker, and the walls of his room act as a pseudo-gallery. A column of prints above his desk say “hello world.” We ask if Thong does CS. No, he tells us, but “in computer science that’s the first thing your program says, so it seemed fitting for my first prints here.”

We agree and with that say goodbye to the But.
Sections
From Bernie Sanders to Donald Trump, just about everyone seems to be throwing their name into the 2016 Presidential race. So far, one Harvard professor, Lawrence Lessig, has announced his bid for the presidency. FM imagines four of our favorites striking up Cambridge-based campaigns:
Rakesh Khurana:
Slogan: “Rakesh is the Best”
Under the radar, Rakesh started his campaign from the moment he arrived on campus. Embodying the quintessential stand-up personality, he began securing votes by seeking out every Harvard student looking for a friend. Critics question whether Rakesh can make the jump from everyone’s favorite dean to everyone’s favorite presidential candidate. While one would imagine that the guy has a strong network in Harvard alums and supporters, his natural enemy in the final club community may serve to divide his constituency from within. Nonetheless, in the spirit of a true “citizen and citizen leader of the world,” Rakesh boasts a platform based on sweeping social reform. A savior to the everyday man, don’t be surprised if Rakesh is crushed by the entrenched establishment and taught a valuable lesson: don’t mess with elitism.
Greg Mankiw:
Slogan: “Demand slopes down; Supply slopes up”
The economy is bound to be one of the biggest issues of this campaign cycle. Who better to reform America’s system than the King of Ec-10, the Titan of Supply and Demand? While showing up to campaign events may be a struggle for Mankiw based on past Ec-10 attendance, he’ll be sure to have one of the best cost-benefit analyses in the game to rationalize his absences. Plus, rumor has it Feldstein & Co. are planning to jump ship and support Mankiw’s tax plan over Bush’s if it comes down to it.
Drew Faust:
Slogan: “The President”
Accustomed to responding when people ask for “The President”, Faust decided she might as well formalize her title on the national scale. She’s got the credential to back it up: She runs an institution that has produced like, half of America’s Presidents. The beloved Harvard figure may struggle with transparency, and is likely to face opposition from the environmentalists. While we hope for Faust’s success, the Oval Office is unlikely to produce the same quaint comfort as Mass Hall. We predict that a stint in Washington will bring our good old President back to the Yard in no time.
Steven Levitsky:
Slogan: “A candidate for concentrators and non-concentrators alike”
or “It’s the government, stupid”
The esteemed Gov 20 professor just happens to be on leave for the 2015-2016 school year. Coincidence? We think not. Levitsky’s expansive knowledge of government is likely to make him a force to be reckoned with. His spectacular Q score record will translate well in the nationwide polls. However, his campaign may hit a roadblock when Levitsky realizes he can’t communicate his entire platform in passionate speeches about foreign affairs. In an extremely unpopular move, we anticipate Levitsky compensating by assigning expansive readings to his supporters.
Sir Alex Ferguson:
Slogan: “It’s squeaky-bum time”
Sir Alex Ferguson has been seen lecturing over at HBS from time to time. While we don’t know whether or not he can officially claim the University on the campaign trail, we do know one thing: He’s running. You would think the former Manchester United Manager’s Scottish birthplace would be a deterrent in his bid. However, as Waka Flocka has shown us, being able to check all the boxes is secondary to outlandish, unfounded proposals when it comes to requisites for the presidency. Ferguson opts not to center his campaign on his socialist political views, but rather on Trump-esque exceptionalism except with soccer instead of real estate. It goes without saying, who better to wield the bully pulpit than someone who bullied referees, the press and his own players for 27 years?
Sections
“I suppressed that memory. I really buried it deep. That was traumatizing.”
Samuel C. Becker ‘17 sighs heavily and shakes his head.
The particularly gruesome incident Becker is recalling took place on a routine dorm crew clean-up operation in Adams House a few summers ago. He and a team of other students entered a room to clean it, and were greeted by the soulless, unblinking stares of three disembodied mannequin busts. Originally part of an art piece, the heads had been left behind by a Harvard student at the end of the school year. The unsuspecting dorm crew members were massively creeped out.
Harvard Dorm Crew is a division of Facilities Maintenance Operations and employs scores of students to perform custodial jobs for on-campus housing.
The students running this massive operation are no strangers to surprise. The cleaning teams have tackled everything from giant messes to bizarre left-behind possessions. After the mass exodus of students at the start of summer, dorm crew employees remain at Harvard to clean out the newly vacated rooms. It’s a chance to see the school in a whole new light, and catch glimpses of student lives from Mather to the Quad.
It’s also a chance to find some crazy stuff.
For example: a full-sized stand-up tanning bed left behind by a student in Canaday. Samuel Becker remembers laughing in disbelief and thinking, “Well…What do we even do with this?”
Many dorm crew workers have similar stories to share—stories that simply defy reasonable explanation. Paul Stainier ‘18, a cleaning captain, says, “Without a doubt the craziest thing I have found was a bathroom with 10 empty bottles of baby lotion, 15 razor heads, and coca cola stains all over the bath tub.”
Occasionally, dorm crew discoveries make history. During the summer of 1979 cleanup, students in Winthrop House discovered several personal letters written by Robert F. Kennedy ‘48 to his mother. The letters had been stashed away for almost 40 years. The Winthrop House Master at the time, James A. Davis, claimed not to know the contents of the letters, saying that “they were kind of personal.”
Becker describes finding “stashes of love letters” — which he admits to reading out of curiosity before disposing of them. “Those things shouldn’t be left floating around!”
People also go outside the box with their room’s decor. There was a room in Adams House festooned with Mexican decorations — a piñata hanging from the ceiling and Mexican beers chilling in the fridge, all true to theme. Or the Walter White-esque chemistry lab setup, complete with beakers, test tubes, and a Bunsen burner.
But at the end of the day, dorm crew has learned to take these curveballs in stride. “Really, it’s not so bad,” Becker claims.
Even the forgotten beef stew, left behind and congealing on a hot plate in a dorm room?
“Okay, that was pretty bad. Yeah. Really bad."
Sections


You’ve likely seen Bob Schieffer on CBS News, where he held various positions—as an anchor, a Washington correspondent, and a moderator on “Face the Nation”—for 46 years. Fifteen Minutes recently sat down with Schieffer to discuss the 2016 election, the future of journalism, and more. 

Fifteen Minutes: Last time we spoke—back in June—you said this election was going to be “very, very different.” What has struck you about it thus far? 
Bob Schieffer: Well, I think I was right [laughs]. I’ve always said every one of them is different, but who would’ve thought that at this point—we’re still a long way from the election— that you would have Donald Trump and Ben Carson as the two leading candidates on the Republican side, and that Hillary Clinton’s campaign would be in [as] much trouble as it is, where they’re already talking about a total overhaul, where she keeps on going down in the polls. We have Bernie Sanders—who isn’t even a Democrat—who keeps going up in the polls. I mean, I don’t think anyone would have envisioned that.
FM: Should we take Donald Trump seriously? 
BS: I take him seriously, I really do—I mean, he’s the frontrunner. The numbers are the numbers. And whether he can sustain—I mean, we’re going to find out in the coming days, but I think it is conceivable that Donald Trump could get the Republican nomination.
FM: Trump seems to be able to get away with offenses that would crush an ordinary candidate’s chances for the nomination—every controversy just shoots up his numbers at the polls.
BS: This is the part that I’m truly amazed by—I’ve never seen a candidate who could literally get away with the kinds of things that he’s saying. I mean, I thought he’d done himself in when he said John McCain was a loser, or whatever he said—
FM: —“not a war hero,” I think— 
BS: —John McCain is a true American hero, and Donald Trump got a medical deferment, I think he had a bone spur in his heel or something, but says he learned as much in military school, in high school as John McCain said he knows as much about the military as anybody else. When he said that I thought, “Well, this is a campaign that’s been kind of humorous and kind of funny, but that’s the end of that.” Well, shows what I know.
FM: Is there a line that even Trump cannot cross? 
BS: There must be. But so far he doesn’t seem to have crossed it. There must be, but so far people seem to be so frustrated and so mad and so upset and so disgusted with the government and politics in general. He talks in plain language that people understand and they seem to forgive him of this. I still don’t know how long this goes on. Here’s the thing—here’s why Trump has been successful—he’s made a very accurate list, or catalogue, of the things that people are upset about about. And I’ll tell you, most of the things he puts on that list, I’m upset about them too. I agree with him, and I think a lot of people do. He has yet to propose any kind of realistic solution to anything—now, somewhere before we get to him getting the nomination in these primaries, he’s going to have to give us some details on how he plans to do that, but so far he hasn’t had to.
FM: With Sanders now leading Clinton in New Hampshire and Iowa, there’s a chance we might have a presidential election in which the candidates from both major parties— Trump and Sanders—are both considered unelectable, are far from centrist, and both aren’t traditional Republicans or Democrats in any sense. What might that look like and what does it say about our nation?
 BS: It again is the sign of this frustration that has got the country in its grips right now. I mean, Bernie Sanders is the democratic, left-wing version of Donald Trump. There was all this talk about Trump running as a third-party candidate if he doesn’t get the nomination—he says he won’t do that. I think if he decides to do it he would do it. He would find a way around that and say they weren’t respectful or something.
But here’s what I think: It is entirely possible—I don’t know if it’s probable—but it is possible you could have four candidates. You could have Bernie Sanders running as a socialist—that’d be easy for him to do. He’s not a Democrat anyway, and he’s gotten all this good reaction. So what if you had Bernie Sanders running, what if you had Donald Trump running, and then you had a Democrat and a Republican running? What if you had four people in this thing? Then you’re talking about a situation where the winner might be someone who got only 35, 36 percent. What do you do then?


FM: Last November, in response to comments made by MIT economist Jonathan Gruber regarding Obamacare, you said we’re in a “sorry state of American politics where people take money for things in which they don’t believe and whether it’s good for the American people is not even in the question.” How did we get here, and what needs to happen for us to get out? 
BS: Well, this is what’s happened to our political system. I mean, the fact that you have the field of candidates that you have, that our campaign is in this stage, I think it’s just the chickens coming home to roost. The whole system has been so overwhelmed by money that the Congress can’t get anything done. I think that’s a symptom of the problem—the problem is this breakdown in the system of how we elect people. I mean, it’s not about going out and trying to get people’s support anymore, it’s about having a billionaire on your side. Fifty-three people have given more than 1 million dollars to candidates this cycle—53 people. Eight people have given Hillary Clinton more than a million dollars, one person has given Ted Cruz 11 million dollars, I think another one has given 6 million dollars, if I’m right. And it raises an interesting question: Let’s suppose you wanted to help somebody and you decided to give them 100,000 dollars. Give it to Ted Cruz, where does that put you in line to get in to see him? You know, there’s somebody up the front of the line gave 11 million dollars. You gave a hundred thousand dollars, you might get a ticket to go down to the Washington Monument, but I don’t think you’re going to get much else as a result of that.
I mean, with these enormous sums of money now, what is it getting us? It’s not getting us much of anything, and what it’s gotten us is that Congress is completely gridlocked and it remains so. And the reason for that is because in this quest for money, everybody’s main objective once they get to Washington is to keep from having a primary opponent the next time around. And because they’re trying to raise all this money. So, it’s been a long time coming, but we’re finally there: I think the whole system is just totally breaking down, and the result is what you’re seeing, both what’s happening in Washington now and what’s happening in this campaign.
FM: Journalism is all about asking the right questions. You’ve been asking them for more than 50 years—so what’s the secret behind a good one? 
BS: You know, I’ve always asked the obvious questions, and my advice to young journalists is to never be afraid to ask a question because too many times, young reporters feel, “Well, I don’t want to ask that question because he’ll feel I’m dumb—besides, I know what he would say anyway.” Well, the biggest mistake you can make is assuming you know what somebody’s answer is going to be. Most of the time you probably do know, but every time I have assumed I knew what the answer was and somebody else came along after me, they asked the question, and I got scooped, basically. So I try to keep it very simple: I try to ask the obvious questions, and then try to listen to the answer and ask follow-ups.
FM: Arthur Miller once said that “a good newspaper, I suppose, is a nation talking to itself.” What’s the best example you’ve seen of that in your career? 
BS: What’s different now in our world is the impact of social media. You know, if you read something in The New York Times, let’s say, you may not agree with their editorial policy, but you generally accept as fact what they put on the news pages and you assume that they’ve gone to some trouble to check it out and make sure it’s true, and they or any other worthwhile newspaper wouldn’t print it if it wasn’t true.
Well, some guy just sitting at his computer, he doesn’t necessarily abide by those same standards. And sometimes you find stuff on the web that’s just entirely—and sometimes wrong on purpose. So you have to be very, very careful, and it’s changed American politics, it’s changed our work—we have to figure out some way to get through this mall of information that’s either wrong or insignificant, and drive home what we think people need to know about it. And that’s what’s different about journalism right now. And we haven’t really solved that yet—we’re still grappling with that aspect.
FM: Let’s talk about that a little more. Traditional forms of news media—newspapers, radio, cable TV—are of course now in decline. That’s no secret.
BS: Yeah.
FM: The head of the UN IP agency estimated in 2011 that printed newspapers would be gone 25 years from now; last year, Dish Network dropped CNN right before election night; newspaper layoffs, shrinking ad revenues and audiences are the rule. And this is all happening while people get more and more access to free information through social media or blogs—
BS: But the question is, is this content true? And that’s what’s really disturbing about this. I mean, I’m old-fashioned, and I think the crisis in journalism is not so much with the national news—somehow, I have a feeling the national news will always take care of itself. But it’s at the local level, where every town used to have a newspaper, and it followed the standards and so forth of mainstream journalism. And if some entity doesn’t come along to do what the local newspapers used to do, it will have for example corruption on scales we’ve never in this country before. And I don’t know if local television is going to be able to do that, if local websites will be able to do that, but some entity is going to have to do that, or we’re in trouble.
FM: What do you think is the biggest misconception the American public has about the Presidency? 
BS: Well, that’s a very hard question. I think we sometimes think that things are sometimes easier than they really are. The Presidency is the hardest job that there is–there’s no real training for that. I think one of the problems President Obama has had, for example —I don’t think he had been in the Senate long enough to really understand the Senate.
The Presidency is not like a business. No business has 535 members of the board telling the CEO what to do. The Presidency is not the military, where you can order people to do certain thing. The Presidency is about persuasion, and convincing people you’ve got the right idea, and convincing them that it’s in their interest to do what you’re asking them to do. That’s very difficult.
And in this communications revolution we’re in right now, how do you reach people? how do you get the message to them? That’s the really hard problem.


FM: You’ve interviewed every president since Richard Nixon—which one do think is the most under-appreciated?
I think President Ford was a good president, and I was very much against pardoning Nixon when he did it, but I’ve come to believe that that was probably the right thing to do, and if he didn’t do it it would have probably shut down Washington for two years. I think it would’ve hurt the country badly, and I think he was smart to do that.
In retrospect, I think Reagan turned out to be a better president than I thought he was while he was there, because you couldn’t know the impact of the policies he had on the Soviet Union. He didn’t bring down the Soviet Union by a long shot by himself, but some of his policies–forcing them to spend themselves into bankruptcy—certainly contributed to the fall of the Soviet Union.
My role is, you probably can’t really judge a presidency until five to ten years after they’ve left office. Because one of the most important parts of any president’s legacy is who they put on the Supreme Court. And you may not know what the results of that are going to be. I mean, you look at what’s happened around politics now, the final straw was when the Court ruled on Citizens United, which basically just did away with the campaign laws. We don’t have campaign laws anymore, anything’s possible. All the things that the Nixon people went to jail for, they’re now legal.
And so I think it takes a while to make a really good judgment on any president.
I mean, Nixon is in a class by himself, but the fact is he also did some good things. The opening to China, he was very ahead of his party, very ahead of American public opinion, the arms control stuff with the Soviets—very significant things. Jimmy Carter passed the Camp David Accords—otherwise, he didn’t do much of anything. But that’s probably the most significant thing that’s happened in the Middle East in 25, 50 years.
So they all have some good and bad, but I really think President Ford was the most under-appreciated.
Sections
She is the daughter of a shoemaker and so knows enough to wear a sturdy pair of loafers for the long trek from Brockton to Cambridge, Mass. She knows, too, that her request to study intensive Latin, Greek, and English at Harvard may be rejected. But it is 1878, and Abby Leach knows, above all, that she and other women now deserve to know more.
So she walks. And, upon arriving at a grand and stately door, she knocks.
The story of what comes next is contained in one of the largest women’s history archives in the world, in diary entries and correspondence worn and torn, soft and crisp.
The story goes something like this: Professors William W. Good- win, James B. Greenough, and Francis J. Child acknowledge, with initial reluctance, Abby’s courage, persistence, and precocious intellect. They give her private lessons. Had she been enrolled at Harvard, they say, she would graduate with highest honors. Elizabeth Agas- siz learns of this. As does Harvard President Charles W. Eliot. A year later, the “Society for the Collegiate Instruction of Women”—known as the Harvard Annex and later named Radcliffe College—is formed.
Walking around the Schlesinger Library, I wonder whether Crimson clippings about the Spee’s decision to invite women to punch or the historic Hasty Pudding audition will join Abby’s story in bellowing that familiar and time-worn refrain. I am, I am, the fraying sheets may one day breathe. I am meant to be read. 
But until then, there are other women—two lounging in the balcony outside Pfoho’s Comstock Hall; a group, clad in feminist-fist-adorned graduation gowns, surrounding the John Harvard statue—–with other stories immortalized in past Crimson clippings. Together, theirs is a narrative of exclusion in elite spaces followed by hard-won inclusion.
A Timeline of Women at Harvard
August 1943 — With hosts of men serving in Japan and Europe during World War II, Harvard's Committee on Educational Policy can no longer justify separation of the sexes in the classroom. Radcliffe president Ada Louise Comstock and Harvard’s president James Bryant Conant reach a formal agreement, allowing Radcliffe students to enroll in all courses at the College but five: Mathematics 1a. Astronomy 1a, Economics 1, Social Relations 1a, and Music 1.
March 17, 1949 — One of the first Radcliffe Correspondents, Georgianne Davis ’51, publishes a story in The Crimson, “Radio Radcliffe Staff Keeps Nightly Broadcasting Vigil.” “Radio Radcliffe announcers like to ad lib Spike Jones records,” the article’s last line reads. A little more than half a century later, Davis’s granddaughter, Alexandra Petri ’10, will write a humor column addressing campus politics. “Admittedly, I’ve never been upstairs at the Fox,” Petri will write, “but I just know that when I get there it’ll be a giant room filled with urinals and other manly things like two guys hugging it out or one guy standing there not talking about his feelings. ‘Good thing this is a male-only space!’ I will exclaim. ‘Please, take me back downstairs, where I belong.’”
January 13, 1967 — Adrienne Rich ’51, who will later admit that “Harvard’s message to women was an elite mystification” in which “the ‘great men’ talked of other ‘great men,’” becomes the first woman to have work appear in the pages of a publication she has always longed to join: The Advocate. Harvard’s revered literary magazine publishes her poem, “Face to Face.” "How people used to meet!” goes a latter stanza. “Starved, intense, the old/ Christmas gifts saved up till spring,/ and the old plain words."
February 6, 1967 — 9:20 a.m. An unidentified Radcliffe student in a pink sweater steps across the threshold of Lamont. Reference librarians present her with a Xeroxed copy of the Emancipation Proclamation. The aforementioned Cliffie becomes the first woman to walk through Lamont’s main entrance since women have, for the past two years, only been granted permission to attend seminars on the sixth floor—as long as they arrive and exit via the West Door. "Perhaps the authorities took these steps to protect Lamont wonks from stray traces of perfume," one Radcliffe student wrote in a 1965 Crimson letter to the editor. Another four appealed to the Radcliffe Government Association, resulting in unanimous approval to issue a proposal so that “people can study for Harvard degrees in a heterosexual library."
January 1970 — The nation is slouching toward Bethlehem, and Harvard is as well. The result is a social experiment: 150 men from Adams, Lowell, and Winthrop Houses trade places with 150 women from South, East, and North Houses for the rest of the semester. At the end of the year, Thomas P. Southwick ’71 reflects in his Crimson column, “A Har- vard Boy's Life at Radcliffe: Finding What Girls Are All About,” which includes multiple paragraphs lamenting the Quad’s isolation from the Yard. “You could die in your room at Radcliffe,” he observes, “and, if the door were closed, no one would know about it until the stench from your decaying body became so unbearable that it offended people out in the hallway.” By 1972, the Harvard-Radcliffe Policy Committee will make co-residency an official option for students.
October 27, 1970 — Thanks to a petition signed by about 30 members, the Signet Society initiates eight female students. (Among the next class of its inductees will be Pakistan’s burgeoning Prime Minister, the late Benazir Bhutto ’73, known for hosting philosophical discussions about French writer Anaïs Nin in Eliot’s dining hall.) “Keeping women out of the Signet was about as sensible as an all-male Lamont," Signet Vice President Martin H. Kaplan '71 tells The Crimson after the literary group becomes the college’s first “club” to admit women.
December 10, 1971 — A semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization, which used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine, opens its blue, red, and yellow castle doors to Elizabeth S. Stern ’72 and Patricia Marx ’75, ending its 95-year history as a male-only organization. When asked what changes he thinks the women will bring, the then- president James H. Siegelman ’73 responds that their presence alters the Lampoon’s image at Harvard more than it does the magazine’s humor or social character. When asked some 46 years later about her historic role by The New Yorker’s Nancy Franklin, Marx confessed it was “sort of a snide college kids’ election” that resulted in her becoming “the mascot, the token girl.”
September 1976 — Two women are punched by the Delta Upsilon fraternity, a group that later merges with the Fly Club. They refuse membership. It is later discovered that many influential alum had threatened to withdraw their financial support of the D.U. if women were admitted. D.U. member Stephen A. Kowl ’79, one of two men who invited the female students, said the purpose of the atypical punch was to “lampoon the old, foolish ways. We wanted to have a good laugh, while still making a serious point.”
September 1978 — Eight women attend the D.U.’s punch dinner dressed in tuxedos and three-piece suits. The women’s presence is, to put it mildly, disconcerting. A club steward locks himself in a room (hoarding the food, too) because he “[is] so angry about the female intrusion.” According to a 2004 Crimson report, the D.U.’s president at the time, John A. “Kras” Krasznekewicz ’79, confronted his fellow club member R. Stewart Shofner ’79, who had punched the girls, declaring, “I thought you were my friend. How could you betray me like this?”
Sections
Long ago, Larry Lessig relished the private world of an academic. That was another life, though, before a cartoon version of his face—grey hair, tiny round glasses—cropped up all over the internet, before he discussed his books and joked around on TV shows like "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart."
That was before he decided to run for President of the United States.
When I meet with Lessig at a restaurant in Harvard Square, it’s a gloomy September afternoon, the day after he’s officially announced his bid for the presidency in the small mill town of Claremont, N.H.
The interview was difficult to schedule. Lessig’s been traveling a lot recently and only has 30 minutes to spare. Leaning over the table on one elbow, he seems tired and stressed. He got back to Boston late the night before after meeting with campaign organizers and missed dinner with his family. Right now, he’s anxious about a last-minute flight to Washington, D.C., which will leave in a few hours. After this interview, he says, he’ll be rushing off to another.
“I need some coffee,” Lessig says wearily, reaching under his thin-framed glasses to rub his deep-set eyes.
The day before, on Sept. 9, Lessig stood under a sweltering sun about 115 miles northwest of Boston, speaking to the few dozen supporters who had somehow found their way there at noon on a Wednesday. They were all gathered in the grassy backyard of a senior center, partly hemmed in by a few gnarled apple trees, fanning themselves with Lessig 2016 posters. To an outsider, the event probably looked less like a presidential launch than a peaceful outdoor sermon.
And Lessig was the preacher. He had just raised $1 million in crowdfunded donations—the amount he had set to kickstart his presidential campaign—in less than a month. His speech was exacting, crisp, well-performed; it bore the cadence of practiced rehearsal. America’s democracy had been bought, Lessig charged. He was going to pour every ounce of his energy into taking it off the market.
The plan, which he elaborated that day, is simple, if unconventional. Lessig is campaigning to pass a package of reforms aimed at changing the way American elections are conducted and financed. If he wins, and is able to pass those reforms, he will immediately step down and let his vice president assume power.
But Larry Lessig wouldn’t call himself a politician. No one else will call him a politician. Many of his own friends don’t think he seriously wants to become president.
To most, he’s a law professor at Harvard who’s become somewhat of a celebrity in the past two decades. That part makes sense—he practically invented the field of cyberlaw, colleagues say, later turning his attention to the study of institutional corruption, a decision that placed him on the national stage as an outspoken critic of the influence of money in politics.
But President of the United States?
A quiet man in private—at times, even awkward—Lessig hardly seems the man for the job. His campaign, too, is strange and sudden. It’s so sudden that critics charge he’s only running to bring attention to a cause. But these critics don’t take into account that the entirety of Lessig’s career—academic and otherwise—has evolved from a domineering interest in the structures of power that abound under a democratic system of government.
And perhaps more importantly, for Lessig, a sudden leap into a project is the surest sign that he’s serious.
*****
Like many dramas, Lessig’s academic career has three major acts. The first largely took place at Yale Law School and the University of Chicago, where he studied constitutionalism in Eastern Europe. The second, at Harvard and Stanford, where he studied the internet and copyright law. Lessig is currently immersed in his third act, as an activist and scholar probing at institutional corruption, and, more recently, campaign finance.
Kathleen M. Sullivan, who worked with Lessig when she was dean of Stanford Law School, says it’s “highly unusual” for a scholar to work in so many diverse fields, even under the broad umbrella of legal studies. But Lessig is quick to point out that he sees a common thread in his work: the study of institutions and their power.
To understand that link, Lessig says, he’s had to reach back into his past, to a time he’d rather not think about. He was 14 or so, attending the all-boys American Boychoir School in Princeton, N.J., where he boarded. There, Lessig was head boy—a prestigious position—and a successful student.
It was only 10 years ago, in a piece written for New York Magazine, that Lessig publicly revealed he had been sexually abused by his choir teacher while in school.
Reflecting on his time at boarding school, Lessig says others were certainly aware of what was happening to him and other boys. But no one did anything.
“The thing that was most striking to me about that experience was not so much the abuser,” Lessig says. “It’s the people around who could have picked up a phone, and who didn’t.”
It’s a reality, Lessig asserts, that has shaped his thinking about “what is it about institutions and structures that brings out the best or the worst in people.”
Though Lessig wouldn’t publicly discuss this experience for many years, his concern with power structures began to dominate his thinking when he went to law school. At Yale—where he transferred after a short stint at the University of Chicago—Lessig was reserved and private. Even today, as colleagues attest, he’s not one to make small talk, preferring to say nothing rather than fumble about on boring subjects.
But inside the classroom, friends remember, Lessig was forceful and intense, scrutinizing professors’ claims and challenging them frequently.
In a class on constitutional law, Lessig made a habit of sitting in the back of the classroom, a space usually reserved for students attempting to avoid participation. But for Lessig, the back of the classroom was something different.
“It was almost like he was another professor in the classroom,” remembers Alex Whiting, now a professor of the practice at Harvard Law School who attended Yale with Lessig. “You had the professor in the front of the classroom, the professor in the back,” he adds, cracking a grin. This is a story he told in his speech as best man at Lessig’s wedding some 20 years ago. “For him, sitting in the back was a way to see the whole classroom rather than hide.”
During law school, Lessig lived in “the world of ideas,” says Andrew Koppelman, a law professor at Northwestern and a classmate of Lessig’s at Yale. Lessig was always focused on the big picture; he thought endlessly about constitutions and the future of global politics.
He would live in that world long after graduating in 1989, the year the Berlin Wall fell, and after he began studying Eastern European constitutionalism full time as a professor at the University of Chicago. That became Lessig’s area of expertise: trying to figure out how governments in a splintered region could regroup and restructure their constitutions.
Lessig became such a known expert in the field that “The West Wing,” a political drama television series, featured him in one episode as a scholar who helped craft Belarus’s new constitution. He also befriended his future wife, Bettina Neuefeind, through this work at the University of Chicago.
But, in what would become a pattern in Lessig’s academic life, those studies eventually ran their course.
*****
In the early 2000’s, Lessig and his wife moved out west to San Francisco, a far cry from Chicago or New England. It was in the heart of the Silicon Valley that Lessig reinvented himself, taking on a different academic identity well suited to his new home.
Lessig and others say he rose to public prominence during this period with his work on cyberlaw and copyright law. It’s also when he first began to consider himself an activist, someone who pushed back against stringent copyright laws and restrictive corporations. In 2001, while at Stanford, he co-founded the nonprofit Creative Commons, which provided people more customizable copyrights licenses. He created the seamless style of presentation for which he is now famous, flashing words across a screen synchronized with his own speech. He began appearing on talk shows, writing books, penning op-eds about free speech, privacy, and the internet.
But by publicly championing freer use of the internet, Lessig began losing some of the privacy he so loved. Before, Lessig could close his office door when needed and bury himself in writing and preparing for classes.
“I almost cherished the anonymity of being an academic,” Lessig says. “I loved the fact that I would write an article that 10 people in the world would read.”
But those days were gone. Now, Lessig needed to respond to public demand for information, something that has only ever increased since he began studying politics.
Lessig’s personality, many initially thought, was not suited for so much public attention. He is not by any means an extrovert. But he does have an uncanny ability to captivate an audience time and time again, in his classes at the Law School or in TED Talks broadcast around the country.
“He is, in many ways, an elegant man,” says Charles R. Nesson, a Law School professor who helped recruit Lessig for the Berkman Center for Internet and Society during his first stint at Harvard. “Elegant in the forcefulness of his ideas and mode of his presentation.”
If his personal style seems, at times, unpresidential, Lessig makes up for it with a deep interest in, and understanding of, creative ways of relaying information. Close colleagues of Lessig’s cite his spellbinding Keynote presentations as a prime example of this.
After spending up to 24 hours designing and perfecting a new presentation, Lessig takes to the stage and keeps an audience enchanted, performing what Nesson calls a “dance,” and Sullivan, the former Stanford dean, considers an “opera,” of sorts.
Perhaps it’s because his presentation style was so new and captivating in the early 2000s that Lessig grabbed national attention, receiving a steady stream of interview requests and questions every day.
“As he became more and more a public figure, I think he felt like he was buried under the weight of emails from people,” says Mark A. Lemley, a professor at Stanford who studies cyberlaw and considers Lessig a close friend. “He had a couple of techniques to deal with that.”
One technique, Lemley says, was to have two computers in his office at Stanford, one at his desk and the other near the window. The computer at his desk was not connected to the internet.
And once, after returning from vacation in Madagascar, Lessig declared “email bankruptcy,” telling people that he was deleting everything from his inbox and advising them to send him a follow up email if they really did need something from him.
But despite how overwhelming the internet can be, Lessig embraces its power. Google “Larry Lessig” today and you’ll find links to his Reddit thread and his Tumblr, where he still remains quite active and candid in his postings, encouraging followers to engage him in conversation or bring up an argument that he can then refute. At some point in the last few years, someone designed for Lessig the now-iconic and viral cartoon version of his face—ruffled grey hair framing a yellow, oval face, small beady glasses hiding his eyes, and a slight smile, or smirk, playing out below.
And with 355,000 Twitter followers, his online presence is wide.
Lessig proudly reminds anyone that he’s been on the internet since “it left the geek world and entered the real one.” Plus, he points out, he taught some of the first classes on cyberlaw.
The ease with which Lessig engages online communities may perhaps make up for a lack of personal style, but it’s ultimately unsurprising. His online ubiquity hardly seems intrusive, as the social media efforts of other public intellectuals may sometimes appear, because, in many ways, the history of the internet can’t be explained without Larry Lessig.
*****
Lessig has rigorously pursued his projects before, but obviously nothing so large-scale as a presidential run. The intricacies of political campaigning are new to him, and while the first stages of his candidacy may seem hectic, they’re mirrored on a smaller scale: his family life maintains a state of healthy disorder.
On Sept. 9, the day he declared his candidacy, I rode up with Lessig’s family to Claremont. That morning, at their house in a quiet neighborhood in Brookline, the family rushed around, anxious to leave but already running late. Neuefeind’s mother and father, who live in St. Louis, helped herd the three kids into the car, also cleaning up a pile of colorful plates left on the kitchen table and packing up coolers of healthy snacks for the ride. Ingrid, Neuefeind’s mother, even had time to squeeze in a quick violin lesson with Willem before sending him off, the sound of a beginner’s scratchy, crooked bow ringing throughout the house and audible from the front stoop.
The kids were missing school that day to attend their father’s launch event. Though Neuefeind called the school that morning to explain why, their absences were not excused. She said she would deal with that later, joking that she should have called them in sick instead.
The drive from their home took a little over two hours, more than enough time for the kids to get rowdy, and hungry. Willem, the oldest, wanted to buy some snacks with a dollar he had in his pocket. His mom suggested he give the dollar to his dad—“You haven’t donated to his campaign yet”—but he ended up buying a glow stick for 99 cents at a rest stop along the way.
Teo, the middle child, is eight and restless, squirming a little more each time his mom told him no, we’re not almost there yet.
“All of my friends are saying, uh, congrats, your dad is running for president,” Teo half-giggled as he tapped his fingers, playing a game on the family’s iPad to pass the time.
Tess, Lessig’s only daughter, yelled up to the front of her car that she’d already invited her friends to the White House. She had turned six the week before, and once the family arrived at Lessig’s launch event, wiggled into a flowing white dress her parents bought her for her birthday and ran around all day, the loose ends of the bow flowing behind her like a tail.
Their family is accustomed to the frenetic tone of life that comes with Lessig’s work, but are still uncertain about what a presidential campaign will entail. It’d been only a few days since Lessig announced he would run, Neuefeind said. She didn’t know what to expect.
“I’m still trying to figure out how I can be most helpful,” she said. “Obviously having a parent be unavailable is challenging to everyone.”
Neuefeind is herself a successful lawyer. She was educated at the University of Chicago and is currently a research fellow at Harvard, working on food law and food literacy education. Over the next few months, she’ll be juggling a large project at the Law School with the increased parenting demands her husband’s presidential campaign leaves her.
Amazingly, as the day in Claremont progressed, Neuefeind did not betray any signs of fatigue as she watched after her three kids. Perhaps she was preparing herself mentally for what’s to come. Perhaps she was trying to figure out what makes a presidential campaign different than everything else Lessig has done in the past. As her mother, Ingrid, said that morning, Lessig is “always this way. Busier now, yes, but always this way.”
*****
This general disorganization, manifest in the nascent stages of his campaign, and in his home life, would seem to spell a premature doom for Lessig’s presidential aspirations. But as his friends attest, his campaign is fundamentally different, and so it’s silly to gauge its strength by traditional standards.
Other Law School professors have held political office—among them Elizabeth Warren and Elena Kagan—but unlike them, Lessig does not have any long term political plans. He’s not in it for the position, friends say; he’s in it for the cause.
“People do characterize it as a vanity project, which could not be less true,” Neuefeind says.
Lessig’s latest academic obsession, institutional corruption, is framed by his activism. Like his work in cyberlaw, he’s taken his research outside the classroom, but this time, he’s reaching out to an even broader American public—the voters.
Though he may seem like a verified political upstart, Lessig has been interested in the workings of the American electoral system for years. At Harvard, he headed the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics for about five years, called for a second constitutional convention whose purpose was to excise money from politics, and created a super Political Action Committee, Mayday, designed, ironically, to put an end to super PACs and elect congressional candidates to pass campaign finance reform. In January 2014, he made the first of many miles-long walks across freezing New Hampshire to “declare independence from big money in politics.” His oldest son, Willem, even joined him for an 11-mile walk this summer.
Because Harvard is a charitable, educational institution, it cannot support Lessig in any way politically. That means Lessig’s Harvard assistant, Susan Cox, isn’t allowed to help schedule his campaign events, so he needed to find someone else. Under University rules, Lessig can take a teaching leave of up to two years, but no longer. And under most circumstances, Lessig is protected under Harvard’s tenure system, meaning that no matter how large and even outlandish his campaign could become, he’ll have job security here.
Lessig’s critics, however, charge that the campaign is foolish, or that it has the potential to draw attention from other Democratic contenders like Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders. Even some of his friends don’t think he’s serious about the run; rather, he’s using it simply to draw attention to the problem of big money in U.S. elections.
Lessig begs to differ. “I wouldn’t do this if I did not seriously intend to become president,” he says firmly.
Of course, he acknowledges, it’s not up to him to decide whether or not he’ll win the 2016 election, let alone gain the Democratic nomination— which if you look at current polls seems unlikely. First, he’ll need to find a more mainstream spotlight, which he’s hoping to capture at the first Democratic debate in Nevada (if he clinches a spot). That’s his campaign’s top priority right now.
But everything feels rushed. Lessig didn’t decide he’d consider running until late summer, and he only officially announced his bid on Sept. 6. Neuefeind, for her part, says the campaign is “being invented as it goes,” while Bruce Skarin, a scientist and friend of Lessig’s, says that the group has been “scrambling.”
That is, of course, because the bid was only recently announced, Skarin says. “Hopefully it will become well-oiled.”
In keeping with Lessig’s embrace of technology, the campaign relies heavily on volunteers from around the country who organize on Google groups and forums, says Jeff McLean, an organizer in New Hampshire. Lessig’s campaign also employs a “lightweight” staff, though McLean wouldn’t specify how many people.
Thomas Lyman, Lessig’s nephew, says he sent an email to campaign staff asking how he could help, and he never got a response. He laughs about that, given that he should just ask Lessig anyway. Eager to help, Lyman is now the mastermind behind the @Georgia4Lessig Twitter account (which has 47 followers), and his wife helps design campaign graphics.
It’s a small group, grassroots in the political realm even though they have been able to raise more than $1 million. They rely on a network of friends Lessig’s made throughout the years, especially friends he’s made in the past decade who support his vision of restructuring elections in order to reform democracy.
Ultimately, of course, there’s no preformed political machine to grant order to the nascent Lessig campaign. In the absence of such a structure, Lessig is relying on his tested strengths to unify the campaign: an abounding knowledge of the internet and its outreach capabilities, a deep understanding of the American electoral system, and—perhaps most importantly—a penchant for obsession that drives him to singlemindedly pursue a goal to its end.
*****
In some ways, Lessig’s story is easy to write. It makes sense. It’s logical. He’s thought about it a lot, the smooth trajectory of his work from constitutionalism to activism, the connections he’s found that link all the pieces together. He deeply immerses himself in a subject, he lives it, and then, after a while, he stops.
At the restaurant the day after his campaign, Lessig speaks quietly, turning his head occasionally to observe the growing crowd.
“What I like most,” he says, “is creating things and letting them go and watching them grow.”
Certainly, Lessig’s created a lot. Creative Commons, Stanford’s Center for Internet and Society, the Mayday PAC, just to name a few. Neither of which he’s directly involved in anymore. He did indeed let them go, moving on to his next venture.
But underneath that calculated certainty and careful analysis of his own life, Lessig is worried. He worries about his family, his kids. His mother-in-law says whenever Lessig returns home after a trip the kids wait for him, racing to the door to meet him, yelling “Papa!” How often will they be running to the door over the next few months?
“I’m almost terrified to look at my phone at the end of the day because then the new schedule is there,” Lessig says, hunching over the table, clutching his coffee mug, his cell phone lying face up. “It’s just all over the place.”
He talks a little while longer, glancing from the clock on his phone to the busy restaurant, fidgeting. Undoubtedly the flight to D.C. is on his mind. He’s mentioned it a few times, and it seems like he wants to leave. Luckily, he’ll have an assistant again in the next few days, one who isn’t affiliated with Harvard, who can help him pack as much as he can into his schedule.
Lessig gets up from the table to pay for his coffee. The professor doesn’t have any classes scheduled this semester, and depending on how his run goes, he may not have any next semester either. He knows he’ll miss it, but he doesn’t anticipate staying away from teaching and writing too long. After all, that’s where he started this work. He wants to end there, too.
Sections

A sad clown trudges through the crowd. The corners of his painted mouth turns down and thick kohl tears leak out of both eyes. With outstretched arms, he offers a box of tissues to everyone he passes. It’s a Thursday night in Union Square, and I am at a Pity Party. 
The event is a free community block party marketed as a "deprestival." Its Facebook event page entreats visitors to "turn that grin upside down and help us make Somerville the saddest town around." Clearly, Somerville is sympathetic, because the square is packed.
It’s also loud. One layer of noise is the music, a sludgy sort of rock with a heavy bass line. Another is the sound of people, a steady rumble overlaid with one amplified male voice. I follow it to the base of a small stage.
A sad comedian stands at its center. Wearing only a bathrobe, he grips a microphone in both hands and addresses his audience with nervous eyes. “This is the most self-indulgent event I’ve ever heard of,” he says. “I mean, we’re about to celebrate how sad we are. Because it’s America! It’s 2015!”
The crowd does not laugh. A tall poet-type on my right visibly frowns. The comedian tells a joke about his mother’s depression. I frown too and fade back into the crowd.
The rest of the event is equally lurid. I pass the “Sad Sack of the Year Contest,” a table piled with application forms and a line of applicants behind it. I slow down by the “Take a Number Complaint and Catharsis Department,” which promises a comprehensive session of affirmation and consolation. I linger next to a sad art exhibit, and stare a particularly long time at a sculpture of a bird nesting in a Prozac bottle, labelled “The Bluebird of Increased Serotonin.”
But when I stop for a while, it’s at a little booth marked “Somerville Cares About Depression.” The booth is on the outskirts of the fair, and it’s less showy than the other attractions: Two people, armed with sheaves of pamphlets and a handful of informational graphics, man the whole thing. As I watch them work, I get increasingly subdued.
It’s not that the booth is tasteless. Its message has an obvious place here. References to mental health saturate the square; the whole carnival functions on the understanding that sadness is not always just sadness, that the Complaint and Catharsis Department is probably understaffed, that the Sad Sack of the Year Contest will have many runners-up.
No, the booth is tasteful. It just makes the rest of the event hideous. I feel suddenly that the music and the lights and the laughter are a terrible violence, and for a moment I wish I hadn’t come and endorsed them with my participation. I want to look away and escape to the don’t-ask-don’t-tell approach to mental health.

But as I scope out that escape, I have to look at the crowd— and I do see lights and music and laughter, but I do not see mockery. Earnest faces talk to journalists. Sincere hands clap for performance art. A woman in a sandwich board that lists her various sufferings comments: “It’s funny because it’s true.”
Yes, this Pity Party is garish. It’s not subtle, or tasteful, or particularly pleasant to watch. It paints its sadness in neon, and it forces me to look. It’s ugly— and it’s right. Exhibition is communication. Subtlety doesn’t draw crowds.
Please, write your sadness on a sandwich board. Sketch it in kohl on your face. Do anything except keep it to yourself. And when others do the same, look.
Sections
My oldest friend at Harvard isn’t great at staying in contact. I’m not perfect, either, but really: Sometimes, I do feel as if I’m making more of an effort than he is. We go way back—since before college—yet now I’m starting to wonder if we really connect on the same level we used to. It’s time I paid him a visit and got this all sorted out.
I go on a Tuesday, following my blockmates as they make their way to Northwest Labs for sections or lab work or other things that seem vaguely more productive. Halfway there, I break off and take a right towards the Museum of Comparative Zoology.
He’s three flights up. Inside, I flash my Harvard ID to the guy behind the counter. He asks me if I’ve been to the MCZ before. He also asks if I need a map. We haven’t met before, but he’ll soon learn the answer to both of those questions.
It’s been a while—practically all summer—but I haven’t forgotten the way. These rooms don’t change much, after all, aside from the occasional gallery renovation. The cases are still dusty; the floorboards still crackle and chatter under your feet. There’s the usual lacy hint of formaldehyde hanging in the air.
He’s waiting for me, as always, in the paleontology room: afloat in a bath of amber liquid. His dark oblong silhouette edged against the bleached mosasaur fossil on the opposite wall. It’s not awkward, I think. It’s been a while, but we just have that kind of relationship: We’re able to pick things up right where we left off. Or at least, that’s what I tell myself as I match his snaggletoothed grin with an awkward smile. If he had hands instead of fins, I’d be giving him a slightly-too-slow fist pound.
The specimen is a coelacanth, caught and embalmed in 1965 before being transferred to Harvard’s collections. My oldest friend at Harvard is a dead, preserved fish.
Let me provide a little context, before you quit reading, or send a concerned email to my parents and/or The Crimson’s managing editor asking if I’m doing OK. I first encountered the coelacanth two years ago, on my final stop in a way-too-long string of college visits. Walking around Harvard in the July heat isn’t fun, and neither is listening to yet another tour guide’s shrink-wrapped spiel. I needed a break, and some A/C—and, would you look at that, who knew that Harvard had a museum? So it was that my mother and I found ourselves wandering the MCZ’s dim corridors.
I’ve always loved museums, but I knew there was something special about this one. The crotchety wooden cases and dry, pasty taxidermied animals— several stuffed by Harvard’s own Louis Agassiz, famous 19th-century biologist and founder of the MCZ—felt antiquated in the best way, full of character and subtle history.
Granted, Agassiz was a hardcore scientific racist. Sometimes, change is necessary. But walking through the MCZ, admiring its rows of elderly specimens in their bell jars, I felt the weight of Harvard’s legacy settle into me. This was a place that had found glory long ago; it would keep it long after I left.
The coelacanth—I’d only ever seen them in books before then—was no different. He belonged to a line of fishes thought to have gone extinct with the dinosaurs, until someone pulled one out of a fishing net in 1938. He was a leftover, a silent witness to millennia of change and evolution—a living fossil. I remembered him on the flight home, resting one palm against a plane window that felt cool and dark like ocean water.
It’s been two years since that visit. I applied to Harvard and got in (wrote one of my essays about you-know-who, in fact); stumbled through freshman year; spent a summer working at a museum in D.C. Now, here I am, back in the room where it all started.
Last year, this was my refuge: I’d visit once a month, or more. Here, I could escape from the outside world of p-sets and parties, a world that felt as alien as if I’d been dredged up from the sea’s unlit depths and left flapping in the cold air. I could limit my world, partition it into a series of quiet, dusty rooms. Just another specimen in the collection, archived with the rest: Homo freshmanus.
Of course, I tell myself, I’ve evolved since then. It’s been a year. I’m grown up now, living outside of the Yard, ready to push the envelope and create something beautiful in the three years I have left.
Which I guess contradicts the fact that here I am once again, leaning against my old pal’s glass tank, reeling against the future. I’m turning 20 in a few days: my last few as a teenager. It’s not a birthday I’m looking forward to.
I don’t think that, standing in this room as a high schooler, I expected I’d be here again two years down the road. I don’t remember where I thought I would be. The MCZ is old: Its menagerie will still be here, pickled and ghostly, after I’m gone. But I don’t have that luxury. I can’t remain static, preserve myself behind glass.
Absorbed in all of this, I suddenly realize I’ve lost track of time. It’s almost five; the museum will close in a few minutes. I look around, see no one else in the gallery, bend over until the coelacanth and I are eye-level. “Any advice?” I whisper.
And wait a moment. He’s still grinning at me. His expression hasn’t moved an inch.
“Yeah,” I sigh. “I didn’t think so.”
Sections
It is with a heavy heart and fond memories of 35 years that FM remembers Berk’s Shoes. In my exploits and inquiries around campus, Harvard students have most often remembered Berk’s with an “Oh, yeah, Berk’s!” after I described it as “that place on the corner across from Staples and near ‘Noch’s?”
In fact, it was on my annual pen-and-notebook run to Staples that I noticed Berk’s featured a “closed” sign rather than a shoe display in the window. I glanced across the street, expecting to see tables laden with laundry baskets full of shoes, and instead saw a sign announcing the store’s final closure. I was overcome by nostalgia and melancholy for a store which I had never patronized. Like that old Joni Mitchell song, the one famously appropriated by Counting Crows, “You don’t know what you got ‘til it’s gone.” The montage from “You’ve Got Mail” played in my head and Tom Hanks’s goofy, yet inexplicably soothing voice musing over bouquets of pencils and Meg Ryan’s soliloquy about her emotional death when her bookstore closes carried me back to Lowell in a haze of rom-com hypnotism. But the Berk’s Shoe thing continued to weigh on my shopping week crazed psyche.
Berk’s, bohemian-looking from the outside, entered the 21st century in the last few years by adding online sales through an equally bohemian website. Although the online storefront would have made David Malan ’99 cry, scream, and break a computer, there are some fun puns. For example, “Get in or get stepped on,” which feels slightly threatening, but hey, whatever brings in the business.
Support for Berk’s has poured in from the community via Facebook. It is clear that although the absence of laundry baskets on the JFK sidewalk will improve the pedestrian experience, the absence of Berk’s is felt in all of our hearts. No more will I be able to buy $10 rain boots when it’s already raining or run there for 2/$10 flip flops when my shower shoes break for the fifth time. I will have to pay $20 at Urban for the same low quality canvas shoes that Berk’s sold for half the price. Although Berk’s was mainly a logistical inconvenience for me (see the above comment about laundry baskets), it was an active and amiable member of the Harvard community. Berk’s was one of the few places that accepted Crimson Cash. Staples, Starbucks, Urban: None of these places are establishments where we can “crowd source” funds with the convenient ‘Request Money’ button. (Sidenote: Has anyone used this? Can there be one of these for life?) Now, when I find myself in times of wet feet trouble, Berk’s will not be there for me. Berk’s was often the center of the action, the place to be, as it were. As the scene of an armed shoe robbery and witness to the arrest of a “Masturbator,” the store is prominently featured in my personal Bizarre Crimes in the Square saga.
Students have been outraged by Yogurtland’s vanishing act, but have shown little regard for the one establishment that was always there for them, even though ultimately we were not there for it. Well, Berk’s, here it is. Keep it up online, maybe we can get a CS50 freshman in there to help you out with that. But really, congratulations on 35 years. We’ll miss ya.
Sections
Looking at HUDS pasta makes me tired. The flaccid noodles sit there mostly stuck together in those weirdly shaped silver pots next to other pots filled with red paste that the trendy, curved HUDS placard assures me is marinara sauce. I can’t help but feel a deep existential exhaustion.
And so it was with a joyful heart that upon returning to school this year I discovered that lunchtime pasta had been replaced by a chili bar. The silver pots remained, but now with happily burbling vegetarian and meat chili alongside a bevy of cornbread laid out on an understated crimson tablecloth. I’ll admit it, I was unsure at first. My southern upbringing has inculcated me with a healthy sense of skepticism when it comes to Yankees trying to make Southern food. I need not have feared. It fulfilled the highest praise I can give to HUDS food: spectacularly solid. It’s the oatmeal of lunch.
I've been assured by one of my professors this term that all you need to be convincing is to have three pieces of evidence. With that in mind, I make my case for chili.
Chili as ‘Aesthetic Experience’
Also like oatmeal, chili is far more than food. It’s a blank can vas on which to create. This Friday, a person I had not talked to since Opening Days plopped her tray down next to mine and started extolling the value of the chili bar. What she had on her tray was a thing of beauty. A healthy serving of five-bean Chili garnished with a devil-may-care dollop of sour cream, which in turn was caressed lovingly by a sprinkling of shredded cheese. The whole ensemble was topped off with judiciously chopped chives.
Yogurtland may be closed, but thanks to the chili bar, self-serve aesthetic curation is alive and well in Cambridge.
Chili is the missing link
Chili fulfills a food niche that HUDS has often missed, consistency-wise. HUDS food is, by and large, segregated into solids and liquids. That saddens me. Before chili, chowder was the closest to the lumpy, chunky center that HUDS food went. Chili adds a crucial missing link in the HUDS food-consistency spectrum.
Chili is inclusive.
Pasta is the linchpin of glutenbased food supremacy. With varieties both meat and five-bean, Chili satisfies all the major dietary trends: vegetarian, paleo, gluten-free, Atkins, South Beach, Eastern Bloc, Northern Lite. (The last two are not diets but I’m confident chili would fit in.) As evidenced by my reconnection with my Opening Days companion, chili brings people together, evoking memories of generations of cowboys whipping up chili around a campfire or suburban dads having a gregarious chili cookoff. And ultimately, that’s the value of chili. In a campus plagued by discussions of social exclusivity, chili is an accessible-to-all antidote. So, next time you’re at lunch, ladle yourself a heaping bowlful of chili, grab yourself a slab of cornbread, and set about making friends one spoonful at a time.
Sections
Last Friday, I sat on a bench outside of the Gutman Library for two hours, waiting for a man named Richard Scarbrough.
Richard Scarbrough is the proprietor of a bookstore on the corner of Brattle Street and Farwell Place. The store consists of two folding tables, stacked piles of books, and a wooden box with a slot for cash.
Various notecards taped to the box read:
“‘I have an affection for a great city. I feel safe in the neighborhood of man, and enjoy the sweet security of the streets.’ – Henry Wadsworth Longfellow”
“Bitcoin”
“HONOR SYSTEM: Books are priced as marked on the front cover. If you find a book that you want, please pay by putting the money in this box. I have been selling books on the streets of Cambridge for over 10 years thanks to this awesome community and good people like you. Thank You!”

Somebody asked me a question about pricing, bringing the total number of times I’d been mistaken for the owner up to three.
I was there because I had been told that Scarbrough’s bookshop was, in addition to a form of supplementary income, a “libertar- ian economic experiment.” I had next to no clue what that meant, but I did think that the system worked well. In the five or so unsuccess- ful hours I’d sat by the store that week, I did not see anybody steal. Most people browsed, and left. I think I saw one or two purchases.
While Scarbrough’s political views are particular, his collection spans the whole range of literary taste.

Al Franken’s autobiography sits alongside a book called “Beauty Queen,” whose cover fea- tures a bikini-clad torso sporting a bandolier holding lipstick in place of bullets; self-help books of every shape, size, and scope, “9 Steps to Financial Freedom,” “Interviewing your Daughter’s Date: 8 Steps to No Regrets,” and “7 Habits of Highly Effective People”; critically acclaimed works: “Musicophilia” by Oliver Sacks and John Berendt’s “Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil”; and enough cookbooks to account for every genre of American regional cuisine.
By Wednesday, I was confident I had found all that the Internet had to offer about him: a Twitter account that went inactive around November 2014, a Yelp review of the book- store (five stars, but only one reviewer at time of writing), and a FundAnything page that expired in 2013 after raising $60 of its $15,000 goal. He created to raise money for a real brick- and-mortar bookstore on Garden Street.
I found one email address associated with the FundAnything page, but Scarbrough did not respond to my message.
Finally, around 8:15 p.m., a sensible mid- size sedan rolled up and a balding slightly- below-middle-aged man stepped out of the car, lit a cigarette, and leaned on his car smok- ing, clearly waiting for two young women to finish browsing the book piles. From a picture on his Twitter, I was certain that it was Richard Scarbrough.
“Gotcha,” I actually found myself whisper- ing, like the detective from a cheap noir.
Once the women dispersed, I introduced myself and told Scarbrough that I’d like to write about him. He was there, as he is every night the store is open, to close up shop, a pro- cess which consists of spreading a large tarp over the books and anchoring it under the legs of the table. I helped out and we chatted. He became very friendly after I assured him that I wasn’t “one of those communists on The Crimson.”
He had a gregarious, slightly nervy energy that I couldn’t help but like a little.
The store, confirming what I had heard, is indeed a libertarian economic experiment. Specifically, Scarborough terms it a “peaceful revolution through counter-economics.” The idea is that one doesn’t need a permit or a set of complicated laws or regulations to sell things.

Scarborough was particularly invested in Libertarian political philosophy that night because of a tiff he had gotten into during the day with a city official who had asked if he had the proper permits to paint the shop he is starting. The shop will be funded with the revenue “Honor System Books” has accrued over 10 years (daily earnings range from $20 to $75). It’s Scarbrough’s latest move in a life spent selling books. Before he moved his busi- ness to Harvard Square, he ran a stall in Copley where he sold his own writing. Before that, he worked at a variety of Boston area bookstores.
He seems anxious to leave. Gesturing to a supine figure in his fully-reclined passenger seat, he explains that he has to drive the guy to the Shell station to work a graveyard shift, after ten hours painting Scarbrough’s store.
Scarborough climbs in the car and leaves, promising to take me with him on a book-buy- ing run to Roxbury, where he says he got in a fight with somebody a few weeks ago who was trying to rob him (“That’s where bookselling gets interesting”). It sounds fantastic to me and he assures me that we’ll coordinate over email.
I haven’t seen him since. Follow-up emails, so far, have been ignored.
I’m inexplicably disappointed by this. I still stop by the stall every now and then.
Sections
I’m on a mission to discover what’s going on in some of the unmarked houses around Harvard Square. I decided to begin with 101-103 Plympton Street. Overshadowed by Lowell’s breathtaking grandeur, it was really easy to miss the relatively modest, three-story house that is my destination. While I cannot find a way inside the house (and believe me, I tried), I can only imagine what the view is like from the rooms. Propping your head out of one of the windows, you could gawk at the beautiful river and enjoy the cool breeze of the wind. This has to be as close as you could come to living in a secluded “beach” house around here. The structure is graduate student housing.
My next destination is 53 Dunster St., where Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 currently resides. Looking at the house, I would never imagine that it was originally built over a century ago. It looks like the stereotypical, white-picket-fenced, American-Dream house.
My final stop for the day is 53 Church St., also known as the Church Street Computer Facility. While I did try to limit my expectations, I do have to admit that I went there expecting a futuristic, Jetsons-style building. It was not. If anything, it was a very warm welcoming home (in contrast to 53 Dunster St.). The carpeting, the ample sunlight from all the windows, and the overwhelm- ing number of potted plants made this non-residential house feel like a home more than any other that I’ve visited that day. (Every room was saturated with computers so it definitely lives up to its name.) Stepping out the back exit, I find a cute seating area tucked between the trees. After a (not so) long day of exploration, I end up sitting in this quiet little spot enjoying the clear sky and my new miniature secret garden. 
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Amid heightened scrutiny about how Harvard prevents and addresses sexual assault, the University’s Title IX office has appointed a new College Title IX coordinator and published a College-specific website on the topic.
In an email to undergraduates Tuesday, the College’s full-time Title IX coordinator, Emily J. Miller, wrote that Jeffrey Berg had recently taken on a role as a College Title IX coordinator. Berg, who also is as an assistant director in the Office of Undergraduate Research and Fellowships, will perform both duties this year, Miller wrote in the email.
The emailed announcement came one day after the University released data from its sexual conduct climate survey administered last spring. As a whole, the data revealed an unsettling picture at the College for many students and administrators. 
Thirty-one percent of senior female undergraduates at the College surveyed reported having experienced some kind of sexual misconduct—what the survey termed “nonconsensual sexual contact”—during their time at Harvard, and many conveyed distrust and confusion with the University’s procedures for handling cases.
Both Miller and Berg are tasked with providing information to students about the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ Title IX policy and procedures, in addition to helping provide accommodations to victims of sexual harassment, according to a new website the College launched. The website focuses chiefly on Title IX at the College and is designed to provide more information to undergraduates, Miller wrote in her email.
The new website and appointment represent more administrative changes for a College that has been the target of intensified scrutiny as it faces a federal probe into its Title IX compliance and student activists critical of its current practices.
In her email, Miller, much like other administrators, deemed the survey results “deeply unsettling” and reiterated her office’s commitment to addressing the issue.
On Monday—the day the survey results went public—University Drew G. Faust hosted a town hall to address the prevalence of sexual assault on campus, and the College subsequently hosted the first pair of several other town hall events geared specifically toward undergraduates on Tuesday night.
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Even before the two major parties have selected their nominees, Harvard students are already organizing debates, calling voters, and attending conventions to support their choice candidates in the next U.S. presidential election.
With just more than four months to go before the start of the 2016 presidential primary elections, College students from both sides of the aisle are hard at work on campaigns.
Both the Harvard College Democrats and the Harvard Republican Club are waiting until after the primaries to endorse a candidate in the race officially. Individual students, though, have formed groups in support of specific presidential hopefuls, from establishment candidates such as former Secretary of State and Democrat Hillary R. Clinton to Marco Rubio, a Republican U.S. senator from Florida. 
A group of campus Clinton backers, called Harvard for Hillary, organized a trip last Saturday to New Hampshire to watch Clinton speak at the state's Democratic Convention. Nikitha Reddy ’19 called it “such a unique experience.”
Clinton is the current favorite to win the Democratic Party's nomination, but Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders is increasingly popular among young people across the country, and Harvard is no exception: He has attracted a strong following on campus.
“Many people feel as though their interests are much better represented by Bernie than by any other candidate,” said Noah R. Wagner ’18, a member of Harvard United for Bernie, a group of Sanders supporters.
Clinton and Sanders supporters will square off Thursday evening at a debate hosted by the Harvard Political Union. The event's stated goal is to “expose students to different arguments between supporters of the different candidates,” according to Jeff R. Metzger ’17, the group's co-chair.
“We want to get a discussion going about the primaries,” Metzger said.
Meanwhile, the Harvard Republican Club plans to host debate watch parties and help get students involved in campaigns they support. Even with more than a dozen declared GOP presidential hopefuls comprising a crowded field, most candidates have supporters on campus, eager to participate in the campaign.
“We have people that support Rand all the way, to people who like John Kasich,” Republican Club President Aaron I. Henricks ’16 said.
Organizations like Harvard Students for Jeb and Harvard Students for Rubio have cropped up to support their candidate of choice. It remains unclear if business mogul Donald J. Trump, a controversial candidate who has performed well in the polls, has the same support. He stole the spotlight at the last debate, drawing laughter and dismay from student observers.
“I don’t know anyone who supports Trump in the Republican Club,” Henricks said, “but they might be out there.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just around the corner from the Kennedy School of Government on Memorial Drive sits the monastery of the Society of Saint John the Evangelist. Shielded from the bustling traffic of Memorial Drive and the hordes of tourists in Harvard Square, the monastery and its guest house offer an unexpected sanctuary for those who know where to find it.
“We try to provide a still point in the city for people to come to,” said Brother Luke W. Ditewig, one of the younger monks who lives at the monastery. "This is a place that can be refreshing, renewing, restoring, even in what seems to be small amounts of time. People are so busy, scattered, and stressed.” 
The chapel, where Cambridge residents can stop in for a moment of quiet, is open from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. every day of the week except Mondays. Although the doors open to the busyness of Memorial Drive, the brothers say the chapel itself, with its stone walls and stained glass windows, provides a place of calm refuge.
“It is always available as a sanctuary for people who want to pray,” said Jamie Coats, director of the Friends of SSJE.
SSJE has forged ties with the University over the course of its long history in Harvard Square, since its founding in the mid-1920s.
"We've always been in a University context. We see that as married to our place, and our purpose,” Ditewig said.
When T.S. Eliot was member of Harvard’s faculty, he was a frequent visitor to the monastery.
“T.S. Eliot was a big fan of this space,” said Tom P. Marsan, the manager and receptionist of the monastery’s guest house. “In his time on the faculty at Harvard he was a regular worshiper with the community.”
More recently, SSJE has focused on reaching out to college-age members of its community. The weekly Tuesday Eucharist service is geared toward young adults, and SSJE is launching a series of sermons on Oct. 6 called “Finding God in Harvard Square” that focuses on issues pertaining to students, such as intimacy and creativity.According to Marsan, outreach to young adults is directed toward to asking “‘Well, what does this mean to like, put my own life together, now that I’m out of my own house that I grew up in?’”
There are also opportunities for people to spend time with the brothers as guests on "retreats." Currently, the monastery is hosting 13 people in their guest house.
Ditewig has seen firsthand the effects the monastery can have on its guests. "There's an intensity of what happens here in the silence and the space, that people are touched here," he said.
People who stay in the guest house typically join the brothers for the five daily prayers, as well as lunch and dinner, both of which are eaten in silence.
"The primary interaction is simply to be alongside us in silence,” Ditewig said. “In terms of being aside the brothers and being alongside each other, often with people they've never met, people find there's a connection and an experience that happens in silence that's surprising."
—Staff writer Sharon Yang can be reached at sharon.yang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @sharonjyang.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard University Health Services is scheduled to open a renovated space on its fifth floor, which previously housed Stillman Infirmary’s 10 overnight observation beds, at the start of October.
Construction on the fifth-floor space, which will soon house expanded counseling and mental health services, is mostly completed, according to Donald Perlo, the medical director of UHS after hours urgent care. 
This summer, Harvard shuttered 10 overnight beds in Stillman—a 24-hour inpatient space that often serviced intoxicated students who reported to UHS for nighttime care under the College’s amnesty policy—with plans to renovate the space to expand same-day appointments and mental health resources by 20 to 25 percent. 
In addition to housing reclining chairs and gurneys in place of overnight beds to treat after-hours patient groups on the fifth floor, the space will soon include a new handicap-accessible bathroom, new furniture and other supplies, examination rooms, and a nurses’ station for patient observation, according to Perlo. Several rooms in the fifth floor’s east wing have been reconfigured.
Following the renovated space’s debut in October, urgent care services will be administered solely on the fifth floor. Currently, students seeking urgent care receive medical attention on the third floor of UHS during daytime hours. After 5:30 p.m., these services move to the fifth floor, however, which means that UHS loses 10 to 15 minutes of clinical time during the transition.
“Not having to do that move is really going to make a difference, both for clinicians and I think for the convenience and comfort of patients,” Perlo said.
Following daytime urgent care services’ move to the fifth floor, dermatology and allergy services will expand on their existing offices in the third floor’s west wing.
The renovation of the UHS’s fifth floor concludes a months-long planning process that prompted controversy last year. Administrators made plans to shutter Stillman last year because the overnight facility was underutilized and students had requested more same-day appointments and mental health services. They said a shift in patient care would require the reallocation of existing resources and space, necessitating the Stillman closure.
Still, news of the reshuffling prompted student outcry after it was first reported last November, and UHS Director Paul J. Barreira said they would maintain in-person 24-hour urgent care but still close Stillman’s 10 overnight beds.
—Staff writer Celeste M. Mendoza can be reached at celeste.mendoza@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CelesteMMendoza.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Although the Undergraduate Council has more black members this year than last, following the close of its general elections last Friday at noon, it still has notable gender gap, with women making up just 35 percent of its membership.
According to Pforzheimer House representative William A. Greenlaw ’17, who briefed the Council on the diversity of its membership at its first full general meeting on Sunday, seven students who are black now sit on the UC, compared to just one last year. Black students now comprise 14 percent of the body, a larger proportion than at the College at large. 
“Last year I used to joke that I was the leader of the black caucus because I was the only member of the black caucus on the UC,” Greenlaw said Sunday. “The UC, much like regular, real-life legislative bodies, occasionally struggles with diversity, and so we made it a mission to increase diversity on the UC.”
Prior to this fall’s election, UC President Ava Nasrollahzadeh ’16 and Vice President Dhruv P. Goyal ’16 noted a need to increase diversity on the Council and promised to employ a “much more robust recruitment campaign” in an effort to attract a more diverse group of candidates.
But despite the added racial diversity to this year’s group, as has been true in some recent years, the UC is still predominantly male, with men outnumbering women by a ratio of just under two to one. Thirty-five percent of representatives on the Council this fall, including several members of its leadership, are women, according to Nasrollahzadeh.
This gender imbalance is not characteristic of only the newest Council; historically, the UC has sometimes struggled with recruiting women to join, with a 2013 internal report calling the body long “a male-skewed leadership organization.”
Although the UC neared gender parity in 2013, last fall, the Council recorded its largest gender imbalance in four years, with just about one-third of its membership made up of women.
In response, Council leaders—including its 2014 president and vice president, both men—questioned why women’s representation on the Council had decreased so notably year over year, with then-Vice President Sietse K. Goffard ’15 calling it “definitely an issue of concern.”
At the time, then-President Gus A. Mayopoulos ’15 suggested that the fact that two men headed the Council may have encouraged more male candidates to run; just more than one in four candidates that fall were women.
This year, one woman and one man sit atop the UC’s leadership. Still, the gender imbalance is close to the same. Nasrollahzadeh wrote in an email that she acknowledged that “parity had not been established” and that the Council “will continue to push for a more diverse representation in our next recruitment effort during midterm elections,” which occur early next semester.
—Staff writer Jalin P. Cunningham can be reached at jalin.cunningham@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JalinCunningham.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Kevin B. Moody, an administrator at Emory’s school of law, will serve as Harvard Law School's next assistant dean and chief human resources officer.
Moody, who will assume his role at Harvard on Oct. 19, has served as the senior director of administration and chief human resources officer at Emory Law since 2007. Before his career in human resources, Moody was a captain in the Marine Corps. 
Martha L. Minow, the dean of the Law School, said in a statement that Moody “brings tremendous and deep experiences, from air traffic control operations work in the military to law school administration.”
Moody’s hiring comes as the Law School fills several administrative positions. In addition to Moody, Marcia L. Sells became the school’s new dean of students earlier this week. This summer, former chief human resources officer Marie H. Bowen departed Harvard for the University of Massachusetts Amherst, and Ellen M. Cosgrove, the former dean of students, left for Yale.
The administrative turnover in the senior positions comes as the school rolls out a new process for responding to sexual assault cases.
According to the new adjudication process put into place this summer, a Law School-specific Title IX unit oversees investigations into student cases of sexual harassment, rather than the central office that handles cases at the rest of Harvard’s schools.
Cosgrove and Bowen were two of the three members of the school’s Title IX unit, and interim staff have filled their positions since they left. Now that Moody and Sells are joining Harvard, the composition of the Law School’s Title IX unit may change again.
“We will revisit composition of the Title IX Unit and roles after our new Dean of Students and our new Chief Human Resources Officer settle into their jobs,” Catherine Claypoole, the school's interim chief Title IX officer, wrote in an email.
With the new school-specific process now in place, Law School administrators are working to inform their students about the new rules. The school launched a mobile application last week that includes sexual harassment and assault resources, and it will host a Title IX information session on Thursday.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As European leaders gather this week to craft an approach to the continent’s refugee crisis, the second annual Summit on the Future of Europe convened at Harvard Tuesday and Wednesday.
Academics and policymakers at the conference were cautiously optimistic about the E.U.’s ability to survive its current crises, citing the need for a coordinated response from European leaders and the international community.
The two-day conference was a joint effort between Harvard’s Center for European Studies and the Center for International Relations and Sustainable Development, a public policy think tank headed by Kennedy School of Government alumnus and former Serbian Minister of Foreign Affairs Vuk Jeremić. CES Director Grzegorz Ekiert said the conference was designed to facilitate the exchange of ideas between academics and policymakers, and Americans and Europeans.
The conference opened with an address Tuesday night by former Minister of Finance of Greece Gikas Hardouvelis, who discussed the economic crisis in Greece and its implications for the E.U.
John Gillingham, a CES fellow who attended the event, said he found Hardouvelis’s remarks valuable because they provided a first-hand account unavailable in newspapers.
“It was a very impressive presentation,” he said. “It left more questions unanswered. He made people in the audience think about the right things.”
The three panels on Wednesday, which comprised the majority of the summit, discussed the issues of migration, development along Europe’s southern border, and fostering sustainable prosperity.
Despite abundant talk of crisis, most panelists expressed general optimism regarding the E.U.’s ability to survive and remain relevant on the world stage. Markos Kyprianou, former Minister of Foreign Affairs of Cyprus, declared that the E.U. is “getting there, we are going to survive longer.”
“The E.U. is a spectacular success story,” Kennedy School professor and former Minister of Planning of Venezuela Ricardo Hausmann said to attendees, a sentiment later echoed by Ekiert in his closing remarks.
The summit concluded with a panel made up of Ekiert, Jeremić, and History professor Niall Ferguson.
“I’m not convinced this is the apocalypse for Europe,” Ferguson said. However, both speakers argued that the challenges Europe faces are global challenges that the international community has a responsibility to address.
In an interview after the event, Ekiert described the conference as successful, saying it sparked productive dialogue.
“Because we all care about European integration, we really need to think about all the problems that have accumulated over the past years,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A former Harvard computer lab manager has been charged with using a University credit card to pay more than $80,000 of personal purchases, including Lego sets, iPads, and televisions.
A Harvard employee for 17 years, Shawn Bunn, 44, allegedly used Harvard’s money to make hundreds of personal purchases, which he covered up by submitting false receipts to the University, according to the office of Middlesex County District Attorney Marian T. Ryan. Bunn, who was given a University credit card to make purchases for a computer lab, apparently stole money from Harvard over the course of four years.
“This is a breach of trust by a school employee,” Ryan said. “Over a period of four years the defendant is alleged to have made personal purchases in excess of $80,000 therefore diverting resources from the students and faculty of Harvard University.”
Harvard Risk Management and Audit Services department discovered the fraudulent purchases during a recent University-wide audit earlier this year, according to Harvard spokesperson Tania deLuzuriaga. Harvard requires employees to turn in receipts for purchases of more than $75 and explain the nature of the purchase, according to the Middlesex District office.
“While the vast majority of users were in compliance, the breadth of fraudulent purchases in this instance led RMAS to reach out to the Harvard Police Department to commence a criminal investigation,” deLuzuriaga wrote in an emailed statement.
Harvard University Police acquired a search warrant on Bunn’s home and office, where they apparently found many of the items Bunn billed to Harvard but allegedly stole for personal use, including a table saw, Lego sets, and a garbage disposal.
HUPD spokesperson Steven G. Catalano directed inquiries to Harvard Public Affairs and Communications.
Bunn was released without bail in a court hearing on Wednesday and will be required to wear an electronic monitoring bracelet and follow a curfew. He will appear before a judge again on Oct. 28.
—Staff writer Mariel A. Klein can be reached at mariel.klein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mariel_klein.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a restructuring of patient resources following the June closure of Stillman Infirmary’s 10 overnight beds, Harvard University Health Services has modified some patient procedures, including those for students seeking care for intoxication.
According to Donald Perlo, the medical director of UHS urgent care, UHS based its decision to release intoxicated students from observation on blood alcohol content under previous protocol. Students had to receive clearance from an internal medicine doctor before leaving, which sometimes required staying overnight. 
Now, students must only be deemed “clinically sober”—meaning they must show vital signs and be alert, able to ingest food and fluids, and able to walk—to leave, Perlo said.
Intoxicated students will also no longer be sent back to UHS after going to Mt. Auburn Hospital and other Cambridge medical facilities.
Perlo, suggesting that UHS adopted the old measures out of an “over-abundance of caution,” said the changes seek to reduce the amount of time that intoxicated students spend at UHS so that it can free up space for other patients seeking urgent care.
“Students are staying until they are well enough to go,” Perlo said, adding that UHS encourages patients to follow up with the Office of Alcohol and Other Drug Services.
The changes in UHS’s approach to handling intoxicated students come almost a year after administrators’ move to shutter Stillman as part of a broader health services restructuring plan prompted pushback from students.
In response to student concerns, administrators agreed to maintain after hours inpatient care services. Now, while UHS still offers 24-hour inpatient service for intoxicated students seeking nighttime care under the College’s amnesty policy, it closed its overnight observation beds this summer, replacing them with reclining chairs and gurneys.
The fifth-floor space that once housed the overnight beds is under construction and will open in October to house expanded counseling and mental health services.
The restructuring has prompted other changes in protocol. In line with UHS’s status as an outpatient medical facility, students may no longer stay there overnight for postoperative accommodations following an elective orthopedic procedure. Student athletes and other patients will have to coordinate with the Athletic Department and the Accessible Education Office to receive further care.
The changes, Perlo said, are “meant to do things in a way that is going to serve more students.”
“By increasing capacity… and having more urgent care, both mental health and medical care, we’re seeing about 3,000 students in a space that used to see 600 students,” he said.
Still, citing research from AODS, Perlo added that only about 10 percent of intoxicated students seek UHS’s care each weekend and suggested that students who do not go to UHS might need urgent care the most. He posited that this underutilization of UHS’s resources may come as a result of some students deciding to provide care for their intoxicated friends on their own.
“We know it’s an issue with the final clubs and the lack of transparency,” Perlo said. “There is probably a significant [amount] of this ... going on there.”
In recent weeks, administrators have raised concerns about alcohol use at Harvard’s final clubs, which are located off campus and remain officially unrecognized by administrators.
Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 said UHS and its director, Paul J. Barreira, have been responsive in addressing student concerns throughout the restructuring process.
“A number of adjustments to the plan were made and we’re still getting very good service,” Dingman said. “Some of the communication issues still have had to be ironed out this fall, but I think we’re off to a decent start.”
—Staff writer Celeste M. Mendoza can be reached at celeste.mendoza@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CelesteMMendoza.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After spending last weekend on the other side of the country, the Harvard men’s soccer team (1-3-2) returns to the Bay State Thursday night, where the Crimson will play at Boston University (3-2-0) in its last game prior to the start of Ivy League action.
With Harvard’s first Ancient Eight matchup versus rival Yale on the horizon, the Crimson will look to use the matchup against its river rival to build momentum prior to the start of conference play. But the team is hardly looking ahead.
“Obviously we want to have a good feeling going into Ivies,” co-captain Mark Ashby said. “But it’s really important for us to focus on [this] game…. We’ve played [BU] a lot. It’s a crosstown rivalry, so it’s always tough to go into that.”
The Harvard defense will be tested by a Terrier attack that has managed to score at least one goal in all of its contests so far, averaging 1.6 goals a game.
BU’s offense is led by sophomore midfielder Anthony Viteri and junior forward Felix De Bona, with the two players registering three goals and an assist apiece through five games. While stopping this two-headed strike force will be a challenge, the Crimson’s defensive performance this past weekend suggests the team is capable of handling the task.
After conceding two goals against a potent Seattle offense, Harvard picked up its first shutout of the year in a nil-nil stalemate versus then-No. 9 Washington. The Crimson’s back four were supported by co-captain Evan Mendez, who made a season-best seven saves en route to being named Ivy League Player of the Week.
Mendez’s prowess between the sticks will be crucial in helping out a backline which is still missing Ashby. The reigning Ivy League Defensive Player of the Year has been unable to play so far this season due to a quadriceps injury and is not planning on playing against the Terriers.
But even without Ashby, despite the defense’s struggles early in the season, junior co-captain Andrew Wheeler-Omiunu believes his side’s performance versus the Huskies demonstrated the potential of the Harvard defense.
“I think we’re on the upward trend,” Wheeler-Omiunu said. “We put in a very good defensive performance against a really good team…. We’re starting to build that chemistry and you’re starting to see it come together.”
While the defense made progress over the weekend, the Crimson struggled to convert their chances on offense. The team was unable to find the back of the net despite recording 18 shots—seven of which were on target—over the span of the two games.
Though Harvard came close to finding a breakthrough various times—including on senior forward Michael Innocenzi’s shot that rang off the crossbar and goal line versus Washington—the team has been held without goals in three of its six games so far.
Thus, improving its finishing will be key for a Crimson offense which has been able to find space and break down opponents but has found minimum reward for its efforts.
“Scoring goals is a thing that, as a team, we have to be more committed to,” Wheeler-Omiunu said. “We have a very good record of keeping goals out but we need to have a better record of scoring goals.”
Facing a porous Terrier defense could remedy some of the issues that the Harvard attack has had.
BU has allowed an average of 1.4 goals per game so far this season, including two to Ivy League rival Princeton in its last outing. The Terriers have also conceded 15 shots on average per game—with just under nine of those shots coming in the second half—suggesting the Crimson offense could have various opportunities to find the back of the net, particularly in the final frame.
While the team is determined to get a win, Ashby doesn’t believe that any big changes need to be made for Harvard to come out with a W. The Denton, Tx., native insists that focusing on optimizing and executing the team’s philosophy will help the Crimson pick up its second victory of the season.
“[We’ll] stick to the same principles, which we always do,” Ashby said. “Very solid defending, everyone defending, creating chances—both in set pieces and in the run of play—and just maximizing the amount of chances we can get. We know that once we create a lot, the goals will come.”
—Staff writer Julio Fierro can be reached at julio.fierro@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Just over a year ago, the Harvard women’s volleyball team defeated Cornell in the Malkin Athletic Center to the second Ivy League title in program history and the first in 10 years. On Friday, this year’s team begins the hunt for another championship.
The Crimson’s (4-6) Ivy League campaign kicks off on Friday when Dartmouth (3-6) travels to Cambridge for both squads’ conference openers.
Although the Big Green was not a challenger for the Ancient Eight title last year, finishing sixth in the league, the Hanover squad did hand last year’s Harvard squad one of only two conferences losses.
This year, Dartmouth comes into the matchup having played one of the same opponents as Harvard and fared similarly. Both the Crimson and the Big Green prevailed over Connecticut, 3-1.
Senior setter Kayden Cook has been instrumental in Dartmouth’s victories, having been named MVP of the Dartmouth Tournament in early September. Senior outside hitter Allison Brady has also proved herself to be a valuable member of the Big Green, as her game-winning kill against UConn was voted one of the Ivy League’s top five plays of the week.
Harvard has had a somewhat rocky start to the season, and currently sits at 4-6 after a string of games against strong non-league opponents. Following a season-opening win against Rutgers, the Crimson fell into a five-game losing streak.
Harvard then rebounded with a series of wins over non-conference rivals. The team was unable to carry this momentum into the beginning of Ivy League play, though, as the Cambridge squad’s win streak was snapped by a 3-2 loss to Boston College.
The team is nonetheless confident as the league season begins.
“We had an amazing preseason in the respect that we got to play against some of the top teams in the nation,” co-captain Caroline Holte said. “That gave us a confidence boost, going into Ivy League play knowing that we can challenge those types of teams of high calibers.”
Despite the challenges faced by the Crimson early in the season, certain players have stood out and will play key roles during the conference slate.
Notable among these standouts is junior setter Corinne Bain, who has garnered Ivy League Player of the Week honors three times in a row to start off the season–the first Ancient Eight athlete to do so since 2010. Sophomore outside hitter Paige Kebe has also played well and has already totaled a team-high 103 kills on the season.
The team has also looked to new players such as freshman middle blocker Christina Cornelius to play breakout roles. The rookie has put in significant playing time and may be called upon to fill an important position for a Crimson team.
Unlike last year, the Crimson will enter the season as a favorite to win the Ivy League title. Having captured a share of the conference championship last year, Harvard will be a target for other conference squads who are seeking to prevent Harvard from achieving the first repeat Ivy championship in program history.
“We’re looking at every Ivy match as a challenge this year since we have a target on our backs, which isn’t what we’re used to,” Kebe said. “Having won the Ivy last year, we talk about having a respect for each opponent that we play, since we know that any team can take your match. We’re being cautious but also going in very confident.”
Harvard’s accomplishment of winning the league last year was somewhat dampened by having to share the title with Yale. To compound the issue, the Bulldogs went on to beat the Crimson in a playoff game to earn a bid to the NCAA tournament.
The qualified nature of last year’s title remains in the forefront of the minds of the returning players. This year, the team has a singular goal: finish the season as the sole champions of the Ivy League.
“I think we have what it takes, and I think we have more,” Holte said. “We don’t just want to repeat, we want to win outright. I think that this team is the most talented group of women that I’ve ever played with. I couldn’t imagine a team that is more ready to take that Ivy League title.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As I sit in the Adams dining hall, I weep uncontrollably. No, not because the bananas are greener than the grass in the Yard is, nor is it because the toasters don’t actually toast my bagels. No, all these things pale in comparison to my true, inner moral quandary.
HUDS served me real lobster last week, all on Harvard’s dime. HUDS will never be the same to me.
I was working a special reception in Pfoho for a group of faculty members. Part of the job, luckily, was to have dinner with these faculty members. Who said working was hard?
We were treated to real lobsters (the type that you have to violently dismember yourself at the table) with fancy butter sauce. There were also clams on clams, some sort of potato salad, and then a green salad that I didn’t even look at for more than half a second. I can have salad any day of the week, but not lobster.
As I’m about to use my crab cracker to break the lobster into comestible pieces (I have no clue how to eat a lobster), I stop to ponder the moral consequences of manhandling this majestic and effortlessly beautiful sea creature. Jerry (I grew emotionally attached and named him) was so young. He had such a great career set up. But I’ve never had the pleasure of eating lobster, so it’s now or never.
Nacho’s verdict on the dining experience? Quite yummy. Much better than regular dhall food.
Armed with my new lobster experience, I decided to embark on a quest into the Internets to learn more about HUDS, all in the name of investigative journalism.
It turns out that there is a part of HUDS called Crimson Catering that provides Harvard events with a range of options such as buffets, special dinners, hors d’oeuvres, and even tea time snacks. One of the sample menus even boasts Veuve Clicquot- fancy.
Sections
Today is Thursday, September 24. Did you know September is Better Breakfast Month? We may only have a week left in September, but that’s plenty of time to take advantage of the fact that we all have breakfast swipe in the Berg.
IN THE ATMOSPHEREIt should be sunny all day with a slight breeze. At 73º, today is going to be a perfect fall day.
IN THE DHALLLunch:Teriyaki Chicken PizzaKorean Style Tofu with Sesame Glaze
Dinner:Chicken MarsalaItalian SausageFarfale with Italian Sausage and KalePortobello Lentil Pattie with Tomato Basil Salsa
ON FLYBYThat Time HUDS Fed Me LobsterHUDS served me real lobster last week, all on Harvard’s dime. HUDS will never be the same to me.
IN THE NEWSEmployee Allegedly Steals More than $80,000 from HarvardA Harvard employee for 17 years, Shawn Bunn, 44, allegedly used Harvard’s money to make hundreds of personal purchases, which he covered up by submitting false receipts to the University, according to the office of Middlesex County District Attorney Marian T. Ryan.
Stillman Closed, Health Services Will Open Renovated SpaceHarvard University Health Services is scheduled to open a renovated space on its fifth floor, which previously housed Stillman Infirmary’s 10 overnight observation beds, at the start of October.
Law School Hires Chief Human Resources OfficerKevin B. Moody, an administrator at Emory’s school of law, will serve as Harvard Law School's next assistant dean and chief human resources officer.
UC Makes Strides Toward Diversity, but Gender Imbalance RemainsAlthough the Undergraduate Council has more black members this year than last, following the close of its general elections last Friday at noon, it still has notable gender gap, with women making up just 35 percent of its membership.
EVENTS
Jason Rosenfeld, NBA — The sports management professional in residence is meeting with students to help them learn how to succeed in the field from 1-4 p.m. Sign up through Crimson Careers.
Manuela Morelli, UN and WHO — The international relations professional in residence is hosting an info session at 4:30 p.m. about careers in the UN. Sign up through Crimson Careers.
Hillary vs. Bernie Student Debate — The Dems, Harvard for Hillary, and Harvard United for Bernie are co-hosting this student debate at 7:30 p.m. in Science Center A.
College Night at Queen’s Head — Jocelyn and Chris Arndt will be performing at the Queen’s Head at 9:30 p.m.
