News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Graduating Harvard College seniors have no shortage of career choices. This year’s graduating class will have one more option to choose from: the new Harvard Teacher Fellows program offered by the Graduate School of Education.
Funded by a $20 million fundraising campaign, the program has been described as Harvard’s alternative to Teach for America. Yale, Brown, Stanford, and other peer institutions have launched similar programs. TFA has done a great service by laying out an attractive pathway for graduating college seniors to choose teaching over higher-paying private sector work. We should be glad that so many Harvard students apply. But it is always better to have more options, and Harvard Teacher Fellows seems tailored to correct for some of the common criticisms of TFA: that it is a boot-camp approach to teacher training, without sufficient counseling and support or an accompanying course component.
Students accepted to HTF begin with a foundational course the spring semester of their senior year, and spend the following two summers at Harvard for training and professional development. Fellows begin classroom teaching in a partner school the September after Commencement, but carry only 60 percent of a normal teaching workload, allowing them to focus on skill-building and self-assessment. The program is accepting applications from the Class of 2016 until October 28.
Founded in 1989, Teach for America grew out of the Princeton senior thesis of founder Wendy Kopp. Kopp’s idea was to “recruit high-performing college grads to teach in high-need urban and rural schools.” As far as attracting interest and attention goes, TFA has been a resounding success. In 2013, 275 Harvard College seniors applied to TFA, nearly one fifth of the graduating class. The program’s recruitment mechanism—closer in competitiveness to finance or consulting than standard public service internships—sheds some light on why. Last year, it accepted 4,100 applicants out of a pool of 44,181, a rate of slightly less than 10 percent.
Harvard has committed to maintain its collaborative partnerships with TFA, despite the efforts of the Student Labor Action Movement, which protested last fall for the university to sever its ties. Yet many education experts, including several at Harvard’s Graduate School of Education, agree with some of the protesters’ criticisms of TFA’s model. In the words of Stephen R. Mahoney, HTF’s associate director, the program can be understood as a move against “sink-or-swim teacher education.” Apart from the high rate of burnout and attrition, TFA has also been criticized for pressuring districts to replace career teachers with its own corps members. (TFA denies the practice.)
The evident fact that not all people get what they want out of TFA speaks to a bigger question about the trade-offs inherent in the sink-or-swim model. On the one hand, teaching is a highly skilled occupation. Teaching in high-need classrooms is particularly challenging, and can require personal and emotional skills that can’t be taught in six weeks. On the other hand, TFA’s success has been predicated in large part on its understanding of what motivates high-achieving students—ambitious and idealistic young people who want to jump right in to the classroom. HTF, with its greater emphasis on structure and support in the first months on the job, therefore offers a clear alternative for Harvard seniors unsure they could handle a classroom from day one.
The launch of the HTF program is a hopeful step, evidence that Harvard is thinking hard about how to provide infrastructure for career paths other than those Harvard has traditionally thrown support behind. We hope that the university will continue to invest in programs that make public service work a viable, attractive career choice for graduating seniors.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The recent visit of South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley as Harvard Foundation guest lecturer provided Harvard students and faculty with an opportunity to learn first hand about her decision to do something that none of her predecessors had done: remove the Confederate battle flag from its prominent display on the South Carolina Capitol grounds. This act was a powerful and emotional statement for African Americans throughout the nation, particularly multigenerational black Americans, who have lived under the terror of this symbol of racial hatred in America, and the emblem of America’s notorious white terrorist group, the Ku Klux Klan.
Whatever Governor Haley’s previous political position was on the removal of the Confederate flag, she was able to persuade members of a resistant state legislature to support her and get the job done. Many Americans, particularly recent immigrants with little appreciation of the black American struggle, do not understand the hierarchical significance of the outlawing of the Confederate flag to African Americans. They have never driven through the South and been followed menacingly by a truck decorated with Confederate flags or had the flag placed in their yard next to a burning cross.
Unfortunately, in politics, as in other spheres of life, tragedy often motivates change. There is no doubt that the impetus for Haley’s historic act in June 2015 was the unconscionable massacre of nine kindhearted African Americans, who were simply “praying while black” in the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, South Carolina, when they were shot dead by a white American terrorist who embraced the Confederate flag. The state of South Carolina and the nation mourned their loss, and both Haley and President Obama rightly sought to heal and unite black and white Americans in forgiveness and peace.
Following Haley’s public “conversation” with students at Philips Brooks House, and her later lecture at Winthrop House, numerous students asked me about the history of the Confederate flag at Harvard. This subject was also raised by a number of former Harvard College students at a recent Harvard Black Alumni meeting. To the chagrin of many black alumni, there were also controversial displays of the Confederate flag at Harvard University in the 1990s by misguided students. The flags tore the campus asunder, and even ‘til this day, they inspire bitterness and anger.
For those of us who are committed to improving relations between different racial and ethnic groups, the Harvard Confederate flag conflict was an agonizing setback and a lesson for us all. The incident sparked anti-racist protests, “sit-ins,” and “eat-ins” in the College dining halls, and even a 100-student protest march against the masters of Kirkland House. Many at the time believed that the era of racially provocative symbols had passed, and that the enlightened students in the hallowed halls of Harvard would never raise a flag of racial hatred and divisiveness in the Harvard community. They were wrong.
The Confederate flag conflict demonstrated that even at Harvard University, some students and staff are insensitive to the fact that “black pain matters.” We can learn more about race relations in America from this case of inter-ethnic conflict and racial insensitivity among “the best and brightest.” The challenge is that some who engage in racially offensive acts against African Americans, even at universities, often do so with impunity and the indifference of their associates. They are comforted in the knowledge that they pay no price for racial humiliation and abuse of African Americans. University administrators who reward silence and punish exposure of instances of racial maltreatment of black Americans are at some level complicit, and profoundly racist.
Teaching the history of the Confederate flag at Harvard may serve to enlighten us about our past and present status of race relations. Harvard records show that Confederate flag displays at the College have occurred at various times in the past. In 1948, Harvard College student Louis B. Du Pree '50, from Greenville, North Carolina, publicly displayed the Confederate flag from his window at Kirkland House. This incident led to protests from Harvard’s few black students (only four black students were admitted to the Harvard freshman class that year). Later, in 1952, a cross was burned in front of Stoughton Hall, where the 11 black members of the Harvard class of 1955 lived.
In the spring of 1990, Jon P. Jiles, a Leverett House student, displayed a Confederate flag outside his window as a symbol of his “ethnic identity” and “heritage.” A number of African American students and tutors in Leverett House requested a meeting with the House masters John E. Dowling and Judy Dowling to discuss their disapproval of the hanging of the Confederate flag in their residence hall, and how they were aggrieved by the presence of this symbol of racial terrorism and hate in the Harvard community. Dowling, a distinguished professor of neurobiology, said later at a meeting with his fellow House masters, “We live in a community, and if one person displays something that offends everyone, it should be taken down." At the insistence of the Dowlings, Jiles removed the Confederate flag, and Leverett House restored civility and trust among its residents of all races with no further disturbance.
Similarly, Briget L. Kerrigan, a Virginia transfer student in the class of 1991, displayed her Confederate flag prominently in the entry area of Harvard’s Kirkland House as a symbol of her Southern heritage. Kerrigan, a highly vocal student who said at the time, "I was born in the South. I was born a rebel," argued that the Confederate flag is a symbol of "Southern honor, grace and dignity."
In contrast to the Dowlings, Kirkland House Masters Donald H. Pfister and Cathleen K. Pfister permitted Kerrigan’s Confederate flag to remain hanging in prominent display in the entryway of their House for months, in spite of emotional pleas from Harvard’s minority students to take it down. The masters of Kirkland House maintained that it was Kerrigan’s right of free speech to display the Confederate flag. When African American students countered that the display of a symbol of hatred and human slavery was not speech, but an act or behavior, the Kirkland House masters still refused to remove the Confederate flag from the College residence hall.
Some asked whether the House masters would permit a Nazi flag to remain displayed in the entryway of the residence hall under the free-speech rule. (Outraged by the vapid free-speech defense in the refusal to remove the Confederate flag from the residence hall, one black student drew a swastika on a piece of cloth and displayed it in her dormitory window—the student had no Nazi flag. Within a short period, Harvard officials entered her room and took the swastika down, but left the Confederate flag in place.) Even fellow House masters, such as Eva S. Jonas, a master of Adams House, urged the removal of the Confederate flag from Kirkland House, calling its display "unfortunate and unnecessary, some sort of immature behavior." University President Derek Bok also voiced his objection to the Confederate flag display.
One large, anti-Confederate flag protest march ended in the Kirkland House dining room where more than one hundred black students and their allies gathered in hopes of persuading Kerrigan and the Kirkland House masters to take down the offensive flag. I was asked by the President’s office to attend the meeting to keep the peace. It was standing room only, and students from Harvard College and Harvard Law School gathered at dining tables and around the walls of the Kirkland dining hall, some singing “We Shall Overcome.” The atmosphere was somber, and many students were despondent, even angry, some describing the House masters as “racist.” The student speakers, including Kirkland House representatives, each spoke with calm civility about why they wished to remove the divisive Confederate flag from public display in the Kirkland residence hall.
Black Student Association president Micah Nelson spoke eloquently about the hateful nature of the Confederate flag and why it was offensive to African-Americans and other Americans of goodwill. She appealed in a very measured tone to Kerrigan and the House masters, who were present at the dining hall gathering. Kerrigan did not budge or make any comment to Nelson’s plea. A number of black students made emotional pleas to the House masters to use their power as appointed residence hall directors to take down the hateful and hurtful symbol, but sadly to no avail.
Particularly impressive was African-American student leader, Nigel Jones who delivered impassioned remarks about the “importance of respect for the feelings of fellow students, and making an effort to understand and appreciate the feelings of our fellow humans regarding symbols and actions that offend.” At one point, Jones said to the gathering, “People will tell you that the flag means a lot of different things. It stands for white supremacy and it stands for slavery. It is a symbol of the white South." Jones came to Harvard from Weston High School in Weston, Massachusetts, where he graduated valedictorian of his senior class. His father, Tom Jones, had been a prominent civil rights activist as a student at Cornell University in the 1960s. Nigel Jones went on to graduate from Harvard with honors and entered the United States Marines Corp as a commissioned officer, where he served with distinction for a number of years under “the Stars and Stripes.”
In the end, Bridget L. Kerrigan achieved her apparent aims and offended African-Americans and others at Harvard who believed in a college community of goodwill and mutual respect among persons of diverse racial and ethnic backgrounds. The masters of Kirkland House ultimately declined to take the Confederate flag down, and to the humiliation of Harvard’s black community, the racist symbol of Kerrigan’s white southern “heritage” remained displayed in the entryway of Kirkland House until she graduated and moved back to Virginia.
Professor John Dowling is remembered to this day by many of Harvard’s black alumni as a compassionate and racially sensitive House master, who respectfully removed the offensive Confederate battle flag from Leverett House at the request of his students and colleagues. Kerrigan is remembered at Harvard for what many viewed as her arrogance and disregard for the feelings of the vast majority of her diverse peers — peers who passionately appealed to her to remove the ugly Ku Klux Klan symbol of American terrorism and hatred from their college, and restore an atmosphere of racial harmony at Harvard.
Haley’s historic act of removing the Confederate battle flag from the South Carolina State Capital has inspired legislatures and citizens of other southern states, such as Mississippi, to advocate for removing the racially divisive emblem from their state flags. The achievement of this aim would mean progress in improving America’s race relations.
Some minority students were concerned that Haley’s visit to Harvard as guest speaker might provoke racially insensitive students to display the Confederate flag in their residence halls. Thankfully, this did not occur. Perhaps we have reached a level of racial understanding at Harvard where students and House masters realize that the display of the Confederate flag is hurtful to African Americans.
At the Kirkland House Confederate flag protest, I made the following statement:
“There is but one flag that historically and currently represents the United States of America and binds the people of our nation together as one, ‘The Stars and Stripes.’ At this College and throughout this country, we should raise and pledge allegiance to this flag only.”

Dr. S. Allen Counter Jr. is the Director of the Harvard Foundation and a professor of Neurology at Harvard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At some point in my life I am expected to become a mother. Motherhood has never felt like a choice to me. It has felt like an inevitable part of life, just as unavoidable as aging or death. At some point in my 20s and 30s, I am going to feel an evolutionary urge to create little Nians.
I’m 19 now, and I still don’t feel the urge to create little Nians, and I don’t think the urge will suddenly hit me in five years. I do not see myself ever having children.
When I tell people that I don’t see myself ever becoming a mother, I am met with shock. Even though I am incapable of doing my own chores and squeamish around children younger than 12—indications that I would be supremely unfit as a mother—I am still met with surprise, even from friends who have known me for years, even from my own family. They all ask me: “Why not?”
The question should not be, “Why not?” The question should be, “Why?” The decision to become a mother is a life-changing one, affecting every aspect of a woman’s body and personal life.
Motherhood is incredibly taxing on the body. Kim Kardashian recently admitted that she hated being pregnant. “Maybe it’s the swelling, the backaches, or just the complete mindfuck of how your body expands and nothing fits,” she wrote. “I just always feel like I’m not in my own skin. It’s hard to explain. I don’t feel sexy either—I feel insecure and most of the time I just feel gross.”
Kardashian may have a reputation as a drama queen, but her complaints about the physical effects of pregnancy are non-trivial. Pregnancy and childbirth affect every single part of the body, causing short term effects like breast tenderness, heart irregularities, frequent urination, carpal tunnel syndrome, shortness of breath, constipation, nausea, vomiting, heartburn, intensely itchy rashes, and blotchy brownish pigment on the face and breasts. And in the long run, effects like stretch marks, capillaries, varicose veins, weight gain, cellulite, deflated breasts, and vaginal pain can remain with mothers for the rest of their lives.
Motherhood is also incredibly emotionally and psychologically taxing, requiring significant lifestyle changes. Raising children requires enormous time, energy, and resources—and a tremendous amount of sacrifice. Isabella Dutton wrote in the Daily Mail that “if you take your job as a parent seriously, you always put their needs before your own.” According to Dutton, “what I valued most in my life was time on my own; to reflect, read and enjoy my own company and peace of mind. And suddenly that peace and solitude wasn't there any more. There were two small interlopers intruding on it. And I've never got that peace back.” The decision to have children doesn’t only change your body; it changes your life forever.
We don’t expect everyone to get their ears pierced, out of respect for personal bodily autonomy, and we don’t expect everyone to become doctors, out of respect for personal lifestyle choices. Why, then, do we expect all women to undergo such profound physical and lifestyle changes?
The reason is that there is a deeply rooted belief that being a mother is the most important and fulfilling thing a woman can do with her life. During the American Revolution, “Republican motherhood” was a term that encouraged women to be active in the political process by raising good citizens. The concept of “Republican motherhood” suggests that the best way for a woman to contribute to society is not by contributing herself, but by producing children who will go on to make the real political contributions.
This belief persists even to this day, when Michelle Obama said that, despite all her accomplishments, her “most important title is still ‘mom-in-chief.’” If we subscribe to this belief that motherhood is the most important role for women, then it’s all too easy to justify limiting women’s access to education and career opportunities. If a woman’s true purpose is to have children, then why should they work at all?
In a time when women have more freedoms than ever before, it is backwards to expect all women to become mothers. It hearkens back to an era when having children was the most productive thing a woman could do with her life, simply because she had no other options. Now, women have a whole array of choices before them—they can choose to be surgeons, they can choose to be politicians, they can choose to be artists, and yes, they can choose to be mothers. But motherhood is not their only option anymore.
Motherhood is a special and rewarding experience for many women, one that they wouldn’t trade for anything in the world. But being a mother is not the most important thing a woman can do with her life, and it’s not the only way women can find fulfillment. In the end, motherhood is a personal choice, just like any other.

Nian Hu ’18, a Crimson editorial executive, lives in Mather House. Her column runs on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Aaron A. G. Slipper ’18 shepherds us to the secret home of the Science Center's sole easy-access stapler.
“This is one of the less exciting parts of the day here, but wait until we get to class,” Slipper tells us, stapling his problem set on the way to Algebraic Topology.
A sophomore enrolled in all graduate level mathematics courses, Slipper looks the part, with an aesthetic somewhere between Donald Trump rolling out of bed and Christopher Hitchens after a night of heavy drinking.
Donning wire-frame glasses and an untucked polo, Slipper struts into Topology with an air of confidence generally reserved for the professor. As soon as class begins, we see why.
Of the 12 questions students ask during the demanding hour- long dive into topology, 10 are Slipper’s. About every other minute, he fixates on the board, clarifies a question, then nods with a knowing smirk and scribbles down a note. Algebraic Topology is nothing if not a challenging course, yet Slipper leaves the classroom delighted.
But he doesn't have much time to bask in the glory. After all, General Relativity, a graduate level physics course, starts in 10 minutes. And so, with a brief goodbye, Slipper quite literally runs off, barreling away toward his next conquest.
"At the moment my spirit animal is a pig,” Slipper laments, “but by the end of the semester it will be a graceful swan.”
A self-proclaimed “math evangelist,” Slipper has been on a mis- sion to become a mathematician since fifth grade. That was the year he discovered the Leibniz Triangle. By himself. At age 10.
Ever since, Slipper has strived to transcend the traditional stereotypes of “The Math Geek”: He’s been actively involved in theater programs since ninth grade and is now a member of the Hasty Pudding Theatricals. “Theater people are hedonists,” Slipper quips. “I’m not exactly a counterexample.”
He continues, “For a fat, gap-toothed math concentrator...I do frequent [parties] now and then, I’ll admit. It’s my, you know, tragic flaw.”
Yet, despite his active social life, Slipper confides that one thing is still missing: romance. “This is tragic,” he exclaims. “In this respect, I fit the bill of a stereotypical mathematician 100 percent.”
Slipper seems driven to fill this void. “I should do a lot more Netflixing and chilling,” he jokes, “and Netflix-and-chilling to be perfectly frank.”
Ultimately, though, math remains Slipper's true love. Hardly a minute goes by without his deeming some aspect of the Math department “magnificent,” “extraordinary,” or “fantastic.” Occa- sionally, he simply blows a kiss to the sky, seemingly thanking the higher powers for the opportunity to study math at Harvard.
“Before I came to Harvard, I imagined it was going to be a com- petitive place...but it turned out to be quite a friendly department,” Slipper recalls with a grin. He notes that many of the mathematical principles he’s just becoming exposed to were first solved at Har- vard over “Wait, what’s 2010 minus 1848?” years ago. “I’m terrible at arithmetic.”
While we have a hard time believing Slipper is anything but a master when it comes to numbers, we do believe him when he says he’s struggling in his latest pursuit: ballet.
“They give us the moves, and everyone else in the room is able to remember what the moves are; they’re able to move gracefully and somewhat accurately,” he explains longingly. “I can’t remember what the moves are, I can’t orient myself, so I’m constantly looking at the person next to me trying to remember.”
What Slipper doesn’t realize is that he is, in fact, the prima bal- lerina of math class. While he might not necessarily be the most advanced math student (he claims several of his classmates are “the real deal”), he shouts out answers while his peers seem to still be processing the questions. And like a good ballerina, Slipper expertly executes every move of math class, even as he acknowledges how much more he has to learn.
“Part of the evolution of my understanding of mathematics is learning just how ignorant I am,” he says. “I like doing math, so that’s who I am.”
Sections
Michael Pollan, the acclaimed food journalist, is a fellow at the Radcliffe Institute exploring psychedelic drug therapy. Pollan talked with FM about healthy eating hacks in college and his self-proclaimed “spiritual retardation.”
Fifteen Minutes: What did you eat for lunch today?
Michael Pollan: I was at Henrietta’s Table, taken there by people from the creative writing pro- gram because I had spoken there today, and I had their monkfish sandwich and a salad.
FM: What tips do you have for those of us bound by a HUDS diet?
MP: Obviously, cooking is difficult. There is a sal- ad bar, I bet, where you eat. And I’m sure there is some real food being served here. I agree it’s chal- lenging because you don’t have control over your diet. On the other hand, you have more control than you did at home. It’s an interesting moment.
FM: Any specific tips for avoiding the infamous Freshman 15?
MP: All the talk about the Freshman 15 has to do with the fact that college food is usually pretty poor in quality and, even more so, the fact that the controls on the diet are limited. Spend more time at the salad bar than the ice cream bar. That’s pretty obvious. It’s also a time to experiment as kids. Pay attention to how you feel when you eat that giant hoagie or McDonald’s meal. How do you feel an hour later? Not while you’re eating it, but a little later. Get in touch with the fact that food influences mood lots of ways. The way food is sold, it’s very much about the moment of consumption, not about the after-effects of consumption. You’ll change your eating habits without feeling like you’re under any kind of restriction.
FM: Where else have you been exploring in the Square?
MP: Honestly, I had two lunches today. I was speaking at the creative writing department, and they had sandwiches from Clover, which uses all local ingredients. I had to try them because I love falafel even though I was going to lunch.
FM: You’ve talked a lot about the concept of “social engineering”: Grocery stores, for example, place organic cereal towards the floor and sugary cereals at eye level. Have you noticed any social engineering in the dining halls here?
MP: I haven’t been in the dining halls, but there’s a lot of potential to do positive social engineering. There’s been a lot of research done on how people eat depending on the order with which they fill their plate. If you’re on a lunch/ dinner line and the vegetables come first before the meat, people will eat more vegetables than meat, because we tend to put a lot of the first thing on our plate. There are efforts to recast the lunch lines at public schools, and there’s no rea- son this can’t be done at colleges, too, to basically tweak the environment in a way [that] encourages people to eat better.
FM: When did the food industry start to interest you?
MP: I got interested first in agriculture. I was always interested in writing about nature, and when I was in college, I loved writing about Thoreau and Emerson. I got very interested in the idea of engaging the natural world rather than just watching it, which is what Thoreau did. My first book, “Second Nature,” was about garden- ing. In the course of writing this book, I started thinking about agriculture, and that’s how I got into food. I wrote “Omnivore’s Dilemma,” which is [about] where your food comes from, and then I started thinking about nutrition. It really starts for me on the farm, and I’ve always loved growing food.
FM: You’ve written a lot about corporate interactions with the food system. Were you surprised by how much capitalism and cooking intersect?
MP: No. That really grew out of the work and spe- cifically “Omnivore’s Dilemma,” which on one level is looking at the logic of capitalism, and the[n the] logic of nature. A lot of capitalism looks at the farm and sees a factory. You put in input, which might be fertilizer or feed for animals, and the output is calories that you can feed to people. That’s a very different logic than the way nature works. In facto- ries you have waste, but you don’t have any waste in nature. What’s rational in that factory logic might be crazy in the logic of ecology. So, you can’t write about food for very long without starting to think about capitalism.
FM: Your research here is centered around psy- chedelic drugs. How did you get interested in that?
MP: My interest has already been about the human engagement with the natural world. One of the things we use plants for is to change consciousness. People have done this forever, and animals do this too. I’ve always been intrigued by the drive—like, why are you doing this? You get killed if you walk into the street. It seems to be this deep human desire, and understanding it has been an ongoing issue in my work. I started learning about this revival of psychedelic research in therapy and was very intrigued by it, so I wrote a piece for the New Yorker in February, which has grown into this book. It’s not just about drugs, it’s really about altered states of consciousness.
FM: The New Yorker piece focuses largely on using drugs for healing purposes. Will you be looking into recreational drug use?
MP: There is a theme in that article about whether drugs should be limited to medical uses or also for, in the beautiful phrase of one of my sources, “for the betterment of well people,” which is a nicer way to say recreational. There are people who have very meaningful experiences using psy- chedelics outside of medical contexts. But it is important to know that these are very powerful medicines and some people have enormous prob- lems with them. They are not to be handled lightly and the context in which they are used is very very important.
FM: So, are you down to try psychedelics?
MP: It’s certainly made me curious. I haven’t yet figured out how I’ll manage the first person of this book...
FM: This book’s focus is heavily spiritual. Do you consider yourself a spiritual person?
MP: I’ve always thought of myself as spiritually retarded. I come at things from a very materialist, areligious point of view. One of the things that intrigues me is how many people with that perspective emerge from these experiences feel- ing very differently. People come in stone cold atheists and they come out believing in some sort of beyond. I think I’d be very resistant to that. It would be interesting to find out if it changed my perspective. How amazing that a chemical produced by a mushroom out in nature could do that. What’s that about? And why is the mush- room producing that chemical in the first place? And who first figured it out?
FM:. What have you been doing besides deciding whether or not to try psychedelics?
MP: I’ve spent a lot of time on the river running, biking, and walking. I picked apples last week and [am] going down to the Cape tomorrow. Taking advantage of being on the East Coast. I want to reconnect to what I love about the East Coast—including snow, which is crazy, because people seem to have post-traumatic stress from last winter.
Sections
The Harvard-Radcliffe Gilbert and Sullivan Players, a student-run theater group that performs comic operas twice a year, boasts an impressively large cast, crew, and orchestra. While many of the musicians are students at the College, the orchestra constantly plays host to students in the graduate schools, students from other universities, alumni, and residents of Cambridge and Boston.
“There’s always different people playing in these shows, but they’re all always quite enthusiastic people,” said Stephen Umans, a Cambridge resident participating in this year’s fall show, “Ruddigore.”
Umans first picked up a clarinet in 1957. After playing in an orchestra during his time at MIT, he formed a trio of two clarinets and a bassoon in 1966 called “No Dogs Allowed.” The trio continues to be a popular staple at local wedding receptions. Umans retired from his MIT research and teaching position in 2004. He is married with two children, who have both also picked up an affinity for music through the violin and piano.
Andrew Conway, another local playing in “Ruddigore,” first picked up a trombone in the fourth grade.
“I chose trombone for two reasons,” he said. “One, because nobody else chose it. Two, because I wasn’t very coordinated and I thought it would be the only instrument I’d be able to handle.”
He played throughout high school in St. Louis, in a nationally successful jazz band. When he started college at Trinity College, there was an almost non-existent music scene on campus, which led him to fall out of the routine of playing. This continued for about 20 years. Then, he began taking part in community orchestras after picking his trombone back up to play in his high school jazz band’s 25th reunion. Conway’s children have also been drawn into music. His two daughters are avid musical theatre participants, and Conway occasionally performs in the pit for their shows.
Conway, who spent most of his career as a traveling IT consultant for different companies, had little time for family, much less for practicing the trombone. However, when the demands of two young daughters led him to a shift in his career, Conway gained more time for both family and music. He has been playing in the Gilbert and Sullivan Players every year since.
The upcoming performance will be Umans’s third time playing the “Ruddigore” show for Harvard’s Gilbert and Sullivan. He joined in the late ’90s and has played every year since except for a point in time in which the orchestra briefly stopped allowing non-Harvard affiliates to participate.
“There’s a lot of different people who play for the orchestra,” he said. “A lot of them are much younger than I am, but there’s just a lot of really nice young folks.”
One of the most impressive young people Umans met through the orchestra was Filbert H. Hong ’04. Hong played in the orchestra beginning as an undergraduate and continued throughout his doctorate in biochemistry and was a successful concertmaster.
“After graduation, he went down to D.C.,” said Umans. “He’s now the Director of Artistic Operations at the National Philharmonic.”
Conway is similarly impressed with the young people he has met through the orchestra, particularly the music directors for each show.
“I’m astounded that people this young are able to do 100 different things at once in the pit, and at the same do two million things at once outside of it while being a Harvard student,” Conway said.
Sections

I made it past the bomb-sniffing canines and slid into a seat next to the guy from The Wall Street Journal. The mood inside the Copley Sheraton that day was tense: 72 hours prior, bombs had torn through the finish line of the Boston Marathon. With each passing minute, it seemed, the public grew a little less confident that the authorities would find those responsible.
The day before, officials from the FBI had told the press that they were about to share important information about the investigation, only to cancel consecutive press conferences. Expectations among the press corps were low on Thursday, April 19. Then, the FBI agent flipped over a couple of science-fair-style poster boards and told of two men in golf caps who had set off “pressure cooker” explosives.
I was 19 years old, running on adrenaline, and seeing the world change before my eyes. I was also missing classes and review sessions during midterm season, and I was hours removed from a 62/120 score (curved to a C+ by some genie formula) on an Economics 10b exam. (My father is a professor of economics. This is the first time my parents will learn how low that grade really was.)
As the world began to look for the “man in the white hat” and “the man in the black hat,” I jumped in a cab and rushed back to The Crimson. I called my mother on the way and told her that they’d never find the culprits: Terrorists with bombs usually have escape plans. I was wrong. After the longest night of my life—spent, of course, at 14 Plympton St., where I’ve since had dozens if not hundreds of very long nights—the authorities captured one Tsarnaev brother and found the other dead.
As I stumbled back to my Wigglesworth dorm room that Friday night, I knew I was hooked on The Crimson forever. The prediction was on point: I left the crime beat to cover the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and then to report on Harvard’s president. I eventually became Associate Managing Editor, got my own desk and computer, and worked hand-in-hand with the writers who came after me. They did some great work. Meanwhile, the paper become an ever more dominant part of other aspects my life: I wrote and worked here (even on weekends), had my social life here, dated two of my coworkers, and felt the greatest highs inside 14 Plympton.
No story is complete without the muddy parts, though, and I’ve had my fair share. Both relationships failed after I couldn’t figure out the right mix of professional and personal life. I was occasionally late for class and sometimes slept on our building’s various crappy couches. Last fall I decided to run for Managing Editor: I lost and saw my character assassinated by friends and non-acquaintances alike.
These were times when I didn’t love The Crimson, but they are dispersed thinly among moments when 14 Plympton was great to me and so many others. This place is unique in the Harvard ecosystem. Of the University but not a part of it, we hold accountable the decision makers of one of the world’s leading institutions; chronicle its triumphs in research, teaching, and athletics; and provide an unparalleled opportunity for college kids to manage a million dollar business. I couldn’t feel more strongly that ours is an organization worth working for. While my commitment to The Crimson has demanded an incredible amount, it has given me back so much more.
As I leave, though, I know I could have done better. I expect that my colleagues, proud as we are of our accomplishments, would say the same. The nature of The Crimson, after all, is that every story— even by a writer who has done it 211 times—gets edited twice, and no piece survives unchanged. Nevertheless, I’ll speak only for myself. I know now that I could have thought more of the different ways we can tell stories in a world that becomes more digital by the second, where attention spans have never been shorter, where there are a million competitors for each set of eyeballs. For similar reasons, I also could have devoted more focus to projects with development periods longer than 48 hours, the typical pre-publication lifespan of a 600-word story.
This is not to say that I was involved in all of our strategic thinking or a key decision-maker with any frequency; there are many projects at 14 Plympton that fall above the pay grade of Associate Managing Editor, for which I am often glad (I have enjoyed my weekends free, a luxury not experienced by my bosses). It’s also not to say that this thinking isn’t commonplace around 14 Plympton. All I mean to argue is that The Crimson’s future leaders will likely need to consider these winds of change with ever-increasing frequency. To put it more succinctly: Doing what your predecessors did likely won’t cut it.
I am confident, though, that the guards of the future will excel, and I hope any readers forgive my acute bout of separation anxiety. The Crimson’s leaders of tomorrow have taught me to be a better writer, a more articulate thinker, and a truer friend. Its leaders of today have become some my closest friends and most trusted allies. I couldn’t be more thankful. 14 Plympton is in good hands, and with fewer than 40 papers left in the 142nd guard, I can’t wait to see how the 143rd keeps the old sheet flying.
Matthew Q. Clarida ’16, one of The Crimson’s associate managing editors, is a government concentrator in Cabot House. He thanks his mother and anyone who has ever asked how he’s doing and listened to the answer. 
Sections
It’s a desperately chilly Saturday evening in mid-October, and at a small zoo in northern Rhode Island the growing dark reveals thousands of snaggletoothed orange grins. Rising disembodied from the dark, triangular eyes and zig-zag smiles give way to more intricate creations, some carved into gourds far taller than me.
This is the Roger Williams Zoo Jack- O-Lantern Spectacular. The musky scent of elephants and zebras mingles with the weirdly appealing spice of pumpkin-infused ale and every form of fried food imaginable. I’ve come to find something special, something that combines the wonder of the Great Pumpkin with the spookiness of Jack Skellington, a magical amalgamation of fun-sized snickers and crackly reddish leaves that will make this descent into holiday excess worth the trip.
“Don’t worry,” my roommate assures me. “This is the sincerest pumpkin patch for miles around.”
As the zoo’s exotic jungle and savanna fauna sleep or hide against the shrieks of delighted children dressed as Elsa and Batman, the Halloween wonderland beck- ons locals and visitors from further afield alike—and it’s easy to see why.
Amongst more than 5,000 expertly carved pumpkins on display are almost every kind of Jack-O-Lantern imagin- able. Hoping to find the entire story of “The Sound of Music” recreated in pump- kin form (and honestly, what a specific desire, are you OK?)? How about a tribute to the Beatles, or, even more improbably, Charles Darwin, complete with Galapagos animal friends? Bizarrely, the Spectacular is host to all of these, and they coexist surprisingly well. The further down the trail I venture, the further down that dark, dis- embodied head-lined path, the less odd it seems to find a pumpkin tribute to Scot- tie dogs abutting a tasteful re-creation of Hokusai’s Great Wave. The pumpkins bob in tree branches high overhead, or seem to float in the middle of enclosures, or rise over inverted twins reflected in the pond. Palm-sized gourds mingle with hulking giants, the largest of which is not carved or illuminated but appears to me in the dark to be the size of a small car.
There is something distinctly spooky about this place as well. The shape of a nocturnal buffalo lumbers past just out-side the orange glow cast by the ebullient pumpkins, a rare reminder of the slumbering beasts who suddenly seem to be all around. Backgrounded by the sounds of the clip-clopping headless horseman’s flight, old-timey Hollywood tunes, or creepy haunted carnival sound effects floating tinnily out of speakers, the wind- ing walk into the dark has already taken on a thoroughly ethereal feel by the time we reach the Laughing Tree.
In the curling artificial fog, the twist- ing limbs of the Laughing Tree are made of jagged orange-yellow smiles. Thousand-pound gleaming heads psychedelically change colors at the base of the tree which is, indeed, emanating a repetitive, musical laughter. I’m not sure if I’m sup- posed to be terrified, or enchanted, or both. I have waited in line for two hours, ventured through an army of lesser creations 5,000 strong, fought the cold that seeped up through the ground deep into my toes, faced a looming buffalo, to find myself here, at the base of an arboreal pumpkin monster which looks ready to attack. Nothing but sincerity as far as the eye can see. Could this be the Great Pumpkin?
I’m convinced. But maybe I’m just hypothermic. 
Sections
UPDATED: October 29, 2015, at 7:10 p.m.
Jessica Li ’17, the managing director of the Harvard Shop, surveys her store a few minutes before the afternoon’s sale event begins. It looks nearly perfect.
The freshly vacuumed carpet narrows toward the back of the room, where seven red bags sit neatly on a table of oak. Beside them, a headless mannequin models a crimson sweater, emblazoned with a giant H. Three plastic boxes hold the rest of the merchandise below. The patchwork curtains that close the shop’s single changing room hang slightly open, revealing a lit floor lamp casting shadows on a back wall covered in fake ivy.
Diana Im ’17, the Shop’s marketing manager, places one last red bag on the table just as the first customer opens the door. After stopping for the promised complimentary Pinkberry sample, the customer approaches the table, hands in the pockets of his gray sweatshirt. Im greets him, while Sarah Miller, the Shop’s full-time retail manager, checks off his name on a clipboard. Customers ordered the sweaters, in limited supply, beforehand. The Shop had sold out of the sweaters several hours before the event.
At first, Li lingers with the cashier, but when the customer steps behind the curtains, she walks toward the back of the room. Before she can reach the table, though, Jordan M. Donald ’18, the Shop’s e-commerce manager, stops her for a picture. Donald spent his summer redesigning the Shop’s website and conducting A/B testing for user-friendliness. Today, in the brick-and-mortar store, he’s on photo duty.
Donald gets a few shots of Li holding a sweater-clad stuffed panda (the store started selling stuffed animals this year), but has to move his heavy camera out of the way as more customers file in. By about a quarter after four, the line has a steady stream of students, and Im’s head keeps dipping under the table as she pulls out more sweaters.
The sale event is mostly Im’s brain-child; she wanted to distinguish the Harvard Shop’s H sweaters from similar products at Hillflint, J. August, and the Coop. While Donald worked on the website, Im developed a blog, designed to display Harvard Shop products in the context of student life. In the week leading up to the sale event, she posted interviews with four students modeling what she called “edgy,” “silly,” “preppy,” and “California cool” looks. Roughly 100 students applied to model these sweaters.
This seems to be the marketing philosophy behind the Shop’s H sweater, and its ivy-covered back wall: To sell products, sell Harvard.
Chances are, too, that if you go to Harvard, you’ve used HSA’s services. If you’ve subscribed to a laundry delivery service, purchased a University-sanctioned microfridge, or consulted a “Let’s Go” guide, you’ve used HSA’s services. If you’ve purchased a sweatshirt from your club sports team, picked up a flyer from the basket outside your room’s door, or even grabbed a copy of The Crimson from your dining hall… You get the idea. 
Harvard Student Agencies—a 501c(3) nonprofit of which the Harvard Shop is a for-profit subsidiary—is unique among student organizations. Employing more than 585 students, including about 40 student managers, it services nearly all of Harvard while providing students with real-world business experience and a springboard for future careers. It’s unique among entrepreneurial ventures, too. Drawing on its longstanding relationship with the University, HSA offers an alternative to the striking-out-on-your own start-up model, providing administrative support, alumni connections, and a financial safety net.
By 4:30 p.m., customers have trickled out and everything’s nearly wrapped up. There is only one detail left to finalize: where to go for dinner. Someone suggests Thai food, a table for 10.
In 1957, University administrators discovered 14 students selling beer mugs, class rings, and personalized stationary out of their dorm rooms. According to HSA’s “A History: 1957-2012,” “these budding tycoons placed Harvard’s real estate tax exemption in danger.” In order to maintain both the tax exemption and student jobs, then-Dean of Financial Aid Jon Monro ’35 and then-Director of Student Employment Dustin M. Burke ’52 launched plans to incorporate Harvard Student Agencies as an official, student-run, and student-owned business.
In HSA’s early years, student managers sold hot dogs at football games and delivered birthday cakes to student dorms. The company also experimented with soft-serve ice cream, fruit baskets, a “Radcliffe bus” and a student calendar. It published “The 1960 European Guide,” which developed into the popular travel-guide series “Let’s Go.”
HSA failed to make a profit for five consecutive years between 1970 and 1975, but its financial situation improved when managers adjusted the fiscal year and accepted a loan from the University. It published “The Unofficial Guide to Harvard” and an alumni newsletter called “The Entrepreneur.” In 2002, HSA acquired the Harvard Shop from a local shop owner named Paul Corcoran.
Today, Harvard Student Agencies includes 14 individual businesses (the “agencies”) run by about 40 managers (the number fluctuates from year to year). Those managers, in turn, oversee about 585 student employees, who stock the Harvard Shop, deliver laundry, and tutor high school students, among other services. It has a permanent staff of four full-time employees, seven University-affiliated directors, and seven alumni directors. The agency has a separate graduate board, as well. In 2013, HSA’s most recently reported fiscal year, its not-for-profit agencies brought in $1,777,193 in revenue, with its private subsidiaries accounting for the rest of its $5 million total. It owns four Harvard Square venues, one for the Cleaners and three for the Harvard Shop. (The Shop must vacate the Smith Center, however, due to the upcoming renovations).
HSA tells its own recent history in the stairwell of its headquarters in Burke-McCoy Hall. A series of manager portraits charts the development of HSA’s agencies, in chronological order, from the bottom to the top of the stairs. 
Molly C. Alter ’16 wants to get the shot right. She adjusts the heavy curtains that hang over the floor-length windows in the Adams Upper Common Room. It’s raining outside, and the lighting’s not quite right. She pushes a heavy blue chair back, and then forward again, and looks at it from behind the black camera (a Blackmagic—“our pride and joy”).
“What do you think about the image of all three of us in chairs in front of the fireplace?” asks Ben D. Sorscher ’18, Alter’s technical director. Silvano D’Agostino ’18, her creative team director, tilts his head to the side.
Alter considers. “That’s a little Mafioso,” she jokes.
Alter manages Mt. Auburn Productions, an HSA agency that produces videos and multimedia content, primarily for University affiliates. Like HSA’s 40 other student managers, she works about 15 hours a week during the school year and 40 over the summer. Managers earn between $5,000 and $12,000 a year, depending on how their hours compare to that average commitment. Today, Alter and her team are shooting their own promotional video.
Alter returns to the windows, her black heels clicking against the floor. She brainstorms her introduction: “I don’t want to say my name—should I say my name?” She wonders whether the video should mention the agency’s website, or the size of its staff. Sorscher tightens the tripod, and Alter sits on the blue chair.
Finally, she has her opening lines: “We’re a group of Harvard students who love making films.”
Technically, Alter’s not a filmmaker by training. Prospective HSA managers interview for non-specific positions, and Alter got the necessary technical instruction on the job. When HSA hired her last October, she couldn’t identify a memory card. Now, she oversees a 25-member production team and a growing clientele. HSA does not expect its applicants to have any prior industry experience, and most don’t—just a desire to learn.
On a Sunday afternoon in the Queen’s Head Pub, 10 students of the Harvard Bartending Course try to figure out how t0 mix a drink that tastes like strawberry shortcake. A young woman in a red sweater suggests adding strawberry bitters and whipped cream. A bald man argues for cinnamon and chocolate liquor—and maybe strawberry Pop Rocks. A curly-haired woman at the end of the bar shouts, “Flavored vodka!”
The teacher laughs. “You’re already becoming a mixologist!”
Arman K. Hassan ’18, the manager of Harvard’s Bartending Course, cannot legally drink. I meet him outside the Queen’s Head Pub a few hours after the six-hour long class. Hassan received a light blue personalized card under his door freshman year, inviting him to apply for a management position at HSA. Like Alter, Hassan interviewed for a non-specific manager position, and the bartending agency came as something of a surprise.
“I was 17 when I came to campus—I felt young to be running this kind of business,” he remembers.
Hassan manages about 35 bartenders and servers, and runs an average of three courses each season. Over the summer, he decided to create an online version of the course. Today, he’s at the Queen’s Head late to wrap up filming.
Hassan still can’t legally drink. “Sometimes you do get bitter looking at the stuff you can’t do,” he muses.
Ryley R. Reynolds ’15 arrived at Harvard knowing that she wanted to run a business. In fact, she would have chosen the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania if not for an open-house event at HSA Cleaners that she attended during Visitas. There, she spoke to a manager who persuaded her to enroll here instead. “She was like, ‘Why come to Wharton and learn about business when you can come to Harvard and run a business?’”
Reynolds first worked as a manager of customer orders at The Harvard Shop before becoming a manager and eventually, HSA’s president in 2014.
 When I meet Patrick F. Scott ’16, HSA’s current president, in his office, he tells me that he, too, worked as a delivery associate before applying for a management position. Scott, who wears a simple white T-shirt and glasses, often references a list taped to the wall next to his desk. It’s a reverse to-do list of sorts, citing what Scott has accomplished in the first half of his presidency.
The list includes the creation of an employee-satisfaction survey, expanded employee welcome packets, and improved communications between managers and employees. Also, Scott says, “the coffee machine is new.”
 I meet Luka Kordic ’17 at HSA Cleaners on a Wednesday evening. The sun has just set, and Kordic thinks that he can complete his shift in one quick run.
Not literally, though. “I can do this shift in about 45 minutes because I walk really fast,” he tells me. “Some people run, but I have long steps.” Kordic stands over six feet tall, and can reach the top shelf of laundry bags without standing on his toes.
HSA Cleaners offers laundry, dry-cleaning, and delivery services through the academic year. An outside vendor handles the former two services, but the hundreds of student employees, who control how much they work per week, bring laundry bags to and from the Cleaners. “We call ourselves ‘Delivery Associates,’” Kordic says, making air quotations. “It’s a euphemism.”
Tonight looks promising because Kordic only has to deliver “green” bags: HSA-speak for clean laundry routed to the Yard. “Red” bags go to the river, and “white” bags contain dirty clothes. Kordic, who estimates that he has delivered over 4,000 bags since he started working as a freshman, has a strategy for each route. In the Yard, he starts with Grays or Wigglesworth and work his way backwards.
The difficulty of the shift depends on the size of the bags as well as their destinations. Kordic hands me a small plastic bag containing only a neatly folded pink blanket, a few T-shirts, and several rolled up pink-and-white socks. I can lift it easily.
Then he hands me a bag three times its size, containing, among rumpled sweaters, a large navy blue duvet. When I nearly fall over, Kordic grabs it back and raises his eyebrows.
The real test of strength, though, is the winter. “When the snow falls, that’s when you see who’s for real,” Kordic says. “I personally love winter because I can handle the cold well. I deliver in minus 20 degrees Celsius, and this is my standard shirt.” Kordic wears a light cotton T-shirt under a thin gray sweatshirt, which he usually takes off by the second or third dorm.
Kordic throws the last numbered bag into a large gray, canvas cart, and pushes it outside. In the cold air, Kordic leans over the cart, pressing his stomach on the soft pile of bags and spreading his arms. “I like to do this,” he says. 
Then we’re off. Kordic does indeed take large strides—I have to run to keep up. Because delivery associates get paid by the bag, not the hour, it’s in Kordic’s best interests to move quickly. Though delivery associates make $1-$2 per bag on regular shifts, those rates double and triple when covering someone else’s shift. Kordic once made over $200 in one hour.
In Wigglesworth C, Kordic throws a laundry bag up the last flight of stairs. It’s a straining job, but it pays well and he likes the management. Kordic told me that he’s lost a bag only once—but his manager didn’t dock his pay.
“The workers are happy,” he tells me. “We can bring Bernie here,” he says, referring to Bernie Sanders, the Democratic presidential candidate.
Scott would be happy to hear that. “One of my big things is making it better for hourly people,” he says. “[Working as a delivery associate] was stressful, like you forgot something on the fifth floor and you had to go all the way back up.”
Scott took over management of the Cleaners when his then-boss quit. He continued to work one delivery shift per week, something he now encourages all of his managers to do.
Jullian A. Duran ’17, the Cleaners’ operations manager, says that Scott trained him to effectively manage his employees. “Patrick’s motto is to talk to employees, get to know what goes on in their day,” Duran explains. “A lot of people see that as unnecessary, but when your employees see that you’re developing a relationship with them, you’re more likely to have a better team. And we can’t take ourselves too seriously—we’re students!”
James M. Graham ’17 worked as a sales associate at the Harvard Shop last year. A single employee typically mans the facility at any given time. Managers check in to make sure that employees tidy the Shop and empty the cash register at the end of the day.
“[Managers] were relying on someone to motivate themselves, when they weren’t being watched,” Graham recalls. “It’s not weird when everyone agrees and all that sort of stuff, but when you disagree, then it gets a little bit weird.”
Kordic has never found manager-student relations to be “weird” (“Make sure to praise Nick,” he tells me, referencing his managing director). He has little impatience, however, for student-customers who don’t respect delivery associates. “Some people are assholes and they overfill their bags, which means I have to pick up their dirty socks,” he tells me. “I refuse to do that now… Generally, they learn.”
Nathan L. Williams ’18, a delivery associate, says he often finds interacting with customers uncomfortable. “You have to call them ‘sir’ or ‘ma’am’ or ‘customer’—like I saw you in class but you’re ‘sir’ or ‘ma’am’ or ‘customer.’”
Kordic says that managers have it tougher—especially at the Cleaners, where parents often call in to ask about their children’s clothes. That’s one reason why he decided not to run for a management position when his superiors recommended him for one. He wants to have his summers free to travel, and semesters free to work for a student-founded educational start-up called IvyMinded.
As we exit Hollis Hall, he suggests that I apply for a delivery job. “I know girls skinnier than you who do it,” he tells me when I look skeptically at the duvet-containing bag.
While managers must negotiate interactions with student customers and employees, their superiors must maintain a more delicate relationship—with the University administration itself. Since its founding, HSA has had a special bond to Harvard. According to the organization’s 1958 brochure, “the policies and regulations of the University affecting student businesses may be developed and communicated.” Five University officials staffed HSA’s first board.
Since HSA’s early years, the University has afforded managers special privileges, such as concession rights at football games and permission to deliver birthday cakes to student dorms. University officials have also asked HSA to supervise potentially problematic student ventures. When several College and Business School students began operating a charter flight service that violated regulations, HSA formed Europe by Air to absorb that group.
On other occasions, the University helped HSA with its financial matters. When HSA failed to break even in the early 1970s, the University offered a $60,000 loan in exchange for the right to review the organization annually and appoint an additional University-selected board member.
Since its founding, HSA has attracted criticism for what a 1963 Crimson editorial described as a “quasi-monopolistic position which its intimate relationship with the University ensures.” The op-ed cited the position of Burke on both the HSA board and the Student Employment Office as a “conflict of interest.” When HSA took over Europe by Air, some students accused HSA of unfairly inflating flight prices. In 1985, the Harvard Entrepreneurs Club criticized HSA’s exclusive permissions to advertise goods and services beyond college newspapers.
Today, HSA still maintains special relations with Harvard, with four University administrators and two Business School faculty members on its board. The “History’s” handbook lists several more on its inside cover, including former Dean of Students Archie C. Epps III BD ’61, University Treasurer Paul J. Finnegan ’75, and former College Dean L. Fred Jewett ’57. According to Associate Dean of Student Life David Friedrich, HSA is allowed to deliver to student dorms despite the Student Handbook’s prohibition on “excessive foot traffic or movement of goods into or out of University Buildings.”
The College’s Office of Student Life also often reaches out to HSA for collaborative efforts. Last year, HSA ran a booth out of the pop-up ice skating rink in the Science Center. It has also partnered with the Undergraduate Council to provide shuttle transportation to Yale for the annual football game when it takes place in New Haven.
Friedrich sees these special permissions as a means of quality control. When it comes to student businesses, Friedrich says, “the governance piece is really important.”
“HSA only has a longstanding relationship with the College that allows for the continuity of student services,” Friedrich says. “It’s a way to cultivate innovation…within the context of that longstanding relationship.”
Alumni Board Member Patrick S. Chung ’96 describes that relationship as “very valuable and unusual.”
Thomas R. Eisenmann ’79 MBA ’83, an HSA board member and Harvard Business School professor who studies the management of new ventures, acknowledges that HSA’s special position “does constrain entrepreneurship in some small ways.” However, he believes that the dorm room delivery policy also guards against safety and sanitary hazards.
Christopher A. Smiles ’15, a former managing director of the Cronin Center for Enterprise (an agency targeted at business education) and the co-founder of HSA’s most recently established agency, College Copywriters, defends the policy on similar grounds. “Imagine a world where Goldman Sachs is going door-to-door to poster,” he says.
Harvard Square businesses can, however, advertise in student dorms through HSA’s door-dropping agency, Harvard Distribution. According to the executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, Denise Jillson, HSA pays an annual fee of $290 to belong to the HSBA. Jillson connects local businesses like Pinkberry, Pinocchio’s, and Mint Julep to HSA.
Most recently, HSA has suffered criticism after administrators pressured the student delivery service InstaNomz to shut down in 2014. In the start-up age, when any dorm-room business might become the next Facebook, HSA’s special relationship with the University affords it a unique position in the entrepreneurial landscape.
On busy Sunday evenings, Lamont Café has just a few open seats. At the rounded end of the café counter, four sophomores sit in a tight semicircle, laptops open to identical documents. The boy in the blue sweater asks the curly-haired girl if she’s finished her problem set, but then it’s down to business. In a little less than 12 hours, the team will pitch a new agency to HSA’s incoming president, Stephen W. Xi ’17, and a few other employees as part of the manager application process.

Belino Xhafa ’18, a tall sophomore with crisply cut brown hair, wraps his right palm around his left fist. “So we need to figure out—brokerage versus selling?”
As a freshman, Xhafa worked for HSA Tutoring, offering SAT, ACT, and AP preparation to Boston high school students. He got to know his manager, Ronia Hurwitz ’18, who suggested that he apply for a higher position this fall. Xhafa took her advice and filled out an “early bird” online application. A few weeks later, he interviewed with Xi and two other managers. Then, he received a congratulatory email inviting him back for a second round. When Xhafa arrived at HSA headquarters, he met three other applicants and received instructions for writing a two-page pitch as a group.
Xhafa, who also runs his own start-up tutoring company, called Lionizer, proposed an idea to purchase bikes, furniture, and appliances from graduating seniors and resell them to students the next semester. By Sunday evening, his team just needs to go over the small details: how many movers and inventory specialists they’d need to hire, whether the proposal should be single or double-spaced.
“Should we dress up?” one of his teammates asks. “Business casual?”
“I’d prefer just casual,” Xhafa says, and everyone laughs. Two weeks later, Xhafa tells me that the pitch must’ve gone well—he was offered the procurement manager position at the Harvard Shop. Xhafa later decided not to take the job. Like Kordic, he wanted to keep his summers free.
A few days later, Xi and I discuss his plans for this year’s new management team. Xi tells me that he ran on a platform of “21st-century innovation.” He wants to empower his managers to develop new initiatives within the company, particularly digital ones. According to Donald, the Harvard Shop e-commerce manager, this application cycle emphasized technical skills and creativity.
HSA has consistently developed and acquired new agencies throughout its history. Recently, though, it’s faced increasing pressure to promote individual entrepreneurship as a central value of the organization. To teach students to run 21st-century businesses, HSA must teach them to start ones, too. For students seeking entrepreneurial training, HSA offers a comfortable alternative to the high-stakes start-up scene.
“The great thing about HSA, that I tell to everyone who wants to apply, is that there’s such a safety net in place here,” Xi says. “If you make a mistake it’s not the end of the world. The company’s not going to crash… So I always encourage managers, if they have a new idea…bring it to us and we’ll talk about it and it will materialize.”
Smiles, the former Cronin Center manager, and his best friend, Brian Deener, wrote copy for a Florida start-up the summer before their freshman years at Harvard and Emory, respectively. They started to toss around ideas for an application that would connect business owners to college students willing to write fresh copy. Smiles worked on the project for CS50, but then laid it aside until the summer before his senior year here, when he took two months off from the Cronin Center to work on the project with Deener full-time.
That summer, Deener and Smiles connected 1,200 students from colleges across the country to 500 copy orders. But when the school year picked up again—with Cronin Center responsibilities for Smiles, and a term-time internship for Deener—they realized they wouldn’t be able to continue working at the same speed.
Smiles didn’t want the project to just fizzle out. “I said in my head, it’s a much better ending if we sell.”
He had mentioned the project to Jim McKellar, HSA’s General Manager, who suggested that HSA might be interested. Smiles and Deener pitched the project to HSA’s Vice President Bryant J. Yang ’17 over the summer, and closed the deal by August. Smiles could not disclose the final price. Though Amy Zhao ’18 took over management of College Copywriters in September, she’ll soon pass it on to a new manager—Smiles’s younger brother Will, a freshman. 
“[When I found out] I was like, I should’ve paid my brother as an intern!” Instead, Smiles flew up from Florida, where he plans to work in real estate before enrolling in the 2+2 program at Harvard Business School, to train his younger sibling.
Yang says that he offered to lead the negotiations with College Copywriters because the start-up seemed like a good fit for HSA’s student-oriented business model. “I really jumped on it,” he says. “We look for people with entrepreneurial spirit.”
When I meet McKellar, he’s about to get pranked. A few minutes into our interview, Yang knocks on the door and tells McKellar that someone’s arrived to buy “ad conglomerate.” McKellar waves Yang away, but then someone opens the door.
“Ha! Ad conglomerate!” It’s an old friend of McKellar’s from the Illini Media Company, a non-profit student media company based out of the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, where he received his MBA. They haven’t seen each other in about 25 years.
McKellar has been working with student businesses for just as long. When he heard about HSA while working at Babson College, it sounded like a natural fit. When I ask McKellar how the student entrepreneurial scene has changed since the start of his career, he pinpoints the opening of Harvard’s iLab as a turning point.
“Since then, it’s all picked back up with all these ventures and student groups,” he says. “It’s like a rising tide.”
McKellar says that this trend is a “win” for HSA if the corporation can “bring them in,” and to that end, he’s encouraged HSA to support independent student businesses through Harvard’s i3 Innovation Challenge. McKellar, a judge and co-founder for the i3, created an “HSA Award” in 2008 that would fund fitting start-ups and provide workspace on the fourth floor of the HSA headquarters, Burke-McCoy Hall, located at 67 Mt. Auburn St.
Under McKellar’s guidance, HSA has actively sought to acquire and aid student start-ups; infiltrating the tech world has become something of a business strategy. That “win” McKellar speaks of can be hard to come by, though—start-up culture romanticizes the lone venturer, after all. Students who do start their businesses through HSA often expand beyond its walls.
Annie Wang, formerly a member of the class of 2011, and her classmates, Windsor G. Hanger ’10 and Stephanie M. Kaplan ’10, won the HSA Award for their “online community for college women,” HerCampus, in 2009. Wang and her team have kept in touch with Jim, but they moved out of the HSA space after winning the MassChallenge in 2011. When Hanger and Kaplan graduated, Wang left Harvard to pursue the venture full time.
For Tuan A. Ho ’09, HSA also provided something of a launchpad. In the summer of 2010, Ho was living in Dunster with his best friend, Nicholas B. Krasney ’09. The two wanted to watch Conan O’Brien, but their dorm room, like others, did not come with cable TV. So, Ho and Krasney plastered a wall with aluminum foil and tried to pick up signals from local Boston stations. When a friend jokingly asked if she could pay for the foil, Ho and Krasney decided to put together a pitch.
Like HerCampus’s founders, the team worked in the incubation space on the fourth floor of Burke-McCoy Hall. On the night of the i3 awards ceremony, they met Jim McKellar, who had heard about the project from i3 co-founder Paul B. Bottino and another student, Nicholas J. Castine ’10. McKellar expressed interest in the project and the founders agreed to share the revenue for a new student television service—dubbed Tivli.
Tivli became Philo, a company that now services over 40 universities. Like HerCampus, Philo outgrew its HSA beginnings, but Tuan says that he doesn’t think it would have succeeded on its own.
“I have a lot of difficulty seeing how we could have succeeded without a partner like HSA shepherding us, giving us the legitimacy and backing to go through this,” Tuan says. “When we first got started it was just us and aluminum foil on the wall.”
The fourth floor of Burke-McCoy has since been converted to classroom space for the School of Engineering, and the i3 stopped offering a specific HSA Award in 2011. Still, HSA offers resources and University access to start-up founders.
Chung did not belong to HSA as an undergraduate, but says that he was “a very good customer” of its laundry delivery service and “Let’s Go” travel guides. Chung, a former Crimson editorial executive and co-founder of a seed capital program, XFund, advised on the College Copywriters acquisition, among other new projects. He believes that HSA should capitalize on its relationship with Harvard to make itself a strong force in the start-up scene.
“I think that HSA is in a very privileged position because it’s one of the very few companies that has a longstanding familial relationship with the University,” Chung says. “There is an alternate universe where you have the idea for Facebook and HSA would actually be the perfect platform to launch it off because you have access to the students, to certain information the University has.”
Of course, having the idea for the next Facebook might not have quite the same cachet if it comes through HSA. Many student entrepreneurs might prefer to work on their own. If those companies offer delivery services, they may face pushback from the University.
In 2014, Akshar Bonu ’17 founded InstaNomz, a student-run food service that partnered with Harvard Square restaurants, with his partner, Fanele S. Mashwama ’17. After Bonu and Mashwama advertised their company on their class Facebook group, they received an email from Ivy Yard Resident Dean Michael C. Ranen informing them that they had violate the school's business policies. Ranen referred them to Friedrich, who advised them to partner with HSA. However, the founders could not come to mutual terms with HSA and had to shutter the business at Harvard.
“That was the end result—less than ideal for us,” Bonu says. The failed negotiation brought back criticisms of monopolization, and national news outlets picked up the story. Bloomberg.com headlined the event: “Harvard University Thwarts Freshman Entrepeneurs.”
I asked Friedrich what he thought of such headlines. “We have policies in place that allow students to start businesses that are independent, resources through the iLab,” he says.
Bonu and Mashwama ended up developing Instanomz in the Philippines.
Smiles, who helped Bonu and Mashwama navigate the negotiations, says the event was sensationalized at the time.
“They were in a tight spot with the administration…so it obviously sucked,” Smiles says. “It wasn’t that HSA was like an evil empire trying to come in.”
Xi suggests that HSA’s partnerships with start-ups typically come about when founders approach the agency. “It’s kind of difficult to reach out to start-ups, especially if they’re not institutionalized,” he says.
Ten business school admissions officers sit on the oak window-seat on the second floor of the Harvard Faculty Club. They address a crowd of 80 or so students, whose interpretations of “business casual” seem to vary widely. Most wear button-downs and blazers, but Ingrid Y. Li ’17, the managing director of the Cronin Center, wears a floor-length gray dress.
Li created Business School Night. The panelists—representatives from Georgetown, Duke, Chicago, and Harvard, among other schools—corresponded with Li over the summer. She also hosts HSA’s Business Leadership Program, a weekend-long event where students learn the case-study method and network with recruiters. 
Even as HSA works to acquire student start-ups and promote digital innovation, it remains a launchpad for traditional business careers. The donors “Hall of Fame” also lists Thomas G. Stemberg ’71, the founder of Staples, Richard M. Burnes ’63, a co-founder of Bloomberg, and Ken J. Powell ’76 the CEO of General Mills. Its board of alumni and graduate board also include prominent business leaders, who are more than willing to help current HSA managers apply their experience to the real world.
Nathaniel S. Rakich ’10, who worked for Let’s Go while at Harvard, worked with the Harvard Alumni Association to build a database of 4,000 alums of HSA. According to Rakich, the size of the database enables him to connect students with representatives from nearly any field. Rakich, who currently freelances as a writer, has introduced students to alums in the media. He facilitates a summer “externship” program that allows managers to work for an outside company for two weeks. Last year, he helped former Let’s Go manager Claire M. McCLaughlin ’15, a former Crimson blog executive, shadow a reporter at ABC News.
Rakich also said that he’s passed on information to Scott, who hopes to work in the public sector after graduation.
Alter worked as an ACE Marketing Intern at Microsoft over the summer. Her recruiter was an HSA alum, and she believes that connection got her a first-round interview.
Reynolds, who now works as an analyst at Insight Venture Partners, said that she did not get that job through a direct HSA connection, but did seek advice from a number of alumni during the job search.
Smiles attributes his interest in the HBS 2+2 program to his work at the Cronin Center, and has arranged interviews through HSA connections. Smiles found his experiences as both a manager and as a start-up founder to be similarly rewarding. “[HSA] is more corporate than the start-up stuff that most people are interested in,” Smiles says. “But a lot of people are doing corporate things after they graduate.”
On a rainy Friday morning, Im has the third floor of the HSA headquarters almost entirely to herself. She sits in an office chair in the Harvard Shop’s large cubicle, under a whiteboard scribbled with inside jokes—“egregious!”, “That’s jank city.” In a few minutes, she and Donald are scheduled to train the new manager taking over both their positions in the fall. For now, Im catches up on her reading.
By the time Donald and Max Shen ’18 arrive, they’ve already started to bond. “We were in Straus together!” Donald exclaims as he shakes off his jacket.
Over the next few hours, Im, Donald, and Shen pour over every detail in their 20-page long operations manual. Donald talks about the site’s new aesthetic. The redesign’s nearly complete, but he hopes to add more banners and promote the site on GoogleMerchant and Yelp. Im shows the new manager the Shop’s Instagram account and her blog, pausing on a picture taken at Donald’s birthday party. She hopes Shen can start posting, soon.
The new manager scrolls through the manual, overwhelmed. “Don’t worry,” Donald reassures him. “It’s mostly just a list of passwords.”
 
This article has been revised to reflect the following corrections:
CORRECTIONS: October 29, 2015
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated which administrator emailed the founders of InstaNomz informing them that they had violate the school's business policies. In fact, freshman resident dean Michael C. Ranen, not Associate Dean of Student Life David R. Friedrich, emailed the students. An earlier version of this article also incorrectly stated the class year of Akshar Bonu. In fact, he is a member of the Class of 2017, not the Class of 2015. An earlier version also misspelled the last name of Paul Corcoran. Lastly, an earlier version also incorrectly stated the job Ryley Reynolds started with at HSA. In fact, she was first a manager of customer orders at The Harvard Shop, not a delivery associate at HSA Cleaners.
Sections
Dear______ (department head who does not know my name/students whose names I do not know/Drew Gilpin Faust),
I am bursting with ______ (money/excitement/an air of orotund pompousness) to inform you that I have accepted a ______ (higher paid/warmer/more markedly propitious) position ______ (at Stanford/on Jupiter/let’s be honest, at Stanford). I plan to leave at the end of ______ (yesterday/this month/this year).
I have enjoyed my time in the ______ (wealthy/teeth-chatteringly freezing/academically puissant) paradise that is Harvard. I will miss ______ (the paycheck/that fun little game of will-the-temperature-dip-below-zero-today/lassitude and torpor that permeates the pulchritudinous campus) most of all. But it is time for me to move on to bigger and ______ (warmer/warmer/warmer) adventures.
In my new position, I plan to ______ (write books/sunbathe/teach the jejune minds and risible “intellects” found amongst today’s youth).
If you ever find yourself in my neck of the woods, please ______ (do not contact me/let me know/text me at the last minute so I have a decent excuse not to answer).
Yours, ______ (professor/humanitarian/deity)
Sections
Find Your Lost SockWe’ve already done your laundry, folded it, and delivered it to your dorm; let us take it one step further and locate that missing sock you haven’t seen since you unpacked in August. No, we didn’t lose it. It’s probably underneath your bed.
Take Pictures of You Having Fun at PartiesNever take a semi-dark selfie of you and your friends in a crowded dorm room again! Hire us to follow you around on Saturday nights and take candid pictures of you and your friends having fun. Or of you doing psets (#lamontgoingup).
Extra Charge: Edit Your PicturesOnce you have the perfect picture of you and your friends holding red solo cups, you obviously have to post it on Instagram. Allow us to choose the right filter.
Room ServiceTired of having to raise your fork to your mouth and chew your own food? We get it. For one low, low price, we will go to the dining hall, fill up a plate with your favorite semi-edible HUDS entreés, and bring it to your room.
Remind You of People’s Names One of our memorization experts will follow you around the Yard and whisper in your ear the name of that one kid from Expos who always says hi to you. If someone asks why you’re always together, just say he is your boyfriend.
Deliver Noch’s to You at 2 a.m.Maybe you’re in Widener pulling an all-nighter. Maybe you’ve been dancing on tables at Felipe’s rooftop bar and are about to pass out on your futon. Regardless, you need pizza, and you shouldn’t have to move to get it. Allow us to help.
Go to Class for YouWhat’s the point of dragging yourself to class after you’ve had all that well-photographed fun with your friends? Rest up for next weekend. We can attend your lecture and take notes for you. Extra charge for appearance and voice-alteration in section discussion.
Sections
We can hear it before we even enter the courtyard. An almost ethereal soundscape, droning, adding nervous undertones to the otherwise sophisticated ambiance of this affair.
It is the work of André Obin, this month’s featured DJ for Third Thursdays at the Isabella Gardner Museum. Third Thursday is the museum’s monthly late night, drinks and music included. He stands alone at the center of the courtyard, clad in a casual black sweater, mixing what he calls his “organically evolving, sonically linked downtempo set” with nothing but a MacBook Pro.
We’re looking at Obin from the colonnade that traces the edges of the court- yard, the central feature of this Venetian-style palace. The Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum was founded in 1903, and it has since become a gem in the Boston art world, touting its collection of more than 2,500 paintings, sculptures, tapestries, and historical manuscripts. And, once a month, the museum opens its doors after- hours for the mingling of students and adults alike.
It’s packed: Holding glasses of white wine and champagne, people cluster with- in the dimly-lit alcoves carved out by each arch. The crowd is young and elegant. We approach a group of three in their early 20s. The girl, a student from the area, tells us that Third Thursdays make the museum “a lot more accessible and inviting to people.” Her friend from Berlin, who was drawn to the event from a Facebook photo, adds that it’s great to see “young people in places they may otherwise not congregate, especially with this energy around art.”
Near art they may be, but how much they appreciate it is another question. We make our way upstairs to exhibits. It’s a perfect snapshot of the early Italian Renaissance. The walls are covered with a luxurious red fabric. Dainty chairs line the walls, each one bearing a neat sign that reads “Do Not Touch.” But there is no risk, for there are few people.
From the crowd downstairs, we are among a very small number to have actually ventured up to the art. Perhaps this is why we got so much attention from the security guards. As we eye a bust and scribble in our notebooks, a man informs us, “Excuse me, Miss, we don’t use pens here. We use pencils.” We nod and sigh. We’ve been told this before, and will be told this again throughout the night.
We leave the vacant galleries behind to check out another part of the Third Thursday experience: studio activities. Tonight’s is organized by the Boston Society of Architects, an organization of professionals who promote sustainability. Lee Dykxhoorn, the guest architect, greets us. He’s working on how to “combine the larger aspirational goals of architecture with the need to fulfill a particular need for a particular client.”
That’s where the activity comes in. To give us a taste of this potential conflict, we are handed two index cards. The first is labelled a “common good,” that people should have access to sunlight and fresh air. The second is the client: a teacher who needs a place to meet with friends after work. Our task is to build a structure, out of LEGOs, to satisfy both goals.
We aren’t ambitious enough to tackle this project. However, we do take a pair of round plastic glasses that are being passed out. They’re supposed to inspire us, and one woman with a BSA pin tells us that “all the great architects wore glasses like these.” Maybe it worked for Philip Johnson and Le Corbusier, but we’re happy keeping them as a souvenir instead.
We find our way back to the courtyard, which is still bustling with conversation and music. Even if they aren’t exploring the art itself, these young professionals and students are undoubtedly drawn to the community and the beauty of the venue.
One woman explains that she’s been coming to Third Thursdays for more than six years. She thinks it’s a good place to meet “like-minded people.” But when we ask her what her favorite exhibits were from the past, she says “Sorry, I can’t remember.”
Sections
*Approaches a man leaning on a tree.* Excuse me, Sir. Would you mind taking a step to your right? Eh, now to your left. Will you pretend to read this book for a hot second? Now take a sip of your coffee and smile, but act casual. Perfect. *Snaps a pic.*
Fall is here, people, and we all know what that means! No, I’m not talking about a Starbucks Pumpkin Spice Latte—but that, too. I’m taking about Falliage! “Falliage? What’s that?” you may ask. It’s a blend of two words, fall and foliage, and Harvard’s campus is covered with it.
Every fall, Instagram feeds fill up with crisp images of vibrant colored leaves on trees, changing as the seasons turn. Shades of red and yellow cover the ground and fill the sky, as people snap away at the beauty that disappears far too soon. As you scroll through Instagram, you notice how somehow, all of your friends have turned into professional photographers, able to capture some of nature’s most breathtaking moments.
College students, in particular, are willing to go to the extremes to get that perfect Instagram-worthy fall photo. Even I find myself sometimes crouching in the mud, standing on chairs in the Yard or asking strangers to act normal to achieve my desired aesthetic. A good Instagram is worth the muddy boots, the twisted ankle, and the weird looks from tourists because a good Instagram gets a lot of likes—which obviously means you have a lot of friends.
This year, one spot in particular has caught the eyes of many passersby: Two beautiful red trees stand tall in the center of the Ivy Yard between Hollis and Thayer Halls. These trees are campus celebrities, often stopping students on the way to class dead in their tracks. Like paparazzi, students snap pictures and post them on social media for their friends and family at home to see. The phenomenon is pervasive, spreading all the way to the top: the official Harvard Instagram account that posted images of these two trees, twice! Twice! C’mon mysterious controller of @harvard, every good Instagrammer knows not to double-Insta.
Now, we can only dream of having as strong of a fan base as the Harvard University Instagram account, which gets more than 7,200 likes on a photograph of a couple trees in the yard. So, I’ve decided to do you all a favor and lay down the steps on how to take the perfect fall Instagram photo:





News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In response to recent violence in Israel, a group of about 50 students and campus leaders assembled, arguing that there is “No Excuse for Terror,” in the Science Center Plaza on Wednesday afternoon.
Participants said they gathered to “stand in solidarity” with victims of attacks in Israel, where violence between Palestinians and Israelis has escalated over the past few weeks.
Students involved in the event said it was not facilitated by any particular organization. During the roughly 90 minutes they stood outside, students handed out flyers, held a banner reading “No excuse for terror,” and read aloud a list of names of people killed during the unrest, according to Anna S. Peterman ’18, one of the students who organized the assembly. She said students started organizing the event about a week ago.
“We saw what was going on, and it was a natural reaction that we had to do something,” said David Schwerdt ’18, an attendee. “We felt that the best thing we could contribute is to stand in solidarity with Israel, promote the message that there is no excuse for terror, and make people aware of what’s going on.”
Leaders from several Jewish organizations on campus also attended, including Hirschy Zarchi, a rabbi and the executive director of Chabad at Harvard, and Jonah C. Steinberg, a rabbi and the executive director of Harvard Hillel.
Zarchi said he was “appalled and horrified” by the deaths in Israel.
Both he and Steinberg said they thought the message of Wednesday’s event was unifying and positive.
“The message that there is no excuse for terror is a message that I think everyone should be able to agree with,” Steinberg said.
Students and organizers said they were emboldened by the positive responses they received from students and tourists passing by.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As flu season begins, Harvard University Health Services plans to administer roughly 15,000 flu vaccinations at general campus flu clinics, according to spokesperson Lindsey Baker.
As in past years, UHS began administering individual flu vaccines in late August, and general bi-weekly flu clinics began on Sept. 21 in a new location in the lobby of University Place on Mt. Auburn Street. Until Dec. 15, flu vaccinations—which are free for anyone with a Harvard ID, Harvard University Group Health Plan insurance card, or Harvard Student Health Program Blue Cross Blue Shield card—will be administered every Monday and Tuesday from 12 to 3 p.m.
College students can also get vaccinated in select campus dining halls, where flu clinics have been held from 5 to 8 p.m. on designated days. Upcoming locations include Mather House, on Oct. 22, and Leverett House, on Nov. 4.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that everyone older than 6 months receive a yearly flu vaccine, preferably before October to guarantee protection before flu season begins. In the United States, the virus is typically most prevalent in the winter months, from December to February, according the CDC.
Even though overall the incidence of seasonal flu across the U.S. was low according to this year’s CDC report, updated in early October, the CDC still recommends vaccination as long as flu viruses are circulating in the community.
—Staff writer Celeste M. Mendoza can be reached at celeste.mendoza@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @CelesteMMendoza.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In a conversation hosted by the College’s newly formed Honor Council on Wednesday, panelists and audience members swapped suggestions on how best to build a culture of transparent communication between professors and students.
At the discussion, entitled “What Does It Mean to Teach? What Does it Mean to Learn?,” the four panelists—two faculty members and two student Honor Council representatives—and about 20 attendees were invited to share their academic anxieties and pedagogical concerns.
“The vast majority of faculty really do care, and the vast majority of students care. Yet I think a good portion of the time, we miss each other in unintentional ways,” said Brett Flehinger, the Honor Council’s secretary who moderated the discussion.
Panelist and associate Sociology professor Jocelyn Viterna said she strongly values her interactions with undergraduates, despite the perception that faculty are more devoted to their research than their teaching.
“Some of my best scholarly moments have happened across the hall in Sever 103,” she said. “There’s this real sort of link that the students provide faculty about the world outside the Ivory Tower that is really critical.”
Viterna emphasized that students should feel welcome to attend office hours and ask to work as research assistants for classes they feel passionately about.
But panelist Meg G. Panetta ’17—a member of the student-faculty Honor Council, which hears cheating cases under the College’s new honor code—said she was insecure about wasting her professors’ time. Several members of the audience echoed that concern.
“You are one part of a very busy job, but you are a part that I love,” Viterna replied. “We as faculty are paid to work and engage with you. You should never, never feel like you’re imposing on us to do our job.”
Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris, who sat in the audience, echoed Viterna in encouraging students to attend office hours despite potentially feeling intimidated by their professors.
“The idea that we’re the preeminent authorities and that you can’t talk to us unless you have something profound to say just seems so foreign to us,” Harris said. “The idea that you’re not worthy of hearing our brilliant thoughts, which are not always so brilliant, is something that we do have to undo.”
Panelist Jack W. Jue ’18, who serves as a student academic integrity fellow on the Honor Council, said he believes that cheating results from an intense academic culture with little room for vulnerability or mistakes.
“So many of the cases we see in the Honor Council come from when students are up at four in the morning, and they don’t see any other option but to cheat,” Jue said. “They’re willing to go against their morals to create the perception that they understand what’s going on.”
Harvard’s first honor code, implemented this fall, comes three years after the Government 1310 cheating scandal, the College’s largest in recent memory that required about 70 students to temporarily withdraw from school. Along with the creation of the student-faculty Honor Council, the honor code requires undergraduates to commit to “producing academic work of integrity.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
German Egyptologist Thomas L. Gertzen discussed at Harvard on Wednesday the history of German Egyptology, the discovery of the renowned bust of Queen Nefertiti, and the undercurrents of anti-Semitism that he argued permeated the discipline.
The Harvard Semitic Museum hosted the evening lecture, titled “Queen Nefertiti in Berlin: Anti-Semitism and the Spoils of War,” in conjunction with the opening of a new exhibit called “From the Nile to the Euphrates: Creating the Harvard Semitic Museum.” Harvard affiliates and attendees from the greater Cambridge and Boston areas gathered in the Yenching Auditorium for Gertzen’s talk.
“I intend to point out some things that might have been neglected in the past,” Gertzen said in an interview. “Certain aspects of the history of the discovery of Nefertiti and its way to Berlin have been left out of the discussion.”
During the first half of his lecture, Gertzen read correspondence exchanged by prominent German archaeologists and French and Egyptian directors of antiquities. The letters guided Gertzen’s discussion of German archaeology at Tell el-Amarna, the capital city built by the Pharaoh Akhenaten of the 18th Dynasty.
“Egyptology was not to be employed as a means of foreign diplomacy,” Gertzen said. The discovery of the bust of Queen Nefertiti in 1912, and the question of rightful ownership, however, caused political tension between Germany and Egypt and then later England and France during World War I, Gertzen said.
Legally, the bust belongs to the Egyptian Museum of Berlin collection, Gertzen said, but he posed the question of whether this decision was “morally correct.”
Gertzen ended his lecture with an examination of anti-Semitism within the field of Egyptology, citing more primary documents from German and Egyptian archaeologists that he argued show evidence of discrimination against Jewish archaeologists and patrons.
Gertzen’s presentation also highlighted the distinction of studies within Egyptology. Further commenting on this divide after the event, Rachel E. Drapper, an Oxford graduate with a degree in Egyptology, said she is interested by the divide in Egyptology between the study of Egyptian history and the study of the discipline itself.
“It’s very difficult to be expert in both,” she said.
Commenting on the event, Peter D. Manuelian ’81, the director of the Harvard Semitic Museum and a professor of Egyptology, said: “We try to bring Egyptologists to town whenever possible...and nothing is hotter than Nefertiti right now,” referencing the recent speculation over the possible location of the queen’s remains in Tutankhamun’s tomb.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Setting the tone at the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum on Wednesday, Mira K. Sorvino ’89, an Academy Award-winning actress and United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime Goodwill Ambassador to Combat Human Trafficking, recounted a terrible tale.
A young woman Sorvino had interviewed who had been trafficked and raped innumerable times between the ages of 12 and 16 sat stoically and described her trafficker’s punishment for her disobedience: taking a hot iron to her and her baby’s face.
Sorvino was one of five panelists who discussed the problem exploitation and modern slavery at the event, which CNN broadcasted as part of its Freedom Project, a program created to prevent human trafficking and advocate for victims of exploitation.
“I was exploited in the sex industry in Germany as a teenager,” said Rachel Lloyd, founder and CEO of Girls Educational and Mentoring Services, an organization that serves women and girls who have been sexually exploited. Lloyd added that she saw similarities between her own experiences and those of girls in the U.S.
Several times during the program, the panelists interrupted the moderator, Richard Quest of CNN International, and voiced their disagreements with him and each other. At one point, Quest highlighted Lloyd’s refusal to use the word “prostitution.”
“The word ‘prostitute’ makes it sound like it is who you are,” Lloyd said. “When you have been exploited...it is something that happened to you. It’s something you can overcome. It doesn’t define you.”
Swanee Hunt, the former U.S. ambassador to Austria and a professor at the Kennedy School of Government, continued to turn the conversation back on people who purchased the services of the exploited.
“You have the traffickers, you have the girls, and then you have these guys who are purchasing,” Hunt said. “They might be at your living room table; they might be sitting in church with you.”
Sorvino said she believes that one long-term solution to the problem of modern-day slavery is education.
 “It’s absolutely essential because it raises the rate of discovery so much. Many high schools don’t have human trafficking as part of their curriculum, and so at-risk kids don’t have that knowledge of how to avoid it,” she said.
The forum ended with Quest directing the audience to take the pieces of paper placed under their chairs, fold them into paper airplanes—representative of the CNN Freedom Project’s hashtag, “#FlyToFreedom”—and make a pledge to advocate for exploited people, before tossing them into the air.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The College is expanding funding for its upperclassman Houses as part of a pilot program, another sign that administrators are trying to revitalize House life and make it more central for students.
The pilot project involves offering Houses increased funding for programming in three specific areas: what administrators are calling “student-faculty engagement,” “student initiated funding,” and “House master led retreats.”
Associate Dean of Student Life David R. Friedrich declined to specify how much money the College has allocated to the program, which is funded by the College Dean’s Office and the Office of Student Life is administering.
 In consultation with the Office of Student Life, House masters and House administrators may propose and then receive funding to support projects that specifically align with one of the three areas of focus. Each House may utilize the funds at their own discretion.
According to Friedrich, the College is giving Houses this leeway in hopes that it will prompt them to use the money for creative and innovative projects.
“As we come into this academic year, the Houses are thinking about how to best use these resources in the context of their House culture and community to further these kinds of priorities,” Friedrich said.
The College pilot program coincides with an ongoing debate at Harvard about campus social life, on-campus social spaces, and the role of off-campus groups such as final clubs. While undergraduates and administrators alike have recently aired concerns about final clubs—and some have gone quiet—students have called on Harvard to offer them on-campus alternatives.
The College has responded by funding student programming, and even by creating party spaces. Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana, who is also the master of Cabot House, has called on the Houses to be central to undergraduate life.
“We want Houses to be places where students feel at home, a part of a community, and have opportunities for this rich engagement with their peers and with faculty,” Friedrich said.
When asked how Adams House will utilize the funds, House Master Sean Palfrey ’67 said “we have too many ideas.” Palfrey, a longtime House administrator, argued that it is important that the Houses have individual discretion over how to use the money to maintain their own personalities.
“We do not want to be made identical,” Palfrey said. “We want to keep some House character and then build on that character in ways which help the students who happen to be lotteried into that House mature, and learn, and have fun."
In Quincy House, administrators are turning to students for ideas for how to use the funding, according to House Master Deborah Gehrke.
“We’re trying to let the students help with what they want to do," Gehrke said. “I mentioned going to a haunted house, and they didn’t like that idea, so they want something else. So I’ll let them mingle and try to figure out what it is they want.”
So far, students have raised several proposals, such as an intramural spirit event and a board game library. Quincy has already used the money to support a new House-wide tea event called “Quincy Kettle.” The event, which will draw faculty, alumni, tutors, students, and other House affiliates, would not have occurred without the extra funding, Gehrke said.
—Staff writer R. Blake Paterson can be reached at blake.paterson@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BlakePat95.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After residents complained about the difficulty of returning to the Quad for dinner, Currier Dining Hall will extend its hours to stay open until 8 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday nights, 30 minutes later than it previously closed its servery.
In an email sent over the Currier House email list earlier this week, House Masters Richard Wrangham and Elizabeth Ross wrote that the change is an “attempt to make easier the challenges of living in the quad.” 
The Quad—which includes Pforzheimer, Cabot, and Currier Houses—is located nearly a mile away from Harvard Square, away from the nine other undergraduate Houses, which are clustered along the Charles River.
Although a shuttle route runs between the Yard and the Quad, residents often eat in the River House dining halls. This practice met a roadblock last year when the Houses instituted “Community Night” dinners on Thursday nights, requiring students to eat in their own residences.
Following the new policy, Cabot House extended Thursday dining hall hours past their normal closing time. The move for Currier to offer later hours five days a week is also in part a response to concerns raised by athletes, who often have late practices near the river, Currier House Administrator Patricia Pepper said.
“Over the past year there’s been conversation about the difficulties of athletes, for instance,” Pepper said. “This has been an ongoing conversation between the College and the Quad House masters about how can we make it easier for athletes.”
The new hours will begin on Sunday and continue over the next year as a pilot initiative.
“We hope that this will help you come home for dinner and we thank the college for supporting this initiative,” the Wrangham and Ross wrote in the email.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last time the Harvard women’s volleyball team played Dartmouth, on Sept. 25, the Ivy League landscape was quite different. Harvard was coming off an Ivy League title the year before, while Dartmouth was fresh off a sixth place finish near the bottom of the league. Both teams were playing in their first conference game, and in a close five-set match, the Big Green managed to eke out a close victory.
This time around, the stakes will be much higher.
This Friday, Harvard (9-8, 5-2 Ivy) will kick off the second round of Ivy League play by taking on Dartmouth (9-7, 6-1) in a clash of the two top-ranked Ivy teams. A loss would see the Crimson drop two games behind first place with only six games to play.
No team in the past decade has won the Ivy League with more than two losses. A defeat here would put Harvard’s loss total for the season at three, significantly reducing its hopes of repeating as Ivy League champions, while a win would bring Harvard into a tie for first in the Ivy standings with Dartmouth.
“We definitely realize the gravity of this game,” said sophomore outside hitter Paige Kebe. “We know that it’s a must-win situation from here on out, for our second half of the Ivy League, and that’s a mentality we’re taking with us to every practice.”
But a win here will be no easy task.
Dartmouth comes into the game riding a five-game win streak, while the Crimson enters having split its last two games against Columbia and Cornell, two teams in the bottom half of the Ivy League. Despite the difference in momentum, though, Harvard is confident in its mental toughness.
“Last week was definitely a reality check, but I’m confident that we’ll do well this weekend regardless,” Kebe said. “Our team has proven to be really resilient and good at bouncing back.”
Dartmouth and Harvard have dominated the Ivy League player awards this season, winning six of the seven Player of the Week awards, including four from Harvard junior setter Corie Bain.
Indeed, each team features a reigning co-Player of the Week, with Crimson senior outside hitter Kathleen Wallace and Dartmouth junior opposite hitter Emily Astarita having shared the honor this past week. Wallace’s play has been crucial for Harvard this season, including this past weekend when she landed two consecutive double-doubles.
“Kathleen is consistently a go-to player, and I love how she has some really momentum-changing kills,” senior setter Hannah Schmidt said. “Sometimes she’d hit the ball, and I’d just be so glad she was on my team.”
Astarita gave the Crimson fits the last time they played a month ago, with a game-high 23 kills. This time around, though, Harvard figures to be better prepared.
“We’re catering practice around how [Dartmouth] plays,” Schmidt said. “They have a few strong hitters that we’re simulating in practice, and we’re also speeding up the tempo of our sets. We’ve definitely changed our game plan since we last played, and I think it looks good on our end.”
Harvard’s game plan isn’t the only thing that’s changed since a month ago. The Crimson roster has also featured quite a few shake-ups since the two teams last played, largely due to the injury bug, which has affected three key players in freshman Christina Cornelius, sophomore Caroline Labanowski, and junior Grace Weghorst. The team has stood steady in their absence but says that they are looking forward to getting the full squad healthy again.
“We’re trying to get everyone healthy as fast as possible, but either way we have a pretty deep team,” said Kebe. “I’m confident that whoever’s healthy enough to play on Friday will get the job done, no matter if they’re a freshman or a senior.”
In the absence of key players, freshman middle blocker Jocelyn Meyer has picked up the slack, averaging 1.46 kills a set over the season and picking up an Ivy League Rookie of the Week award along the way.
The Crimson will look to her and other role players to try to pull out this weekend’s game and maintain its positioning for the Ivy League title going forward.
“Going into this weekend, we know that Dartmouth needs another loss,” Schmidt said. “We have to be the team that gives it to them.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
No one on the Harvard women’s hockey team has experienced a loss against Dartmouth. The last time the Crimson fell to the Big Green was in 2011. Since the Class of 2015 took the ice, Harvard has dominated Dartmouth in every game the two teams have played.
The Crimson’s women’s hockey team opens its regular season against Dartmouth Friday night at Thompson Arena. Harvard is ranked fifth nationally in the most recent polls by the USCHO and by USA Today/USA Hockey Magazine.
The Crimson are looking to mirror last year’s 27-6-3 season that included ECAC Hockey Regular Season and Tournament Championships, feats that they had not accomplished in the same year since 2008. Last year’s season didn’t stop at conference championships; Harvard advanced all the way to NCAA National Championship game at the 2015 Frozen Four, falling to Minnesota, 4-1.
Garnering eight out of 12 votes, Harvard was predicted to repeat as ECAC champions in the preseason coaches’ poll and led the way with four picks to the preseason All-ECAC team. The Crimson have security in the net with senior goalie Emerance Maschmeyer, who, for the second year in a row, was selected as the ECAC preseason choice as the top goaltender. Maschmeyer is tied for best save percentage in Harvard women’s hockey history with a .941 average.
“The preseason polls are great but they ultimately mean nothing,” senior forward Mary Parker said. “Friday night, the polls don’t matter. It’s us vs. Dartmouth and whoever plays the better game is going to win that night.”
In Harvard’s preseason debut the Crimson beat McGill, 3-2, outscoring them with an early goal in the third period. The game-winning goal was made by freshman forward Grace Zareski, donning a Harvard jersey for the first time.
After getting tripped up by the net, Zareski was able to make a short-handed goal from her knees to win Harvad the game. Underclassmen dominated the scoring for the Crimson with the two other goals made by sophomore forwards Karly Hefferman and Haley Mullens.
The Crimson enters the season as not only the defending champions of the ECAC, but the team that came just three periods away from the national championship. Although the team graduated a lot of talent, senior forward Miye D’Oench headlines a group of returning players that have the Crimson’s hopes set high for 2015-2016.
“My goals this year would be just individually just having the best year yet. I want to be a good leader on and off the ice,”
D’Oench said. “As a team the goal is always to win a national championship. Winning the Ivy League, the ECAC, the Beanpot, etc. are always also in our goals.”
The Crimson is taking it one game at a time and looking to build upon each game.
“We definitely saw some things we need to work on,” Parker said. “But it was a good start for us.”
The game is set to be a good battle as both Dartmouth and Harvard have taken down McGill in their preseason matches by one goal.
The Big Green squad graduated only four seniors and kept three players, Lindsey Allen, Kennedy Ottenbreit, and Laura Stacy, all of whom shared the spot for top scoring in the 2014-2015 season with 26 points. Last year’s Dartmouth squad finished with a record of 13-15-2 and a conference record of 9-11-2, good enough to earn them a spot in the ECAC Hockey Tournament, where they ultimately fell to Clarkson in the first round.
In last year’s meeting, the Crimson dominated with a 4-1 victory over Dartmouth with now-senior forward Miye D’Oench and Mullens chipping in a goal each between the pipes. The 2014-2015 Crimson squad bested Dartmouth in both face-offs won and shots on goal, but, due to penalties, gave the Big Green three power plays that they failed to take advantage of.
“To prepare for Dartmouth we’ve been working on making our game as best as possible. Dartmouth is always a great team,” Parker said. “It will be a hard fought battle so we have just been preparing as we always do and making sure we are the best we can be.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Hi everyone! Hope you're all having a wonderful Thursday. If the fog and clouds have you feeling down, remember to celebrate the fact that today is Wombat Day.
IN THE D-HALLLunchTeriyaki Chicken PizzaKorean Style Tofu with Sesame GlazeEgg Fried Rice
DinnerCarved Whole ChickensMussels in White Wine and Local Tomato SauceGnocchi with Butternut and SageButtered Parslied Maine Potatoes
IN THE ATMOSPHEREThe weather is a bit warmer today– foggy and cloudy with a high of 73 and a low of 43 degrees.
ON FLYBYFaculty Dinner Talking PointsSo how does one navigate a conversation about that statistics class for which you’ve never attended lecture?
ON FMOut to Lunch with Aaron SlipperA sophomore enrolled in all graduate level mathematics courses, Slipper looks the part, with an aesthetic somewhere between Donald Trump rolling out of bed and Christopher Hitchens after a night of heavy drinking.
15 Minutes with Michael PollanMichael Pollan, the acclaimed food journalist, is a fellow at the Radcliffe Institute exploring psychedelic drug therapy. Pollan talked with FM about healthy eating hacks in college and his self-proclaimed “spiritual retardation.”
IN THE NEWSStarting Sunday, Currier Dining Hall Will Extend Dinner HoursAfter residents complained that it is difficult to return to the Quad for dinner, Currier dining hall will extend its hours, staying open until 8 p.m. Sunday through Thursday nights, 30 minutes later than it previously closed its servery.
At Honor Code Panel, Students and Faculty Talk CommunicationIn a conversation hosted by the College’s newly formed Honor Council on Wednesday, panelists and audience members swapped suggestions on how best to build a culture of transparent communication between professors and students.
Students Gather To Commemorate Victims of Violence in IsraelIn response to recent violence in Israel, a group of about 50 students and campus leaders assembled, arguing that there is “No Excuse for Terror,” in the Science Center Plaza on Wednesday afternoon.
As Flu Season Begins, Health Services Administers VaccinationsAs flu season begins, Harvard University Health Services plans to administer roughly 15,000 flu vaccinations at general campus flu clinics, according to spokesperson Lindsey Baker.
College Ups House Funding Through Pilot ProgramThe College is expanding funding for its upperclassman Houses as part of a pilot program, another sign that administrators are trying to revitalize House life and make it more central for students.
EVENTS
Former House of Representatives member Barney Frank will be giving a talk titled The Importance of Being Dispensable: Downsizing our Global Ambition at 6 p.m. at the JFK Jr. Forum.
Oxford professor Julian Savulescu will present his lecture titled Disability and Mere Difference at 5 p.m. in Emerson 210.
Authors Doug Bradley and Craig Werner will present their exposé titled Myth, Memory, and the Music of the Vietnam War at 4 p.m. in Fong Auditorium, Boylston Hall.
Kicking off its inaugural Race in American Politics Seminar Series, the Ash Center from Democratic Governance and Innovation will be hosting a seminar titled Give us the Ballot: The Modern Struggle for Voting Rights in America at 4:10 p.m. at the Ash Center foyer.


