News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Lowell House Poemical Society held its annual May Day Poetry Reading in Lowell’s Senior Common Room on the evening of May 1. A group of about 30 masters, deans, and other affiliates of Lowell House, as well as College and graduate students, gathered for about 20 recitations, ranging from Sanskrit verse to e.e. cummings, from Keats to student compositions. The reading forms part of Lowell’s traditional May Day celebrations, which include the house formal, Bacchanalia, on the evening of April 30, a sunrise waltz with champagne and strawberries on the Weeks Bridge the following morning, and a small exhibition of paintings in the dining hall.
Lowell House tutor Ari R. Hoffman, a co-chair of the Poemical Society and a Ph.D. candidate in the English Department, says that the event is a valuable part of campus life. “I’m a strong believer in the arts and in the humanities, and specifically that those things should happen in the house, that they should happen where people live, and that they should happen as part of a community initiative, so that people are learning from and teaching one another,” he says. “It’s important that people be there just because they want to be there, rather than the way you’d approach these sorts of things in a section or in a class.”
The Poemical Society traces its history to the late 1950s, during poet Marianne Moore's affiliation with the house. Cecil Day-Lewis, who would later be named Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom, later revived the society in the 1960s when he stayed in the house while serving as Harvard’s Charles Eliot Norton Professor of Poetry.  Under co-chairs Hoffman and Kevin McGrath, an associate of the Department of South Asian Studies and Lowell’s poet-in-residence, the Society meets every Tuesday during the term at 6:30 in the evening in Lowell’s Senior Common Room to read and discuss poetry. McGrath spoke to the reading’s audience about the historic group’s continuing relevance. “It’s wonderful to realize that poetry is not marginalized and lost in this postmodern world,” he said. “It’s very alive in individual lives.”
The reading largely attracted affiliates of Lowell House. Tyler T. Jankauskas ’16, who attends Poemical Society meetings and who recited James Wright’s “Lying in a Hammock at William Duffy’s Farm in Pine Island, Minnesota,” says that the event takes much of its character from the Lowell community. “Because it’s a house and you know everyone, it’s interesting to see what kind of poems people pick, because it reflects their personality or something they’d like to say with someone else’s words,” he says.
House Master Diana L. Eck, who recited and translated two Sanskrit verses, spoke to the group gathered for the reading about the event’s place within the community. “House life and our life together should speak to every season of the soul: joy and sadness and inspiration,” she said.
Hoffman also spoke to the group about the reading’s connection to the Lowell community. “Why this event makes me so happy is hearing and looking at so many people I care about in one room,” he said.
While the event was undeniably centered around the Lowell community, it was open to all students and attracted a few student readers from other houses. Among them was Kirkland resident Isaac C. Dayno ’15, who met Hoffman when he served as Kirkland’s acting resident dean last semester. Dayno, who recited e.e. cummings’s “somewhere I have travelled, gladly beyond,” said that events such as the Lowell reading are an important part of the arts scene on campus. “There’s a lot to be said to be said for these wonderful, kind of impromptu spaces for art that we create at Harvard, that don’t necessarily have to come from the Office for the Arts...or from a classroom,” he says. “When they take place in the spaces we live in every day, I think that’s something really special. I don’t think that we really interact with that much poetry on a day-to-day level, and it just seems neat that we’ll take some time to do this together.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Note: Our first annual coverage of the Cannes Film Festival concluded on Sunday, May 24th. We posted daily updates to this liveblog with coverage from both of our foreign correspondents at Cannes, Alan R. Xie and Tianxing V. Lan. 
Day One: Wednesday, May 13th
Alan R. Xie: Prominently positioned on a beach of the French Riviera, at the end of several blocks of luxury European brand name stores, is a sprawling white building with a blue glass façade, home to the Cannes Film Festival. Known as the Palais des Festivals, the building features above its front entrance the large, smiling face of actress Ingrid Bergman—also emblazoned on the official festival poster that one can see plastered on every building within a two-mile radius. Holding a perpetual stare into the distance, she looks out over the red carpet at the ever-increasing mass of hundreds of people below. Even though it’s only the first day of the festival, everything is already in full motion—the first press screening of the festival’s opening film “La Tête haute” (“Standing Tall”) is at 10 AM, followed by five other screenings and two press conferences throughout the day.
This is most definitely not Dick Diver’s Cannes. Our Airbnb is a 20-minute walk from the Palais, past many small streets filled with lively bars and restaurants. Every entrance to the Palais has at least two security guards, all decked out in matching beige suits, and they scan badges, search backpacks, and wave security wands. At registration, I’m handed a yellow badge and a bag with various schedules inside, including a separate one for press screenings. There’s a designated pressroom filled with expensive computers for which we’re provided individual logins, but no luck—most of the keyboards are in AZERTY format and every workstation is already occupied. There’s also a Wi-Fi room down the hall but its range is limited; the room aesthetically resembles a small Apple Store and is filled to capacity with people. All the tables and chairs are occupied, so I sit on the floor next to some other poor journalists. We’re kicked out within ten minutes for being a fire hazard. The Wi-Fi room is coincidentally situated right next to the press conference room, and as I exit, I notice the festival’s jury in the hallway, flanked by yelling cameramen and reporters: Sienna Miller, Jake Gyllenhaal, the Coen brothers, Guillermo del Toro, and a few others I don’t recognize.
At 4 PM, I queue for a screening of “Umimachi Diary” (“Our Little Sister”), one of the films in competition for the Palme d’Or. It turns out that Cannes is like Disney World—most of your time is spent waiting in line, and some people will end up cutting in front of you because they’ve got better passes. At Cannes, the color of your badge is the most important: The highest in the hierarchy is white, followed by pink with red dots, then pink, blue, and finally yellow. The various levels of priority dictate who’s allowed into a screening or press conference—and unfortunately, that means we’re dead last. If we want any chance of getting into the first screening of a film (especially a film in competition), we’ll have to show up at least an hour beforehand to beat the hundreds of other journalists competing for a seat. The same goes for any press conference with people whose names we actually recognize. Needless to say, I don’t get into the first screening of “Umimachi Diary.”
As I walk back to the Airbnb that night, I see handsome men in tuxedos and beautiful women in dresses stroll down the boulevard to parties that I haven’t been invited to. I keep repeating the directions to myself: “If you walk past the Hermès, you’ve gone too far.”
Tianxing V. Lan: I arrive late in the afternoon at around 6 PM, after Alan had already figured out how the festival works. As I make my way through the crowd at Nice Airport to the festival’s press shuttle, I notice people holding signs to pick up Ken Watanabe and other executives, and I tell myself, “Yes, this is Cannes.”
Hints that I am at the biggest film festival in the world appear with increasing frequency. From the bus window I can see shops with the Cannes poster, women walking down the street in shiny Valentino, a barbershop called “Coiffure Nouvelle Vague,” and finally—the breathtaking view of “Le Palais,” where most of the films are screened.
After collecting my badge, I immediately run to the line for “Il Racconto Dei Racconti” (“Tale of Tales”) at 9 PM. I had already heard about how terrible the lines in the afternoon were, and the fact that Alan wasn’t admitted into screenings earlier today makes me more nervous. Luckily, the line for the evening screening isn’t too bad since it is already the day’s second screening of that film, and I get in without a problem. After around 350 journalists settle down in the Salle Bazin (the theater mainly used for repeat screenings), the projector buzzes and the opening animated credits for the festival start to play. When the logo “Festival de Cannes” appears on the screen, the whole theater bursts into thunderous applause.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “Tale of Tales”: “The film is an extremely visual piece—a collage full of bizarre monsters, towering mountains, grandiose castles, and exquisite costumes, full of many breathtaking moments.”
Day Two: Thursday, May 14th
ARX: At Cannes, sleep is for tourists with Cinephile badges, because there are too many press screenings in a day for a single human to physically go to, and they run from 8:30 AM to midnight. If you’re a holder of a yellow badge, you’d better be awake by 7:15 AM to get in line. Luckily, as several University of Pennsylvania students informed me today, there’s unlimited free espresso provided throughout the Palais. I part ways with the Penn students before noon when they head outside to beg for invitations to screenings. Most of the screenings admit badge-holders, especially press (in varying priority), but red carpet premieres in the Grand Théâtre Lumière are invitation-only—although certain press screenings in that venue do admit press based on availability. On the street, tens of people can be seen—mostly in formal attire—holding signs that read “Invitations s’il vous plait.”
We manage to secure seats for the press screening of “Mad Max: Fury Road,” and the Grand Théâtre Lumière is absolutely breathtaking. It has a capacity of over 2000 seats and features five catwalks on both sides of a stage decked out with over a hundred lights. The screen is so large that it could shame even the largest IMAX theatres in America. The seats are of a comfortable black cloth, separated by armrests of majestic red wood.

TVL: “Mad Max” is insane. When I talked to an Estonian film critic yesterday, she said, “It’s a little funny to say that, because it’s supposed to be about ‘art cinema,’ but I really want to watch ‘Mad Max.’ It looks so fucking good.” She immediately apologized for using the F-word, but then added that only that word could convey how awesome the trailers looked.
I haven’t met her again, but I am sure she is not disappointed, and “Mad Max” is worth more than one F-word. It’s rare that an audience in Lumière would applaud for a mainstream action film, but during “Mad Max” there are at least three rounds of huge applause after the breathtaking action sequences. When the film ends, some people shout “Bravo,” and when the name of director George Miller appears in the credits, there is another huge round of applause.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “Mad Max: Fury Road”: “Packed from the first minute with breathtaking and non-stop action sequences, it is so devastatingly and aggressively exciting that even the pickiest critic should applaud mastermind director George Miller.”
ARX: I take a moment to breathe in the afternoon at the special screening of “Hayored Lema’ala (Afterthought),” a debut film by Israeli director Elad Keidan. The wonderfully experimental black comedy explores various philosophical questions and is set on the Israeli port town of Haifa’s Carmel Mountain. It’s not typical Cannes fare compared to some of the other films we’ve seen in competition or in Un Certain Regard, but it’s still quite a trip—albeit a slow burn of a film.
Read more in Alan’s review of “Hayored Lema’ala”: “At times light-hearted and at others starkly depressing, the film takes a philosophical bent on modern Israeli life through the lens of two very different people united by coincidence.”
TVL: In the afternoon, I go to the press conference for “Tale of Tales.” Similar to screenings, high level badges always admit you first—and with a yellow badge, you will probably be rejected if you don’t queue up well before the event. In the conference room, there are staff members specifically in charge of picking journalists to ask questions and handing them microphones.
Salma Hayek is very talkative and well aware of how to deliver entertaining answers, so despite the presence of other big stars, including Vincent Cassel, she basically takes control of the whole event. A particularly interesting anecdote she mentions is about the weight of the costumes. In a scene where she chases her son through a labyrinth, the dress she wore weighed more than 30 kilograms. However, she had to run for 45 minutes from one room of the labyrinth to another room just next to it and had to do it many times for different shots. At last she couldn’t bear it, and the director had to ask the crew to push her over the wall to the second room.
At 4 PM is Hirokazu Koreeda’s “Umimachi Diary.” Although it had a press screening yesterday, today is the official world premiere. There is a red carpet event before the screening, and the cast and Koreeda sit together with the audience to enjoy the film. Normally, journalists are only allowed to attend press screenings, but considering the press screening yesterday was in Salle Bazin, which could only accommodate just over 300 people, this particular screening is open to all press. The film is as delicate and slow as most Koreeda films, and to be honest, after all the registration and orientation of yesterday, and the devastatingly exciting “Mad Max” earlier today, quite a number of people fell asleep.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “Umimachi Diary”: “The cinematography is beautiful, the performance is performances are easily connectable, and the pacing is natural. Koreeda shows his great power of observation when the emotional bonds of the characters are represented in or developed through the most tiny details like cooking or walking.”
ARX: Afterwards, I attended the opening ceremony of the festival’s Un Certain Regard section, held in Salle Debussy. This selection of films has its own jury and exists separately from the official films that are in competition for the Palme d’Or. The festival’s General Delegate, Thierry Frémaux, introduced the jury for Un Certain Regard before inviting the cast of “An” and its director Naomi Kawase onto the stage. After brief remarks, they joined us in watching the film.
Read more in Alan’s review of “An”: “When the characters converge, they learn something more about themselves, and even past the film’s bittersweet denouement, the rhythms of the seasons still relentlessly continue. Kawase’s slow-burn drama ultimately leaves an important moral—and like the titular dessert, it’s never too sweet.”
We concluded the day with a screening of “Saul Fia (Son of Saul),” a debut film from Hungarian director László Nemes. It was at once relentlessly captivating and undeniably horrifying, being a film about the Sonderkommando—specially designated Jewish prisoners who were forced to assist the Nazis in the day-to-day operations of their death camps. The film’s fast pace and unflinching portrayal of Holocaust horrors made it a truly intense finish to our second day. It was hard not to be struck by the sharp contrast between the brutality of the film and the raucous midnight debauchery all around us as we walked home.
Read more in Alan’s review of “Saul Fia”: “The film moves swiftly from one scene to the next, and the utterly unpredictable and horrifying events that seem to occur every other minute make it an unsettling yet unforgettable experience.”
Day Three: Friday, May 15th
TVL: When I first came to Cannes, a journalist warned me that I should not expect to sleep at all. In the day I would queue for and watch films, in the evening I would hang out and go to parties, and in the late hours of the night I would write. The only time I should sleep is when the films are boring—I could sleep in my seat.
What she said is quite true, but today Alan and I are so tired that we sleep past the starting time of “The Lobster,” a film in competition by Greek director Yorgos Lanthimos. We decide to stay in until the afternoon screening of “A Tale of Love and Darkness,” the directorial debut of Natalie Portman ’03. In retrospect it was a wise decision, because despite the film’s artistic merit, it was also quite slow and fragmented, and I would have probably fallen asleep. An old Israeli critic sitting next to me thinks it is not as good as the original novel, and he is very annoyed by the overuse of voice-over, but I am gladly surprised by the mature execution Portman showed in her debut.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “A Tale of Love and Darkness”: “It seems obvious that Portman has put a lot of work into establishing and maintaining her style, and, as a new director, she is surprisingly sophisticated in carrying it out. The film is solemn, contemplative, and full of references to the rich and often painful history of the Jewish race.”
ARX: In the evening, we went to a screening for Gus Van Sant’s “The Sea of Trees,” which stars Matthew McConaughey, Ken Watanabe, and Naomi Watts. We had heard that this film was highly controversial—it had actually been booed at its first press screening, an almost unheard-of occurrence. Although I ultimately thought that the film was beautiful (if at times emotionally exploitative and narratively simplistic), other members of the audience in our screening disagreed—the credits were met with a small chorus of disapproval.
Read more in Alan’s review of “The Sea of Trees”: “From breathtaking shots of the lush, green landscape to close-ups of the two men walking through the forest at night, ‘The Sea of Trees’ is still a visual spectacle to behold—just less Cannes fare than standard Hollywood.”
TVL: The red carpet event for “Mad Max” is held in the evening, and thousands of tourists and locals swarm to the Palais in mad enthusiasm, blocking the streets (there are armed police here every day to direct the traffic) and setting up ladders in order to see the stars. Tourists from the U.S. and everywhere in Europe come here in the hope of spotting Charlize Theron or Tom Hardy and are joined by lesser-known actors and actresses walking on the street in their shiny Dior dresses or Tom Ford tuxedos. In the evening, Aston Martins and Ferraris roar beside the beach, and streets are blocked once again by carnival crowds at the bars. Just like in “The Great Gatsby,” which kicked off the festival two years ago, Cannes is an enormous party.
Day Four: Saturday, May 16th
TVL: To start our fourth day, we watch “Mia madre (My Mother),” which turns out to set a high standard for the rest of the day’s screenings. Directed by Palme d’Or winner Nanni Moretti, it has the best things Italian movies have to offer: great rhythm in pacing and cinematography, an enchanting but not overdone performance, and a beautiful sense of sorrow and melancholy. Recently, there seems to be a resurgence of Italian films; “The Great Beauty” from two years ago, for instance, really amazed me (interestingly, its director Paolo Sorrentino is heavily influenced by Moretti). There are three Italian films in competition this year, and although “Tale of Tales” was merely all right, “Mia madre” is very well done. This also gives me more hope for Sorrentino’s new film “Youth,” which will screen on Wednesday.
Read more in Vincent's review of “Mia madre”: “With a well-written screenplay and a nuanced performance, ‘Mia madre’ is clearly a beautiful film with a lasting charm. Once again, it proves Moretti’s status as the greatest living representative of Italian cinema.”
ARX: We managed to catch a repeat screening of “The Lobster” at 11 AM in the Salle du Soixantième. I remember watching one of the director’s previous films, “Canine (Dogtooth),” several years ago during high school. The minimalist cinematography and lurid sexual overtones of that film were disturbing at the time; however, “The Lobster” is definitely a much more accessible art film. The absurdist satirical tone of the film reminded me a lot of the British television series “Black Mirror,” which satirizes our current relationship with technology through a variety of very interesting speculative scenarios.

Read more in Alan’s review of “The Lobster”: “From Greek writer-director Yorgos Lanthimos—also known for the lurid and provocative ‘Canine (Dogtooth)’—the cleverly written film is a hilarious, understated black comedy that explores the dangerous ramifications of in-group bias and conforming to labels.”
Immediately afterwards, we caught a repeat screening of Woody Allen’s new film “Irrational Man” in the same theater. We waited 30 minutes in line before being admitted—ample time to hit the newly discovered McDonald’s down the street—but unfortunately, the line was too long to order food before the screening. We did discover that an order of 20-piece Chicken McNuggets costs a little over nine Euro—twice the price back home, but a steal in Cannes.
“Irrational Man” turned out to be one of the best films we had seen so far in the festival. I’ve seen a couple of Allen’s newest films, such as “Blue Jasmine” and “Midnight in Paris,” but this film blows them out of the water. Its fast pace and excellent acting made it an extremely enjoyable experience, especially in contrast to the relatively slow films we have seen so far that have been in competition.
Read more in Alan’s review of “Irrational Man”: “Incomparably stylish and well-paced, Woody Allen’s newest film ‘Irrational Man’ concludes the writer-director’s ‘Dostoyevsky trilogy’ and marks a personal best in his career.”
The highlight of the day was surely the press conference for "The Sea of Trees." Director Gus Van Sant, as well as Matthew McConaughey and Naomi Watts, were present for a tense Q&A—the elephant in the room being the film's exceptionally poor critical reception the day before. Nonetheless, it was still a surreal experience to hear Matthew McConaughey talk in person—as someone who's been a fan of his ever since his romantic comedy days, it was incredible just to sit in the same room and listen to his Texas drawl.
TVL: After the press conference for “The Sea of Trees,” I attend the Director’s Fortnight screening of “As Mil E Uma Noites (Arabian Nights), Volume I: The Restless One.” Although I know the film has a lot of hype, I am still shocked by the line—taking up a whole street and then extending around the corner. Rumor has it that Cannes initially wanted “Arabian Nights” in competition, but since the piece is six hours in length, it was simply impossible to accommodate in the festival’s tight schedule. It ended up split into three parts in the Director’s Fortnight—a parallel unit of the festival—and is screened on three separate days.
There is a small introduction before the film given by director Miguel Gomes, a crazily cool guy who asks the whole cast to stand on the stage, introducing them one by one while cracking a lot of jokes. By this time, I already know “Arabian Nights” is going to be unusual, and although I think the critical press reception is a bit too enthusiastic, it is nonetheless a very interesting film.

Read more in Vincent's review of “Arabian Nights”: “‘Arabian Nights’ is perhaps the weirdest film at this year’s Festival de Cannes, and among the funniest. Only time will tell, however, if the film will become an all-time classic or collect dust on the shelf, regarded purely as a high-quality offbeat satire.”
Day Five: Sunday, May 17th
ARX: By this point, we've essentially mastered Cannes. We wake up every morning at 7:45 AM and arrive at the Palais within 30 minutes to secure ourselves seats for the 8:30 AM press screening of a competition film in the Grand Théâtre Lumière. There's a charming bakery down the street from our apartment, and we purchase two croissants every morning that we eat on our walk down to the Palais. This morning's screening is "Mon roi (My King)." It's embarrassing to admit, but I only recognized the film's star, Vincent Cassel, from a minor role role he played in "Ocean's 12." I'm pleasantly surprised by his dramatic range, and the film as a whole comes off as a very sophisticated romantic comedy-drama—certainly more enjoyable than American films of the same sort.
Read more in Alan's review of “Mon Roi”: “‘Mon Roi’ never ceases to draw empathy for its characters, and even in their greatest mistakes or most indulgent moments of self-pity, the actors give us a real reason to care.”
TVL: I have been excited for the whole day about the press conference for “Carol” because of the two leading stars. I was blown away by Rooney Mara’s acting and elegance when I watched David Fincher’s adaptation of “The Girl with Dragon Tattoo,” and Cate Blanchett—who doesn’t love Cate Blanchett? We get in line well before the beginning of the press conference and still barely manage to be admitted. Blanchett shows her great communication skills and intelligence in the conference, answering every question on point. Rooney Mara doesn’t speak much, but when asked about her nude scene in “Carol,” she replies frankly (and to great applause), “I’m nude quite often, so it’s not really a big deal.”
Afterwards, we attend the Un Certain Regard screening of “Nahid.” Although the overall style of this Iranian realist piece is somewhat predictable (which is to say, similar to the mass of Iranian realist films that followed after “A Separation” won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 2012), it is very well made, and the leading actress gives an impressive interpretation of a mother struggling in poverty and against the patriarchy.
Read more in Vincent's review of “Nahid”: “As a debut film, ‘Nahid’ is surprisingly mature and gives a vivid and realistic representation of a mother struggling within social restrains. It invites the audience to share Nahid’s worries, happiness, and troubles, and to ponder broader questions about modern societies.”
Day Six: Monday, May 18th
TVL: In general, the quality of the films in competition this year has been a bit disappointing. There hasn’t been anything as shocking as “Adieu au Langage” or “Antichrist,” or as fascinating as “Only Lovers Left Alive” or “La Vie d’Adèle.” However, starting from the fourth day, there has been a stable increase in the quality of the films, and today’s first film “La loi du marché (The Measure of a Man)” is another great surprise. I knew little about either the director or the main actor, but they do an amazing job in creating a plainly beautiful, touching, and unforgettable realist drama about the dignity of a man suffering from an economic crisis. It is reminiscent of works by the Dardenne brothers, or even “The Bicycle Thief,” and the leading actor, Vincent Lindon, definitely has a great chance at winning the festival’s Best Actor Award.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “La loi du marché”: “‘La loi du marché’ is a precise, direct, and profound depiction of the current European economic crisis, and it has great power in its understatement and extremely relatable story. It is almost ironic that it was shown at Cannes, where right outside the theater is a street full of sports cars and luxurious clubs.”
ARX: I have always been a huge fan of animation—foreign or domestic—and Pixar especially has a fond place in my heart (except for the merchandising scheme that was “Cars 2”). I have the utmost respect for Pete Docter because of his work on “Up,” which is one of my all-time favorite films. Although I was initially apprehensive about the seemingly reductive storyline of “Inside Out,” the film surprises me with its imagination and tenderness. The voice acting is impeccable—Amy Poehler, Bill Hader, Lewis Black, Mindy Kaling, and Phyllis Smith are all wonderful comedians, and they each bring a distinctive flair to their respective characters. I was moved by the film’s beautiful and minimalist piano theme, set to a heartwarming memory of the protagonist ice skating as a small child. Unsurprisingly, the score is composed by Michael Giacchino—the same composer who won an Oscar for his amazing work on “Up.” When the film ends, the Lumière bursts into loud applause that we haven’t seen at most screenings since “Mad Max” several days earlier.
Read more in Alan’s review of “Inside Out”: At times capable of evoking a profound sense of childlike wonder and loss, 'Inside Out’ does what Pixar does best—and the result is a thoughtful coming-of-age film that will leave children wide-eyed and adults wistful.”
The real treat of the afternoon is the “Inside Out” press conference, which features Pixar greats John Lasseter and Pete Docter as well as Amy Poehler, Phyllis Smith, and Mindy Kaling. The press conference room is surprisingly empty—apparently the art film crowd at Cannes is unfamiliar with American television stars. I manage to score the first question of the event, which I direct at Amy Poehler. I ask her about the similarities between her character Joy in the film and her role of Leslie Knope from “Parks and Recreation.” When I mention that I am from The Harvard Crimson, she smiles and cheers, “Go Boston!” As she answers my question, she jests, “I only do one character.” It was also an unbelievable and inspiring experience to hear John Lasseter and Pete Docter speak about their work in animation, especially how the industry has changed in the past 20 years after “Toy Story.”
TVL: We couldn’t get into the initial press screening of “Carol” because the line was incredibly long—and the minute after it concluded, rumor quickly spread that it was the best yet film of this year’s festival, receiving an incredible 3.5 out of 4 aggregate score in a daily festival publication (the second-highest being “Saul Fia” at 2.8 and the lowest being “The Sea of Trees” at 0.6). This builds up my expectations to an extremely high level, and to be honest, I am not let down. The film is beautifully shot, and every character’s emotions are delicately restrained. Director Todd Haynes completely transports us back to the ’50s, and the performances from Cate Blanchett and Rooney Mara are mesmerizing. Every time their eyes meet, it seems that even the air between them is frozen. Although the two films are different in many ways, “Carol” really reminds me of Wong Kar-wai’s 2000 film “In The Mood for Love.” Both are about a distant memory of a golden age, and both feature a love that is forbidden and restrained. Most importantly, both films are so beautiful that I want to take a screenshot of every single scene.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “Carol”: Todd Haynes’s ‘Carol’ is beautiful and nostalgic, like a call to a distant memory, or longing for a an unspeakable, hidden love. Its simplicity of plot belies a mastery of texture and mood that puts it head and shoulders above most modern romances.”
Day Seven: Tuesday, May 19th
ARX: I was initially intrigued by the selection of “Sicario” as a competition film, as it appeared to be a stereotypical Hollywood blockbuster action film about CIA intrigue starring several big-name stars. It turns out to be a completely different beast. Vincent puts it best—the film is sort of like “Zero Dark Thirty,” but about the Mexican drug cartels. We both think that the action scenes are very stylishly filmed without the typical excess of American action films. “Sicario” leaves me with a sense of dread; it forces the viewer to confront the daily horrors of the drug war from a perspective in which there is no moral high ground.
Read more in Alan’s review of “Sicario”: “Villeneuve smartly utilizes explosive action sequences like the film’s introductory scene very sparingly and to strong effect; he chooses to highlight the oftentimes unseen consequences of drug violence through the perspective of protagonist Kate Macy (Emily Blunt).”
My next screening is of a Korean thriller, “O Piseu (Office).” From the film’s extremely bloody first scene—which reminds me immediately of “Oldboy”—I can tell that I’m in for a treat. The director employs many horror film techniques and is a master of manipulating tension. Even though I’m exhausted from lack of sleep, the film never fails to keep my adrenaline pumping.
Read more in Alan’s review of “O Piseu”: “At certain points in the film, the line between reality and hallucinations becomes blurred, and it is unclear whether the fugitive Kim is actually lurking behind every corner. The office’s cubicles are transformed into a horrifying maze of blind spots, especially after work hours when the lights are dimmed and solitary characters are working overtime.”
I missed “Louder Than Bombs” earlier in the week because I was too tired, so I make up for it by catching a repeat screening today. This marks my third back-to-back film of the day. I’m interested in seeing Jesse Eisenberg in another serious dramatic role, especially because I enjoyed his performance in Richard Ayoade’s “The Double,” a Dostoyevsky adaptation. Director Joachim Trier has also sparked my interest, as he is a distant relation of the famous Lars von Trier. Although I found the ending of the film to be rather anticlimactic, it contained many very dazzling visuals and a few voice-over montages that were absolutely mesmerizing.
Read more in Alan’s review of “Louder Than Bombs”: “Memory is often intermingled with fantasy in juxtaposition to present-day reality, and scenes featuring the deceased Isabelle possess a lulling, dream-like quality.”
TVL: One of the most anticipated films in this year’s “Cannes Classics” selection is “Hitchcock/Truffaut,” a documentary inspired by a historical encounter between the two film masters. The two titular directors are both extremely loved in France and so the film is guaranteed to draw a huge crowd, but I am still shocked by the line outside the screening. The queue easily compares to that of any competition film, and since the festival has underestimated the hype, some crew members actually fail to find a seat and the festival staff is forced to make last-minute accommodations with the audience. The documentary itself is also very interesting, providing some rare insight into the works of Alfred Hitchcock.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “Hitchcock/Truffaut”: “As a film about filmmakers talking about filmmaking shown at the world’s biggest film festival, it is a great tribute to the Seventh Art.”
In the evening I see a Chinese film called “Shan He Gu Ren (Mountains May Depart).” I have been anticipating this film for a long time, especially because this is the only film from mainland China in competition. I enjoy the film very much but am surprised by how divided the critical reception is between Chinese and western media. While most western outlets have almost unanimously given positive reviews to this moving portrait of long-lasting family bonds that features an incredible performance from lead actress Zhao Tao, the majority of Chinese critics hate it. They think it’s clichéd and superficial and suspect that director Jia Zhangke has simply become a shrewd merchant who knows how to appeal to Western audiences. I can’t really explain this disconnect, and to some extent, I am suspicious whether my appreciation for this film means I have departed from my cultural roots.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “Shan He Gu Ren”: “Every story in the film happens at a time when China is experiencing huge changes, from economic growth to increasing trends of emigration. In many moments of the film, the director cleverly suggests the existence of a larger order of existence, and this cosmic force also serves as an important force that changes the life of the characters.”
Day Eight: Wednesday, May 20th
ARX: With yesterday’s exhaustively long schedule of screenings, today finally gives us a chance to breathe. After seven consecutive 20-hour days, during which we published 22 reviews, it is a well-deserved break. Of course, a break at Cannes simply means missing the 8:30 AM screening—I’m still up by noon, and Vincent arrives at the Palais long before me to attend several press conferences.
TVL: Although I go to the press conference of “Youth” thirty minutes ahead of time, I can’t get in because the line is incredible. Apparently, there is a lot of hype surrounding the film due to the director’s last work, “The Great Beauty,” a spectacular love song for Rome. I end up only being able to see Michael Caine pass by in a hurry, but this gives me plenty of time before the conference for “Shan He Gu Ren.”
In sharp contrast with “Youth,” the conference of “Shan He Gu Ren” has such poor attendance that the room is not filled up when it begins, and more than half of the press in attendance are from Chinese-speaking regions. Although I know the cast of the film is unknown to the western media, I am still a bit confounded because it received great reviews from both European and American critics.
ARX: Our first film of the day is “Marguerite & Julien,” a lurid French romance about a brother and sister in love. The film has certain fairy tale elements and at times is vaguely visually reminiscent of Wes Anderson. I thought the drama was very overdone and that “Mon roi” was a better love story, although Vincent disagrees.
TVL: I actually love how the drama is overdone. That, together with the modern elements in the film, makes the piece very theatrical. It reminds me of Baz Luhrmann’s “Romeo + Juliet,” but more polished and with a refined stylistic touch. I believe an important reason that it is a huge letdown for critics is that François Truffaut spent a lot of time on this project when he was alive, and what the film ends up being couldn’t be further from typical Truffaut films. However, I do think that this reflects director Valérie Donzelli’s courage and confidence.
Read more of this debate in Alan & Vincent’s review of “Marguerite & Julien.”
I have been looking forward to “Nie Yinniang (The Assassin)” for a long time, since Hou Hsiao-Hsien is one of my favorite directors, and he has been working on this film for the last seven years. Surprisingly, however, I do not enjoy it as much as I expected to. The relationships among the characters are confusing, and, while Hou’s movies are always slow, “Nie Yinniang” is slow in a disorienting way. I oftentimes don’t understand the emotions of characters featured in close-up shots or Hou’s intentions in empty shots. I can’t focus on the film and look around the room to see a good number of people asleep or leaving. However, when the film ends, there is also a round of enthusiastic applause and a number of people almost screaming “Bravo.” The film receives a very divided reception, and, though many people are as confused as I am, some of them still love the film anyway because of its wonderful cinematography. It is definitely a film that demands several viewings to fully understand.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “Nie Yinniang”: “As it turns out, though, the movie goes beyond previous films in Hou’s arthouse style. Most of the film is devoted to an understated study of the protagonist’s psychological struggle.”
Day Nine: Thursday, May 21st
ARX: As the festival winds down, we notice that the lines for morning screenings have grown shorter. Today’s line for “Dheepan” is the shortest we’ve seen yet. The film is surprisingly good—I didn’t expect to be so captivated by the director’s visual aesthetic or the lead actor’s performance. As we exit the Grand Théâtre Lumière, two different French television outlets interview me about my reaction to the film. I tell them a pet theory that I’ve developed about the film’s final scene, which I believe to be a dream sequence.
Read more in Alan’s review of “Dheepan”: “The dark, narrow corridors of the apartment buildings are an ironic setting of imprisonment for the former freedom fighter—indeed, Dheepan's only place of refuge is not the cramped ground-floor apartment he shares with his faux-family but a dimly lit utility room in the basement where he can drink and smoke in peace.”
TVL: I am a big fan of director Paolo Sorrentino’s works, especially his 2013 film “The Great Beauty,” so I have been looking forward to “Youth” for almost two years. However, I was very disappointed by the trailers and posters—because it seems that the film is going to be not only a repetition of “The Great Beauty” but also a terrible imitation of it. I do, however, really like the piece—and while it is indeed very similar to “The Great Beauty,” Sorrentino still shows his creativity and makes the film different.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “Youth”: “Most people in the hotel, though, are nevertheless obsessed with their youth in one way or other. The fat retired soccer player tries to pick up his craft again and is always delighted to give autographs. The washed-up actress wishes to stay relevant and is doing a TV series in Mexico. The protagonist Ballinger always talks about old anecdotes with his best buddy Boyle, remembering, among many things, all the beautiful women they did not have the chance to sleep with.”
ARX: I’ve been excited about “The Other Side” ever since the night I watched “An,” the film that opened the Un Certain Regard section. During the opening ceremony, the festival showed a trailer featuring a short scene from every film in Un Certain Regard. The scene from this film depicted several Americans with southern accents shooting rifles at a car spray painted with the words “Obama sucks ass.” As provocative as this scene was, I am definitely unprepared for the film’s explicit nudity and drug use. Quite a few people actually walk out during the screening.
Read more in Alan’s review of “The Other Side”: “Italian-born director and co-writer Roberto Minervini—who recently completed a trilogy of films about the state of Texas—zeroes in on a marginalized community to present an unadulterated and poetically tragic portrait of small-town America.”
However, when we later go to a screening of Gaspar Noé’s “Love,” I am fully prepared for nudity, and lots of it. The festival has been abuzz for days about how “Love” is essentially a two-hour pornographic film, and this hype attracts the longest line outside of the Salle du Soixantième that I’ve seen so far. And the rumors aren’t wrong—the film’s first scene is a lengthy and explicit sex scene, one out of so many others in the film that we ultimately lose track of their number. Excluding the gratuitous sex scenes, I really admire Noé’s aesthetic. There are many scenes where he quickly fades to black for a second before returning to the same shot, almost like a blink. In others, he shifts interchangeably between the past and present, with both scenes framed identically in terms of character positioning. Nonetheless, I find the sex scenes—which appear to be completely unsimulated by the actors—to be gratuitously lengthy. If Noé had perhaps written a tighter script with more likeable characters and spent more time in the editing room, this could have been a five star film. Even so, it’s still one of the most visually remarkable films of the festival.
TVL: It seems that Gasper Noé has become the new “enfant terrible” of the festival. His last film, “Enter The Void,” stirred great controversy at Cannes, and he is now back again in the Out of Competition section with an even more daring piece that is rumored to be 3D arthouse porn. This time, the whole festival goes crazy for him. There are fans everywhere begging for a ticket, and the line in front of Salle du Soixantième is the longest I have seen there. The film is worthy of the hype; it has amazing visuals and some of the most impressive shots I have seen at the festival. However, at the same time, its story is incredibly weak and at times grating and annoying.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “Love”: “It is full of crazily stylistic shots, blinding psychedelic lights and sets, non-chronological narratives, electronic music mixed with post-rock and Erik Satie, and, above all, almost one hour of hardcore sex scenes.”
Compared to “Love,” “Valley of Love” is a much more tender but also more mediocre film. As far as I can remember, this screening is the first time that the theater is not full for a competition film. There is also not much discussion about the film on Twitter. It is not a bad film however; it just doesn’t have much that really surprises or impresses the audience.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “Valley of Love”: “While the film's subplot of a recovering relationship is somewhat clichéd, the main actors’ performances make it much more believable and touching than it would be otherwise.”
Day Ten: Friday, May 22nd
ARX: This morning’s screening of “Chronic” features Tim Roth, whom I really liked in the Fox television series “Lie to Me.” He played a body language scientist who uses his ability to read microexpressions in consulting work for the police. The science of the show is based on the research of Paul Ekman, who interestingly also served as a consultant on “Inside Out.” I also enjoyed Tim Roth in “Reservoir Dogs” and the 2008 version of “The Incredible Hulk,” but I still wonder whether he will be convincing as the lead in a slow, arthouse drama. I’m not disappointed.
Read more in Alan’s review of “Chronic”: “It is captivating to watch Roth in this role, as his character demonstrates unwavering patience and tenderness throughout the film—displayed, for example, one scene in which he cleans excrement off of a patient’s buttocks.”
TVL: The last film in the Out of Competition section is “The Little Prince,” an animated adaptation of the well-known French children’s novel. Although its roots are in France, the English-language film is made by American studios with almost exclusively American voice actors. This French fairy tale becomes transformed into a much more typical Hollywood story. As a huge fan of the original book, I don’t really enjoy this change. The director adds a significant amount original story to the screenplay, not all of which is good. Nonetheless, the mix of stop-motion and digital animation is extremely beautiful.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “The Little Prince”: “The complex themes are pared down to a simple child versus grown-up binary, where all grown-ups are emotionless working machines and children are naïve angels. The delicate melancholy throughout the original work vanishes and gives way to a sweetened comedy.”
ARX: Our final screening of the evening ends up not working out. The line outside the Salle Bazin is the longest we’ve seen so far at the festival, so we decide to take the rest of the day off and go to the beach. The skies are a gorgeous blue and we manage to secure a spot on the warm sand right next to the Cinéma de la Plage. This is where the festival screens old films every night, and the screenings are always free and open to the public.

Day Eleven: Saturday, May 23rd
ARX: As we take our seats in the Grand Théâtre Lumière for the last time, it’s quite the bittersweet moment. Today’s screening of “Macbeth” is the final showing of a competition film, and I’m extremely excited because the film stars Michael Fassbender opposite Marion Cotillard. I’m not sure how to feel after the film ends, because some of the dialogue was hard to understand and the scriptwriters heavily edited the original text. However, the visuals are absolutely stunning. I can hear someone in the crowd yelling “Bravo” as we exit. However, an American journalist being interviewed in the hallway begs to differ: “Worst Shakespeare adaptation ever,” he says. “Absolutely terrible.”
Read more in Alan’s review of “Macbeth”: “The brooding film devotes much of its two-hour runtime to resplendent visuals, showcasing the Scottish highlands through a variety of dark colors and filters. As Macbeth slowly realizes his inevitable tragic fate, Kurzel shifts from the deep blues of the first act into a red, hellish landscape that mirrors the protagonist’s state of mind and soul.”
Most journalists at the Macbeth press conference disagree. They all have high praise for the film, and for Fassbender and Cotillard. Many are also amazed by the film’s incredible cinematography. When asked about the best and worst parts of shooting in Scotland, Fassbender replies, “Whiskey and whiskey.” He and Cotillard are both extremely elegant and poised, and they are even kind enough to stay for five minutes after the press conference to sign autographs and pose for selfies.

TVL: Now that all of the competition films have been shown, we will predict the awards that will be given at tomorrow’s closing ceremony. I think that this has not been the most exciting year for Cannes, as many films have turned out to be either bland or simply bad—but movies like “Carol,” “Nie Yinniang” and “Mia madre” have nonetheless stirred huge conversations within the film community and deserve to be recognized.
Palme d’Or: “Nie Yinniang (The Assassin).” First of all, “Nie Yinniang” is probably the most positively reviewed movie this year, and there's a lot of hype surrounding this breathtakingly beautiful Taiwanese epic. Moreover, even though Hou Hsiao-Hsien is one of the most important figures in Asian cinema, he has never won a Palme. The jury may take this chance to pay homage to him. The biggest uncertainty, however, comes from the fact that a large portion of the jury is American or British, and so they are accustomed to cinema heavily influenced by the dramatic tradition. They may not appreciate a film that emphasizes visuals over story as much as they should.
Grand Prix: “Shan He Gu Ren (Mountains May Depart).” Jia Zhang-Ke’s new film is interesting and original, but may not be not good enough for the Palme, so it makes sense for it to take the so-called “second prize” at Cannes. Additionally, “Shan He Gu Ren” is similar in style to the works of several of the directors in the jury, especially those of Xavier Dolan, whose last movie, “Mommy,” tells a comparable story. Therefore, the jury will probably not let the film leave without a significant award. Apart from the Grand Prix, there is no important award suitable for “Shan He Gu Ren.”
Jury award: “Saul Fia.” This film is one of the biggest highlights of this year's Cannes, and it will likely win the Jury award. Often interpreted as the “encouragement award,” the jury award is for films that are not necessarily perfect but that show a lot of potential. “Saul Fia” is unique, but it also has some obvious flaws, so this award is the right place for it.
Best Director: Nanni Moretti, “Mia madre.” Having won a Palme d'Or already, Moretti is one of the most respected and talented directors in the world; he evidently heavily influenced both directors of the other two Italian movies at Cannes this year, “Tale of Tales and “Youth.” With another brilliant and touching piece at this year’s festival, he is the ideal candidate for this award.
Best Actor: Vincent Lindon, “La loi du marché.” Lindon gives arguably the best performance of his career with a nuanced and sympathetic interpretation of an ordinary man suffering from an economic crisis. “La loi du marché” is one of the few films in this year’s Cannes that completely focuses on a male protagonist, and the fact that it is a French film is definitely a plus at Cannes.
Best Actress (joint): Cate Blanchett and Rooney Mara, “Carol.” It is likely that the two stars of “Carol” will win this award together. They presented brilliant and inseparable performances, and their film was made to let them shine. It’s hard not to think of the duo immediately when considering the Best Actress award.
Best Screenplay: The Lobster. “The Lobster” has a very interesting setting and presents a complex worldview. Its screenplay is full of satire and wisdom, and Best Screenplay is the appropriate accolade for this weird but impressive film.
ARX: I agree with Vincent on some points—I really enjoyed the dark humor of “The Lobster,” and it’s likely that the jury, which is led by the darkly comedic Coen brothers, will recognize it for some award. I would add that Tim Roth in “Chronic” and Michael Caine in “Youth” are also favorites for Best Actor.
Palme d’Or: “Carol.” As one of the most balanced and polished films of the festival, “Carol” is likely a shoo-in for the Palme d’Or. At least five members of the jury hail from North America or the United Kingdom, and it’s likely that this English language film will hit their sweet spot. Its beautiful direction, combined with solid performances by Cate Blanchett and Rooney Mara, make it a safe choice compared to other candidates, such as “Nie Yinniang,” which may not be able to gain a consensus among the jury despite its visual brilliance.
Grand Prix: “Nie Yinniang.” Hou Hsiao-Hsien’s most recent film was beloved by most critics, and the Grand Prix would be a solid compromise between those who think it deserves the Palme and those who might not have found its understated acting or focus on cinematography very compelling.
Jury award: “Saul Fia.” It’s rare that the Palme d’Or has gone to a debut film like “Saul Fia,” but it still received excellent reviews that make it a solid contender for an award. It debuted early in the festival and stunned many—including myself—with its unflinching portrayal of the Holocaust. With such stiff competition this year, it’s likely that the jury will choose to recognize “Saul Fia” with the Jury award.
Best Director: Justin Kerzel, “Macbeth.” In a tough field dominated by greats like Hou Hsiao-Hsien and Paolo Sorrentino, the jury might choose to recognize the lesser-known Justin Kerzel for his fantastic work on “Macbeth.” He’s not as obvious a choice as Hou Hsiao-Hsien, but the jury can only give one award per film and will likely choose to honor his film with a higher award.
Best Actor: Tim Roth, “Chronic.” Vincent Lindon, Michael Caine, and Tim Roth are the three names currently being discussed for this award. Both Lindon and Roth deliver very nuanced, understated performances in similar realist dramas, but I enjoyed Roth’s more, as his film’s screenplay gave him greater room to shine.
Best Actress: Emmanuelle Bercot, “Mon roi.” Bercot’s performance has divided critics, with some calling it over-the-top and others praising its emotional range. I found it to be one of the better female performances, although the duo of Cate Blanchett and Rooney Mara is also a huge contender for a joint award. However, “Carol” is likely to pick up a higher award like the Palme. Margherita Buy in “Mia madre” and Zhao Tao in “Shan He Gu Ren” are also contenders, but I found Bercot’s performance more compelling than Buy’s and Tao’s performance to be limited by the overly ambitious narrative of “Shan He Gu Ren.”
Best Screenplay: “The Lobster.” Although perhaps too strange or dark to be recognized for any of the major prizes, Yorgos Lanthimos’s satirical comedy is very well written and has been praised by critics. The Coen brothers might have a strong affinity for this type of film, and, given the high quality of the films above, could choose to honor it with this award.
Day Twelve: Sunday, May 24th
TVL: In a grand closing ceremony, the long awaited results of the 2015 Festival de Cannes were announced, with quite a few surprises. Following is the full list of the awards.
Palme d’Or: “Dheepan”
Grand Prix: “Saul Fia”
Jury award: “The Lobster”
Best Director: Hou Hsiao-Hsien, “Nie Yinniang”
Best Actor: Vincent Lindon, “La loi du marché”
Best Actress (joint): Rooney Mara, “Carol,” and Emmanuelle Bercot, “Mon roi”
Best Screenplay : “Chronic”
Many media outlets have described the victory of “Dheepan” as a shock, and I myself am still curious why the jury chose the film. While it is a beautiful and poignant work, its last thirty minutes have many obvious flaws, and its overall quality is matched, if not surpassed, by many other films.
I thought the Best Director award would go to Nanni Moretti, but instead it went to another veteran director, Hou Hsiao-Hsien. While Hou’s delicate new film “Nie Yinniang” is definitely worthy of the award, it also means that all three Italian films at this year’s Cannes went home empty-handed. This is rather surprising, because both “Youth” and “Mia madre” have received very positive reviews.
However, it is unsurprising that “Saul Fia” won the Grand Prix or that Vincent Lindon won Best Actor, as they are both very deserving of these awards. In contrast, the decision for the Best Actress award was a bit unusual. According to many media outlets, the leading candidate was Cate Blanchett, but the award was instead given to her “Carol” co-star Rooney Mara together with the French actress Emmanuelle Bercot for “Mon roi” (Bercot also directed the festival’s opening movie, “La Tête Haute”). In my opinion, Blanchett’s performance in “Carol” was widely lauded partly because the role itself was impressively written. Both Mara and Bercot did a splendid job even within the narrowly written constraints of their characters, and this may be why they were awarded the prize instead of Blanchett.
ARX: I was pleased by the fact that “The Lobster” was recognized with the Jury award, and it wasn’t too big of a shock that “Saul Fia” was awarded the Grand Prix. I found the choice of “Dheepan” for the Palme d’Or to be interesting—it was an excellent film that had a decent shot, but, given other contenders, such as “Carol” and “Nie Yinniang,” I had written it off. “Chronic” definitely deserved the Best Screenplay award—it was a meticulously structured and well-written film. Vincent was also correct that Vincent Lindon would take the Best Actor award, but I was surprised that they chose to split the Best Actress award between both Emmanuelle Bercot and Rooney Mara, leaving out Cate Blanchett.
It has been an incredible experience watching this year’s best films from around the world, and I’m looking forward to hearing about them once again when Oscar season approaches. I still can’t believe that we Vincent and I were able to meet acting legends like Matthew McConaughey and Marion Cotillard, directors like Pete Docter and Gus Van Sant, and many more extremely talented individuals whom I have always admired. After 12 grueling days and a prolific 31 reviews (plus a few trips to the beach), Vincent and I are ready for a well-deserved break from watching films.
After the evening’s award ceremony, we make our final walk home before leaving Cannes the next morning. The bars that line the narrow, winding streets of this seaside town have quieted, and noisy patrons no longer overflow onto the boulevard with impassable density. I recall one reporter we spoke to during the festival who mentioned that she had been covering Cannes for more than 25 years—equivalent to more than a full year of her life solely dedicated to watching films and writing reviews. Our exciting and eventful first year has certainly been a demanding baptism by fire, but that’s a track record we can only dream of surpassing.
—Staff writers Alan R. Xie and Tianxing V. Lan can be reached at alan.xie@thecrimson.com and tianxing.lan@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard likes to pride itself on its financial accessibility, the generosity of its aid packages, and the socioeconomic diversity of its classes (though there is of course still much progress to be made). These are good and worthy goals, and that perhaps explains why it is so sobering each and every time the University falls short. The Crimson’s recent article highlighting the financial cost of textbooks is one such example. Many low-income students—as well as many students not on financial aid—feel pressured to take classes with less expensive course materials to avoid undue pecuniary burdens. We believe the best path forward is for Harvard to incorporate textbooks into the cost of tuition, enabling students to make need-blind academic decisions.
As a liberal arts university, Harvard endeavors to enable students to explore, discover, and learn in a wide range of subjects—this is the motivation behind the Program in General Education; the University’s philosophy is one that encourages broad-based learning and celebrates all disciplines, no matter how obscure. Freshmen are encouraged to try new things, to experiment, and to move beyond their comfort zone. College, as the theory goes, is a time of new people, new ideas, and new perspectives.
That ethos is at the heart of much of what Harvard does. Unfortunately, it is all too easy to overlook the seemingly minor roadblocks that needlessly circumscribe that ethic. Textbooks are a clear example: By placing a different financial cost on each course, the University inadvertently pushes students away from courses with pricey textbooks and course materials, funneling them instead toward less expensive courses. In short, the costs of textbooks are too often preventing students from pursuing their passions.
While financial aid does cover textbooks, to consider that a panacea would assume that those not covered have no financial considerations whatsoever. The reality is that for many Harvard students of many income backgrounds, monetary concerns are a serious worry; as an example, the extraordinary cost of The Principles of Economics (written by N. Gregory Mankiw, chair of the Economics Department) might be enough to dissuade a freshman from pursuing introductory economics. Our current system thus effectively provides a tiered system where academic flexibility is only available to those with the means to pursue it.
We believe that Harvard should price textbooks into tuition and provide them free of charge at the start of each semester. For lower-income students, standard financial aid considerations would apply. Removing the financial differential between classes would remove the economic worries of taking classes such as Economics 10. Indeed, despite the increase in stated tuition, the actual cost borne by each family would remain constant given that textbooks today are either priced into financial aid or paid for out of pocket.
As we have stated many times in the past, Harvard’s financial aid program is critical. We must not rest on our laurels, however, content in the knowledge that we have achieved a modicum of socioeconomic diversity; rather, it is imperative that Harvard work to eliminate the areas in which family wealth still matters. When it comes to textbooks and the academic experience, it is time to take the next step forward.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Untangling the jumbled knot that is America’s immigration policy has proven to be a difficult task. Every time a party attempts to unravel it, the knot only seems to further tighten.
President Obama’s recent executive actions  protect a significant population of illegal immigrants. His decisiveness deserves applause—he successfully circumvented a deadlocked Congress and avoided the ping-pong tournament that almost every congressional debate has become.
However, what remains concerning is that immigration discourse nowadays is usually centered on illegal, and not legal immigration. This perpetuates the stagnant and outdated employment-based legal immigration process.
The most absurd part of the employment-based immigration system is that it authorizes a per country cap on annual green card allotment. In other words, out of the 140,000 employment-based green cards that the U.S. gives out each year, each country is capped at 7%. Oversubscribed countries like India, China, and the Philippines suffer extensive backlogs because of this cap. The consequences of this on the day-to-day life of employment-based immigrants from these countries is significant as they become entrenched in a state of limbo, waiting years and years for their green card application to be reviewed.
My Indian-born family falls under the Employment-Based Immigration category.  We moved to the United States from Canada in the early 2000s, after my mother was offered a job by the New York City Department of Education. Years later, while most other international recruits hired in the same year have already received their green cards or have even become U.S. citizens, my family’s application for a green card is put on a separate Indian-born queue. Year after year, as we pay taxes, contribute to the economy, pay off our mortgage, and celebrate Independence Day, we also check our mailbox for any news of our green card application. Year after year, the mailbox is empty.
In an op-ed titled “Why I Acted on Immigration” published by the White House, President Obama argued: “What makes us Americans is our shared commitment to an ideal, that all of us are created equal and all of us have the chance to make of our lives what we will.” Obviously, for illegal immigrants, such was not the case—the looming, unfair threat of deportation paralyzed and prevented illegal immigrants from having, to paraphrase the president, a fair chance to make of their lives what they will.
But these same words can be applied to the employment-based legal immigrants of the EB3 category: if all of us are created equal, why is that an Indian EB-3 immigrant applying for a green card on the same date as an EB-3 immigrant from Denmark working in the same firm with the same job will wait years more than the Dane? Why should Chinese or Filipino applicants have to wait longer for the benefits of citizenship to kick in, even if they moved to the United States years before EB green-card applicants from other parts of the world?
In fact, according to a report by the National Foundation for American Policy, “a highly skilled Indian national sponsored today for an employment-based immigrant visa in the 3rd preference could wait potentially 70 years to receive a green card.”
Distribution of EB-based green cards should be on a first-come, first-served basis, not our current system that discriminates based on country of origin. America’s employment laws are crafted to prevent discrimination, especially discrimination based on race or country of origin. In fact, title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits employment discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex or national origin. Our current system blatantly violates the spirit of this act.
One counterargument is that because the H1B visa process (the temporary work visas US companies are allowed to issue foreign workers and on which many EB immigrants first come to America) are not based on country-specific quotas, the US is not discriminating. But that is precisely the concern–the fact that America does not have any problem offering work visas to employees of any nationality, but when it comes to offering workers the benefit (or perhaps even right) of a green card, certain discriminatory processes come into play. There is no logic in insisting that America has an interest in making the permanent residency track easier for those who happen to be born in countries with lower number of employment-based immigrants, because the EB category does not have the same purpose as the diversity lottery immigration system.
For many EB immigrants frustrated with the green card backlog, the grass isn’t greener in America. Stripped of basic rights and securities that green cards provide, these EB immigrants soon come to realize that the pursuit of green is perhaps not worth it – leading to significant populations migrating back to their countries of origin. But if America wants its economic status to have a green light, it must resynchronize its EB green card policies with its economic goals and eliminate the per country EB green card cap.
Risham Dhillon ’18 is a Crimson editorial writer in Stoughton Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 13, 2015, at 1:36 p.m.
This year, Harvard accepted 5.3 percent of applicants. As society places ever-more value on higher education, perhaps we should take a moment to reflect on an admissions process that works through excluding.
In 2014, a legal defense group called Project on Fair Representation filed a lawsuit against numerous elite colleges, including Harvard, claiming that the colleges are “employing racially and ethnically discriminatory policies” through their admissions processes. The suit comes after the group launched a site seeking students who believed they had been denied admission to Harvard because of their race. Asian Americans were specifically cited as a population facing discrimination.
Harvard’s reported enrollment of Asian Americans began gradually declining from 20.6 percent in 1993 to about 16.5 percent over the past decade, and Asian Americans, according to one estimate, must outperform Whites and Hispanics by 140 and 280 points, respectively, on the SAT (1600-scale) to gain admission to elite colleges. It is disparities like this that give rise to allegations of an unofficial quota on Asian Americans in Ivy League admissions.
In response, Harvard has vigorously denied any racial discrimination beyond the “holistic” affirmative action policies it openly admits to, which take race into account as a way of building a diverse student body.
As a student organization dedicated to serving the Asian American community, we detest the use of an unofficial quota in university admissions. However, two preliminary points should be noted.
First, many datasets being analyzed are awful, and we may not get a clear picture of the state of college admissions until Universities release internal admissions statistics. Some conclusions are drawn indirectly from the racial gap in admitted students; other datasets are painstakingly patched together through comprehensive last name analysis of applicant pools.  This problem is exacerbated by the fact that a growing number of applicants, perhaps pre-empting possible discrimination, are opting not to disclose their race on their application. On top of that, it is difficult to objectively judge who “deserves” to get into a top college.
Second, no one individual can ever know the precise reason they were rejected without access to internal admissions documents. Since the criteria used to judge applicants is opaque, so too is judgment of the outcomes of those decisions.
Each of these factors makes this hot-button issue ever more complicated. When facts are elusive and emotions run hot, it’s easy to gravitate towards convenient narratives that fuel dogmatism and division. Or just shrug and say, “I don’t know.”
We don’t know exactly what is going on behind the closed doors of admissions offices. We do know that any racial “quota” would be racist, unfair, and reminiscent of the much-maligned Jewish quotas of the early twentieth century.
This is not to say that we are necessarily against the oft-touted “holistic” admissions process. As students ourselves who have benefited from the diversity of perspectives at Harvard, we see the importance of actively promoting diversity through affirmative action. Moreover, we agree that a test score cannot necessarily convey the intricate modalities of thought marked by true intelligence. We are only against holistic admissions if it is a euphemism for unofficial racial quotas.
Importantly, there are multiple ways in which an admissions policy might be thought to be discriminatory. On the one hand, it might be that Asian American applicants must meet higher SAT standards because they tend to underperform in other aspects (say, leadership or athleticism) rightly emphasized by a holistic admission process. On the other hand, it might be that Asian American applicants must meet higher SAT standards simply because Harvard—perhaps in pursuit of racial diversity—caps the proportion of Asian Americans in the student body. We are ambivalent about the former type of discrimination. But we decry the latter.
Harvard should, too. As a place that values freedom of thought, meritocracy, and the furthering of human knowledge, it makes sense that some underrepresented racial minorities are aided through affirmative action. Having viewpoints informed by different geo-cultural backgrounds expands the intellectual playing field and increases the efficiency of the marketplace of ideas, making it more difficult to survive on dogmatism through isolation.
But there is a sense in which racial diversity is only skin deep. We must also value diversity of interests, of hobbies, of intellectual pursuits, of backgrounds, of culture, of economic status, of citizenship, and so forth–enduring traits that define the quality of our character. A racial quota means undermining genuine diversity for superficial diversity, diversity of thought for diversity of skin. One can take race into account for historically oppressed and underrepresented minorities without having fixed racial ratios for everyone else.
It is hard to reach a satisfying conclusion about an issue fraught with so many uncertainties, but we hope that the debate can move beyond groundless accusations toward an objective, fact-finding search for truth. Universities, for their part, can help by promoting greater transparency within their admissions process, and releasing the ethnographic statistics of their applicant pool.
We wish that Harvard were large enough to accommodate all who wish to study here. Given that it isn’t, we should work to ensure that the available spots are accorded to those who most deserve them.
Geoffrey B. Kristof '17, Gregory D. Kristof '15, Christopher A. Miao '16, and Min-Woo S. Park '16 serve on the  Board of Directors of the Asian American Brotherhood. They here represent the position of AAB as a whole. Geoffrey B. Kristof is an inactive Crimson editorial writer.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: May 13, 2015
An earlier tagline for this op-ed misstated the class years of Christopher A. Miao and Min-Woo S. Park. In fact, Miao and Park are both members of the Class of 2016.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Associate professors Ruth Bielfeldt and Sarah S. Richardson were awarded the annual Roslyn Abramson Award for excellence in undergraduate teaching last week.
The award is given to two junior professors from the Faculty of Arts and Sciences each year and comes with a monetary reward of $10,000. The award was originally established by Edward M. Abramson ’57 in honor of his mother.
Richardson, who currently serves as an associate professor in the History of Science Department and the Committee on Degrees in Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality, said she was “utterly floored” to be recognized.
“Like everyone here, I pour my heart into teaching,” Richardson said.
She currently studies the history of maternal fetal science and plans to author a book on the subject in the future. According to Richardson, the field of fetal science is interesting because it encourages people to think about the human body in a completely different way, and because it “poses a different picture of history of life sciences in the twenty-first century.”
“It’s just fascinating, and it’s a field that has changed incredibly in the past 100 years or so,” Richardson said. With the $10,000, she hopes to fund travel and research over the summer, as well as to continue to write her book.
“It’s very, very, welcome,” she said.
Bielfeldt, an associate professor in the Classics Department, teaches “courses in the art and archaeology of the classical world,” according to her faculty page.
“When I write a monograph I write it with an ideal reader in my mind, knowing that he [or] she may not exist in real life,” Bielfeldt wrote in an email. “ When I teach at this university my ideal audience is always my actual one—Harvard’s students. This is why I am so thrilled.”
With the prize money, Bielfeldt wrote that she hopes to fund a project studying “largely forgotten and unpublished” objects from Pompeii and Naples, two towns with ruins from the Roman Empire.
“We need to study the material in Naples and Pompeii, and the extra funding is highly appreciated,” she added.
—Staff writer Jalin P. Cunningham can be reached at jalincunningham@college.harvard.edu. Follow her on Twitter @JalinCunningham.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Officers from the Cambridge Police Department responded to an assault in progress in Harvard Square at about 11 p.m. last Saturday night, according to a CPD report.
The victim, a homeless man who normally stays at the Boston emergency shelter Pine Street Inn, was kicked and punched by several other homeless men who fled the scene before police could arrive, according to the report.
“I was asleep when three or four guys jumped me,” said the victim, according the police report. “They were kicking me in the head and punching me.”
When police arrived, the victim was reportedly bleeding from the mouth, and had sustained recent bruising to the head.
No description of the assailants was obtained from the victim. However, the CPD dispatch informed the attending officers that the assailants may have been accompanied by some pit bull dogs, the report said. The victim said he never got a look at the men who assaulted him. Officers searched the area, but were unable to locate any potential suspects.
—Staff writer Brett Dowling can be reached at brett.dowling@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @brettjd1996.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Robert C. Darnton ’60, the Harvard University librarian and a University professor, will step down from his post in Wadsworth House on June 30 after an eight-year tenure at the helm of Harvard’s library system, which recently saw a move toward digitization.
Darnton’s departure comes after a time of considerable change in the library system. In 2012, Harvard consolidated the University’s libraries’ services into a central organization, creating a single online portal for Harvard’s vast network of libraries. The restructuring drew controversy from some Harvard employees over cuts to staffing.
“Things look good. Harvard Library I think is going through a very healthy stage, so I can retire feeling happy,” Darnton said.
He particularly looks to Vice President for the Library Sarah E. Thomas, who came to Harvard in 2013, as a key administrator in the library’s future. Thomas described her role as “setting strategy and priorities and policies” for Harvard’s libraries while, as University librarian, Thomas said Darnton served as a “scholar who has provided leadership for the library.”
Danton said he notified University President Drew G. Faust a couple of years ago about his intention to leave.
“I’m going to stay here and devote the rest of my life to research and writing, as well as seeing friends and children and grandchildren and enjoying life,” Darnton said.
One of Darnton’s biggest projects during his time as University librarian was the creation of the Digital Public Library of America, which aims to digitize and make publicly available much of the scholarly collections at Harvard and other universities. He called it the “greatest thing in which I’ve been involved” during his time at Harvard.
“It’s a way for us at Harvard to share our intellectual wealth with the rest of the world,” Darnton said. “We’ve got the greatest university library, by far, anywhere, but I see it as something, that should, in a sense, belong to everyone, even though, of course, formally it belongs to the faculty and students at Harvard and the Corporation.”
Darnton’s colleagues lauded his ability to engage the digital medium and his work to broaden access to scholarly materials, citing the creation of the Digital Access to Scholarship at Harvard. Classics Professor Kathleen M. Coleman called him a “tireless advocate for open access," and English professor James T. Engell '73 lauded Darnton as “a champion of the record of the human experience.”
“That’s the rare thing: He’s a multi-ideaed library person. He has a sense of the advantages and the problems facing all [print and digital], including also the question of periodical publication and the desire for more open access in the scholarly world,” Engell said.
This ability to combine and mediate two seemingly disparate trends in the library world—digital and print—is not isolated to his work as a librarian; once he leaves his position, Darnton said he hopes to continue working on a book that will be a “hybrid” between the digital and the print. Not only will he write a print version of the text, but he has already started posting much of his source material online, and he hopes to effectively integrate the two mediums.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
An interim report that detailed the failings of the College’s program in General Education has prompted faculty members to critique how their peers teach and assess undergraduate students more broadly.
The Gen Ed Review Committee, whose members shared the report’s findings at the Faculty of Arts and Sciences meeting last week, found that the current Gen Ed program had too many requirements, unfocused courses, and lack of both faculty investment and financial and administrative support.
In interviews since the Faculty meeting, some professors praised the committee for writing what they described as a blunt report and said the critiques of Gen Ed are part of a broader discussion about how Harvard could better educate its undergraduates.
“In my experience here, it’s very easy for faculty and administration to be sort of bluntly honest with each other when we’re in private,” said Edward J. Hall, a Philosophy professor and the faculty chair of the Committee on General Education, which is separate from the group that drafted the report. “That’s really distinctive.”
“[The public spotlight] can make people be cautious, and [one] could easily, under different leadership..., imagine the review committee being kind of cautious and...issuing some kind of bland report that wouldn’t stir people up,” Hall added. “And they didn’t do that.”
At the meeting, faculty members voiced their concerns about the Gen Ed program, echoing the interim report’s findings. While some focused specifically on the need for better taught and more focused Gen Ed courses and others discussed problems with counting departmental courses for Gen Ed credit, professors on the whole critiqued the current program.
“Everyone seemed to agree that the program is broken and needs fixing,” Comparative Literature Department chair David Damrosch said.
Those conversations, faculty members say, have continued since the meeting—and they have broadened to a more general discussion about ways that undergraduate education at Harvard could improve.
“[The Faculty meeting was] obviously the first step of what’s going to be a long discussion, to be carried out next year,” Hall said.
The discussions include a variety of aspects of undergraduate education. In particular, according to faculty members, they and their peers are raising questions about grade inflation, the quality of teaching fellows, course sizes, and differences among the College’s academic departments.
Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris, for example, said that “the student obsession with grades” and “the way we fund graduate students” continue to be prominent conversation topics.
Damrosch, for his part, spoke about the value of capping Gen Ed courses to make for what he called a better academic experience. “I, in particular, feel that class size is really, really important and that what we do not need is courses with four or 500 people,” Damrosch said.
Reassessing departmental priorities also features into the discussions, said Philosophy Department chair Sean D. Kelly, who chairs the committee tasked with reviewing Gen Ed. Some departments’ desires to attract greater numbers of students, for example, have overshadowed the Gen Ed program’s founding educative principles, Kelly said.
“Individual faculty members started to think of the program...in terms of the enrollments that it was going to produce for their departments,” he said. “When the disciplinary motivations are producing the [Gen Ed] categories...then it’s clear that they’re not going to mesh well.”
History professor Niall C.D. Ferguson at the meeting shared his contempt for the current Gen Ed program as symptomatic of his cynicism toward aspects of undergraduate academics. In an interview, Ferguson said he sees "a system that encourages undergraduates" to take easy courses for their GPA.
“I just think that’s really deeply wrong," he said.
The conversations prompted by the interim report and subsequent discussions about the goals of undergraduate education, however, represent the first step in fixing the problems, according to Hall. Hall said Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana recently has been “putting undergraduate education front and center.”
“You could imagine someone being cynical and saying, ‘Well…[undergraduate education at Harvard is] sort of an extended finishing school,’” Hall said. “Nobody really thinks that, but to ask that question bluntly, ‘Why are we doing what we’re doing?’ I think has been really healthy for the community.”
—Staff writer Melissa C. Rodman can be reached at melissa.rodman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @melissa_rodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In her latest travel stop as part of the “Your Harvard” event series for Harvard's ongoing capital campaign, University President Drew G. Faust visited Chicago last week to promote the University’s research initiatives and host discussions with Harvard affiliates.
In a speech to event attendees, Faust discussed the historical connection between Chicago and Harvard, noting that the city has the longest continuously operating alumni club, founded in 1857.
Faust, for her part, lauded the Harvard Club of Chicago’s recent work to help raise money to restore Johnston Gate, as well as an $150 million gift last year from Kenneth C. Griffin ’89. $125 million of his gift went to financial aid, and the financial aid office and its executive directorship were renamed in his honor.
“Johnston Gate—the structure that perhaps most symbolizes entry to our community—was made possible by a very generous gift from a Chicagoan,” Faust said, according to a press release. “And last year, thanks to an extraordinary gift from another Chicagoan, [Griffin,] we are able to open those gates, literally and figuratively, to more students—some 800 undergraduates each year—regardless of their financial circumstances."
Chicago is just one of many stops that Faust has made as she has canvassed for the capital campaign. In March, she visited Beijing for another “Your Harvard” event and to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping to discuss climate change. Last year, she visited Dallas, Mexico City, New York City, Los Angeles, and London.
In 2013, Harvard launched its most ambitious fundraising campaign with a goal of $6.5 billion—a figure that, if reached, would set the record for the largest single capital campaign in higher education, beating out Stanford’s previous 2011 record of $6.2 billion. In February, the total number of gifts and pledges to Harvard reached $5 billion.
At the event, Harvard Corporation Treasurer Paul J. Finnegan ’75 also moderated a discussion centered on economic mobility with Economics professor Raj Chetty ’00 and Graduate School of Education professor Bridget T. Long.
Chetty said economic mobility depends particularly on where people grow up, according to the press release, pointing to low levels of income inequality and violent crime as well as high levels of two-parent households and good public schools as factors that facilitate upward mobility.
Long said that when financial aid forms, such as the widely used Free Application for Federal Student Aid, are simplified and shortened, they can help increase college enrollment in low-income families.
—Staff writer Theodore R. Delwiche can be reached at theodore.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @trdelwic.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 14, 2015, at 12:20 a.m.
Students from environmental activist group Divest Harvard reassumed their positions in front of Massachussetts Hall on Wednesday morning, blocking entrances to the administrative building for the second time this semester in protest of the appointment of new University Chief Financial Officer Thomas J. Hollister, who is a former oil executive.
Around 30 protesters calling Harvard to divest its $35.9 billion endowment from fossil fuels blocked the three entrances to the building—which houses the offices of top Harvard administrators including University President Drew G. Faust—at 6:45 a.m. The group was still there late Wednesday morning.
In April, the group staged a continuous weeklong blockade of Mass. Hall. Protesters also staged a sit-in at the Harvard Alumni Association and blocked entrances to University Hall—another administrative building in the Yard—for part of that time.
Faust, who has been repeatedly inconvenienced by the protesters, has maintained that the University should not divest, arguing that Harvard focuses its efforts to address climate change through research and teaching.University spokesperson Jeff Neal wrote in a statement that Harvard administrators “respectfully disagree on the means by which a university should confront [climate change].”
“We would hope that the advocates for divestment might recognize and respect the reasonableness of other views even as they vigorously express their own,” Neal wrote.
Hollister formerly served as the chief operating officer and chief financial officer of Fortune 500 energy distribution company Global Partners LP. He also previously served as president of Citizens Bank of Massachusetts and vice chairman of Citizens Financial Group.
Divest Harvard co-founder Chloe S. Maxmin ’15 charged that his appointment is “another example of Harvard aligning with the fossil fuel industry over students.”
Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana stopped by the blockade at about 7:15 a.m. to greet the students and talk with them.
“As a University, we have always had values of free discourse and engagement and, at the same time, an obligation to make sure the work at the University can continue,” Khurana said.
In the middle of exam period, many students studied for finals and wrote papers during the protest. Laptops and papers scattering the yard, and several said they planned to leave the blockade to take Wednesday exams. Divest Harvard co-coordinator Jasmine P. Opie ’16, who was finishing a take-home exam outside Mass. Hall, said the group wanted to protest Hollister before leaving campus for the summer.
After receiving no direct response from administrators by the late afternoon, Divest activists moved to protest outside Farkas Hall, where Faust was introducing a panel on the movie “Whiplash,” according to Maxmin.
—Staff writer Mariel A. Klein can be reached at mariel.klein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mariel_klein.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections


Happy Wednesday, Harvard! The end is so close– that is the end to this semester, your sleep-deprived self, having to walk through a sea of tourists just to get anywhere lately, and everything else Harvard-related!
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
It’s going to be a bit chillier today, and by chillier we mean around 65 degrees! It’s also going to be partly cloudy and windy.
IN THE D-HALL
Lunch
Beef Fajita Fettuccine
Spicy Buffalo Chicken Sub
Spicy Tofu with Green Bean
Dinner
Baby Shells with Ham and Peas
Mesquite Rotisserie Chicken
Vegetable Pot Pie with Biscuits
IN THE NEWS
1) Homeless Man Assaulted in Harvard Square: “Officers from the Cambridge Police Department responded to an assault in progress in Harvard Square at about 11 p.m. last Saturday night, according to a CPD report. The victim, a homeless man who normally stays at the Boston emergency shelter Pine Street Inn, was kicked and punched by several other homeless men who fled the scene before police could arrive, according to the report.”
2) Darnton, University Librarian, Will Depart This Summer: “Robert C. Darnton ’60, the Harvard University librarian and a University professor, will step down from his post in Wadsworth House on June 30 after an eight-year tenure at the helm of Harvard’s library system, which recently saw a move toward digitization.”
3) Junior Faculty Win Abramson Award for Teaching: “Associate professors Ruth Bielfeldt and Sarah S. Richardson were awarded the annual Roslyn Abramson Award for excellence in undergraduate teaching last week.”
ON ARTS
1) Lowell Holds Annual May Day Poetry Reading: The Lowell House Poemical Society held its annual May Day Poetry Reading in Lowell’s Senior Common Room on the evening of May 1. A group of about 30 masters, deans, and other affiliates of Lowell House, as well as College and graduate students, gathered for about 20 recitations, ranging from Sanskrit verse to e.e. cummings, from Keats to student compositions.
EVENTS
There’s a Wellness on the Plaza Boot Camp at 7 a.m. today in the Science Center Plaza.
There’s a Bike to Work Breakfast today from 7:30 to 9:30 a.m. on Mt. Auburn Street across from the Smith Center. Bring your helmet to show for free food and giveaways.
