News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“He had given Israel back the notes to songs. The words would be according to their own dreams, but they could sing,” Zora Neale Hurston wrote of Moses in her 1939 novel “Moses, Man of the Mountain.” New York-based choreographer Reggie Wilson’s “Moses(es),” a dance work inspired by Hurston’s work that made its Boston debut at the Institute of Contemporary Art on March 27, similarly explored the power of storytelling through art. In Wilson’s piece, performed by himself and the eight members of his Fist & Heel Performance Group, movement, song, spoken word, color, and light combined to produce a kaleidoscopic array of interpretations of the Biblical story.
“Moses(es)” employed a variety of styles of movement in its interpretation of the story, from almost literal pantomime of the finding of the baby in the bulrushes to balletic arabesques to rhythmic stomping. The dancers themselves sang gospel songs such as “Eli, Eli (Somebody Call Eli),” while the recorded score included the diverse sounds of Louis Armstrong’s version of “Go Down, Moses,” the house anthem “Follow Me” by Aly-us, and klezmer, a musical tradition rooted in Eastern European Jewish folk song. Color and light also helped tell the story of the crossing of the Red Sea: The dancers wore red costumes and at times were bathed in red lighting.
For David J. Henry, director of performing and media arts at the ICA, this diversity is part of the piece’s appeal. “When I saw [‘Moses(es)’] for the first time, I loved the dance, I loved the content, I loved the music especially,” he says. “I also loved that it was a strongly visual piece, with the colors and costumes. With us being an interdisciplinary space, [‘Moses(es)’] seemed to fit the ICA.”
The performance mirrored the varied influences on the work’s conception: Wilson traveled extensively in Israel, Egypt, Turkey, and Mali to gather material for his piece. As executive director and producer of the influential contemporary performing arts center Dance Theater Workshop (now New York Live Arts), David R. White worked with Wilson in the early stages of his career. White, who was in the audience for Friday’s performance, said that during his travels in Africa Wilson noticed the recurrence of a Moses figure in many local folklore traditions.
In a Q&A after the show, Wilson also discussed the influence of concepts of fractal geometry, particularly the research of mathematician Ron Eglash on the presence of fractal patterns in traditional African design, on his work. “Thinking about fractal symmetry is useful for understanding numbers, repetition, scaling,” he said. Repetitive movements characterized many of the dance passages in “Moses(es),” in keeping with Wilson’s engagement with the interplay between unity and multiplicity, pattern and variation, that characterizes fractals.
Even the ICA’s theater space served as a source of additional meaning in Wilson’s piece: The back wall of the theater is glass, with a view of Boston Harbor. The sea was thus literally present in the background of the dancers’ movements, and the score, which included the spiritual “Wade in the Water,” engaged in a lighthearted dialogue with the setting. “It wasn’t too literal?” Wilson jokingly asked the audience of the staging during the Q&A. “I had a big fear of that.”
Speaking to The Crimson prior to the show, Henry emphasizes the importance of performances such as “Moses(es)” to the ICA. “[The ICA] is bringing to Boston things that people might not otherwise see, and it shows that provocation, inspiration, and reflection can be found in the theater as well as the galleries,” he says.
“I hope that [‘Moses(es)’] gives people a visceral sense of the beauty and complexity of the world,” Henry says when asked what he hopes the audience took from the performance. Wilson, on the other hand, sees his work as driven by ideas as well as physicality. “My work is about figuring out the relationship between postmodern dance and African culture,” he said. It is thus evident that even for those most involved in the work, “Moses(es)” is open to multiple interpretations: Rather than telling a single story, it examines how different people tell the same story in different ways, each according to his own dreams.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Recently, a groundbreaking documentary about sexual assault on college campuses called “The Hunting Ground” was released to audiences nationally. Directed by noted documentary filmmaker Kirby Dick, the movie provides a direct look at the personal stories of those sexually assaulted at colleges and universities across the country. Sexual assault on college campuses is a crucial issue for a documentary to tackle and bring to the national consciousness, and what this movie aims to accomplish is critical for colleges nationally and for Harvard specifically.
Rigor, however, is key in any kind of journalism, and especially in a documentary that tackles such a sensitive issue. As a recent Crimson article pointed out, the “The Hunting Ground” misrepresented several statistics about sexual assault at Harvard. At one point, the documentary claims that, from 2009 to 2013, Harvard College experienced 135 sexual assaults on campus compared with only 10 expulsions. According to statistics released by the Administrative Board, however, 10 College students were required to withdraw, not expelled, during that four-year period due what the Ad Board classifies as “social behavior - sexual.” The Faculty of Arts and Sciences student handbook states that students who are forced to withdraw could potentially be readmitted, as opposed to students expelled by the Faculty Council. Of course, the fact that the number of expulsions due to sexual assault at the College is even lower than the filmmakers report only reiterates the severity of the problem they are addressing, but the film’s use of statistics is still inaccurate.
More problematic is the filmaker’s claim that 135 cases of sexual assault occurred at Harvard College between 2009 and 2013. While Dick’s statement to The Crimson that the figure came from statistics released by Harvard as required by the Clery Act is correct, his interpretation of that number is not. The number that the filmmakers cite actually covers the entire Cambridge campus, not just the College. The confusing way that Harvard releases these statistics makes this mistake understandable, if not excusable. Dick put it well when he told The Crimson that, “since Harvard College is not transparent about its number of sexual assaults or their adjudications, these are the available numbers that Harvard reports that convey the extreme gap between the number of assaults and number of severe sanctions.”
Still, misrepresenting facts in a piece of journalistic work is inexcusable. It is a violation of the journalistic code of ethics that not only misinforms the film's audience but also casts doubt on other publications and on journalism as a craft. This doubt is even more insidious in cases of sexual assault. Any inaccuracies serve as fodder for those who seek to deny the severity of the problem, and in doing so they detract from the cause at hand and devalue the individual stories of those affected by sexual assault.
Harvard shares some of the responsibility for not making more specific information about sexual assault available. The filmmakers, however, also had a responsibility to treat the data they had with more care, so that discussions of statistics did not delegitimize the broader and much-needed message of their documentary. As we move forward on this critical issue, we ask that the filmmakers issue a public correction of their statistical inaccuracies. The point of a correction is not to make the University look better—it is to meet the journalistic requirement of reporting facts truthfully and clearly. In the fight against campus sexual assault, honesty and forthrightness on all sides is essential.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
There we stood Saturday night, my roommate and I, screaming at the screen. My home team, the University of Kentucky Wildcats, had eked out a win against Notre Dame in a game with 20 lead changes and 12 ties, only punching their ticket to the Final Four with six seconds left, and only after pushing me and the rest of their fans to the brink of emotional collapse.
But after my heart rate had returned to resting levels (not for a while), I began thinking about what had just transpired: About 14 million people had their spirits lifted, dashed, and hurled this way and that on account of a game played by just 16 people.
Why does that happen?
For me, it’s personal. I was born in the University of Kentucky’s hospital, my little brothers admire Anthony Davis even more than I do, and from elementary school until the day we graduated, my classmates and I knew that, come March, we could always count on our teachers to cut their lessons short for an SEC tournament game.
But my ardor for the Wildcats this year, and in this tournament, has as much to do with the here and now as it does the then and there. It’s a deeper point that I only realized when I caught myself joking to a friend, “Yeah, there aren’t that many days where it’s great to be a Kentuckian. You take the ones you can get.”
I don’t really believe that, and yet I said it. Why did that happen?
In jokes there are often kernels of truth, sometimes more potent than the bare truths themselves. So if I had to self-psychoanalyze, I’d diagnose an implicit internalization of the campus tendency to see the South (and the Midwest, and all those other states dismissively designated “flyover country”) as inferior.
There is the kind of Australian conception of America as two civilized coasts bridged by a desert wasteland that becomes easy to accede to when 51.5 percent of non-international students at Harvard College come from New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, and California—one sweetened by conceptions of the South as a poor, overweight, stubborn supporter of regressive politics.
But in stereotypes, too, there are often kernels of truth. For the past century, this country has been immersed in cultural wars, first on issues of race, and now on issues of sexual orientation, that have pitted North against South. History has not judged the South kindly for it, and it will not in the future.
But it is when we turn general trends into individualized sanction that things go wrong. Conversations stray from nuanced discussion to, in the recent words of a better writer than I am, “a hilarious device, a dark and farcical tale against which its authors apotheosize themselves.”
I feel the need to counter this hilarious device with either self-deprecating humor or sobering facts. Lexington’s an excellent city of 300,000, I say, with an openly gay Democratic mayor, in a state governed by a Democrat whose champion cause has been Obamacare, in the only Southern state that still has a Democratic-controlled state chamber. But even that has the tinge of original guilt that unsettles me.
Once in my freshman year, I was introduced to a proud New Yorker, a resident of the “The City” as he put it. I revealed my Kentuckian origins, and the conversation immediately ended when he laughed and turned away. Who knows what caused that—perhaps he’s not a fan of Mitch McConnell (just like me)—but what matters was that he turned away.
It’s not that we necessarily need Harvard to admit more than 10 students a year from every small state, but rather, it’s that we not reduce people to their zip code. Unfortunately, not all New Yorkers are immunized from racism and homophobia because of their proximity to Bill de Blasio as much as all Oklahomans are doomed to climate change denial by their association with James Inhofe.
Of course, it’s not just the coastal elites that buy into the Manichaean narrative. To Mike Huckabee, this country is divided into Bubbaville and Bubbleville, with the homier residents of Bubbaville superior to their snobbish, coastal counterparts.
Neither narrative is true. Behind these simplified labels and tropes are identical people, from which no group is better than any other.
Except, of course, the Wildcats.
Idrees M. Kahloon ’16, a Crimson editorial executive, is an applied mathematics concentrator in Dunster House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Talking about money is bad form. But money is a language everyone understands. So let’s talk money.
The low income of young researchers, their temporary contracts, and required high mobility have often been lamented, for example recently by the National Academy of Sciences, in Science Magazine, in the Scientific American, in the Boston Globe, and very entertainingly in Issues. As a postdoctoral research fellow, my net income is $2,700 per month. My gross income of $45,000 per year puts me just above the de facto national standard pay for postdocs of $42,000. Having a Ph.D., my gross annual income is slightly less than the median income of 24 to 34 year-olds with Bachelor’s degrees. The median income of those with a Master’s degree exceeds my income by one third.
So much about the income side; now the expenses. That is easy. If I had a child, there would be a single item on my expense list. My net income equals the full-time child care costs for one infant or one and a half pre-schoolers at one of the six child care centers on Harvard campus. Rent, health insurance, retirement savings? Food? You better find yourself a well-earning spouse. A spouse that stays home with the children is not going to suffice. In that case, the single item on your expense list is going to be your rent. The rent for a two bedroom apartment hovers around $2,500 per month in Cambridge or surrounding areas. Prices for Harvard housing range from $2,100 to $3,100 per month for a two-bedroom residence. A spouse who is a postdoc herself or himself is not going to do the trick either. Rent and full-time child care for an infant would pretty much consume two postdocs’ incomes.
Are you thinking that it cannot be that bad, that I must be missing something? Maybe I could apply for financial assistance? In fact, I can. Harvard awards Child Care Scholarships that reimburse up to $7,500 of child care costs. A year. Taxed at 40 percent. At the very best, that lowers the monthly costs of Harvard-affiliated infant care by just $375 or around 14 percent.
The solution is to keep your child as far from Harvard campus as possible. Community child care centers and licensed care providers who watch after the little ones at their home cost less than Harvard-affiliated or other private child care centers. The cost of a licensed care provider averages $1,400 per month in Cambridge and $1,200 per month in Somerville. Great, that is only half of my net income. Assuming that my spouse would pay half the child care cost and rent, we had only one child (beware of twins!), and I spent $15 per day for food, that would leave me with roughly $500 per month to pay for health insurance (roughly $100), utilities, cell phone–oh, and the baby’s needs. With strict budgeting, we could just manage.
In its benefits brochure for postdocs, Harvard proudly boasts that it “has invested over $10 million in child care infrastructure, and commits over $4 million per year to ongoing dependent care programs and services.” In reality, these facilities do not cater to the whole Harvard community, but mainly to the established who earn the salary that Harvard is not willing to pay its postdocs. Without a second job or a well-earning partner, the most highly educated two percent of 25-34 year-olds at the nation’s leading academic institution can barely afford even one child.
Frauke Hoss is a postdoctoral research fellow at the Belfer Center for International Affairs at the Harvard Kennedy School.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
The Harvard Faculty Club is not the most forward-thinking of places. Chandeliers, antique furniture, and plenty of paintings of old white men don’t exactly scream 21st century. The Faculty Club was, therefore, an odd choice of venue for a moderated conversation with one of the foremost voices working to modernize classical music.
Marin Alsop is a rarity in the world of conductors. In a profession long associated with and dominated by European men, she’s an American and she’s a she. She is also the music director of the Baltimore Symphony and the first conductor to win the prestigious MacArthur Fellowship (often dubbed a “Genius Grant”).
Last Tuesday, Alsop, a protégé of the peerless American conductor Leonard Bernstein ’39, was on campus to receive the Luise Vosgerchian Teaching Award. She also participated in an open discussion with Dean of Arts and Humanities Diana Sorensen. The conversation went everywhere and anywhere—from the demographic problems plaguing symphonies worldwide, to her par- ents’ love of early American furniture, to the Instagram username “didyoupractice” that she uses to check up on her son’s online exploits.
Dressed in a sleek, all-black pantsuit with accompanying gold hoop earrings, Alsop positively exuded control, an important characteristic when you’re tasked with keeping around 100 musicians (and their egos) in check. Her bearing was so regal, so imperiously European, that every time she spoke it was a surprise the accent was the frank American strain we’re accustomed to hearing every day.
Many suspect that the American orches- tra is in trouble. On a typical night at the symphony, the audience consists, largely, of older couples. Thanks to new forms of entertainment, such as streaming technologies, younger generations have far more options for leisure and entertainment than generations past. The subscription model, which was once the bedrock of fiduciary stability for the symphony orchestra, is crumbling.
In many ways, the event itself was a living, breathing example of the demographic problem symphonies face now.
When I arrived at the Faculty Club 20 minutes before the event, I looked to be the only student in attendance. All the other attendees looked to be at least 60 years old. As the hour for the event drew nearer and the room filled, more students started to filter in (most of whom I recognized as members of the Harvard/New England Con- servatory dual-degree program or orches- tras on campus like the Harvard Radcliffe Orchestra), but the plurality of people still seemed to be older and white.
Concerns about an aging audience are not new to the classical music world. During the conversation, Alsop cited articles from the 1930s worrying about the future of the audience: “It was the same concern that the audience was going to die... and they did,” Alsop said with a laugh.
Symphonies have always been something of an acquired taste. Alsop compared them to drinking a fine wine. “Young people aren’t thinking about the wine they’re drinking beyond the kind of buzz they’re going to get.... But as you grow older you’re thinking more about the taste, more about the depth of it,” she said. “I think classical music is very much like that.”
Nevertheless, Alsop believes that classical music has the potential to be more popular across generations—it just takes education. Venezuela’s “Sistema” program, for instance, finances music education for a quarter of a million young musicians. As a result, according to Alsop, albums by Gustavo Dudamel, the Venezuelan conductor of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, sell better in Venezuela than those of Madonna.
The Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, under Alsop’s baton, has tried to bridge the music education gap and diversify, both ethnically and generationally, the world of classical music. To this end, Alsop pioneered OrchKids, an after-school music program for kids in Baltimore City neighborhoods. The program, which started out with 28 children, has blossomed into an 850-student program that, this year, is sending multiple students to Interlochen’s prestigious summer program and the Baltimore School for the Arts.
Alsop also discussed her parents, who are both deceased classical musicians and whose instruments are currently played by Baltimore Symphony Orchestra members. Growing up, Alsop’s family collected early American furniture. For Alsop, the beauty of these pieces was in their imperfections or oddities. She believes music should be the same way. According to Alsop, American ensembles are often too obsessed with technical perfection, sacrificing meaning in the process.
Professional success didn’t come easily to Alsop. When she was appointed music director in 2005, some musicians in the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra voiced public opposition to the decision, complaining that Alsop did not have the necessary musical pedigree to conduct the orchestra.
“[It was] one of those things that I’ll never get over, to be honest,” said Alsop. Yet, she now believes that that opposition was based on a frustration at the dire straits the orchestra was in. According to Alsop, the Baltimore Symphony was $16 million in debt at the time, hadn’t made a recording in a decade, and often played to a half-full hall.
“They were suffering from a lack of success,” said Alsop. “Success creates good feelings, so I decided to just go in and make them successful. And that’s what I did.”
As comfortable in the Harvard Faculty Club as in the linoleum-floored cafeterias of Baltimore City public schools, it’s hard not to believe that Alsop can make more than just Baltimore’s symphony successful.
Sections
01: Where are you?
a) By the river. Hopefully you’re not wearing heels, because a particularly strong gust of wind may force you into an impromptu ice skating adventure.
b) In your room. Despite its increasingly loud gurgling sounds, that radiator does not do a damn thing.
c) On the Science Center Plaza. The reflective nature of the pavement stones simulate the feeling of skiing on the rare day with a sliver of sunlight (to your blighted corneas, at least).
d) Siberia. I mean the Quad. They’re both far and cold, OK?!
02: What are you wearing?
a)  Your Canada Goose jacket; when it comes to warmth, money is no object.
b)  A couple of feathers from a Canadian Goose that you have plucked yourself. You should have realized why the “never been worn!” jacket from the ubiquitous brand was so cheap on Ebay. Good luck finding a willing coyote.
c)  A lab coat. You’ll be toasting your fingers over a bunsen burner soon enough. Or with some kind of burn-y acid. Either works.
d)  Snow shoes. You have far to travel, and functional > fashionable at this point.
03: What kind of climate do you hail from?
a) I strongly identify with the aforementioned word “hail,” Officer. I was raised to stumble in a zigzag so as to avoid the large chunks of ice falling from the sky. I swear I’m not drunk; Fireball is a type of tea, with the warming properties of a hearth that directly affects your balance in the short-term.
b) Somewhere sunny, where flip-flops are acceptable footwear year-round. After losing a toe here or a toe there, you switched to Uggs, but still sans socks :( .
c) An environment that is a little rainy, but pretty temperate throughout the seasons. You frequently don sandals AND socks.
d) The sea. You literally grew up on a houseboat. These puddles make you feel at home.
04: What’s your “happy place” on campus?
a) C’est Bon. It’s cultural if I buy the French wines, right?
b) Gato Rojo. The only drawback is not being able to use BoardPlus to fuel the caffeinated hours staring at dreamy grad students...that would be too good to be true.
c) Cabot Library—the one in the Science Center. One time you snuck in a Greenhouse Cafe burrito and no one noticed. It was awesome.
d) Cabot Library—he one actually in Cabot. Only members of the clu—I mean, House-- have swipe. It’s, like, super exclusive.
05: What’s your favorite cold-day activity?
a) Drinking hot chocolate from Burdick’s! The Uber there was only twice as much as the beverage itself!
b) Curling up by the fire. Please don’t tell anyone I started it.
c) Oxidizing cylindrical sugar candies made of corn syrup and gelatin!!!! Roasting marshmallows, for all you lay-people.
d) Jumping into freshly fallen piles of snow in Cambridge Common. Just avoid the yellow patches...
If you answered...
Mostly A’s: You’re out on the town for the night— unfortunately, looking good doesn’t always translate to warm layers. Zipper up that jacket and put on those knit tights your grandma sent you: It’s cold out!
Mostly B’s: You have literally no idea how to deal with the season that comes between November and March. No, tights with shorts doesn’t count as winter wear. Find a native New England friend and have them teach you the ways of the windy, frigid world.
Mostly C’s: You appear to have walked into the refrigerator where they keep the preserved brains and fetal pigs for SLS classes, and refuse to leave. Please exit and steal some hot chocolate from the Math Lounge to unfreeze your fingers. Thanks.
Mostly D’s: You either live in the Quad or have someone to snuggle up to distant galaxies from the Yard. Do us all a favor: Stop complaining about the cold and just get on the shuttle.
Sections
“Please walk your bikes.” Those four words greet many would-be-cyclists who attempt to ride through Harvard Yard. Except for the bicyclists who consider following this rule to be simply inconceivable, there is just one choice for legal wheels in Harvard Yard: the Razor scooter.
Many Harvard students have embraced the scooter as their preferred method for zipping around campus. Yet, the fact remains that bikes are faster, skateboards are lighter and more portable, and roller skates are, well, just a large pair of transportation-enhancing shoes. So, why choose the scooter?
First of all, if I had a nickel for every time I heard about someone’s bike getting stolen in Cambridge, you know what I’d have? Probably, like, two bucks.
And of course, we’ve all seen the rows of bikes buried after a blizzard. Metal has to rust at some point, right? In fact, their owners probably just leave the bikes there assuming they’re already dead, but the fact remains that they are probably only mostly dead.
Also, have you seen Boston drivers? I mean, I’ve driven a car around Boston, so that’s a good enough reason to stay off the roads as far as I’m concerned. So, bikes are out. And, despite what you may have heard, I’m here to tell you that scooters are most definitely in.
One Razor-riding undergrad, Ellie M. Cookson ’18, explains her chosen method of transportation. “My scooter allows me to get places quickly, while also being really, really, really ridiculously good-looking,” she says. Who can blame her? After all, it took the scooter-riding, hair-flipping, underwear-removing stylings of Hansel to upstage three-time male model of the year Derek Zoolander.
But what if you want to be really ridiculously good looking, but just aren’t into powering your own scooter? Sure, you could put a motor on a bike—but that’s called a motorcycle, and in case you didn’t know, you need a separate license for that. Zena K. Edosomwan ’17 has taken to the electric scooter, a method of transportation he says “provides a form of liberation.” And at 6’ 9’’, we all know Edosomwan should really be riding a S.O.U.S.–a scooter of unusual size–but I don’t even think they exist.
Jokes aside, there is something inherently nostalgic about watching a classmate speed past on their brightly colored Razor scooter. They remind me of the persistent sunshine in southern California, push-pops, and Play-Doh. That’s a story for another time. But when I need a reminder of sunshine amidst a cloudy Cambridge day, every Harvard scooterer is there to help me out. “As you wish,” they seem to say.
Sections
Here’s the fundamental problem with riding scooters on a college campus: They don’t help you in any way. Sure, maybe when you were a youth, riding a scooter was a way to tell the world you were independent, but the day you’re old enough to shave with a razor is the day you’re too old to ride one.
Now, you’re probably thinking: “Sure, scooters might be childish, but at least they get you places quicker than walking, right?” Wrong, they do not. Do I have empirical evidence verifying this statement? No, of course I don’t.
But I did watch someone ride a scooter through Harvard Yard on his way to Sever Hall—weaving back and forth trying to dodge tourists the whole way—and came to the con- clusion that scooter-riding is beyond inexpedi- ent; it’s remarkably slow.
The journey from Hollis to Emerson took him four minutes. FOUR MINUTES. As a comparison, it takes me two minutes to make that same journey even when I’m listening to Khia’s “My Neck, My Back” and doing the stanky leg on the way.
To repeat: The stanky leg is a quicker means of transportation than the scooter. And my leg isn’t even all that stanky.
At this point, you’re saying: “Yes, scooters might not be the most efficient means of transportation, but at least they make you look cool, right?” Wrong again; they make you look impotent and desperate for attention. As my friend Tim exclaimed while watching a man-bun wearing hipster zoom by us on his two- wheeler: “Riding a scooter is the quick and easy way to say to the world: ‘Hey, I’m a virgin!’”
As Hunter alludes to in his “Love It” column, not since Hansel in “Zoolander” has someone looked cool—and/or slayed—rocking shoulder-length hair and a scooter. After all, Hansel might have been “so hot right now” in 2001, but he’s not looking too good in 2015. The Owen Wilson of “Zoolander” is far from the Owen Wilson of “Marley and Me,” and even further from that of “Night at the Museum: Secret of the Tomb.”
Besides, Scooter is what you name your dog if you can’t think of something, and you already own a dog named Spot. Scooters are the two-wheeled mode of transportation you use when you don’t have a bike and are afraid to be seen walking alone.
Students of Harvard, I beg of you: Stop riding these ridiculous-looking, impractical, puerile substitutes for bikes around our cam- pus. It makes us seem uncool, it’s dangerous, and it’s counterproductive.
But hey, if your mission is to create the appearance of speed without actually getting anywhere quicker, go ahead and take your scooter out for a ride. I’d be happy to do the stanky leg alongside you.
Sections
Let’s play word association: Nap! Acceptable answers are only “I want one” or “If only I had the time.”
Squeezing those shut-eyed moments of pure bliss into your busy schedule can be difficult. Between all of the procrastinating on Facebook, dawdling at the Kong, and avoiding last night’s hook-up, there is often only a small window to hit the sack and take a nap. You rush out of class, bleary-eyed and bushy- tailed, but you live so far away! Where can you possibly go to responsibly catch some afternoon Zzz’s and wake up in a sweaty panic, wondering what the heck the time is and why it’s so dark out?
Women’s Center
This is no joke. Located in the basement of Canaday, the Women’s Center is stocked with couches and contraceptives. Brew up some tea, play a board game by yourself, and make freshmen feel uncomfortable from behind a half-closed eye when they try to sneak condoms out of the hall.
Science Center
On the first floor of the Cabot Science Library, in the far right corner, is a deso- late sight: rows of empty metal yearning for more content than the 2004-2005 Courses of Instruction and Decision Q008! (For those not in the know about this required reading, it’s the hard copy of the Q-Guide results from 2008). Nestled within these shelves are some plush, cozy chairs with excellent window views. It’s nice and private so you can com- fortably drift off to dreamland while fulfilling all of your plaza-related voyeuristic fantasies.
Lamont
The intellectual’s nap spot. Make your way to the QP425’s on Floor B and nestle down underneath such titles as “Secrets of Sleep” and “Sleep Thieves.” Be sure to grab a discarded B+ essay from the dumpster to use as a blanket if it’s midterm season. Close your eyes, do your best to ignore the books right down the shelf about the inevitability of death, and let the quiet sobbing meandering down from the third floor sing you to sleep.
Sever
Picture the scene: You’ve just spent the past hour and a half trying so hard not to fall asleep in Spanish that if you don’t get some shut eye in the next seven minutes before class it might be R.I.P. for you. You rush to the basement. A grimy row of red lockers lines the halls. You check the handles, losing time and hope with each locked clunk. But finally one swings open. Salvation! You contort your body inside and pull the door shut. Did it just lock? Oh well, it’s dark and safe in here, like a fallout shelter that’s lost power. You try to breath deeply, but your knee is in your windpipe. Mmm...soothing.
Science Center Plaza
There’s no time to go inside! You have to sleep, and sleep now. Luckily for you the plaza has provided Harvard dwellers with a number of premier nap locations. Just pick your favorite food truck, sneak around back, and curl up underneath. The engine fumes will wrap you in a smoggy blanket and delightfully psychedelically tint your dream.
Honorable Mention
The hallway outside of University President Drew G. Faust’s office.
Sections
“Feed the starving writers.” A middle-aged couple stared at those words adorning a glass- domed collection box on the floor. Shuffling past the sea of customers, they browsed the bookstore’s fiction tables and voiced their excitement in energetic Spanish. “A la velda que esta tienda es in-cre-íble.” It was unmistakably Puerto Rican Spanish—an accent I hadn’t heard since arriving in Paris three months prior. Perched atop a wooden ladder, I broke my cool professionalism and let myself be serenaded by the familiar sounds. This was my first day volunteering at Shakespeare and Company.
A semester before and across the Atlantic, Harvard’s hallowed halls had me restless. Bouncing back from the socio-linguistic trauma that was freshman fall, I learned to play the Harvard game and was, technically, winning. Semesters cycled by: class, lather, formal, hookup, rinse, coffee break, meeting, repeat. More often than not, friends of mine and I saw that simple formula result in a phenomenon called the Duck Syndrome. Coined by students at Stanford University, the term refers to students who appear to glide effortlessly through college life. Underneath the surface, they’re paddling frenetically to stay afloat. I refused to turn into that caricature and decided that it was time for a break. Paris will be different, I told myself.
When it wasn’t, I felt like crying, but never did. I went to Paris wearing a red peacoat, convinced that the city’s monochromatic madames et monsieurs were an overblown American myth. I rubied my lips for good measure. My delineated Cupid’s bow awed a grand total of two people: myself (easily impressed) and the one creepy guy who dubbed me a bitchy bouche rouge when I didn’t flash a smile at him as I passed him on the street (easily dismissed).
The city wanted me to pick and choose my raison d’être, a decidedly Parisian persona. I lacked the look, the cultural cues, and the subdued strut with which Parisians boasted about their freedoms. Too often, those freedoms were tethered to grandiose ideas of a faded empire. They also cost exorbitant amounts of money. My culture-shocked mind clicked upon recalling the French word “bourgeois.” With no structure to catch my fall, I drifted through the city, watching Parisians seamlessly exist.
One of those wistful treks led me to a beeline of people that curled by the Seine and into the welcoming glow of 37 Rue de la Bûcherie, Shakespeare and Company’s headquarters. Inside the pale yellow and forest green façade, a crowd cramped around writer Joanna Walsh, who conversed with one of the shop’s managers about her work. Walsh’s collection of short stories, “Fractals,” is laced with judgmental voyeurism. Her wit cracks like a whip. After reading a selection of her book aloud, Walsh mused about Paris’s cultural aversion to tourists, suspecting that it had something to do with their way of dress. Wearing unflattering hats, chest- dangling cameras, and walking shoes is their honest way of admitting that they don’t fit in, she explained. They simply dress appropriately for the occasion: a holiday from the self.
The self I had created at Harvard longed for a Moment, the kind no Instagram filter could ever pretend to capture. I assumed that, by default, Study Abroad in Paris let you pick a Moment like the pesticized fruit at your local, homegrown Whole Foods. The problem with Paris was that every imaginable moment had already been turned into a film-themed café or a commemorative tote bag. My holiday from my Harvard self seemed cheap and inescapably cliché. I couldn’t possess anything that wasn’t an obvious, nostalgic yearning for the Lost Generation, the Beat poets, or the student-driven May ’68 protests. Their stories, beloved by so many, barely applied to my experience, but maybe that was the charm of their aesthetic.
Shakespeare and Company, despite its proximity to the selfie stick magnet of Notre- Dame, retained an authentic, inimitable air to it. Tumbleweeds, a code name for writers and intellectuals that the shop shelters as guests, shared their living quarters with volunteers and staff between work shifts. The bookshop—with books for wallpaper, housing seemingly disparate aspects of my personality—soon became my nerdy, Anglophone haven. Organizing books and moving chairs around for events thrilled me. My friends, rightly so, were a little concerned about my levels of enthusiasm. “You went all the way to Paris to shelve dusty books?” some scoffed playfully. There was something about the shop that made me too happy to retort.
A week into the gig, I sat with a group of fellow volunteers next to the banks of the Seine. We brought bottles of red wine and rolling papers to season our conversations about Paris. Most of us ended up there in search of photogenic pastries, inspiration, and inklings of romance. “Improving French proficiency,” however, was the primordial official reason. I chuckled internally when I found myself taking a drag of another volunteer’s cigarette, admiring his ability to blow smoke rings. I’d forgotten what a Moment felt like.
I came back from Paris bare-lipped, but cat-eyed. My Harvard Moment hadn’t come yet, but I could tell it was incredibly close.
Sections
“Outside these windows, you can see the roof is shattered,” says John R. Stilgoe, gesturing at the red tiles just outside his Sever Hall office. “It was shattered by giant icicles crashing down and landing on it. See all those broken tiles? So if you see these on the ground, you know tiles are falling off Sever. Maybe you’d be careful, right?”
Elsewhere in Sever, he might point out to you that the bannister, designed by H.H. Richardson, was designed for men: “A woman’s hand has a hard time even going across it.”
Earlier, he saw what he believes to be a plainclothes policeman at the Housing Day festivities in Harvard Yard. “Plainclothes cops tend to have the same posture around the world,” he explains. “They stand around a lot and they have to relax their backs.”
Stilgoe, a professor of Visual and Environmental Studies since 1977, describes himself as “the kind of person who wanders around noticing things.” Despite his old school attire (he’s rarely seen without a bowtie), he couldn’t be further from the stereotype of the absent-minded humanities professor, oblivious to what passes directly in front of his nose. Stilgoe’s talent for looking has translated into nearly a dozen books, four routinely oversubscribed courses, and the enduring devotion of a select group of students.
Stilgoe is one of three current Harvard faculty members to win the Society of American Historians’ Francis Parkman Prize: The others are Louis Menand and University President Drew G. Faust. His title is the Robert and Lois Orchard Professor in the History of Landscape Development. Though his field is, ostensibly, how the American landscape has changed since the 1500s, he’s published on everything from shipwrecks to the joy of bicycling. What he teaches is not so much “a specific topic, but an approach,” as current student Sam H. Rashba ’14-’15 describes it.
Stilgoe wants his students to notice—to be able to process and interpret visual information by opening themselves up to the subject. What it comes down to is looking.
“It can be taught, but it’s hard for people to accept the fact that there’s a visual way of knowing,” Stilgoe says. As debates about the value of the humanities rage on, Stilgoe has no doubt that what he teaches is relevant, even urgent. But as the last pillar of the Environmental Studies wing of the VES department, he’s acutely aware of his unique status—and how it’s endangered in today’s university. “I’m sure a lot of people just walk right by the tiles falling off this building today,” Stilgoe muses. “They just don’t see them. They don’t realize them. They’re not real.”
“I think about how a lot of this happened,” Stilgoe says. “I did not come here to do this.”
Stilgoe, 65, was born to a working-class family (his father was a boatbuilder) in Norwell, Mass. The first in his family to go to college, he earned his B.A. at Boston University and an M.A. at Purdue University before coming to Harvard as a Ph.D. student in American Civilization in the early 1970s.
In September 1973, he met with the then-chairman of the department, Daniel Aaron ’43, a co-founder of the Library of America. Stilgoe’s path to environmental studies began when a wasp flew down Aaron’s shirt.
“He was sitting in his office in Wadsworth House, with an open collared shirt on, and he started trying to get it out, and I remember he said to me, ‘Is that reptile inside my shirt?’ Not insect,” Stilgoe says, still intrigued by Aaron’s peculiar choice of words.
“And I said, ‘Yes, it is,’ and I figured, well, if I’m going to survive here…,” he recalls, chuckling. “I reached in the shirt, it stung me, and I flicked it out. And he gave me a funny look, and he said, ‘Y’know, you oughta work with J.B. Jackson. Over in Sever Hall. He’s in VES.’”
Aaron’s suggestion proved critical for the progression of Stilgoe’s career. John Brinckerhoff Jackson ’33, an adjunct professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, was the founder of “Landscape,” a small magazine that focused on landscape history. After a brief meeting with Stilgoe, Jackson encouraged the young graduate student to take one of his classes. For Stilgoe, it was a revelation.
“I figured out this guy does what I’ve always thought—what I know I do, but it’s a university field,” he says. “I was just delighted.”
According to Stilgoe, Jackson, who served as an Army combat intelligence officer during World War II, encouraged him to pursue employment at the CIA. Though the idea of a desk job didn’t appeal to Stilgoe, he says that many of his students have embarked upon such career paths.
“I have former students who you’re not going to find out about who work in the intelligence community,” he claims, noting that one recently got paid to travel around Copenhagen and “get the feel” of the place.
“It seems to me a kind of cushy job,” he says. “I mean, they don’t tell me much about what they do, but they’re not wandering around Southern Michigan.”
Stilgoe has done more than his fair share of traveling around the United States; in total, he estimates he’s traveled 800,000 miles. A quick survey of the photographs he took for “Common Landscape of America” confirms his geographic range: There are houses in Chimayo, N.M.; dirt roads in Worcester County, Mass.; churches in southern Oklahoma; and storefronts in Gunnison, Colo.
Right now he drives a ’96 Chevrolet Suburban with high-quality Michelin tires—which, as he will note with a laugh, has captured the attention of more than one state trooper. In fact, tires hold a particular allure for Stilgoe.
“History of Art and Architecture will teach you to look at paintings,” he says at one point. “I think you should look at people’s tires.”
Stilgoe admits that such fascinations place him squarely outside the mainstream of most humanities scholarship at Harvard. He wasn’t asked to help out with the humanities framework course “The Art of Looking,” which he believes is because he doesn’t want to focus on objects in Harvard’s collections. His lectures are packed with personal anecdotes and opinions. “If you don’t like listening to sexist remarks then steer clear,” reads a 2011 Q-evaluation for VES 107: “Studies of the Built North American Environment since 1580,” one his hallmark classes. “Women are messy, men are big and clumsy. Let’s start with nice stereotypes like that,” he jokes during a March 5 lecture for VES 160: “Studies of the Built North American Environment since 1580.” Later, he clarifies that he gets on well with professors of women’s studies, save for one caveat. “
They say the same thing other professors do: ‘Why are you looking at those pictures?’” he tells his class.
Yet despite his unorthodox tone, looking at pictures has made Stilgoe’s fame. As he flippantly notes, he’s won “about every medal a man can win.” In 1983, Stilgoe published the book that secured his academic reputation: “Common Landscape of America, 1580-1845,” which would go on to win the Parkman Prize.
“[Drew Faust] won it 25 years after I did,” Stilgoe points out, regarding the award. “But she still won it, so she must know what she’s doing, right?”
Though he still needed to publish another scholarly book to gain tenure—the similarly well-received follow up “Metropolitan Corridor”—Stilgoe says winning the Parkman gained him a new respect from the Harvard faculty, with plenty of older History professors wanting to take him out to lunch.
“I was really taken aback. My life changed,” Stilgoe says. “It just changed like a wand was waved over me.”
Stilgoe’s diverse interests are aptly contained by the “environmental studies” component of VES; former concentrator Caroline M. Cuse ’13 calls him the “guru of environmental studies.”
“The idea was since the name of the department was so mysterious, any student could make it out to be anything he or she wanted,” Stilgoe says of VES.
“Environmental studies” is the part of VES most likely to cause confusion amongst the populace; concentrator Emily B. Nice ’15, an inactive Crimson multimedia editor, says people often think she’s studying environmental science. Robb Moss, the current department chair, recalls that when he came to Harvard in the mid-1980s, the environmental studies faculty included people like Albert Szabo, who wrote a book on architecture in Afghanistan and made sculptures out of items he found at junk stores.
Stilgoe will happily reminisce about these former colleagues; he says it’s impossible to describe Arthur Loeb’s design science in a sentence, then tries by pithily calling it “tinker toys on LSD.” During lecture on March 5, he says certain alumni have had success in the weapons industry, which he later attributes to one of Szabo’s design courses; the final project was to carve knife handles designed to fit your hand.
Though classes like these might seem less practical than economics or computer science courses, Stilgoe asserts that environmental studies often produced an especially happy and affluent group of graduates.
“A lot of them get very rich, because we’ve taught them what good design is, and thus they invested in Apple stock when Apple was 4 dollars and 25 cents a share,” he explains. “You can graduate Harvard College now and nobody’s going to try to teach you the balance of an iPhone when it sits in your fingers. But it’s different than an Android. And we taught that.”
The VES department began to change in the mid-1990s, when Loeb, Szabo, and many other environmental studies faculty members retired. Since then, Stilgoe has effectively been the only professor focusing solely on environmental studies.
“As they retired, the decision was made to move [the department] out of environmental studies and put our energies basically into film, [film studies,] and studio [art],” Moss says. “But John’s work persisted.”
In fact, Stilgoe had found a new reason to teach by this time. As his academic career flourished, he began to notice a disturbing trend amongst his students.
“By 1985, it was very clear to me that fewer and fewer students were coming into college having had any kind of formal education in just going for a walk,” Stilgoe says. “And then, of course, came all of the digital devices. I’m stunned by how much time you all spend looking at screens. It’s time you’re not looking at something else.”
Stilgoe attributes this decline in visual acuity in part to increased emphasis on standardized testing; he wonders why there’s no visual component on the SAT. Though he continued his research— he’s published 10 books in total, and Moss describes him as “incredibly prolific”— Stilgoe’s emphasis began to shift towards his teaching.
“After about 1990, I started devoting more and more of my life, career, whatever, away from the subjects towards getting undergraduates to look,” Stilgoe says.
Earlier this semester, Stilgoe made a student in his seminar close her eyes and say which way the door opened. She couldn’t remember and ended up guessing incorrectly.
“In an emergency situation, it’s nice to know which doors you go through without having to pull them against you, or which doors can be barricaded against a threat,” Stilgoe explains. “I do this all the time. It can be taught.”
Stilgoe teaches four courses, designed to be taken in sequence; first the two lecture courses, VES 107 and VES 160: “Modernization in the Visual United States Environment, 1890-2035,” and then the two seminars, VES 166: “North American Seacoasts and Landscapes: Discovery to Present” and VES 167: “Adventure and Fantasy Simulation, 1871 to 2036.” Though Stilgoe lacks the name-brand recognition of professors like Stephen Greenblatt or Niall Ferguson, strong word of mouth ensures that his classes are always well attended.
“There’s almost a cult of Stilgoe where most people end in the classroom through the personal recommendation of someone else,” says Keith H. Bender ’15, an inactive Crimson sports editor who took VES 107 after his friend Rashba recommended it; Rashba found out about it through his friend Cyrus P. Dahmubed, a 2012 graduate of the Extension School. Li E.K. Murphy ’15 decided to shop the class based on the recommendation of her friend Matthew C. Plaks ’13-’14, a VES concentrator. Ian T. Hassett ’15 heard about the class through an offhand recommendation in Lowell House dining hall.
Stilgoe estimates that about 110 students show up for VES 107 during shopping week, though he only accepts about 22. VES students are accepted first, then seniors and juniors, with freshmen and sophomores rarely accepted. The difficulty of getting into one of his classes is infamous: “Take [VES 107], if you can get by the lions at the gate,” reads one 2011 Q evaluation for the course.
In the early 1980s, using teaching fellows from the American Civilization department, Stilgoe taught VES 107 to a class of 140. While he says teaching a large introductory course appeals to him, he maintains that this would be impossible today.
“There has to be a critical mass of people doing visual research and teaching to bring doctoral students. And there isn’t,” Stilgoe maintains. “I very rarely take on a teaching fellow, because the ones who want to be my teaching fellows are some of the most un-visual people I’ve ever met.”
The classes themselves are unlike what many students have encountered previously. There’s a photograph in his office of a camper in West Texas; Stilgoe took it in 1977, during his first major research trip. On the side of the trailer, there’s a large sign with the following text: “GOD’S JUDGEMENTS SOON TO FALL ON CITIES AND TOWNS. EARTHQUAKES, STORMS, AND FAMINE. REPENT OR PERISH! FLEE TO THE COUNTRY.” Stilgoe is fond of the image: “It made me smile then and it makes students smile,” he says.
Though he isn’t prone to religious pronouncements, Stilgoe’s classes are filled with what can sound like apocalyptic warnings. “Lots of weird things are going to happen to you all very soon,” he tells his students before lecture begins on March 5; over the course of the lecture, he’ll tell them to think about rising sea levels, income tax, and how Massachusetts will lose governmental representation after the next census. Class often begins with him reading a few thoughts from a characteristic green notecard. The numerous MBTA closings earlier this semester prompted frequent discussion on America’s crumbling infrastructure.
As debates rage about the value of the humanities, Stilgoe has found a distinctive and dramatic way to make them relevant. For him, the act of looking can be what saves your life.
“Maybe the greatest triumph of my teaching here showed up at the terrorist attacks on [September 11, 2001],” Stilgoe says. “I told my students for 40 years, when it’s snowing, when there’s a catastrophe, all the rental cars will be gone. So you go to the U-Haul truck dealer and you rent a truck. Any woman can drive one. Automatic transmission. And in an emergency you don’t bother adjusting the outside mirrors, just point the truck away and go. [My alumni] did it on 9/11. They got the last rental trucks in New York and left.”
Near the beginning of a VES 160 lecture in early March, Stilgoe shows two slides. The first, a shot of Tulsa, Okla., in 1894; it looks like something out of an old Western, and Stilgoe is quick to assert that this is a foreign environment. “Most of you would not be comfortable in it,” he notes. Then, a slide of Tulsa in 1924, now an urban landscape. “We would all get along pretty well here,” Stilgoe says placidly. Suddenly he turns serious, and begins to discuss the process of modernization. “That change [is something] this country has never, ever adapted to,” he says. “It wrenched all sorts of things viciously in a very short space of time. What happens when we go through a time like that again?”
Stilgoe’s lectures are defined by these slide projections. Over the course of his career, he’s accumulated roughly 150,000 slides, which are kept in several different locations. “Never know about earthquakes,” he says.
For students, this decidedly antiquated approach is part of what makes Stilgoe’s class so distinctive.
“The click of the projector, the technical difficulties of moving between slide projectors.... I think all of that is part of the experience of the class,” says Murphy, who took VES 107 this past fall. Bender, who took VES 107 at the same time, likens the class to what a Harvard course would have been like “40, 50, 60, 70 years ago.”
In a single lecture, Stilgoe can touch on a dizzying variety of topics: Al Capone’s tax evasion charges, the history of fandom (“Zuckerberg is smart to have that ‘like’ thing”), the drinking habits of Americans before the Civil War (“Men were drinking like fish in 1858. Because I think they knew what was coming”), and a children’s magazine published during World War I, from which he reads part of a piece called “Thanksgiving in 1810.”
“I think [VES 160], and any of Stilgoe’s classes for that matter, have more material than any other class could possibly have at Harvard,” Bender says. “Just by the sheer volume of anecdotes and references about people, events, places, movements, objects, products.”
In fact, as Stilgoe admits, he now has enough material to give five different versions of the introductory lecture for VES 107.
“I have to be very careful when I’m looking at an alumnus, or an alumna,” he says. “What VES 107 did he or she have?”
Yet Stilgoe never allows himself to be overwhelmed by his allusions; he often pauses to offer his own opinion, crack a joke, or narrow his eyes and emphatically call out a student’s name. At one point, he suddenly moves to the chalkboard and begins to sketch a simple floor plan.
“This is Stilgoe’s theory of divorce. It’s why young people get divorced,” he declares. “It’s an architectural thing.” The class laughs, but Stilgoe is serious. In his view, most apartments are too small to sustain relationships; on a rainy day, there’s not enough to do. This isn’t the only time Stilgoe makes his students laugh before making a point.
“I try to make my students laugh by showing them pictures from fashion magazines and saying, ‘If this woman materialized in my cornfield at dusk, should I rethink my position on gun control?’” he says. Naturally, this leads to a discussion of fantasy and its capacity to prepare us for new life forms.
For Stilgoe, there’s no question that issues of such significance can come from something as seemingly mundane as a fashion magazine. Talking to him, you get the idea that he believes a walk down Quincy Street might more valuable than a visit to the Fogg Museum—provided you keep your eyes open. In his classes, he encourages students to take walks and explore their environments. For his assignments, he mandates that they photocopy images they physically find in the libraries; digitally accessing images is forbidden. He admits that his unorthodox technique is only possible at a place like Harvard.
“Harvard’s rich enough to have a professor like me,” he says. “Most schools are not. Schools are trying, but it’s hard to break out of the mold of art history, or ‘let’s look at film.’”
Though Stilgoe’s classes may be difficult to get into, he makes himself highly accessible to students who succeed in enrolling. Office hours are held regularly, and he often shows up to lecture an hour early to have conversations with students. “If you wanna get a dose of Stilgoe, all you gotta do is show up,” Murphy says.
In Stilgoe’s office, he has several director’s chairs arranged in a circle. Students will drop in anytime during office hours, often joining a group discussion rather than having a oneon-one meeting. Stilgoe doesn’t sit behind his desk, but takes one of the director’s chairs as his own. The discussions are casual and lively rather than formal and stilted. If Stilgoe isn’t in his office during his regular hours, you’ll often find students still congregating nearby, waiting for him to show up.
Moss notes that when VES alumni visit, they almost always ask for Stilgoe, citing his class as one of the best and most memorable they ever took at Harvard. But beyond the classroom, Stilgoe takes a noted interest in the lives of his students, past and present.
“When I was a junior in college, I was really close to dropping out. I was really unhappy at Harvard,” says Daniel E. Goldhaber ’13, a former VES concentrator. “I was talking to Stilgoe about this, and he said, ‘If we lose someone like you, what hope is there for the institution?’”
Stilgoe then emailed former student Alexander N. Olch ’99, a filmmaker and tie designer, asking him to talk to Goldhaber. “Alex took a train...two days later to get coffee with me to convince me to graduate,” Goldhaber says. “I would do that for another Stilgoe student in a heartbeat, no questions asked.”
Goldhaber also credits Stilgoe with advancing his career, naming the professor as “the single reason I’m employed right now.” Hassett echoed these claims, describing Stilgoe as more than willing to connect his current students with his many former ones. Bender describes Stilgoe as operating “his own little alumni network."
“Whether you’re interested in a career in advertising or visual arts or garment design and production, he’s already taught someone that’s doing it and will put you in contact with them,” Hassett says.
Goldhaber says that when he runs into someone at a party who has taken a class with Stilgoe, the two will “go off for hours” about the professor and his thought.
“I think [taking a class with Stilgoe] is something that carries a lot more weight than any other Harvard connection I could imagine having,” Goldhaber says.
According to Graduate School of Design professor Michael R. Van Valkenburgh, Stilgoe fandom isn’t limited to undergraduates at the College.
“I think people feel like they’ve been cheated if they go to the GSD and they don’t have a semester with John, with his eye-opening perspective on the importance of landscape and culture,” Van Valkenburgh says. “I only ever hear praises, honestly.”
But while Stilgoe may be best known on campus today as a unique educator, his colleagues emphasize that his academic career has been equally notable. As most scholarship in the humanities becomes more and more specialized, Stilgoe stands out as one of the few historians still working on such a broad scale; his classes span the period from 1580 to 2036, after all. His topics—the suburbs, saltwater marsh ecosystems, the railroad industry—are similarly wide-ranging and ambitious.
At a time when the humanities are attempting to defend their relevance, Stilgoe never doubts that simply looking can reveal important truths.
“I’ve been trying to explain in all my courses that looking at images from the past often reveals things about the past that might be useful today and in the future,” he says.
Many of his colleagues at the GSD applaud his expansive view of landscape and history.
“I think most of us [at the GSD] operate in a smaller sphere, or through a more narrow lens, many of us, and I think John has that sort of capacity to see how it all interweaves,” says Van Valkenburgh. GSD professor Carl F. Steinitz writes in an emailed statement that Stilgoe has “a broader and longer-time perspective than most on the lessons of the past.”
Similar praise was offered by the scholarly community after the publication of “Common Landscape.” In a 1983 issue of “Journal of American History,” scholar Stephanie Grauman Wolf wrote that the book “introduces whole new areas of source material” and that “it is hard to imagine doing without it as either a teacher or a scholar of American history.”
For Boyd Zenner, Stilgoe’s longtime editor at the University of Virginia Press, his broad scholarship sets him apart from many of the other authors she has worked with, who tend to stay within their narrowly defined fields.
“I think most academics are much more afraid of being wrong about something than being workaday,” Zenner says. “He’s certainly not that. He’ll explore any area that comes to his attention.”
Zenner links Stilgoe to his mentor, Jackson, saying that Stilgoe’s varied and wide-ranging work have brought Jackson’s ideas about landscape into academic discourse. Yet Stilgoe doesn’t have a clear successor of his own.
“There’s nobody else really like me,” Stilgoe admits. “I thought there would be, but [Environmental Studies] has no graduate department. There’s no way you can get a Ph.D. with me.”
In Stilgoe’s view, VES has completed its transformation into a studio arts and film department. Though he’s optimistic about the department’s future and praises the current faculty, he’s acutely aware of how unique his position is, as are his colleagues.
“[Stilgoe’s retirement] would be a real loss to the department, and I hope it doesn’t happen anytime soon,” Moss says. “In a way, he’s irreplaceable.”
Stilgoe agrees that he is unlikely to be replaced, both within the VES department and within the university at large.
“What I do is probably going to fade out of the universities because there’s so much money to be made doing what I do in the private sector,” Stilgoe says. “A load of men and some women go into what I do essentially for police work.”
Zenner says that Stilgoe’s work has greatly expanded the field of landscape history; she says there’s been more crossover between landscape studies and American studies, as well as new interest in cultural and vernacular forms of landscape. Yet she maintains that his work stands alone.
“No one really thinks like John, and no one writes like him,” Zenner says. “His mindset might have been passed along to students and others, but I think there’s never going to be another John Stilgoe.”
But while there may never be another John Stilgoe, the one we have right now isn’t ready to quit. His most recent book came out in 2014, he recently served as a visiting artist at Lesley University, and he’s constantly evaluating his own viewpoint.
“Everybody’s view is biased. I promise you that mine is incredibly biased,” Stilgoe says. “I’m five feet, 11 [inches tall], so I see differently than you would, but you would see differently driving my truck than if you were driving around in a Prius, just because you start to raise your eye level.”
Stilgoe is perfectly willing to talk about his other biases, but it’s telling that he begins with a purely physical one—the simple fact that at five feet and 11 inches off the ground, he sees things differently than a man of six feet would.
This is typical of Stilgoe, who insists that his scholarship begins not with preconceived theories that are then tested through research, but with the simple act of looking.
“I don’t go to Louisiana to study Louisiana houses, or church buildings, or bridges,” he says. “I just go to look at Louisiana.”
Students say that this more open-ended approach can be liberating. Hassett said the experience of working on Stilgoe’s research papers differed from any others he’d written at Harvard.
“You’re searching for something to substantiate an idea that you’re going in with,” Hassett says. “It’s very different what he asks you to do, which is not to search but to look.”
And yet, as Stilgoe continually reminds his students, there’s a lot of power in looking.
“When you start to teach people to [notice things], you destroy the larger narrative,” Stilgoe says.
Students routinely say that Stilgoe’s courses are life-changing, and he’s likely to agree with them—though in a slightly different way. He continually reminds his students that while looking might be what saves their lives. In his 2003 book “Lifeboat,” he extensively discusses shipwrecks, noting that when a ship goes down, often only a few passengers will have looked around the boat, paid attention to where the lifeboats are, and how to get up to the deck.
“Everybody else doesn’t want to think about it,” Stilgoe says. “So they don’t look. And I want them to think about it.”
—Staff writer Petey E. Menz can be reached at petey.menz@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Although the season is officially over, we can still see the white vestiges of winter—and it’s not just the snow. This year, the city of Boston used hundreds of thousands of pounds of salt to keep its roads, sidewalks, and walk- ways clear of ice, and that salt is still around. After it's done its job of preventing icy sidewalks, where does it go? How is it affecting the environment? Fifteen Minutes sat down with professor of Environmental Engineering Peter P. Rogers to get the answers.
FM: What sparked the use of deicing salts in the United States?
Rogers: Until the 1930s, we didn’t use deicing salts at all in the United States. They had snowplows, and snow accumulated on the roads, but people drove a lot slower, and of course there were fewer cars on the road. People knew how to drive in bad weather. They didn’t drive as fast back then. Nowadays, everybody expects to be able to drive at 70 miles per hour on the highway.... It’s not acceptable to do anything less. So it’s a fairly recent phenomenon, the use of these deicing salts.
FM: What exactly is in this deicing salt?
Rogers: Well, there is a whole bunch of [types of salt]. Mostly sodium chloride, which is cheap. Calcium chloride is one of the other salts they use, which is a lot more expensive, but works better at lower temperatures.... Then there are the toxic materials that [manufacturers] actually add to the salt. This actually surprises people. Cyanide salts! Why would you add cyanide to them? Well, you do that because of the corrosion on automobiles. Various cyanide salts reduce the amount of corrosion on steel or iron. So they’re really not worried about the environment; they’re worried more about the corrosion on automobiles.
FM: What are the environmental impacts of these deicing salts?
Rogers: Well, that’s quite serious, because you start thinking not just about the salt itself. Salt is a natural product; generally, it’s around in various quantities, except not in levels that we’re using. But then you start mobilizing other salts to put into [the manufactured salt], to achieve some other goals.... There are serious environmental consequences, of course. The obvious one is the salinization of the soils. The stuff gets knocked off the highways and blown around, and it damages the soils. It makes [the soil] too salty and puts too much sodium and chlorides in [it]. It corrodes the bridges, and corrodes the reinforcing bars in the concrete. Then it has an impact on species. It is very damaging to plants and also to many different types of wildlife that are out there.... My wife is furious, because we have a little grass strip out along the curbside in front of the house. She tends that grass and waters it and looks after it. Then the snow comes in, and they dump all the salts on top and it kills the grass.
FM: Are there any alternatives to salt use?
Rogers: In the short run, I don’t expect to see any huge reduction in the amount of salt use. Maybe better forecasting would be better. Maybe actually pulling back, using less and see what happens.... Then it’s nice to think about using public transit, but the way it collapsed with the recent snowstorms, you really got a lot of very unhappy people who went back to their automobiles. It’s all part of that urban and suburban life. The seasons get in the way. It’s not as though we all live in southern California where they don’t use any salt. We live in a different environment, and I think people trying to come to grips with that is important.... There are these new deicing chemicals [that can be used as alternatives to salt], but they’re less than one percent of the total use. And they’re going to be expensive.
FM: Where does the city store the huge amounts of salt it uses?
Rogers: Storing it is a problem. Take, for instance, the Cambridge Water Supply. Cambridge has very good water; it has its own water supply. Its reservoirs are Fresh Pond and two reservoirs out on Route 128. They’re on either side of Route 128 and that is where the MDC (the Metropolitan District Commissioner) stores its salt, right next to the water supply. Actually, for a long time they were uncovered, and [the salt] just leached into the ground...so there is a salt mine under those storage things. They now have built covers over them, but [the salt] was going into our drinking water. For a long time, Cambridge was having trouble meet- ing the chloride standards and the sodium standards on the drinking water. FM: If the salt is so bad for the environment, why haven’t we just stopped using salts altogether? Rogers: There was an experiment carried out in Lincoln, Mass. [The town] is full of very right-minded environmentalists; it’s a wealthy community. And so, [the town] decided that salt was bad for the plants and animals...it banned salt on the highways for one year. [Lincoln] posted signs on every road coming into [the town] from outside that said “No Salt,” “These Roads Have Not Been Salted,”[and] “You’re Traveling at Your Own Risk.” There were a couple of fatal accidents that year, due to people not paying attention to the signs. So the experiment was cancelled; they just decided it was too dangerous...[salting] is something that we [have to] do. People expect us to do it. It’s part of the unsustainability of the way that we live; we can’t do this forever.
Sections
Shortly after I received the email that I would be living in Holworthy 16, my dad emailed me, “Conan O’Brien is a past resident of the room.” Calm, cool, and collected, I responded, “THIS IS SO EXCITINGGGGGGGG.”
I get a kick just out of reading news articles about famous folks, so you can imagine the thrill that I derive from living in a space that a celebrity once inhabited. My room in Holworthy may have gone a bit downhill since the days in which O’Brien ruled the roost—did a future television host have to put up with a mouse infestation?—but the knowledge that Hollywood’s funniest redhead used to write Lampoon pieces by the light of my lamp helps me get through the late-night squeaking of my rodent roommates.
I am not the only one whose dorm has been graced by an up-and-coming star. Throughout Harvard’s history, budding actors, politicians, computer geniuses, authors, and other luminaries have slept (sometimes) and studied (occasionally) in the same spaces that students occupy today.
Before dropping out, Microsoft founder William “Bill” H. Gates lived in Wigglesworth A-11 in 1973. Matthew “Teddy” T. Brokaw ’18, one of the current residents of Gates’s room, recalls musing with his roommates about their Wigglesworth predecessor via Facebook last summer. They imagined, “Maybe he scratched his name into the molding in the closet or something. Maybe we’re going to find that he put his initials on his desk.” Brokaw jokes, “That evolved to, ‘Maybe we can tell girls that we live in Bill Gates’s room.’”
Brokaw and his roommate David C. Gibson ’18 are following in Gates’s footsteps by moving to Currier next year, and the two have a plan to let Gates know about their uncanny housing connection. “We’re about to send him a letter,” Brokaw says. “I was going to go with the tactic of maybe attaching some pictures or something [and saying], ‘Hey, this is what the room looks like now.’”
Rashida L. Jones ’97 spent her time at Harvard in Weld 25 and Eliot, and the actress remains proud of her roots. On July 28, 2015, when Catherine A. Polik ’18 tweeted, “Guess who [is] staying in the same freshman dorm as @iamrashidajones…,” Jones replied, “YEAH WELLLLLD!” (Jones and I apparently both express happiness by adding unnecessary letters to our words.)
In the most high-powered rooming assignment of 1965, Oscar-winning actor Tommy Lee Jones ’69, a resident of Mower B-12, lived across the hall from B-11’s Albert (“Al”) A. Gore ’69, the former vice president. Bonded, perhaps, by their impending stardom, the two then roomed together in Dunster.
“I was really surprised to learn that Tommy Lee Jones was in our room,” says Mitchell B. Edwards ’18, a current Mower B-12 occupant. “I think he’s a fantastic actor…. I loved him in ‘Lincoln.’”
One of the most interesting stories to come out of an alumnus’s dorm room involves actor Matthew P. Damon, who lived in Matthews 201 before entering Lowell. On a trip to receive the Harvard Arts Medal in 2013, Damon stopped by his former Matthews abode. (Hey Conan, if you are reading this, you are more than welcome to knock on my door at any time. Seriously. Please come visit. I have saltines and a decent futon.)
The three lucky residents of Matthews 201 that year—Adam N. Bicak ’16, James E. Golden ’16, and Veeral V. Mehta ’16—had the opportunity to meet the film star. Damon hung out in the room for about an hour, making small talk and shooting a short video for the admissions office.
“He was talking a lot about the time that he spent in the room. He talked a lot about his roommates and how he still keeps in touch with some of his entrywaymates,” Mehta remembers. “It was a great learning experience for us to talk to an [alumnus] and get his thoughts about what freshman year was like and just realize how important Harvard was in shaping his career.”
Mehta adds that Damon was “a real gentleman and just seemed like a really great guy.” The actor was such a great guy, in fact, that when Mehta asked him to record a birthday message for his mother, Damon decided to call her instead.
Other Harvard alumni who made the history books include philosopher Henry David Thoreau, a member of the class of 1877, who bopped around in Hollis from room 20 to 32 to 31 to 23. President John F. Kennedy ’40 resided in Weld 37 and Winthrop. Basketball hot-shot Jeremy Lin ’10 lived in Stoughton 26 before nabbing a spot in Leverett. President Franklin D. Roosevelt ’03 spent his time in Adams B-17, which has been gorgeously restored to conjure up how it might have looked in Roosevelt’s time. Mark E. Zuckerberg started in Straus D-11 and invented Facebook from his room in Kirkland. The list of noteworthy names goes on and on.
One day, I might take inspiration from Brokaw and Gibson and send Conan O’Brien a letter. Or maybe I will follow Polik’s lead by tweeting at him. Perhaps O’Brien, a la Damon, will pop up at my door unannounced. Or I can choose instead to reflect on what a privilege it is to attend a school through which so many brilliant minds and talented individuals have passed before me. I consider it an honor to live amongst their shadows as I strike out on my own path at this starstudded institution that we all call home.
Sections
UPDATED: April 9, 2015, at 5:07 a.m.
It only takes a few moments of awkward loitering to catch the attention of Aaron J. Klein ’17. After a big hello, I’m ushered into a packed side room inside of Harvard Hillel, where a crowd is gathering before Shabbat dinner begins. After our mouths have been satisfactorily stuffed with cookies, Klein launches into a spirited explanation of the night’s services, but quickly stops himself. “Which of you are Jewish?” he asks.
One of my friends, here for the food, nervously speaks up. “I’m not,” she exhales. “I can leave if that’s a problem.”
Klein lets out a laugh and ushers her in for a hug. “I’m both amused and upset that you considered that,” he says. If Hillel is anything, it is open to all. As we move into the dining room we are swept up in the festivities and the sense of community. Klein plays the host, encouraging us to join the raucous singing and pointing out which foods we simply have to try. For us, it’s a fun evening highlighted by excellent cuisine. For others, it’s a time of greater significance.
The fourth of the Ten Commandments tells its followers they should no do any work on the Sabbath day. “Work,” here, doesn’t just refer to your 9-to-5, but is rather understood to mean any act creates or exercises control over one’s surroundings. This places a number of restrictions upon the observer, which range from not using electricity to not writing, and even to not tying knots.
As with any religious practice, levels of observance vary, and is most wholly observed by the Orthodox members of the Jewish faith. Orthodox students arriving on campus come fully prepared to continue their observance, but know that keeping faith on a secular campus may be different than it was back home.
COMING TO CAMPUS
Klein’s involvement in the Jewish community at Harvard began with last year’s Opening Days. Through a friend he heard that Hillel was hosting a falafel event, and after hitting it off with a fellow student interesed in linguistics (though he has now settled on neurobiology), he returned the next day for an ice cream social. The following day he was busy, and didn’t make it back to Hillel. Feeling bad, he reached out to the linguist. “It’s okay,” she laughed. “You don’t have to live here.” A pause. “Yet.”
But just as with many others, Hillel transformed into more than just a building or a place of worship. “It’s one of the places this year where I think I feel the most comfortable,” Klein says. “It just feels very much like home.” The establishment contains the dining hall and synagogue, but also has a library, study spaces, and a recording studio in the basement. It hosts speakers who come and discuss issues ranging from social, to political, to religious. For some it is a religious space, for some it is a social nexus, for some it is a source of identity. And for many, it is all three.
Growing up, observing Shabbat “wasn’t really a thing” in Klein’s family. But since arriving on campus he has become more observant, he explains. It’s a transformation he attributes to spending more and more time among other adherents to the Jewish faith. According to Rabbi Hirschy Zarchi, co-founder of the Chabad House at Harvard, this is common. Shabbat has been “the vehicle through which many young Jews have entered or connected with the Jewish community,” he explains.
For others, Shabbat has been a constant throughout their lives. Joseph A.Z. Hostyk ’17 was born in Israel and moved to the States in 2001. Shabbat observance is less of a conscious choice and more of something that he has always known will be a part of him. For Hostyk, Shabbat is “a time to relax.” Because you know that you cannot do any work, it is a day that one can reliably spend enjoying the company of your peers. There is “no social networking, except in person,” he says.
Talia Weisberg ’17, a former Crimson columnist, was on Hillel’s executive board last year, and currently serves as the Orthodox student minyan president. Hailing from an Orthodox community, says she was tagged as a black sheep for attending a college with dorms. But regardless of what her old friends may think, she believes that she has only grown more observant since arriving in Cambridge.
She jokingly warns anyone who wants to avoid her to stay away from Hillel. “There’s one couch in the student lounge that I always say it has my permanent imprint because I’m always sitting on it.”
BEYOND THE BUBBLE
One advantage of the melting pot that is the Harvard Hillel is its power to connect students to Cambridge and Harvard as a whole. Through Hillel, many undergrads have the chance to meet and connect with graduate students, members of other nearby colleges,and Jews from the surrounding area. “I think that’s an experience a lot of people at Harvard don’t really get,” says Weisberg. “I don’t think a lot of people have grad students who are friends or just randos who live in Cambridge even as acquaintances.”
It isn’t uncommon for undergrads to venture out of the Harvard bubble because of the connections they make within the Jewish community on campus. “If you’re sitting next to someone praying with them, maybe they’ll invite you to Sabbath dinner Friday night,” Hostyk explains. “It’s just a very tight community.”
Weisberg discusses how she occasionally visits an Orthodox community in Brighton for Shabbat. The experience there is more akin to what she was used to growing up: a home cooked meal shared by a family around the table. But she relates experiencing separation sadness each time she ventures away from Hillel. The tight-knit community on campus can be hard to leave, she explains, especially on Friday nights when its ranks are bolstered by a number of students who make the trip to Hillel just once a week for Shabbat.
Harvard students can also be connected to the Jewish community outside of Hillel through Chabad House, another institution that caters to members of the Jewish faith on campus. Rabbi Zarchi and his wife moved to campus 17 years ago to found Cambridge’s Chabad House. Chabad opens its doors to Jewish students at Harvard, but also focuses on community programming for Jewish families in Cambridge, hosting weekly events such as “Mommy and Me” and “Friendship Circle,” a program where community members can volunteer to spend time with young adults with disabilities.
Alex B. Zaloum ’16 is the Hillel Orthodox student minyan Weekday Gabbai, but he also lives in the Chabad House. He smiles when asked the difference between the Hillel and Chabad experience, and responds, “Hillel is more of a tossed salad and Chabad is more of a stew.” Both are welcoming communities, but Chabad has a more streamlined directive. Whereas Hillel has minyans representing all sectors of the Jewish faith, Chabad has a more Orthodox lean.
Klein describes his own take on Chabad. “If you go to Chabad, there’s an ideology,” he says. “Chabad isn’t and doesn’t pretend to be pluralist.” And on Tuesdays, Chabad hosts Chinese food dinners for undergraduate students, “so I consistently go on Tuesdays,” Klein notes.
OBTRUSIVE OBSERVANCE
Observing Shabbat isn’t all about delicious meals, however. At its core it is a demanding practice, and because of this its practitioners can run into conflicts with institutions that are not structured around their beliefs. This is not to say that Harvard has a track record of being unresponsive or unhelpful in meeting the demands of its Shabbat-observant students. In fact, the opposite is often true.
It’s easy to switch final exams, and professors are very accommodating if observant students need to take their midterms on a different day, Klein explains. “People are very understanding and very willing to accept that.”
Inability to use electricity on one day of the week can be problematic for swiping into dorms, but Thayer, Hurlbut, and Mathews are all equipped with manual key access.
Aside from the technical challenges, the fact that Shabbat takes place on a Friday night means that some social programming is simply going to be off limits for the observant members of the student body. “I think for me, and for a lot of other students, the hardest part of keeping Shabbat on a college campus is the missed opportunities—you feel like there’s always so many things happening every weekend, and you can’t always take part in them,” Zaloum says.
While Harvard usually manages to do a good job reacting to the restrictions of the Jewish faith, some feel that more could be done ahead of time to be more accommodating. “I feel like there’s a frustration among students regarding Jewish holidays and that the University or certain clubs could put in more effort to not schedule things on those days where we can’t take part,” he adds.
Rabbi Zarchi provides an example of this difficulty. “Most recently what comes to mind is one student, very bright young man, very creative, appreciation for the arts,” he recalls. “And for him it’s a challenge that some of the best shows coming up are staged on the Sabbath.”
The Orthodox community itself is taking steps to provide alternative events for students during Shabbat. “One of the biggest things in terms of the progression that’s been happening lately is that there’s been a lot more social programming on Friday nights,” says Zaloum. Zaloum discusses the positive trend he’s noticed lately. In the past two years he has seen numbers, involvement, and engagement increase.
When he arrived, there was a sense of disparity.
“People were feeling like there were a lot of individuals in one place rather than a community,” he says. In part to address this issue, there was a push to have more organized gathering on Friday nights after Shabbat services end for the evening.
These gatherings fall on the more social end of the spectrum. “It’s very different than a Friday night dinner at Hillel, which can seem like, ‘Oh, this is something I might do at home,’” Hostyk says. “But having this get together on a Friday night—there’s nothing to it. It’s just a bunch of people hanging out on a Friday night.”
"A CULMINATION"
Looking around the Hillel dining hall on Friday night, it’s easy to see how this community can become front and center in a student’s life. The singing is joyfully disorganized and off key, the chatter is loud and welcoming, and the food is by far the best I’ve ever had on campus. And, most importantly, a quiet but powerful sense of meaning underlies the current of the room.
“Sometimes people are like, ‘How do you keep Shabbat?’ But I don’t understand how they don’t keep Shabbat,” Zaloum says. For some students, Shabbat provides a chance to step away from their hectic schedules and reflect and enjoy time with the Jewish community at
Harvard and beyond. For Rabbi Zarchi, the most moving experience he has on Shabbat is when he observes the “faces of students sitting around the Shabbat table who maybe have never experienced Shabbat and see how happy and at home and at peace they are.” Shabbat, he says, “is sort of a culmination... [that] gives perspective to the week ahead.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: April 9, 2015
An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Joseph A.Z. Hostyk ’17 moved to the United States in 2011. In fact, he moved to the U.S. in 2001.
Sections
Hey there, _________ (best friend and blockmate/person who’s always on my newsfeed/hook up from last weekend). So here’s the thing. I know we _________ (are in the same Ec section/have literally never met in person/made out during River Run), but I want you to know that I _________ (value our friendship/Facebook stalk you extensively/avoid you like the plague). Thanks to your nonstop _________ (texts/emails/ carrier pigeons), I have become aware of your upcoming _________ (a capella performance/improv comedy show/“Game of Thrones” fan fiction reading).
I know how excited you are to _________ (dance your heart out/ dress up like Gollum/sing Celtic ballads while playing the bagpipes), and I’ve heard _________ (rave reviews/idle chatter/dire shouts of “run for the hills!”) about your performance. But _________ (unfortunately/ thankfully/as luck would have it), I _________ (sadly don’t think I can make it/have a prior engagement/would literally never consider going).
Trust me: I would go in a heartbeat if _________ (I didn’t have a test tomorrow/my parents weren’t in town/...yeah, under no circumstances would I go)! No, really—it’s just that I already committed to _________ (writing a paper/going on a date/Netflix and Nutella) this weekend. I feel _________ (really guilty/mildly bothered/incredibly relieved) about canceling.
That said, I know you’ll kill it on the _________ (stage/Tasty Burger basement/roof of the Science Center). Break a leg, _________ (literally/not literally).
Sections
Recently, new domain names such as .sucks, .porn, and .adult have become available for purchase. In an effort to protect their reputation from trolls who may use the domain for evil, people and organizations such as Taylor Swift and Microsoft Corporation have purchased “TaylorSwift.sucks” and “Office. adult.” Harvard recently joined the fray, reaching into its wallet to purchase a “.porn” in order to preserve the school’s valuable reputation. The real question here is this: What domain names should Harvard buy next? Below, FM imagines what Harvard might want to buy next.
1. harvard.fossilfuels
2. harvard.theamountofsnowinboston
3. harvard.ishouldhavegonetostanford
4. harvard.cheatingscandal
5. harvard.usnewsandworldreport
6. harvard.gradeinflation
7. harvard.ncaabasketball
Sections
It appears that I have stumbled onto the set of an early 2000s music video. Toned biceps peek out of sleeveless t-shirts. Angular bubble letters are scrawled across the whiteboard at the front of the room. Everything is coated in spray paint. It’s 7:30 p.m. on a Wednesday night, and Holden Chapel is the site of “Sticking Together”—“the rhythmic collaboration of a lifetime.”
The room is filled to capacity with performers, and there’s only room for three rows of folding chairs. I choose the most incon- spicuous seat I can find and try to take notes without looking down too much. All eyes are glued to the peppy, prop-laden drummer onstage.
I don’t blame them—he’s mesmerizing. He bounces around the room so quickly that tracking him is a challenge, and his voice is so dense with enthusiasm that I can almost see the exclamation points. I’d bet he would be a hit at Visitas.
This bundle of energy turns out to be one of the evening’s hosts. He introduces himself as T-Spoon (I later discover that his alter ego is Tyler S. Parker ’17, a member of The Harvard Undergraduate Drummers), runs us through the program, and jives offstage.
The first act is performed by B.E.A.T.s, a percussion team from Tufts. They carry empty Rubinoff handles and introduce them- selves as “Tufts’s oldest all-male a capella group.” It feels so familiar that I don’t realize it’s a joke until I see their smirks.
They’re good, though, or at least they’re
loud. Some bang on three-gallon water jugs. Others use drumsticks and upturned Home Depot All-Purpose Buckets. One creative (or disoriented) soul weaves around clanging a frying pan. The whole production feels like a gleeful round of Let’s Make a Racket.
It also leaves me thoroughly unprepared for the next act. In fact, I’m so busy trying to cope with the ringing in my ears that I barely notice Boomshaka stalk onstage. When I do look up, I flinch.
A row of spandex-clad menaces has assem- bled in front of me. According to their leader, they are a group on tour from Northwestern, but their glowering stares and clenched fists suggest otherwise. I wonder briefly if I am about to be murdered or Ad Boarded.
The dancers stand in front, slowly wind- ing heavy-duty chains around their fists. The drummers stand behind, wielding full-size trash bins and backwards ball caps. And when the music starts, they let loose an onslaught of motion. Chains are whipped; staves are spun; “HIT ME” is chanted in deafening unison. I glance over at T-Spoon to see how he is taking this: He looks as ter- rified as I feel.
Eventually, Boomshaka relents, and the Harvard Passus Step Team settles into position. After several minutes go by without a single threat to my personal safety, I reopen my eyes.
My primary impression is that everyone looks like they’re having a good time. They jump and bend and groove and not once does anyone break from an ear-to-ear grin. Their energy is infectious, and the whole room los- es its mind when one dancer starts crunking.
Finally, THUD rolls up, T-Spoon includ- ed. Carrying buckets and dressed in matching t-shirts featuring red solo cups, the crew assembles across the stage. One performer points at his bucket. “This song is called Buckets,” he announces. Scattered nods of understanding play through the crowd.
The song is hypnotic. It’s simpler than anything else in the lineup—free of the clutter of B.E.A.T.s or the rage of Boomshaka or even the bubbly exuberance of Passus—and the rhythm feels like riffs on a heartbeat. I breathe and watch hands rise and fall, and too quickly the routine is done.
After Buckets, the crew brings out a fold- ing table and a row of red cups. T-Spoon waves his arms in excitement. “The next song is called Cups,” a performer informs the audience. T-Spoon yells indiscernible words of support. The team lifts each red cup to reveal a blue cup. T-Spoon is restrained by a friend.
As the last cup clatters to a rest, the teams pour back onstage for a mass dance number. Hidden speakers blast old school jams. A guy jumps over a wooden bar. A blond drummer pounds a trash can so hard that his hat flies several feet into the air. Finally, THUD starts a rhythmic clapping that eases into shameless self-applause.
I shrug and clap with them.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Bilal A. Malik will become the new Leverett House dean after serving as the acting dean in Leverett for the past two semesters.
Malik took over after Leverett’s former House dean, Lauren E Brandt ’01, was appointed assistant dean in the office of the secretary of the Administrative Board last year. Brandt was recently named the incoming secretary of the Ad Board.
“Leverett House is in very good hands,” Brandt said of Malik. “I’ve worked with him for years and I know he cares very deeply about the students.”
Leverett House Master Howard M. Georgi ’68 wrote in an email that serving as acting dean this past year has been valuable to Malik for multiple reasons, “perhaps most importantly because Bilal has been able to interact strongly with his predecessor in the position, Lauren Brandt.”
Malik and his wife, Rabia Saifullah, have served in Leverett House as tutors since 2007. Malik previously worked as the assistant director of the Office of Undergraduate Research and Fellowships and before that as an assistant dean at Harvard Summer School, according to an email to students from Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde.
According to Georgi, as dean Malik will work to reorganize the House Office and senior tutorial staff, in order to “keep [Leverett] in line with changes in the College” as well as to develop programming that takes advantage of Leverett’s newly renovated McKinlock Hall.
Malik studied political science as an undergraduate at Amherst College and received a masters and doctorate of education from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. According to Lassonde’s email, Malik will begin teaching in the Anthropology department next spring.
—Staff writer Ivan B. K. Levingston can be reached at Ivan.Levingston@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @IvanLevingston.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: April 1, 2015, at 10:35 p.m.
Female mathematicians discussed ways to alleviate the potential barriers facing women in math at the College at a panel discussion, which was organized by the Harvard Undergraduate Mathematics Association on Wednesday evening.
The panel discussion followed the results of a survey, distributed by HUMA and the Mathematics Department, suggesting that gender-based challenges might deter female undergraduates from pursuing mathematics at Harvard. An audience of about 150 students and faculty members crowded into Emerson Hall for the discussion.
The survey suggested that women experience more discomfort due to their gender and perceive themselves as being less involved than their male counterparts in the department. According to Cherie Z. Hu ’17, vice-president of HUMA, the data prompted HUMA to organize a direct discussion with input from current members and alumni of the Harvard math department.
Meena K. Boppana ’16, former president of HUMA and one of the students who conducted the survey and organized the panel, said she was motivated to conduct the survey because she noticed that there was a huge gender gap in mathematics that was not being openly discussed.
“There was an elephant in the room, and so I really wanted to get people to start talking about it,” she said. She added that the organizers tried to invite panelists with a variety of experiences in mathematics.
“We wanted a range of experiences among people who we knew cared about the issue...we have a couple of graduate students, a postdoc, and a tenured faculty [member],” she said.
The panelists included Gigliola Staffilani, professor of mathematics at MIT; Rediet T. Abebe ’13, a graduate student at in the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences and a former Crimson editor; Hilary Finucane ’09, an MIT graduate student; and Alison Miller, a postdoctoral fellow in the Mathematics Department. Answering questions posed by the moderator and the audience, the four women described the challenges they faced as aspiring mathematicians and offered possible approaches to decrease the gender gap in mathematics.
Among numerous anecdotes, Finucane recounted how her roommates had discouraged her from taking Math 55 as a freshman while her male peer, who had the same background in math as she did, was told to persist by his roommates.
“People expect a little less of you than they would if you were a guy,” she said.
The four panelists stressed the importance of raising awareness about the issue and promoting gender equality by creating a welcoming and nonjudgmental environment for all.
In her concluding remarks, Miller told the audience comprised of both males and females to not be intimidated by the tendency for some students to boast of their knowledge.
“There’s a lot of math out there, and there’s not much of us to understand it,” said Miller. “We need you to keep doing it.”
—Staff writer Jessica Kim can be reached at jessica.kim@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Nine months into his leadership of Harvard's flagship school, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana plans to continue serving as co-master of Cabot House.
Khurana said Tuesday that he has transferred the time he previously spent on teaching and research at Harvard Business School to duties associated with his deanship. Khurana, who has been co-master of Cabot since 2010, said he has not noticed significant differences in his overall time commitments since taking the helm of the College. Rather, he said that has transitioned into a different day job that he described as more focused on undergraduates.
“This year I'm not teaching,” he said. “Basically the time that I spent doing my teaching and my research, this year, I’m serving as dean.”
Co-Master of Cabot House Stephanie R. Khurana similarly said she has not noticed many changes in how the House operates, emphasizing that many students and staff have continued to shape House life.
“From my perspective or the House perspective, I don't think things have changed dramatically,” she said. “I think the bigger change is from his work at HBS that basically transferred to University Hall.”
On a day-to-day basis, Khurana said he wakes up at about the same time as he did last year, but he is required to travel less than before he assumed the dean position, enabling him to stay in Cambridge for longer periods of time.
Stephanie Khurana, who leads a subcommittee of Harvard's sexual assault prevention task force, said she and her husband might have considered modifying their responsibilities if they affected their three children. She said the pair have in fact enjoyed the transition and their continued role as House masters.
“If it didn't work for our family, that would be one thing, but our kids really seem to enjoy this community,” she said.
Khurana, who chairs the College's Administrative Board, will also serve as the ex officio chair of the College’s first student-faculty Honor Council, which will begin adjudicating cases of academic dishonesty next fall. Khurana wrote in an email that he remains “silent and neutral” on any Ad Board cases involving Cabot students he knows in order to “minimize any appearance of a conflict of interest."
Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokespeople Anna Cowenhoven and Rachael Dane attended The Crimson’s interview with Rakesh Khurana.
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
New floor plans for Dunster House, currently undergoing renovation, feature the elimination of walk-through bedrooms, a large mix of studio-style and common room-style suites, and a shift away from in-suite bathrooms toward shared hallway baths.
The floor plans, made available online to Dunster House residents last week as part of the first round of the House’s rooming lottery, also show several elevators throughout the House. According to Dunster House Administrator Rachel A. Barbarisi, Dunster House’s previous accommodations did not include elevators. She also said that tutor communities will be organized by floor rather than by the traditional vertical entryways.
For the past year, Dunster residents have lived in swing housing across Harvard Square as the House undergoes construction as part of the College’s $1 billion House renewal project. Previous renovations in Leverett House’s McKinlock Hall and Quincy House’s Stone Hall feature many of the same changes as Dunster, including the introduction of hall baths and cluster common rooms.
According to the House Lottery Handbook, posted on the Dunster website alongside the floor plans last week, there will be “cluster common rooms” on each floor except the top one, which will be available to all Dunster students regardless of where in the House they live. Policies for how to reserve these spaces will be released in the fall, according to the handbook.
The floor plans, which were shared with The Crimson, also show a “smart” seminar room, an art space, music rooms, several squash courts, a gym, and a grille—many of which were announced ahead of construction last June. Prior to being closed for renovation, Dunster House operated a late-night grill in its basement.
While some students expressed mixed feelings about the renovations, others said they are happy with their rooming options for next year.
Stephanie G. Franklin ’16, co-chair of Dunster House Committee, said that she was “very pleasantly surprised” when the floor plans were released.
“I was worried that they would get rid of suites for the most part, based on what I had seen in Stone Hall, Quincy—but there were lots of suites, lots of common rooms, and a good deal of variety [of suites],” Franklin said. She said that while there are some shortcomings, the improvements are worth it.
Having previously lived in Dunster House before renovation, she characterized plans for the new rooms as “much, much better.” Franklin said she would be living next year in a 7-person suite duplex with two bathrooms and a common room. Barbarisi wrote in an email that the newly added, larger suites were assigned in a special lottery Tuesday, ahead of the general lottery.
Hillary J. Do ’17 said she is “not yet sure how she feels” about the switch to hallway bathrooms, though she said she was pleased that in exchange the rooms have been made bigger. However, she said she welcomes the horizontal connections between entryways, which she said would make socializing easier because it eliminates the need to go outside in order to enter another entryway.
—Staff writer Quynh-Nhu Le can be reached at quynhnhu.le@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @qnhule.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Central Intelligence Agency analysts conducted a case simulation for 30 students at the Center for Government and International Studies as part of a recruitment event Wednesday.
As part of International Relations week, organized by the International Relations Council student organization and sponsored by Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, the case simulation brought five analysts from the CIA, including Fran P. Moore, former Director of Intelligence at the CIA. 30 students selected by random lottery participated in the three-hour recruitment event.
Eliza J. DeCubellis ’17, executive director of International Relations Week who organized the simulation, said a personal relationship enabled the event.
“This kind of just fell into my lap,” DeCubellis said. “I met with [Moore] because she was a friend of a family friend. I was only thinking of her individually, but then she mentioned this CIA simulation, which they use for recruitment.”
In Wednesday’s simulation, the 30 participants read a fictitious case, created a policy of recommendation in groups, and then debriefed the five CIA analysts. The fabricated case, “Arctic Simulation,” concerned an imaginary explosion of an oil and gas company in the Arctic that set off aggression by Russia and conflict between other countries with territorial claims in the Arctic, such as the United States, Denmark, and Canada.
Members of the analyst team from the CIA estimated that they conduct 25 to 35 of these case simulations at colleges nationwide each year. Approximately a quarter to a third of simulation participants apply for a job at the CIA, according to agency estimates.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While professors, scholars, and other academics in the early 2000s cautioned students not to consult Wikipedia at all when researching, attitudes concerning the popular online encyclopedia are shifting, according to some Harvard professors.
Some professors in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences said they see Wikipedia as more acceptable, even as a website that students can peruse for somewhat reliable information. Although they still warned students to be wary when using Wikipedia, some professors no longer look at the site with the same criticism.
“Basically like most faculty, I’ve had a grouchy opinion about Wikipedia,” said Sean J. Gilsdorf, a lecturer on History and Literature. “My attitude has turned into one [of], rather than complaining about it, why don’t we try to do good things with it.”
Distrust for Wikipedia has been replaced by a realization that the site can be “a good source for certain areas,” including basic scientific data and formulae, Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris said. This realization comes after previous condemnation of the site as “not academic,” Gilsdorf said.
“Wikipedia is a good first place for many people to do research,” English professor Stephen L. Burt ’93 said. “It is often wrong, but everything is sometimes wrong, and we should double-check everything.”
Burt said professors’ criticism of Wikipedia also did not prevent students from using the site in the past. “I think it’s become more acceptable to use it as a first start, or, rather, it’s become clearer that people start there anyway, whether or not they’re told it’s OK,” he said. “The important thing is not to stop there.”
Ultimately, students and faculty members should be held accountable to the same standards for Wikipedia usage, according to some professors.
“The guilty secret of most academics is that they’re using Wikipedia, when they’re telling their students not to,” Gilsdorf said.
English Department Chair W. James Simpson echoed Gilsdorf in saying that professors consult the site just like students. “I use Wikipedia each day, so why should I not signal its value, with appropriate caution, to my students?” Simpson wrote in an email to The Crimson. “I do.”
Faculty members pointed out several advantages of Wikipedia’s online format. Burt said the site can be “very useful” for students who are researching pop cultural phenomena, new technology, and other contemporary topics.
“Various Wikis often have more information than academically-sanctioned databases because the academically sanctioned databases take longer to get processed and indexed and because fans often know more than academics,” he said.
With a click of the mouse, students can access a wealth of information in a matter of seconds, according to professors.
“I think the collective encyclopedia is one of the truly thrilling innovations of our time,” wrote Simpson. “Of course one must exercise critical judgment, and of course one must independently check facts from Wikipedia, but the standard is remarkably high and the range astonishing.”
At the same time, however, some faculty members said students should not jump the online encyclopedia right away in the research process.
“I do know that there is a debate going on about how authoritative it is, whether it’s credible, but I think it’s probably credible for Facebook arguments, but not so much for a scholarly piece of writing,” said FAS Registrar Michael P. Burke, who serves as a freshman adviser. “Would I feel proud about using that as a source? No, I wouldn’t.”
Other professors, in addition to noting Wikipedia’s usefulness for background research purposes, have incorporated Wikipedia into their course syllabi.
Over the course of the semester, Gilsdorf has groups of students in History and Literature 90g: “Charlemagne: Histories, Stories, Myths” develop Wikipedia pages “on some theme, place, or individual critical to Carolingian society,” according to the course syllabus. Instead of term papers, the groups learn about writing copy, navigating fair use policies, and producing bias-neutral content, either by creating new Wikipedia pages or by taking Wikipedia stubs and revamping them.
Past student-designed projects, which still can be accessed on Wikipedia, include the revamped wiki pages for Emma of Normandy, Adeliza of Louvain, and Pippin the Hunchback, Gilsdorf said.
—Staff writer Melissa C. Rodman can be reached at melissa.rodman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @melissa_rodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As Harvard Law School moves to break from the University’s central approach to handling cases of alleged sexual harassment, Law professors are questioning the relationship between their school and Harvard’s central administration and faculty governance structures more broadly.
Two Law School professors, Charles Fried and Robert H. Mnookin, penned an op-ed last week in the Chronicle of Higher Education criticizing the “cadre of administrators” at Harvard and called for the creation of a faculty senate as a mechanism to ensure faculty participation in major University decisions.
The op-ed cited last year’s creation of Harvard’s first University-wide policy and set of procedures to govern its response to sexual harassment cases, which has drawn fire from Law School professors, as an example of a central decision made without sufficient faculty input.
In an interview this week, Mnookin said he had been thinking about University centralization issues over the past couple of years, but “it’s certain the importance of it was underscored by the process by which both the decisions on Title IX and with regard to our health policies were adapted.”
Fried and Mnookin’s concerns, which come as the Law School implements its own set of school-specific Title IX procedures to break from the centralized framework, are not isolated. Their op-ed, which Mnookin said was circulated among the full Law School faculty, has struck a chord with some other professors who have been discussing University governance concerns in the wake of Harvard’s decision to adopt a central Title IX approach.
“It was the central administration that got us the policies that were the problem,” Law School professor J. Mark Ramseyer said.
In October, 28 Law School professors signed an open letter in the Boston Globe that criticized Harvard’s central Title IX policy and at the same time raised University governance questions. “Harvard undermined and effectively destroyed the individual schools’ traditional authority to decide discipline for their own students” in adopting its new Title IX approach, the professors wrote.
After the letter, Law School Dean Martha L. Minow appointed a committee to create a set of school-specific Title IX procedures. And in November, a group of 20 professors—all of whom had signed the Globe letter—sent a memo to that committee requesting that the Law School bypass Harvard’s central Title IX body, as it soon will.
Now, after challenging Harvard’s central approach on Title IX , some Law School professors are questioning Harvard’s approach to University governance at-large, arguing that the central administration has become too large and that faculty at individual schools lack sufficient voice.
“The challenges of running a unified university are becoming more frequent,” said John Coates, a Law School professor who chaired the committee that crafted the Law School’s new set of Title IX procedures. “More collaboration is needed.”
“It needs to be trimmed, ” Ramseyer said of the central administration.
Some professors, including Janet E. Halley and Laurence H. Tribe ’62, said they echo Fried’s and Mnookin’s call for a faculty senate. “I think the health of the institution very clearly calls for the faculties to find some way of collecting their local knowledge into a single place,” said Halley, a signatory of both the Globe letter and November memo.
Still, not all agree that it would be a sufficient solution. Ramseyer, for example, maintains that “the notion that this would get better if we had a faculty senate seemed to me naive.”
Mnookin, for his part, said he hopes that the op-ed spurs more discussion of the issue University-wide so that the Harvard Corporation, University President Drew G. Faust, or Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 appoints a group to “look into it.”
“Our goal was to put this issue on the table for discussion,” Mnookin said.
This is not the first time Harvard professors have raised governance concerns. In 2013, professors in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences similarly questioned the administrative balance of power in the wake of revelations of secret email searches of College resident deans following the Government 1310 cheating scandal.
University President Drew G. Faust—who has described her vision for uniting the University as “One Harvard"—has defended Harvard’s governance structure, noting that individual schools have been involved in major central decisions cited in Fried and Mnookin’s op-ed.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dean of Harvard Law School Martha L. Minow has appointed a Title IX committee to begin implementing the school’s new set of procedures for responding to cases of alleged sexual harassment, according to Law School spokesperson Robb London.
The procedures, which the Law School faculty voted to approve late last year, break from Harvard’s central set of procedures governing its handling of alleged sexual harassment. Under these new procedures, the Law School will investigate its own student sexual harassment complaints, rather than the central Office for Sexual and Gender-Based Dispute Resolution.
In February, the Law School received initial feedback on its new procedures from the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights that was largely positive and resubmitted the procedures for any further comment. They have not received further feedback, according to London.
The Title IX committee—which consists of tenured faculty members appointed by the Dean, according to the new procedures—has “been working on the formation of the adjudicators’ pool and also to enlist investigators,” London wrote in an email. “We will implement them as soon as practicable after OCR has completed its review.”
Under the procedures, the committee will oversee the investigation and adjudicatory processes for cases of alleged sexual harassment.
The Law School’s school-specific Title IX procedures were adopted by the Law School faculty last year following pushback to Harvard’s newly centralized model for responding to cases of alleged sexual harassment.
Not long after Harvard unveiled its central Title IX policy last summer, Law professors began to speak out against the University’s framework. After a group of 28 professors published an open letter in the Boston Globe that criticized Harvard’s policy in October, Minow appointed a committee, chaired by Law School professor John Coates, to draft a new set of school-specific procedures. In November, 20 professors also circulated a memo to the committee advocating for a set of procedures independent from the University’s central investigation process. The resulting procedures reflect many of the signatories’ concerns.
According to a notice on the Law School’s website, Law School students will be notified when the new procedures are implemented.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard baseball team snapped its five-game losing streak with a 5-3 victory over Holy Cross in its home opener Wednesday afternoon. Propelled by a trio of relievers and clutch situational hitting, the Crimson was able to rebound from a weekend in which it lost three games on walk-off singles.
It was Harvard’s first victory since its spring break trip to Florida, which ended by the Crimson winning five of six.
Sophomore Greg Coman got the start for Harvard (11-12, 0-4 Ivy). Typically a reliever, the lefty surrendered one run in his only inning of work as the Crusaders (10-15, 4-0 Patriot League) jumped out to a 1-0 lead. From then on, the Crimson bullpen was dominant, holding Holy Cross to just two runs on four hits.
“The biggest thing about midweek games is it’s a team game,” junior reliever T.J. Laurisch said.“Wednesday games, they go piece by piece, it’s kind of get it to the next guy. I think we did a great job today, we all found a way to piece it together.”
Freshman Ian Miller had his best performance as a member of Harvard baseball. The right-hander threw four and a third innings, at one point retiring 13 consecutive Crusaders. Miller’s only trouble came in the top of the sixth inning when he allowed two singles. Fellow first-year Dylan Combs finished the inning, allowing both inherited runners to score.
The Crimson defense was solid behind its pitchers following a weekend in which it committed ten errors. Harvard turned a 4-6-3 double play to get Combs out of trouble in the seventh.
Perhaps the play of the game came in the following inning. With Holy Cross runners on first and second and one out, the Crusaders were looking to cut into the 5-3 Crimson lead. Laurisch’s fourth pitch to Holy Cross centerfielder Evan Ocello was received by Harvard catcher DJ Link and gunned to third to throw out Bobby Indeglia, who was the lead runner in a Crusader double steal.
“That was huge,” Laurisch said. “That was definitely a pressure inning. They tried a double steal and all of a sudden, it’s two outs, just a guy on second. It makes it a lot easier on me. I think DJ did a great job and made a nice play. It really changed the momentum of that inning.”
Laurisch’s next pitch struck out Ocello and ended Holy Cross’s last chance of tying the game. In the final frame, the junior worked a 1-2-3 inning, one of five on the day for the Crimson pitching staff.
After being held scoreless for the first two innings, the Harvard offense mustered a two-out rally in the bottom of the third. Senior second baseman Jake McGuiggan singled, junior Mitch Klug walked, and co-captain Ethan Ferreira singled home his 17th RBI of the season to tie the game up at one.
The Crimson manufactured two more runs in a bizarre bottom half of the fourth inning. Freshman John Fallon, making his second consecutive start at shortstop, walked and advanced to second and then third on two separate wild pitches by Holy Cross starter Phil Reese. Junior Matt Sanders drove in Fallon and a Mike Martin walk, Jake McGuiggan fielder’s choice, and Crusaders error gave Harvard a 3-1 lead.
The Crimson tacked on two more runs in the fifth on consecutive sacrifice flies by Fallon and sophomore first baseman Matt Hink. Despite only registering seven hits on the day, Harvard was active on the base paths, swiping seven bags, including two apiece by seniors Martin and designated hitter Tanner Anderson.
“Today was nice, it was a good bounce back win for us after the weekend,” McGuiggan said. “Offensively, it was nice to get those clutch hits and get into somewhat of a rhythm going into the weekend. It was nice to see those guys come out of the pen and pitch really well.”
It was the bullpen that was the story of the day. Miller picked up a much-deserved win, the first of his collegiate career, and Laurisch was credited with his second save of the year.
“Ian’s got some innings under his belt,” coach Bill Decker said. “I thought he went out there today and provided this team exactly what they needed. He gave us a shot of adrenaline, kept us in the ballgame, you can’t say enough about him. He did a great job patching in and same thing with Dylan Combs. And T.J. Laurisch is who he is. We can count on T.J.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following a pair of five-inning victories at home against Rhode Island on Tuesday, the Harvard softball team (10-15, 1-3 Ivy) looks to remain undefeated at home against visiting Cornell (8-10, 2-2) and Princeton (10-13, 2-0) over the weekend.
After splitting a pair of games with Columbia on Friday and dropping two to Penn on Saturday, the team hopes to snag wins against a much-improved Princeton squad and a Cornell team that looks to extend its win streak. Following Tuesday night’s stomping of the Rams 15-0 and then 14-3, the outlook is positive following three conference losses on the weekend.
“I think the team is figuring out offensively how to battle and how to look for good pitches at the plate,” Harvard coach Jenny Allard said. “I think we are really confident at the plate right now and I think were hoping to take that into the weekend.”
Prior to its second loss against Penn on Saturday, the team had allowed only seven runs in 31 innings of play. Though the Crimson struggled to muster runs in Saturday’s first game, the offense turned on in the second meeting, totaling 18 hits over seven innings. Harvard would lead for much of the game, before losing on a walk-off single in the last inning. Despite the loss, the team is looking forward to picking up some conference wins over the weekend.
“We just need to play well in all aspects of the game. We need to hit well and we need to get timely hits,” Allardsaid. “We need to have great pitching and we need to have great defense.”
Even though the team gave up big runs against the Quakers on Saturday, it is expecting big support from its bullpen as it tackles its Ivy League rivals. Lead by senior pitcher Laura Ricciardone, who has a team high 58 innings pitched and an ERA of 4.34, the bullpen intends to do some damage over the weekend. Over the 25 games thus far, the pitching has held opposing teams to a batting average of .258 and combined for an ERA of 3.65.
“It’s definitely an important weekend for us,” Ricciardone said. “We have to really come out and put all three parts together: pitching, defense, and offense.”
On the offensive side, the team isn’t looking to the biggest, but instead to the most consistent hitters. Senior catcher Katherine Appelbe leads the team with a .396 batting average and a .521 slugging percentage. The offensive weight isn’t carried individually, however, with six of the Crimson’s starters batting above .300.
The offensive effort extends beyond the plate for Harvard, with senior outfielder Andrea Del Conte leading the Ivy League in stolen bases with 12 and leading the team in triples. The team has batted .292 in the month of March with a .382 slugging percentage.
Despite the loss of four time All-Ivy team member Kasey Lange last year, the offense has continued rolling—leading the Ivy League in hits and RBI.
Regardless of the output on the offensive end, the defense needs to lock it down for a successful weekend. In 167 innings, the bullpen has allowed an Ivy League high 183 hits. Within the Ancient Eight, the Crimson comes second in the category of hits allowed with a conference ERA of 6.04, with only Penn giving up more earned runs on average.
If Harvard looks to come out with a pair of wins over Cornell on Friday, the defense will need to make a big impact as the Big Red lead the Ivy League in  combined batting average (.314) and on base percentage (.393). Cornell comes into the series fresh off a four game winning streak after beating both both Yale and Brown last weekend.
“We know they’re going to swing their bats hard,” Allard said. “Historically, they’ve always been a great hitting team.”
After two games against the Big Red on Friday, the Crimson takes on a Princeton team that is undefeated thus far in conference play. The Tigers have gone 5-1 in their last six games with a .311 on base percentage on the year.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s lacrosse team (4-4, 2-1 Ivy) could finally take a much-needed sigh of relief after junior co-captain goaltender Kelly Weis thwarted the final attempt of a frantic comeback by the Big Green (0-9, 0-3).
“Well we decided to make it interesting,” head coach Lisa Miller remarked. “The ball was on the ground, and Dartmouth just grabbed it and ran to the cage.”
The final stop tallied Weis’s total saves to 10, after the junor played the full 60 minutes.
The Crimson closed out a dominant first half on a strong note by adding to its lead when sophomore attack Marisa Romeo hit the back of the net with only eight seconds remaining in the period.
Romeo’s two first-half goals gave her a team-leading 25 on the season and helped give the Crimson a 7-3 advantage going into the half.
Freshman midfielder Julia Glynn kicked off the scoring for the Crimson nine minutes in, but didn’t stop there, tallying two more assists and collecting five ground balls in the victorious effort.
Midway through through the second period, Dartmouth’s Sarah Byrne fueled the Big Green comeback, netting three goals in 93 seconds, two of her three coming on free-position penalty shots. Byrne ended up tallying four total goals for Dartmouth.
The Big Green edged out Harvard in draw controls, 7-1, in the second period, contributing to the Crimson’s lack of offensive momentum in the final minutes.
“We were struggling to get the draw control, which definitely wasn’t helpful,” said junior co-captain and midfielder Audrey Todd. “So once they had one goal, it kind of strung along into three or four.”
Penalties gave the Big Green its foothold on offense, accounting for five of the team’s eight goals.
“[In the] second half they threw a defensive look at us that we haven’t seen before and haven’t practiced,” Miller said. “I think it really slowed us down so that’s something we’re going to have to work on.”
After the Crimson opened scoring in the opening period, Dartmouth answered the call with two goals of its own to take its only lead for the game. The Big Green’s time to enjoy the lead would be short lived, however, as Harvard was quick to answer on the other end.
“Luckily we were able to settle it down enough to maintain our small lead,” Todd said
.Todd led the Crimson on offense with a hat trick and notched an assist in the first half. The co-captain also registered two ground balls and forced a Dartmouth turnover.
“They were face-guarding Marisa,” Todd said. “She’s obviously a key contributor to our team, but that also opened up a lot of lanes for other people. So I found some lanes early, and I was able to put away some shots.”
The victory was a much-needed win for the Crimson, since the team has suffered its fair share of close losses on the season.
The successful outcome by the Crimson over a struggling Dartmouth team evened Harvard’s record at .500 and pushed the squad to a winning record in its conference, adding momentum as the team heads into the heart of Ivy League play, taking on Penn and Brown in the next two weeks.
“The team seems optimistic going forward in the year, as young players continue to develop.” Miller said. “I’m just pleased to be able to go on the road in a hostile environment and get the win with what is a very young team.”
And the youth not only survived, but shined, with underclassmen netting six goals and tallying four assists on the day.
The Crimson comes off of a tough beginning schedule, with  contests against four top-15 teams in the past few weeks contributing to the team’s previous losing record
.“It prepared us for a game like today,” Miller said.“But I don’t know if I thought about [the record] a lot going in.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections


Happy Thursday, Harvard! Hope you had a great April Fool’s Day, and that you saw some great pranks being played on unsuspecting fools. In case you didn’t, there’s a fun recap of goofy internet pranks here rounded up by CNN. They just might be silly enough to give you enough good cheer to get you through ’til the weekend.
IN THE D-HALL
Lunch: 
Chicken Parmesan
Grilled Cheddar Sandwich with Tomato and Red Onion
Indonesian Stir Fry with Tempeh
Dinner: 
Chicken Florentine
Salisbury Steak
Grape and Mozzarella Pizza
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
We’re being graced with another day of great weather here in the always lovely Cambridge. Although it’s going to be cloudy for most of the day, temperatures are supposed to reach a scorching 57º by mid afternoon.
ON FLYBY
1) PSA: Advising Fortnight — A breakdown of the “legitimate” reasons for Fortnight for those of us who have been to the events for the free food.
2) Five Questions You’ve Got About Allston, Answered — Wondering what all the buzz about Allston is about? Read up!
IN THE NEWS
1) Khuranas Will Stay on As Housemasters — “Nine months into his leadership of Harvard's flagship school, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana plans to continue serving as co-master of Cabot House. Khurana said Tuesday that he has transferred the time he previously spent on teaching and research at the Business School to duties associated with his deanship.”
2) Malik Named Permanent Leverett House Dean — “Dean of Student Life Stephen Lassonde announced in an email Wednesday that Bilal A. Malik will become the new Leverett House resident dean after serving as the acting dean in Leverett for the past two semesters.”
3) Panel Discusses Gender Gap in the Harvard Math Department — “Female mathematicians discussed ways to alleviate the potential barriers facing women in math at the College at a panel discussion, which was organized by the Harvard Undergraduate Mathematics Association on Wednesday evening.”
4) Harvard Moves To Open Three New Offices Abroad — “Harvard has authorized the formation of three new international offices in Cape Town, Beijing, and Mumbai, with each office in a different stage of development, according to Vice Provost for International Affairs Jorge I. Domínguez.”
5) Total Cost To Attend College Will Surpass $60,000 — “The total cost of attending Harvard College will break $60,000 for the first time in its history. Including tuition, room, board, and other fees, the cost will increase 3.5 percent to $60,659 for the 2015-2016 academic year.”
EVENTS
Online Small Business Loans — A discussion at 11:45 a.m. on whether these loans should be regulated in Bell Hall at the Kennedy School.
Organ Recital — A recital played on the Flentrop Organ in Adolphus Busch Hall at 12:15 p.m.
The Courage to Develop the World — Ljubica Nedelkoska of Harvard Kennedy School's Center for International Development will be speaking about sustainable sport industries that can lead to international growth at 4:30 p.m. in Holden Chapel.
Jack’s Abby — One of the founders of Jack’s Abby (a local microbrewery) will be speaking with students about starting small businesses at 6 p.m, in Queen’s Head.
Justice in an Era of Mass Imprisonment — Bryan Stevenson of the Equal Justice Initiative will be speaking at 6 p.m. in the JFK, Jr. Forum.
The Last Five Years — A musical centered around love, success, and failure at 7:30 p.m. in the Adams Pool Theatre. Email lastfiveyearsharvard@gmail.com to reserve tickets.
Sections



UPDATED: April 2, 2015, at 3:01 p.m.
What’s an Allston?
Allston is not a thing, but rather a location. Allston is a neighborhood in Boston which runs along the southern edge of the Charles River. Allston is collectively administered with the neighborhood of Brighton, and together they have a population of almost 60,000. For reference, Harvard’s athletic complex resides in Allston.
What’s all this talk about Harvard in Allston?
The University sees Allston as a massive opportunity to expand and has invested billions of dollars in the neighborhood. The original plans for development of the area were released in 2003 by then University President Lawrence H. Summers. The nine-project Institutional Master Plan, published in 2013, has current plans for 1.4 million square feet of new construction, 500,000 square feet of renovations, retail and residential commons, and a new School of Engineering and Applied Sciences complex.
That sounds amazing, right?
Well, not everything is always perfect. While the influx of cash from Harvard could help Allston develop, many citizens are frustrated with the way the University has handled many topics. In 2009, the University decided to halt construction due to the financial crisis. In 2013, a scaled-back version of the plan was reannounced.
Is that the only reason Allstonians are frustrated?
Again, no. People from Allston are upset with a number of things. Arguably, the most salient issue Allstonians take with Harvard’s development is that many residents feel that their opinions are not adequately being listened to by the University. The Harvard-Allston Task Force, an advisory board the Boston Redevelopment Authority charged with acting as a liaison between the neighborhood, the city, and the University, exists as a forum for citizens to voice their concerns, but recent news about Boston University speaking behind closed doors have some residents feeling anxious about transparency.
So what should we anticipate to come out of Allston?
Allston is expanding immensely right now, which of course brings with it some issues. With that said, we can expect Allston to become an important node for education, research, and economic activity. The Harvard I-lab is currently working out of Allston, the Ed Portal just recently opened the doors of its new facility, and the projects Harvard has lined up promise to transform Allston into an innovative neighborhood.
