News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A double-overtime goal was all that separated the Harvard and Yale men’s hockey teams during the Crimson’s 2015 ECAC Hockey title run. In the conference favorites’ first meeting of 2015-2016, nothing did.
Freshman Joe Snively scored his second goal of the night with 35.8 seconds left in regulation to steal a 2-2 tie for No. 12/9 Yale (2-0-1, 2-0-1 ECAC) before a sellout crowd of 3,095 at the Bright-Landry Hockey Center on Friday.
After junior forward Tyler Moy gave No. 7/6 Harvard (2-0-1, 2-0-1) its first lead of the night with 5:57 left in the third period, Yale coach Keith Allain called his team’s timeout with 42 seconds remaining and his All-American goaltender pulled. Bulldog junior John Hayden won a puck battle off the ensuing faceoff in the Crimson zone and threaded a pass from behind the goal line to Snively on a set play for the game’s final score.
“It was a heck of a college hockey game,” Harvard coach Ted Donato ’91 said. “I think both teams could probably figure that they grew up today playing a tight game like that.”
Harvard junior forward Luke Esposito also scored before a lively crowd that included Secretary of State John Kerry. The hosts’ third league game of the season had a postseason feel with hard hits across humid ice.
Eight months removed from ending Yale’s conference title hopes with his extra-time marker in game three of the ECAC Hockey quarterfinals, co-captain Jimmy Vesey sent a potential empty-net insurance marker just wide a shift before Snively’s tying goal.
In an even overtime frame, Vesey averted a Yale opportunity on the back-check, but the hosts failed to test junior goaltender Alex Lyon, who finished the night with 30 saves.
On the other side, freshman goaltender Michael Lackey made 33 stops for Harvard in his first career NCAA start. The Washington, D.C., native saw few high-quality scoring chances Friday but looks to challenge for the starting role with sophomore Merrick Madsen, who won twice in his first two collegiate starts last weekend.
“I thought [Lackey] played well,” Donato said. “It’s not easy getting your first start versus Yale at home in a big game, but it is the third game of the season and we have confidence in him. He’s worked hard in practice and deserved the opportunity.”
Eighteen of the saves made by Lackey's All-American opponent came in the first period as Lyon turned away opportunities from Vesey, senior Colin Blackwell, and freshman Ryan Donato. He also watched a shot from Esposito ring off the crossbar.
In the second period, Yale took control with the first goal of the night at 9:24 from Snively, who sent a fluttering backhand across the slot to catch Lackey off-balance, but Esposito broke through at 14:52, catching the Bulldogs on a line change with a sharp slap shot above the left faceoff circle.
In the third, Esposito chipped a puck along the boards to Moy, who found a seam across the left faceoff circle to beat Lyon short side. The linemates have combined for five goals in the young season.
“[Esposito]…sees the ice very well,” Moy said. “We talk and communicate, and we think very similarly, so I think that definitely helps.”
With less than 40 seconds to play in regulation Friday, Esposito and Moy were among the favorites to take home the Tim Taylor Cup, the award established last season to recognize the most valuable player of each annual Harvard-Yale regular season game in Allston. But the pair watched on the ice as Snively slipped his second puck past Lackey.
“[The teams] match up well,” said Snively, who received the trophy in a ceremony after the game and now has four goals through his first three career games. “It’s fun hockey.”
With the tie, Harvard will have to wait until February for its next shot at its first regular season win over Yale since Jan. 27, 2012. If recent history is any indication, however, Friday night might just be the first of many clashes between the programs this season. For now, Moy and his team will take their season’s fifth conference point and the experience that went along with it.
“Obviously when you have less than a minute left in the game and you let something up like that it’s a little bit of a killer—it changes the mood,” Moy said. “But I think for the most part, [there was] a lot of battle, a lot of good things that we did, and a lot to take from it.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Do you suffer from shopping period optimism? You know, when the first week of classes rolls around and you’re convinced that of course you’ll wake up for a 10 a.m. lecture, of course you’ll go to that section on Friday, and of course you’ll be fine with only 15 minutes for lunch twice a week...wait, what?
Yeah, we all make dumb decisions when study card day rolls around. Luckily, HUDS has anticipated our momentary (or more than momentary) lapses of judgement, and graced us with Fly-By, a grab-and-go dining service.
Fly-By resides right below Annenberg, next to the Cambridge Queen’s Head Pub. It’s a great option for grabbing lunch and sprinting to lecture if, like me, you only schedule 7 minutes for lunch at 2 p.m., but don’t mind because you eat at weird times anyway.
But beware of Fly-By at regular lunchin’ hours: I’ve tried to grab-and-go at noon and been met with a line stretching almost to the door of Queen’s Head. Yikes. But hey, upperclassmen who don’t have time to walk back to the River or, god forbid, the Quad, between classes definitely have nothing better to do than to stand in line for 20 minutes to grab chips and a sandwich.
When running smoothly and line-free, Fly-By is everything that Flyby could hope for: free food, a place to work, and Cape Cod chips. But because of its tendency to get overcrowded at peak mealtimes, we’ve got to say that we at Flyby prefer the blog.
Sections
We've gathered our staff together and racked our brains for the best things to use your BoardPlus on. If you are one of the lucky, lucky few who still has BoardPlus left, you are very welcome for our sage advice coming ahead in this series. If you unfortunately have maxed out on your BoardPlus for the semester (we feel you), Crimson Cash? Flyby presents you with the first installment of our series:
Easy, Breezy, Beautiful Breakfast Sandwiches at CGIS Cafe
I love to eat my breakfast quick and undisturbed. That’s why I hate early morning meetings, like other people. But also why I like breakfast sandwiches. It’s every basic breakfast food item you need all in one. Also, I need the extra time to procrastinate successfully.
Out of the many good things our dining halls do provide, sadly having these wonderful inventions everyday is not their first priority, especially if you live in the Houses. So whenever I’m in the mood, I head down to CGIS Cafe located in CGIS Knafel, which is the weird looking building on the same side of the street as Annenberg (yes, as opposed to other weird looking building across the street).
If you wait a couple of minutes after 8:00 am, you can see these pieces of art already being prepared– freshly made comforts right in front of your eyes. Sadly, they don’t do the croissant sandwich with egg and bacon like I remember from freshman year. But, at least you can have your sandwich with an English muffin or a bagel.
