News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The 2016 presidential primary race has thus far been dominated in the media by two candidates situated at the ideological extremes. On the Republican side, Donald Trump has controlled much of the rhetoric and captured the vast majority of the media’s attention; for the Democrats, Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders has established himself as a prominent presence. While Sanders currently has an 11 point lead in the New Hampshire polls, his standing in national polls suggests that he will ultimately not be selected as the nominee. As it did early in the 2008 race, it seems as though Hillary Clinton will inevitably receive her party’s nomination for president.
Despite being a long shot to win the White House, candidates like Sanders have an important role in the election. Though the frontrunner, Clinton is far from progressive—for example, she waited until 2013 to publicly advocate for gay marriage, and did not take a stand against the construction of the Keystone Pipeline until earlier this autumn. In this regard, Sanders serves an important purpose in moving Clinton further to the left ideologically; however, it is unclear that Sanders is the right candidate, given the unworkable nature of some of his policies and the cult of personality that has developed around him.
The reforms that Sanders’ has proposed are unrealistic and prohibitively expensive, with some estimates clocking in at $18 trillion of additional spending over the next decade. For example, his proposal to make public colleges free provides an unnecessary subsidy to students who are able to pay tuition, while neglecting to adequately address the rising costs of private colleges. Flaws like this are indicative of well-meaning policy that sadly comes across as half-baked.
Further, though Sanders is without doubt a deeply charismatic figure, the cult of personality that has developed around him is, in some ways, alarming. While it is good that his rallies, such as the one in Boston last weekend, are drawing large numbers of young adults into politics, they are also indicative of the media’s propensity to focus too heavily on charismatic politics; and in turn, the attempts of politicians to profit off of that focus. The parallel rises of Trump and Sanders are clear evidence of this development—one that benefits the media far more than it does the American people.
Sanders’s popularity also serves as further proof that there should be more Democratic debates throughout the primary process. The two Republican debates have allowed voters more direct access to the party’s candidates, something that is lacking for Democrats. In the interests of fairness, every major Democratic candidate—including Harvard Law School professor L. Larry Lessig—deserves the opportunity to address the voters directly in a debate. We are glad that Sanders has had this opportunity at his large rallies, and think that others should have a platform too. The give and take of ideas during the primary race—whether from Sanders or from other candidates—is vital to our democratic process.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I am disappointed in the Crimson.
In the wake of the recent release of survey data from last spring's sexual assault climate survey, the student newspaper has played a large role in shaping the sexual assault dialogue on campus, second perhaps only to the Office of the President. One might hope that the newspaper, as a major source of College-related news, would seek to raise the level of discussion surrounding these issues, rather than paint the same tired tropes.
In five news articles and one staff opinion on the survey and the immediate response by the community, the newspaper has published almost six thousand words on the subject, including numerous concerning statistics on the prevalence of sexual assault against female undergraduates. Very few students at this college, I expect, have not heard by now that thirty-one percent of senior undergraduate females at Harvard College have experienced some form of sexual assault. Indeed, this statistic has appeared prominently in all six articles published thus far by Crimson staff.
What's the corresponding statistic for male undergraduates?
The full 254-page task-force report might help you here, as the Crimson never reported it.
In their defense, it did not appear in former Provost Steven E. Hyman's letter to the President, either. It's also difficult to compare apples to apples, since the 31.2 percent Hyman references in his letter is computed using a slightly different methodology than the numbers reported in the task-force report (by excluding less-at-risk students enrolled in the Division of Continuing Education). Nevertheless, the full report claims that 8.4 percent of male undergraduate seniors—compared to 29.2 percent of female undergraduate seniors—reported experiencing some form of sexual assault. In aggregate, 22 percent of survivors are males.
The Crimson, in almost six thousand words of reporting, devotes exactly two sentences—totaling forty-one words—to these male survivors. To quote: "For LGBAQN undergraduate males, that rate of experiencing nonconsensual penetration and sexual touching was 10.9 percent in [the past year], compared to 2.7 percent among their straight male peers." And: "Among male undergraduates, 51 percent of respondents said they had experienced sexual harassment." The whole thing feels rather like running a six-part article on undergraduate housing at Harvard and spending two sentences on the Quad.
There is nothing surrounding these issues that we should be talking about less than we currently are, but we need to be talking about this more. We need to keep talking about female survivors, and we need to start talking about male ones. We need to keep talking about alcohol, and we need to start talking about why queer students are at higher risk of assault. We need to keep talking about final clubs, and we need to start talking about trans experiences. I am focusing on male survivors here, in an effort to begin a conversation, but I firmly believe that our discussions around these issues need to become broader as well as going deeper.
This is not merely a matter of rhetorical correctness; silence has very real consequences. When male survivors are invisible, they face stigma against seeking help. Though male and female survivors of sexual assault seek out institutional resources at roughly the same (low) rates, male survivors are 60 percent more likely than female survivors to speak to no one—not even a friend—after an assault. (31.2 versus 19.3 percent for assault by force; 38.1 versus 23.3 percent for assault by incapacitation). And so male students make up more than 27 percent of silent survivors, in large part because we so rarely acknowledge that they exist at all.
Furthermore, ignoring male survivors presents sexual assault as solely a women's issue, implying (at least in the contemporary paradigm of social justice) that the proper place for men is one of allyship, rather than advocacy. When toxic gender norms saddle persons of all gender identities with distinct—yet invariably oppressive—pressures to remain silent, step back, and say nothing, we need to be opening spaces at the table for all those affected, while moving past inaccurate stereotypes of who the “usual” victims are. In this regard, the climate of discussion surrounding issues of sexual assault has a long way to go.
Perhaps the Crimson was merely following the example of Provost Hyman in emphasizing only the statistics on female survivors of assault. But the newspaper's institutional purpose is predicated upon the idea that student reporting is necessary to cover what the administration won't address. On an issue as important as this, the newswriters at 14 Plympton Street have little excuse for merely copying soundbites from the University administration. We need to start talking about more than just that.
Ross W.J. Rheingans-Yoo ’16, a computer science and mathematics concentrator, lives in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Rape (noun)–"unlawful sexual intercourse or any other sexual penetration of the vagina, anus, or mouth of another person, with or without force, by a sex organ, other body part, or foreign object, without the consent of the victim."
For decades, women have been taught how to prevent rape from happening to them. Women learn that they can prevent rape if they abide by an extensive set of rules: Don’t forget to carry a rape whistle or pepper spray. Don’t leave your drink unattended. Don’t leave your drink uncovered. Actually, just don’t drink at all. Don’t wear anything provocative. Don’t stay out late. Don’t go anywhere without an escort. Don’t go to frat parties. Don’t do this. Don’t do that.
If you forget any of these things, however, all bets are off. Too drunk? Asking for it. Wearing a short skirt? Asking for it. Passed out unconscious? Asking for it.
But this begs the inevitable question: Why are women always being taught how to avoid rape, but men are never taught—quite simply—to not rape?
It’s impossible to teach men to not rape, the argument goes. There will always be rapists. There’s nothing you can do about it except make sure that you’re not their next victim. Women need to be cautious and vigilant, always armed and prepared to prevent a rape. Take proper precautions, and you should be safe. Fail to take proper precautions, and then you only have yourself to blame when you get raped. After all, if you leave a Ferrari in a bad neighborhood and it gets stolen by thieves, that’s nobody’s fault but your own. What else would you expect when you leave such a tempting object in front of people with no self-control and no moral compass?
But this logic is fundamentally unsound and preposterous. Women are not Ferraris. They are human beings. When you compare a woman to a Ferrari, you’re dehumanizing and objectifying her—she’s no longer an individual with thoughts and feelings at that point, she’s just a pair of breasts and a vagina. You cannot compare the theft of an inanimate object to the physical assault and violation of a living, breathing human being. There is absolutely no comparison.
I am not a Ferrari. I am a human being. And the only time I’m asking for it is when I actually open up my mouth and ask for it.
But there’s something even more crucially flawed in this logic, an aspect that is often overlooked. It’s the fundamental assumption that men are inherently monsters. In arguing that women need to be taught how to avoid rape, it presupposes that rape is inevitable, that men have no self-control. It presupposes that men simply won’t be able to help themselves from taking advantage of a woman.
And in this way, the rape culture is just as unfair and insidious to men as it is to women. Women may be the Ferraris, shiny pretty inanimate objects, but men are the thieves, monsters with no self-control and no moral compass.
And this notion is not unique to the rape culture. This idea is reinforced over and over again in society. The popular saying “boys will be boys” tells men that society doesn’t expect anything better from them. Society expects them to be aggressive and stoic and hyper-masculine, always getting into trouble and making a mess. Anything less would make them a “pussy” or “gay.” Society expects men to be the troublemakers and mess-makers of the world, and then expects women to be the ones to clean up their mess. And that’s not fair to either of us.
We need to get rid of this underlying assumption that men are inherently aggressive and violent without a shred of self-control or morality. Only then can we see that it is indeed possible to teach men to not rape.
Right now, boys and men are not fully included in conversations about rape. At the University of Iowa, at a discussion about sexual assault, women pulled out the weapons and objects that they carry every day to keep themselves safe—and while none of the women were surprised by the number of rape whistles and cans of pepper spray in the room, the men were shocked. That was probably the first time these men were actively involved in a discussion about sexual assault.
Furthermore, studies have found that a lot of men don’t think rape is rape. In a 2014 study, researchers discovered that while only 13.6 percent of men said they would rape a woman, 31.7 percent said they would force a woman to have sexual intercourse. The 20-point divide suggests that many men don’t exactly know what rape means. They don’t even realize that what they’re doing is considered rape. It suggests that we have a lot of work to do in terms of educating men on rape and consent and including them in these discussions.
We need to stop putting so much of the onus of rape on girls and women, and start bringing boys and men into the conversation as well. For decades, women have been taught how to prevent rape from happening to them. It’s high time we start teaching men how to not rape and how to have consensual sex instead.
Consent (noun)–"permission for something to happen or agreement to do something."
Nian Hu ’18, a Crimson editorial executive, lives in Mather House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Hey, get your mind out of the gutter! It’s not what you’re thinking. The busts we’re talking about are the ones mounted on the walls of Annenberg. As freshmen, rarely do we look up from our heaping piles of curly fries and carnival cookies to notice the many stern men staring down at us. Covering almost every inch of Annenberg’s walls, these devilishly handsome fellows are forever immortalized in smooth marble. While their busts are accompanied by a gold plaque detailing their major accomplishments and contributions to the University, we know you’ll never actually get around to reading them. Let us be your one and only source into the scandalous lives of Harvard’s elite.
We’ll start on the south wall, with the last dude you see before exiting the Berg: William Wetmore Story, Class of 1838. Like many Harvard students today, Story had no idea what he wanted to do with his life. Naturally, he decided to follow his father’s path and become a lawyer. With an HLS degree under his belt, Story prac- ticed law for two years, only to drop everything, move to Rome, and become a sculptor. Bet his parents were happy with that life choice. Of all the men in Annenberg, Story was the only one to create his own bust. FM suspects he had no problem with self- confidence.
Directly to Story’s left is James Russell Lowell, also sculpted by Story. Story and Lowell both graduated in 1838, attended Harvard Law School together afterwards, and once spent a winter in Italy together. That’s like you sculpting a bust of your roommate or that cute guy in your entryway—yeah, kind of weird.
We’re going to fly past Christopher Gore, Class of 1776, John Parker Jr., and George Hayward, Class of 1809, and stop at the one and only W.E.B. DuBois, Class of 1890. DuBois was the first Afri- can American to receive a Ph.D. from Harvard and he also helped
to create the NAACP. His famous idea of the “Talented Tenth” rein- forced the importance of a liberal education for the most talented African-American youth. If he were around today, he’d probably be a huge fan of the General Education program.
Perched next to DuBois is Charles Sumner, Class of 1830. You might not remember him from those long-ago days of high school APUSH, but you should. This Harvard graduate took a beating on the Senate floor from one of his South Carolinian peers for speak- ing out against slavery.
The next bust in line is Samuel Appleton. Based on his knitted brows and decidedly disturbed countenance, we think he’s not so delighted that the church he personally financed in Harvard Yard, Appleton Chapel, carries the larger name of “Memorial Church.”
Sweeping over Benjamin Bussey and Charles Russell Lowell Jr., Class of 1854, the next bust on the West Wall is William Francis Bartlett, Class of 1862. Bartlett actually left Harvard before com- pleting his work as an undergraduate, but he made the University proud as a private in the Civil War. He also has a rather impressive mustache.
Continuing on the north wall, John Thornton Kirkland, Class of 1789 and the 15th president of Harvard, was a member of the Hasty Pudding Theatricals during his time here at Harvard. He also has a House named after him. FM wonders how he would feel about Incestfest.
Not to say that those who weren’t mentioned aren’t super important, too—we just couldn’t find anything about them that would make you laugh.
So next time you’re stuffing your face, laughing with friends, or finishing an assignment that’s due in 15 minutes, look around at the creepy marble men watching you eat. They were all pretty cool.
Sections
In the world of personal transportation, evolution is inevitable. Tricycles to bicycles, roller skates to rollerblades, horse-drawn carriages to the latest model Ferrari. Some modes of transportation, however, are destined for evolutionary failure. Call it Darwinism, call it harsh, call it the truth. Segways are one of these modes of transportation.
Segways call to mind cops with nothing to do, tourists too lazy to strap on their sneak- ers and walk, and helmets that make anyone involved look infinitely less cool. If Segways had to have one redeeming quality, though, it may be their stability and safety. They’re upright, they’re easy to maneuver, and they don’t accelerate too fast. Say what you will, but Segways are reliable. We would go as far as to gift them to our technologically-challenged grandmothers. You go Nana. Take back the streets.
Remove the one redeeming quality from Segways, and you have the Hovertrax. Hovertrax are essentially Segways-sans- handle, solely the wheels and a board to stand on. Motorized and skateboard-like, they’re a tech geek’s wet dream. Hovertrax are the latest Kickstarter-fueled technology taking over the world of the wealthy, following in the entitled footsteps of projects like the Ostrich Pillow ($99) and the Oculus Rift Virtual Reality Headset (~$200). Hovertrax look sleek, and you’ll probably make it into a bunch of people’s SnapStories if you roll around the Yard on one, but are they really all that impressive?
With a whopping $1495 price tag, Hovertrax reach a top speed approaching a brisk five miles per hour. FM recommends the following examples of excessive consumerism as alternate ways to flaunt your bloated transportation budget:
Nine hour joy ride in a Boston Town Car- provided Rolls Royce: $1437.25. 
Tip for your driver: $57.75. 
The tip might be a little light, but weren’t they graced enough by your presence? Anything more would probably offend them.
Taxi fare from Cambridge, Mass., to the Ben and Jerry’s Ice Cream Factory in Vermont: $792.18. 
You don’t have quite enough money to make it back, so you might as well buy the 18 and a half gallons of ice cream that you can with the remaining cash to console yourself.
Canada Goose Kensington Parka: $775.00. 
38 Grey Saddleback Pomeranian Geese: $712.50.
Several months of training and integration disguised in your Canada Goose Parka before you are accepted as the alpha of the flock and allowed to crowd-surf on your minions on your way to class.
InStep Quick N EZ Double Bicycle Trailer: $159.99 (Amazon Prime eligible).
Two Huffy Bicycle Company Boys Alpine Bike in Metallic Blue: $299.98 (Amazon Prime eligible).
57 hours of minimum wage at $9 an hour, so about eight work days, to have poorer college students drive you around in your chariot (not Prime eligible). 
So, we ask ourselves, is a Hovertrax really worth missing out on bonding with your taxi driver on a fun filled trip to Vermont? Or rais- ing a flock of plucky yet beautiful geese who teach you that all you needed to learn how to do was love yourself, all while wearing a $700-plus “parka?” We judge this superfluous addition to technology surely holds less value than that end-of-the-journey Vermonster.
Sections
David I. Laibson ’88 first came to Harvard more than 30 years ago as an undergraduate. Since he returned to Harvard as an instructor in 1994, he has become chair of the Economics department and served on multiple committees. 
Students recognize him most recently, however, as one of the key figures in administering and designing the Sexual Conduct Survey distributed across Harvard and some 26 schools through his role on the Task Force on the Prevention of Sexual Assault. 
The results of the survey have sent shockwaves through Harvard and have refocused national attention on the epidemic of sexual assault on university campuses. FM spoke with Laibson briefly about the survey, its results, and what’s next for the effort to end sexual assault on campus. Below is a transcription of the conversation, edited for brevity and clarity. 

Fifteen Minutes: So, one of your roles is as the director of the Foundations of Human Behavior Initiative. What kind of work do they do? 
David Laibson: We support interdisciplinary work in the social sciences, especially work that involves the study of human behavior and the many forces that combine to produce that behavior all the way from economic incentives to psychological factors and everything else—so biological mechanism, neuroscience, genetics, all the different elements that we know jointly influence human behavior.
 FM: Seems like a good background to view a problem like sexual assault. 
DL: That’s a great point. So one of the big themes in the foundations of human behavior and also in behavioral economics—which I think of as part of the foundations of human behavior—is the theme of behavior change. What a lot of social science attempts to do is not just describe and explain behavior, but if you really understand the mechanisms that are driving behavior, you should also be able to influence behavior. So, one of the really exciting developments is the design of programs, often we’ll call it “choice architecture,” that leads people to make choices that are not self-defeating.
FM: You’re also a member of the Task Force on the Prevention of Sexual Assault. How did you join? 
DL: Steve Hyman is the chair of the task force. I believe that he identified me as someone that he wanted to have on the task force and he discussed that with [Harvard] President Drew Faust, and she invited me to join the task force back in roughly April 2014.
FM: In the fall of 2014 you said the goal was to design a survey that was “absolutely world-class.” Do you think you did that? 
DL: Yes. This process greatly exceeded my expectations in terms of the quality of the instrument, the survey, and the quality of the process. If you’d asked me in the fall: How many bumps in the road are you going to hit? I would’ve said that it’s impossible to imagine we are going to do all of this in 12 months, including rolling out the data, without a few major fumbles along the way. So far, fingers crossed, there haven’t been any.
FM: Were there any survey design compromises you had to make in the name of data comparability? 
DL: The big compromise was shrinking the number of questions to make it fit into a reasonable time span. We all wanted a survey that, in principle, would’ve been about four times as long and would’ve asked many many more questions about circumstances, but if you’re going to ask an undergraduate to sit for two hours and answer a sexual assault survey, the response isn’t going to be very great. So we decided it had to be about 25 minutes long and that meant making very difficult choices about content. Part of that is not having every school ask every individual a battery of questions.
We did have a compromise in which each school was able to pick specific response categories for particular questions. But by and large the survey is completely identical across the 27 schools, and that harmonized form enables us to make comparisons. It also streamlines the survey, making it easier to implement and making it less burdensome for the students who are taking it.
FM: When you talk about particular circumstances at Harvard, would final clubs fall under that? 
DL: That’s right, that’s exactly right. Final clubs would be one of the most important particular circumstances at Harvard. We negotiated language that I think rather narrowly defines a category that I think most students would understand as referring to final clubs. That question was inserted to recognize our need, the need that essentially no other school, or almost no other school, had.
FM: The results of the survey were really chilling. Can you walk me through your reaction to the results? Did they surprise you?
DL: I remember first seeing the results and being devastated. They’re horrific numbers, and we’re essentially like the other AAU schools, and they’re just nightmarishly high. Roughly 16 percent of our female seniors have either experienced completed or attempted penetration, which is completed or attempted rape. It’s hard to think about that level of violence in our community. I was devastated by that number.
I’ve been vaguely depressed all summer. I’ve been thinking about this for a year, talking to a lot of people, and I knew this was a terrible problem, so I was expecting an unacceptably high number, but this was even above what I was expecting. It was—it was just awful. Mind-boggling.
FM: Is it hard for you to balance the academic aspect of sorting the numbers, and the human aspect behind them? 
DL: I’m a professional social scientist, so, for me, going back and forth from the numbers to the reality of individual experiences is very natural. I think about individuals. I think about people that I know who have experienced sexual assault, and I also see the numbers, and they work together for me mentally. I do think it’s important for us to remember that for some people the numbers feel very abstract and they need to reminded that behind these numbers are a lot of people who are being raped.
FM: What were the common threads that stood out to you in student response at the town hall meeting to discuss the results on Monday, Sept. 23? 
DL: The reaction of the students, I think, was exactly right. Like us, they’re horrified by these numbers, and they’re rightly eager to see what the policy response will emerge, now that we have the data and a better understanding of where we’re failing. That really stood out to me, that’s what one would expect, and that’s the way it is.
FM: So on campuses, you hear both sides of a certain argument: One is that the administration is not doing nearly enough to address the problem, and the other is that they can’t do much to address the problem, that it’s cultural. How much of the problem is the administration, do you think? 
DL: So, I can assure your readers that the administration is focused on this with extraordinary intensity, and that that focus begins with President Faust and goes through the entire administration. Everyone I’ve spoken to, every dean, they’re all completely focused on this issue and on what we can do to try to reduce the prevalence of sexual assault.
They’re not naïve. They understand that this is not a switch you flick and it suddenly goes away. They understand that we’re now in a generational effort to not only change our rules, but to also change our institution and our culture. It’s going to take a lot of creativity, and a lot of new ideas, and a lot of experimentation to not just change the rate of sexual assault prevalence, but to make a difference.
So both the positions you described have a degree of legitimacy. We need to do more, absolutely, and we also need to be vigilant in recognizing that it’s going to take years and years of continual effort to substantially change this malignancy. I wish we knew how to make the change that will rapidly change the landscape. I don’t know what that change is, so I’m advocating a lot of changes that I’m hoping will jointly make a difference.
FM: Some people have been criticizing the fact that there are only three undergrads on the Task Force on the Prevention of Sexual Assault. I know you are not in charge of appointing the task force, but why do you think there are only three undergraduates? 
DL: I didn’t appoint the task force, but one thing I do want to emphasize is that the task force has worked on a lot of outreach to the community. And by that I don’t mean telling the community what we’re doing, but actually soliciting from the community ideas, insights, descriptions of the environment, etc. My pre-testing [for the survey] involved about 50 students, including many students who have subject matter expertise in this area, and I know that Stephanie Khurana, who’s also on the committee, undertook a parallel effort that undertook qualitative research that also engaged many students. I just want people to understand that we’re not just talking to three students. The task force has reached out, and I would guess at this point that we’ve heard from hundreds of students in informal conversation, and we’ve heard from 3,000 to 4,000 through the survey, so this is very much an effort to learn from our students, and take their insights and revise our policies, and improve our institution, and improve our cultural norms. So, of course the student voice is at the very center of this conversation.
FM: A few of the other criticisms about the survey was the lack of an affirmative consent standard— 
DL: But that’s not a critique of the survey.
FM: Maybe I’m misunderstanding this, but I heard that the way the survey’s questions were tailored, it wasn’t around a framework of affirmative consent. 
DL: No, no, just the opposite. I hope they understand that. There is a portion of the survey on affirmative consent and even though Harvard doesn’t have an affirmative consent policy, the survey asked about conduct characterized by the absence of affirmative consent. So some people would say, “Why did you include that on the survey? That’s not our policy.” To which I said, “Well, let’s find out whether absence of affirmative consent is a problem.” So it’s on the survey.
FM: Is absence of affirmative consent a problem? 
DL: It is a problem. I mean, that’s not a statement about what our policy should be, but certainly, there are many students reporting that they’ve had a sexual experience in which there was an absence of affirmative consent.
FM: The other thing I’d heard about it was that the 15 percent statistic on final clubs is understated because there are no questions about where the actions were initiated. Would you agree that this is a flaw? Was that a product of having to keep the data comparable to other schools? 
DL: It’s not so much a data comparability issue, it’s that the survey does not unpack the timeline of the sexual assault. It’s not just for final clubs. You would like to know in every sexual assault the whole sequence of events, and that was one of the things that ended up on the cutting room floor. Rather than asking, where did the conversation start, what happened next, what happened next, etc., we asked, simply, “Where did this incident occur?”
I like your point, and I completely agree, if we were going to focus in another survey on the location and on the fabric of our social organizations and how they do or don’t contribute to sexual assault, I’d like to know not only where did the incident occur—I’d like to have a timeline for the interaction. So that’s a good proposal for what we might do in another survey like this.
FM: Is there another survey like this in the works? 
DL: I definitely wouldn’t say it’s in the works, but I would say we are all expecting such a survey to emerge, probably on a two-year cycle.
FM: Do you think sexual assault is an issue that’s always been around and not received the attention it has needed, or do you think it’s something that has recently become more prevalent? 
DL: I believe this is an issue that has always been around, and thankfully it’s finally coming out of the shadows. The more I talk with people, the more I think that we are revealing something that has been present for many, many decades. And who knows, you know, the modern co-educational university is only a century old, so this problem might go back to the very beginning. I don’t know, but the more I talk to people of different ages, the more I’m realizing that this is not new.
FM: So what’s next for your role in this? 
DL: So there’ll be more analysis for data, where we have a lot to learn, not only from this survey, among Harvard students, but from among the 26 other schools, and I hope that as we unpack this data, more insights will emerge, not just about prevalence, but also about the cultural differences across the schools.
I’m very interested to learn about bystander intervention across the schools, and other campus-climate dimensions across the schools.
For example, education: Harvard students expressed relatively low level knowledge of our procedures and policies and definitions, and I think that’s a great concern and I’d like to know what schools have higher levels of knowledge and what they’re doing to achieve that higher level for that knowledge.
Sections
It’s Saturday—one of those brutally cold days in January—and Emily M. Thompson ’18 does not feel like getting out of bed.
Thompson has not wanted to pull off her comforter to brave the chill outside for a week. She hasn’t showered in a while either, staying curled in gray sweatpants with “Harvard” painted in crimson down one leg; her long blonde hair is oily. And she’s been crying. Crying for hours every day, tears streaming down her cheeks at an impossible rate.
She manages to sleep only a couple of hours a night, passing time listening to her mom breathing through the phone—a literal lifeline. It’s Thompson’s insurance that she won’t do anything “dumb.”
This particular Saturday, her roommate finds her in their Canaday bathroom leaning over the sink. In the throes of hysteria, Thompson doesn’t recall much about their interaction, but she knows one thing: This is the moment she cracked.
“Emily, you need to go to UHS now.”
Thompson’s fingers have already flicked through the web pages listing Harvard’s mental health resources. She has set up a preliminary phone call with Harvard University Health Services, but it’s still a couple days away. Thompson, who was known as “Smiley Emily” in what now seems like a past life, looks at her roommate, ready to resist.
“I got myself into Harvard,” Thompson remembers thinking. “I can make myself happy.”
Turns out, it’s not that simple.
*****
Thompson’s experience is not an isolated incident. Students across the College struggle under the surface, often silently. Taylor G. Ladd ’18 has a family history of depression, but she did not experience it—the loneliness, the melancholy, the disinterest—until she arrived on campus.
“The competitive nature of the school made me think that I wasn’t doing enough, and wasn’t involved in enough, and wasn’t achieving enough, and wasn’t getting high enough grades,” Ladd says. “All that kind of wore on me, and my mental state deteriorated over time. … I felt like I was the only one for a while.”
Jake W. Barann ’18 stands out from a crowd. A tight end on the football team who stands 6’ 6”, he’s a mass of muscle, a model of the quintessential jock. Solid as he is physically, his mind has vulnerabilities. He sometimes becomes overwhelmed by schoolwork and the time commitment of the team, experiencing “little mental breakdowns.”
“Things sometimes just cause a little break, or a little crack in the armor, that can magnify and just sort of build up,” Barann says.
And then there’s Anna, a bubbly sophomore with bouncy brown curls, who asked to be identified by only her first name because she does not want to be publicly associated with her illness. She felt the social pressures of Harvard kick in when she arrived, exposing symptoms of her anxiety disorder. Emotions she had worked hard to get under control before starting college suddenly resurfaced.
“Once I got here, I felt pretty alone,” she remembers. “We’re all in our own bubbles where we think that there’s something super wrong with us, and we’re the only people going through it.”
Such is the Harvard Condition—the appearance of normalcy but the reality of distress. It’s exacerbated by the pressure, stress, and competition that can find its way into every nook and cranny of the College experience, and it’s not as easily alleviated by an ice cream study break as some may hope.
While nearly all Harvard students have found themselves reeling under pressure at one time or another, the manifestations of mental distress vary in severity. For some students, this sense of helplessness leads to a discrepancy between how they present themselves and how they really feel, a divide often widest for those who arrive on campus with a history of mental health struggles. Though the University offers a wide range of resources for those students, some still suffer, hesitant to reach out for help due to the stigma surrounding mental illness and discouraged by the perceived barriers to professional care.
When high achievers are plopped en masse into a pressure cooker, some are bound to melt. Some blame the stigma surrounding mental illness, others the pressure of the Harvard environment.
Keeping students physically and emotionally healthy, University President Drew G. Faust says, is one of Harvard’s top priorities. Families from Seattle to Shanghai entrust their students to the school, aware that it will test them academically and mentally. As Harvard encourages students to challenge themselves, Faust says managing the stress so common to college students is important.
Addressing the issue of mental health on campuses is difficult. Psychology professor Shelley Carson says the nation has seen an “explosion of depression” on campuses for several reasons. According to Carson, Harvard students with depression and other disorders can access a wide range of treatment options that enable them to function normally. Carson also sites the intensity of the Harvard environment as a factor in amplifying mental health difficulties.
“Students come with jaw-dropping intelligence and academic performance, and relatively less mature emotional skills, and that leaves them vulnerable when they have intense negative experiences,” says Paul Barreira, the director of UHS. “Being smart doesn’t help you.”
The chosen 5.3 percent admitted to Harvard are, on the whole, brilliant. The average member of the Class of 2019 reported a best overall SAT score of 2229 out of a possible 2400, according to The Crimson’s annual survey of freshmen. Seventeen percent of freshmen were president of their high school student government, and 12 percent were the editor-in-chief of their high school newspaper.
Most students come to Harvard with resumes chock-full of accolades and honors. A subset of freshmen also arrive with mental health challenges.
In a UHS survey sent to all incoming freshmen this fall, about a quarter of respondents reported they have had some type of mental disorder in their lifetime, according to Barreira. Though 10 percent of students report on the anonymous UHS survey that they currently have a diagnosed mental disorder, far fewer make that known to UHS, Barreira says. The practice of concealing mental health problems has begun even before students enter their freshman dorms for the first time.
“[Students are] worried before they get here [that] the administration of the College would know, and it would interfere with their getting integrated into the community,” adds Barreira, who also serves on the Admissions Committee. “They feel stigmatized.”
For some, mental distress progresses beyond depression. Six percent reported experiencing suicidal thoughts in their lifetime. Of those students, 33 percent—19 freshmen—said in the survey they had at one time made a suicide plan. Eleven members of the freshman class reported that they had attempted suicide before coming to Harvard.
When these students muster up the courage and energy to reach out, the mental health services Harvard offers come in different shapes and sizes; these also provide varying degrees of relief.
Harvard offers students a host of mental health resources that are organized into three broad prongs: professionals, peers, and residential supporters. The professionals include staff members at UHS and the Bureau of Study Counsel—Harvard’s academic counseling resource. They tend to take students with formally diagnosed mental illnesses, offering a variety of options for treatment, including urgent mental care, regular therapy, and group sessions. Peer counseling group members are trained to provide support to students struggling with life at Harvard. The third avenue for help, residential supporters, includes all in-House deans, proctors, tutors, and advisers, who often serve as a liaison between students and the professional resources.
Mental health challenges by no means represent a Harvard-exclusive problem—they persist here as in other schools. But stress levels are slightly higher. Thirty-seven percent of College students surveyed in a UHS poll reported that stress affected their academic performance in the 2012-2013 academic year. This statistic is significantly higher than the national average that year—29 percent—as surveyed by the National College Health Assessment.
“There’s so much pressure and stress at colleges, especially at Harvard. We see that it’s impacting students and actually causing people to become depressed,” Carson says.
Emotional instability is an invisible struggle affecting students in all stages of their Harvard journey. Diagnosed or not, the Harvard Condition looms.
Many students and Harvard officials cite the stigmatization of mental health issues as the most significant barrier to entry in the mental health community.
“Despite this access to resources, there’s this stigma that nobody wants to get help because they don’t want to admit they have a problem,” Thompson says.
Typically, Harvard students experiencing an emotional struggle will simply push through it, says Luke L. Pizzato ’16, co-director of Room 13. As a result, students are less willing to seek help for mental health challenges, which are sometimes seen as akin to failure.
“There’s a risk that staunch individualism in Harvard’s student culture can leave people suffering from really radical emotional difficulties to not feel that they are justified in reaching out,” Pizzato says. “I think it can feel like a sense of weakness.”
The most dangerous hurdle is the norm of concealing emotions. While some students may project the image that they are doing “terrific,” Barreira says, this is oftentimes an illusion.
“Inside they’re drowning, but they don’t share it with with anybody,” Barreira says. “It’s the Facebook self versus the private self. Students who have a big gap there are more vulnerable.”
Despite attempts to break barriers, the stigma surrounding mental health persists. Students often feel they are too busy to talk about their emotional distress, or they think their friends are too busy to listen. This mentality—that everyone is “Doing fine, how about you?”—can make it challenging and intimidating for students to open up about problems they’re facing.
Once students do reach out for help, they often find themselves on the fourth floor of the Smith Campus Center. There, most are able to connect with a UHS clinician or counselor.
Ninety percent of students who visited UHS last year reported that they “were helped with their primary concern”—a proportion Barreira says is comparatively good. Of students who sought more consistent help, 76 percent said they had a sufficient number of sessions. The average student makes six to seven visits annually, but Barreira adds that that number is typically skewed by the extremes of one-off and weekly sessions.
Students who do come to UHS encounter a team of well-qualified staff members. Composed of 30 professionals, including eight medical doctors, 16 licensed social workers, and four with doctoral degrees in psychology, UHS mental health services is responsible for providing mental health care for the 20,000 students enrolled at the University. Last academic year, it served 1,388 undergraduates—a number that has stayed relatively constant over the years, according to Barreira.
Over the next couple of years, UHS mental health services will add at least three more full-time counselors, according to Barreira, and will reorganize to offer a consolidated 24-hour urgent care location for both medical and mental health services on the fifth floor of the Smith Campus Center. Barreira also hopes to restore a training program for psychologists and social workers that the hospital was forced to stall during the financial crisis.
Around 40 percent of students at the College have used UHS mental health services—whether on a regular basis or for a one-time drop in—over their four years. Between 20 and 25 percent of undergraduates visit the mental health services each year.
When students first want to schedule an appointment with UHS mental health services, they are prompted to request a phone consultation. Promised to occur no more than 48 hours after initial contact, the consultation is intended to help UHS staff members provide students with tailor-made solutions and courses for treatment. At the end of the call, the UHS representative then makes a recommendation to the student, which could range from an immediate appointment for urgent cases to a referral to the Bureau of Study Counsel.
A majority of patients—65 percent—are seen within five business days of scheduling an appointment, according to UHS statistics. Lewis says that this time frame is UHS’s goal for care. The remaining third of students seeking counseling are not seen until over a week after they first request help. Thirty-two percent of students are seen between six and 10 business days after the phone triage, and 2 percent do not receive an appointment until 11 to 15 business days later.
Some students are referred to a therapist at UHS mental health services. These counseling sessions are confidential, meaning that the professional clinicians will not share information discussed with family members, friends, advisers, or deans, with a safety exception: If a patient threatens to kill or inflict serious bodily harm on him or herself or others, the therapist must take “reasonable precaution” and report this information to authorities, according to Massachusetts state law.
UHS will often refer students seeking more regular counseling to an outside therapist. This enables UHS to increase its capacity for care. Maureen Rezendes, the associate chief of counseling and mental health services, says there are at least 50 in-network providers within a one-mile radius of Harvard with availability.
Sarah Rodriguez ’18 took a month off of school during her sophomore year of high school while suffering from depression. During her senior year of high school, she finally found her footing and looked forward to her next chapter. From Greenwich, Conn., a common hometown of Harvard students, Rodriguez arrived equipped with a support system—her two best friends who were also admitted—and felt “fortunate” that she already knew a number of her classmates.
At first, Rodriguez was eager to enter Harvard’s social scene. But she soon began to have trouble finding fulfillment there. Despite being surrounded by friends, she felt isolated and alone. None of her friends noticed; she pretended that everything was fine.
Rodriguez reached out to UHS, but claims that it took two weeks to schedule an appointment.
While students can walk into UHS at any time for urgent care mental health-related purposes, UHS staffers generally recommend calling for an appointment first. Some students, many of whom only find the motivation to call UHS during a moment of crisis, find the wait discouraging. For those at their tipping point, it can be “scary to not be counseled in that moment,” according to Stephanie L. Deccy ’17, a student mental health liaison.
Beyond the wait, the phone consultation itself can be seen as an impediment. Though 72 percent of students who responded to a UHS patient satisfaction survey reported that they thought the phone consultation was “good or very good,” some students call it a barrier to entry. Rodriguez cites the call, which asks a series of preliminary questions without offering counseling over the phone, as one of the reasons she hesitated to schedule a conversation. So did Thompson, Anna, and William F. Morris '17.
“I was so freaking depressed, and when you’re depressed and you’re down, how are you going to get the energy to have a 30-minute phone consultation about an issue that’s very sensitive?” Morris says.
Still, Barreira has confidence that the phone call model works, saying he “can’t imagine getting rid of the phone triage as a way to identify students and get them in efficiently.”
After students utilize counseling services or get a referral to another doctor, UHS mental promises to follow-up with patients to make sure they get the care they need. All the counselors follow up within a month, according to Rezendes.
The procedure, though, for ensuring that counselors follow up with each student does not include an automated system for checking in with patients after they receive care, and busy therapists can sometimes forget to check in with students. UHS did not follow up with Ladd after her appointment, she says.
Follow-up is particularly critical for students whom UHS refers to outside care—these patients are given a list of names of Cambridge counselors to call, and are trusted to reach out if they do not find one that suits their needs. But even Barreira says he finds it “really hard for [him] to remember” to follow-up with students he refers to other clinics. Anna says that UHS did not follow up with her after they referred her to outside care, though she did find a therapist she calls “awesome” and very supportive.
Waverley He ’18, a Health Pal for Kirkland House, and Kevin C. Ma ’17, an Asian American mental health advocate, expressed concern over a lack of cultural diversity on the staff at UHS. On top of what He calls Harvard’s culture of “competitively enjoying life,” cultural stigma—in which mental illness is an abnormality or sign of weakness—affects some students more deeply.
He and Ma suggest that cultural stigmas can make it more difficult for some students, such as some of Asian descent, to open to their parents, and reaching out for help is easier when they can connect with someone from a similar background. “I know a lot of students would feel more comfortable speaking to someone of the same cultural background,” He says.
UHS, though, currently employs just one Asian American therapist on a staff of 30, according to Barbara Lewis, the acting chief of Counseling and Mental Health Services. She acknowledges that diversity is an issue: “It is a challenge,” Lewis says, because UHS also considers other metrics, like area of specialization, when hiring.
Though students point to perceived flaws in UHS’s approach, Barreira says the health service could accommodate more students satisfactorily if they engaged more broadly with mental health issues.
“Should UHS be the only place that deals with students in distress, or should we be creating a community that is more supportive?” Barreira asks. “Not every distress requires a clinician.”
Photos of flowers, sunsets, and beaches dress the peachy walls of a small room in Thayer basement. Pebbles wait to be turned over in jittery palms, and a giant stuffed tiger perches atop a couch. A half-eaten chocolate chip coffee cake slowly stiffens on a table nearby.
This is the counseling area of Room 13, a confidential space where undergraduate peer counselors wait in pairs for student drop-ins from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. every night of the week to listen to the troubles and concerns of any student who walks in the door. The Room is billed as non-judgemental and non-directive—meaning the counselors refrain from offering advice, instead hoping to provide emotional support and prompt self-reflection for the student.
“I think there’s this huge middle area of students who are maybe having a tough time here and … are afraid that going to a clinician means something about who they are as if it’s crossing some threshold.” says Andrew Kim ’16, a co-director of Room 13. “When we counsel, we’re sort of thinking about what issue is this person dealing—it academic, is it social, and they’re sort of examining those feelings.”
Room 13 is one of several resources, driven by both peers and professionals, students can turn to if UHS does not offer services that fit their needs.
Students who feel they are unprepared academically have access to one of the specialized resources Harvard offers. The Bureau of Study Counsel, which was part of UHS but has recently moved under College purview, provides support to students with academic and other issues. It puts particular emphasis on helping freshmen adapt to the college workflow, according to Abigail Lipson, the Bureau’s director.
William Morris, a small town Georgia native who was diagnosed with a mental disorder in middle school, struggled to find a sense of belonging at Harvard, feeling that he was unequipped to tackle the academic rigors of Harvard. Though he had overcome one serious mental obstacle, upon arriving at Harvard, he was faced with another. His emotional instability was rooted in the academic insecurity he felt when he arrived.
“I had the impression that a lot of people that I knew may have been better prepared than me, so that actually caused me to be very depressed,” Morris says. “I felt like I was stupid, like why is this so hard for me?”
Morris used BSC’s resources to learn research techniques that helped him with schoolwork. This resource is one that Freshman resident dean for Ivy Yard Michael C. Ranen says he often recommends to students looking for academic help.
“My biggest fear is that a student is going to try to deal with their health issues by themselves and not asking for help,” Ranen says.
Harvard’s House proctors, tutors, Peer Advising Fellows, and resident deans acts as another mental health resource, acting as liaisons between students and professional resources. They also work with the Student Mental Health Liaisons, a peer organization that runs freshman workshops during orientation week. The most common reason people cite for not wanting to seek help, says SMHL co-president Hannah Rasmussen ’16, is that resources are not perceived to work.
“When we talk to freshmen, a lot of people will generally [say] it’s shameful to go seek help or there are a lot of cultural stigmas that are tied into seeking help for mental health,” says Rasmussen, an inactive Crimson multimedia editor. “We try to emphasize that it is a brave thing to go seek help.”
Current seniors have received a tragic, sobering wake up call about the gravity of mental health seven times during their Harvard experience—an average of once a semester.
“I am writing with heartbreaking news,” Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana wrote to the student body in September, reporting the death of Luke Z. Tang ’18. That death was ruled a suicide, as were the deaths of Andrew Sun ’16, Stephen Rose ’06, Cote K. Laramie ’14, Philip V. Streich ’13, and Joanna Y. Li ’12.
Shocked and devastated, students assembled at Memorial Church in the hundreds to honor Tang and share memories about his life. A Lowell House sophomore, Tang was known for his strong sense of faith; his friends described him as deeply compassionate, empathetic, and loving.
Meanwhile, UHS counselors also assembled, ready to embrace a grieving College. Students welcomed the support—UHS took 413 mental health-related telephone consults during the first three weeks of the semester to accommodate students, seeing a “rapid” increase in visits, according to Barreira. Barreira calls the University response to suicide on campus—extensive outreach to any student who might be even tangentially affected—“terrific.”
After the undeniably tragic loss of a student’s death, loved ones often experience denial. After a suicide, grief-stricken parents often ask the University to not refer to the loss as such, a request the school has made a commitment to honor, according to Barreira.
“So now we’re in this incredibly awkward place where some students may have read a suicide note, some students may have heard through somewhere or other that the student was found in the House,” Barreira says. “There’s general knowledge that this person died from suicide.”
Despite students’ unspoken understanding of the cause of death, students often tiptoe around the taboo subject, a supposedly rare occurrence. But suicide is heartbreakingly common among adolescents—it’s the second leading cause of death of 15- to 24-year-olds, according to a 2013 report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Eappen, who in addition to counseling at Room 13 is a clinical psychiatry concentrator writing his senior thesis on suicide, says this avoidance of discussing suicide may further stigmatize mental illness and emotional distress.
“To relate to someone who is suicidal might be shameful, and that might actually be preventing people from getting help,” Eappen says.
Suicidal students can show a number of symptoms, according to Carson, including withdrawal from friends, classes, or activities, losing interest in activities, sleeping either a lot or not at all, and feeling worthless. But some students hide their emotions in a self-destructive way.
Though Harvard generally refrains from discussing suicide in so many words—usually at the request of the family—Khurana says the College is “trying to address it head on.” Some students think University representatives could do more.
“Every time something like this happens, there are students who speak out and call for administrative action, and there’s always some sort of temporary rise in support, but then it kind of dies down,” He says. “It just seems like the administration might not be doing enough.”
Taylor Ladd is used to occasional stormy weather. A top performer on the women’s sailing team, she spends her time tacking across the cool water of the Charles River Basin. In this environment, Ladd harnesses the natural forces around her, in total control of the boat.
Freshman year, though, she had trouble staying in control of her own emotions. She also struggled to find a supportive friend group, traveled nearly every weekend for competitions, and worried about her schoolwork. Feeling depressed, she had trouble finding solid ground.
Though administrators say they are doing their best to offer resources that are comforting and helpful, Ladd did not find a support outlet that fit her needs. She scheduled a phone consultation with UHS, but the call was canceled. Ladd felt reluctant to visit a peer counseling group, fearing she might run into a person she knew. She attended the SMHL workshop during freshman week, but that was before college intensified, and signs of depression set in. By late fall, information relayed there had slipped her memory.
Eventually, she saw a counselor at UHS—just once. It was not the right treatment for her, she says. Yet she could not shake the depressive state she endured. She thought she was alone in the struggle.
“I didn’t get into whatever, I’m not doing well in sailing, and now my therapist hates me too,” she says she thought to herself.
Feeling isolated but unwilling to reach out for help, Ladd decided to create her own support group in the form of a Facebook page called “How Was Your Day Harvard?” The page posts stories of students—in their own words, using their real name—and their struggles with mental health, a project Ladd hopes will help mitigate the stigma surrounding mental health.
Ladd received an outpouring of support after she published the page, reaffirming what she has found to be a truth at Harvard: People are accepting and supportive of mental disorders when they are out in the open.
Cameron Nieters ’18 reevaluated her mental health situation after hearing about Tang’s death. Nieters’s trials with emotional distress began her freshman year, when she started experiencing a mood she “didn’t understand.” At first, she attributed it to external factors—she injured her hip playing basketball for the varsity team and had to watch from the bench for six months—but her constant unhappiness confused her.
She scheduled an appointment with UHS and saw a counselor twice during freshman year, but it wasn’t the right fit for her at first—they didn’t “click,” she says. When she went home for summer break, her family doctor diagnosed her with depression and prescribed her medication, and she started to feel a lot better.
When she arrived back at school this year, though, things took a turn for the worse. Trying to balance a hectic schedule with class, homework, and basketball, she started to sink back into what she remembers as “a pretty bad place.”
“It was just a really demanding schedule and it brought back some of those feelings that I thought were gone,” Nieters said. “I tried to deal with them on my own, thinking the medication would help.”
And then in mid-September, she got Khurana’s email—the “Community Message” about Luke Tang’s passing. Head spinning, Nieters decided to try UHS again.
“I was like, okay, I want to go get help because I don’t think that’s ever going to be me, but I’m scared... What if?”
Talking to a therapist on the phone lifted her spirits. She then went in for another appointment, this time with a different counselor. The two clicked, and Nieters has been feeling more at ease.
Nieters posted on Facebook about her mental health journey in “How Was Your Day Harvard?” a few weeks ago. She has found the process of talking about her illness freeing.
“Once it’s known to other people, it’s been such an accepting environment for me,” she says. “I think it’s just making it known to other people that’s the hard part.”
Emily Thompson reaches for her winter coat, ready to surrender.
In the first few weeks of therapy at UHS, Thompson still feels lost, dropping into the emergency care unit whenever a wave of depression overtakes her. It happens randomly, at any time of day. Weeks later, she fills a prescription to regulate her mood—a choice she has resisted for a long time, fearing the stigma associated with medication.
With therapy and medicine, she starts to feel better. After a constant string of “terrible” days, some of them, she recalls, begin to look more positive.
Student advocates, therapists, deans, and other professionals implore students to talk about their emotional distresses and to get help if they feel they need it. The focus: maximizing opportunities for recovery.
“Unfortunately, a lot of times students cover up these things until it reaches crisis proportion,” says Carson, the psychology professor. “We’ve got great treatments for anxiety disorders and mood disorders, and people don’t need to suffer. They need to go get help.”
But students struggling to navigate the system say there is work to be done to improve the approaches to help. They call for barriers to entry to fall. Resources to be allocated. Cultural diversity to become a priority. Stigma to be diminished.
“Day to day nothing seemed better,” Thompson says. “But looking back, everything had changed.”
And the Harvard Condition goes into remission.
—Celeste M. Mendoza and Daphne C. Thompson contributed to the reporting of this story.

Sections
Perhaps I shouldn’t be using a bike that belongs to a six-foot-tall varsity athlete. (Technically, the bike belonged to two six-foot athletes and one average-sized one before reaching five-foot me.) It is 2 o’clock on a Thursday afternoon. The sky is a cold and unyielding shade of white, and I am making a painfully ungraceful attempt to mount a large bicycle in the Canaday courtyard. After some unseemly gymnastics, I straddle the seat and wonder if one can, in fact, forget how to ride a bike.
I somehow find myself engulfed by a Crimson Key tour while pedaling toward Memorial Church. I have been attempting to subdue this comically large bike for approximately 45 seconds, and I have managed to draw as much attention to myself as conceivably possible. Because I have been swallowed by a nebulous mass of tourists, I pedal cautiously. I am moving so slowly that the massive helmet on my head feels like a cruel joke.
Perhaps the worst part is the feeling that I am being judged by 20 people who are carrying selfie sticks. But I have never been one to swallow my pride, and this is no exception. I pedal on with the resolve of a prowling lion and the speed of an injured elephant. A HUPD officer informs me that I am not allowed to ride a bike in the Yard at all, and I notice that at least 10 people in the vicinity are walking their bikes instead of riding them. His words are more liberating than embarrassing, and after the longest two minutes of my life, I dismount. HUPD officers really are a beacon of amnesty, I think.
The worst is yet to come. Back on my bike, it takes about two seconds of watching the hectic streets of Harvard Square to realize that I know nothing of proper road etiquette for cyclists. Is there even such a thing as proper road etiquette for cyclists? Am I a complete dweeb for even thinking the phrase “proper road etiquette?” Coming from Manhattan, my experiences are limited to a grid- planned city and pedestrian sensibilities. As I look at the curvature of the winding roads and the spontaneity with which other bikers seem to just go, all of my anxieties about living in a city that isn’t New York come to a head. Suddenly, there is a lull in the hum of the street; the traffic seems to be taking a deep breath. I hoist myself into the saddle and just go.
I can’t say that this is how I envisioned this bike ride. One could say that I had romanticized the idea from the start. This bike ride would be my idyllic escape from the mundane, an “Eat, Pray, Love” experience on two wheels. I had set aside this afternoon to find where the sea (the Charles) meets the sky, to rekindle my oneness to the natural and untouched (I did FOP, so one could say that I am a nature expert), and to do some light soul searching in between. But I haven’t even reached the river yet, so I leave my expectations out to dry.
I am trailing behind another rider down JFK Street. We’re smoothly threading between cars in ways that I never thought pos- sible or legal. He dismounts and scrambles toward one of the buildings. I silently thank him for the lesson.
Somehow, I navigate the soul-crushing crime against urban planning that is the intersection between JFK Street and Memorial Drive, as well as the subsequent bridge, and find myself on a trail on the other side of the river. To my right is a decent view of the Charles. The water is a placid grey-blue, and the trees, in their uncomfortable pubescence between summer and fall, form a fringe of greens, yellows, and browns. When I focus on my surroundings, I barely notice the cacophony of the highway on my left. The bell towers of campus still command my attention. I imagine their tolls growing fainter and fainter as I ride onward, but it is 2:23, and they have no reason to ring now.
The trail edges closer to the water as it gets further away from campus. The view is nothing to put on a New England postcard: The sky seems stretched taut in its harsh whiteness, and the water is as uninviting as a cold cup of black coffee. At this moment, the most attractive aspect of the trail is its emptiness. I am the only cyclist on the road, and even the nearby benches, which look like they should be filled by adorable old couples, are left unpopulated. If I could somehow convey my delicious feeling of solitude on a postcard, I certainly would.
I pass empty boathouses that are decorated in preparation for the Head of the Charles. There is a ghostly feeling of anticipation about the houses and stacked boats, like a Thanksgiving table set hours before the guests arrive. There is a lone rower slicing through the water. I wonder if she is enjoying her loneliness as much as I am.
I coast through more unremarkable foliage and think about nothing. I reach a narrow boardwalk, a tight wooden inhale between the Charles and a small lily pond. It is an odd little spot, but worth stopping for. I dismount and sit at the edge, relieved to be free from the uptight verticality of the bike ride. A few meters away, a middle school track coach gives a much-needed pep talk to her coughing, wheezing team.
“How do you guys feel now?”
A windchill pulses through me and I realize that my soul has remained unsearched on this bike ride, but I am okay with it. The clock strikes three, but the bells of campus are nowhere to be heard.
Sections
It’s October, so your first worry at the start of every beautiful day is what you will be donig next summer. If you are a senior, post-grad plans. If you haven’t been to every Office of Career Services event for your chosen and determined career field, you might be feeling pretty behind. Not to worry—the On Campus Interview program brings employers directly to you here in Cambridge. But with interviews and workshops and buzzwords flying left and right, and your friends, friends’ roommates, and friend’s roomate’s cousin’s boyfriend waxing poetic about coffee chats, finding a job can feel like a full-time job. Luckily, FM did some digging to find out how many people are interviewing on campus and how many are actually landing jobs. Don’t forget, as OCS says, “the job search is a contact sport.”
By Year:
2014-2015:
205 Employers conducted interviews on campus last year
5,776 Summer internship interviews by students
2015-2016:
4 Offer decision deadlines
26 Interview days in the fall
17 Interview days in the spring 
By Class:


FRESHMEN:
4% Used OCI
5 Average number of OCI applications per freshman
2 Average number of OCI
<1%of the class accepted
SOPHOMORES:
14% Used OCI
8 Average number of OCI applications per sophomore
2 Average number of OCI interviews per sophomore
4% of the class accepted an offer through OC
JUNIORS:
38% Used OCI
17 Average number of OCI applications per junior
5 Average number of OCI interviews per junior
20% of the class accepted an offer through OCI
SENIORS:
39% used OCI
14 average number of OCI applications per senior
5 average number of OCI interviews per senior
22% of the class accepted an offer through OCI
Sections
Harvard Square—the perfect college neighborhood. Little shops, great food, red brick sidewalks. But the life of a student in Cambridge isn’t as carefree as it appears. While the town is idyllic, that doesn’t mean it fits the college budget. Too many vendors get away with too high prices, so FM has decided to call them out. Here are five of the worst offenders:
01 | Pinkberry’s Deluxe ToppingsPinkberry boasts an impressive 30-topping selection, and for $4.95 (already pretty pricey) you can get a small cup of yogurt with all the toppings that “comfortably fit in your cup.” Or so Pinkberry claims. Two special toppings, Nutella and Milk Chocolate Crunch, are singled out as the “deluxe” toppings. Should you request one, as we often do, the employee will kindly remind you: “This is a deluxe topping! Are you ok with paying an extra 50 cents?” We pay for the scoop, but we most certainly are not ok. We have two problems with the deluxe fee. The first is that the employee’s scoop-size generosity varies wildly. For 50 cents, we expect a scoop somewhere between full and overflowing, not some measly dollop with the excess swept off as if it were baking soda in a cookie recipe. Some employees get this, but others simply do not. Even worse, there’s no apparent reason why these toppings should cost more. For example, Milk Chocolate Crunch’s close cousin, the Dark Chocolate Crunch, or “crisps” as we were corrected, does not come with the extra fee. This seems wrong. If it only it wasn’t so good, then we could more properly protest.
02 | Ralph Lauren x The CoopIf the H Sweaters aren’t enough of a status symbol for you, you gotta hit them with the double whammy: the Ralph Lauren for Harvard collection. It sends the perfect message—not only do you go to Harvard, but you spent $85 on a polo shirt. If you’ve decided that you can endure the mockery from your peers and go forth with this purchase, you’ll be happy to know the collection is quite versatile. The casual prepster can go for the polo shirt with a small RL logo and a small Harvard insignia on the sleeve. Slightly less subtle is the “Big Polo,” as dubbed by the Coop website. As you could probably guess, this shirt has an oh-so- modest Polo pony that covers your entire left pec and, naturally, a jumbo insignia on the sleeve. We’ll leave the choice to you.
03 | ConceptWe all have that friend. They hail from a big city and place weekly orders at Barney’s. They worry about their leather high tops being wrecked in snow. And, more than anything, they’re desperate for a luxury Cambridge outpost to replace their weekly sprees in the West Village. That’s what brings them to Concept. To appreciate the breadth of exorbitantly priced pieces in Concept, you’d best make a trip there yourself. But in case you don’t want to be seen in such an establishment, here’s one gem we thought you couldn’t miss. Above the camouflage bucket hats and neon windbreakers sits a pair of sneakers that can best be described as a mix between high top orthotics and moon-shoes. Made from holographic plastic, these kicks are perfect for a Star Trek themed party or your role as an extra in Disney’s 1999 film Zenon: Girl of the “21st Century.” And they can be yours, for the low cost of $945.
04 | Eastern Mountain SportsMost FOPpers know the panic that hits when they realize they actually needed to bring each item on the never-ending packing list. Luckily, Eastern Mountain Sports has everything you need. Unluckily, EMS preys on your pre-FOP desperation and gets you with out-of-this-world prices. Take the spork, for example. Seems like a vital purchase for a camping trip, and should be a bargain (spoon and fork for the price of one?!). But at $15, we’d rather have finger food. Next up we have the Darn Tough Vermont wool socks. They have a lifetime guarantee. We guess that’s the kind of aggressive marketing necessary to justify the $25 price for one pair. All we can say is, if these get a hole or snag in the next 20 years, we’ll definitely be calling Darn Tough HQ.
05 | Justin’s Peanut Butter CupsOK, this isn’t exactly specific to a single store, but it’s a big enough rip off to deserve honorable mention. Justin’s brags of “peanut butter cups so astounding they boggle the mind.” More accurately, they boggle the budget. Found throughout the Square at Cardullo’s, Starbucks, and even our very own Lamont Café, these cups are ripping you off from every angle. We tried them to see if they were worth the hype. Sure, they’re USDA organic, Rainforest Alliance Certified, gluten free, kosher, and have sustainably sourced palm fruit oil... but $3.00? No, they were good; but, like, $1.50 good.
Sections
Dear Clover:
I hear you’re leaving me at the end of next semester. While it was hurtful to hear about your move from third parties, I get it—breakups are hard. Yes, I know the b-word may be a little sudden, and yes, I know you have another location in Central (though, like, why are you open 24 hours over there? Who’s visiting you in the middle of the night? Hm?), but I think it’s time for us to see other local food labs. I know we could likely do it long-distance, especially since I hear you’re getting a snazzy new truck, but I can’t stand the thought of visiting you and realizing someone else has gotten to try your Sharan sandwiches first. Sampled your eggplants. Sipped your sodas. Listen, you know how much I adore your zucchini fritters—but I can’t always be there at 3 p.m. to get to them before they sell out.
I just can’t.
This is where I can’t help but feed you—though you’ve fed me so much more, so much, much more— a cliche’d breakup phrase: It’s not you, it’s me. It was I who first trespassed between your sterile, white walls, dreamily doodling with crayons while I waited for your freshly frittered chickpeas. It was I who threw caution to the wind as a freshman, scared away from the Boom Boom sauce of Annenberg, and fell into the warmth of your pita. It was I who came morning, noon, and night for your coffee, even though I could travel to Crema and back by the time you even began to drip.
But I only wanted you.
I think, however, we can share the blame for the dissolution of our relationship a little bit: I mean, where else was a vegetarian to turn? You left me no other option. You had me at “Hello, please try this local radish” and now you’re leaving me more quickly than heirloom tomatoes at the very shiver of autumn’s first chill. Where am I supposed to go now?
Life Alive? C’mon, those snow peas dance on arugula for every vegan Tom, Dick, and Harry willing to trek to Central. Clover, you know I didn’t just pop in for your popovers. I knew that with you, I would always come away with something extra: a cup of sparkling water, a sample of rosemary fries, a smile as my credit card slid between the cold plastic crevice of your Box.
This is hard for me to say, and I can’t bear to see the drops of hibiscus tea roll down your beautiful glass facade. So please, turn away, and take your apple walnut muffins with you. I always hated those muffins. You and your stupid breakfast—sometimes so hot, sometimes so cold—was such a source of tension between us. I mean, who puts corn in a morning fruit salad? WHO?! You did, in the tender, unknowing company of peaches and nectarines. They didn’t know any better. You, possessor of the $3 egg and tomato sandwich, the thought of which kept me up at night, the very temptation of which caused me to arise in the morning.
I came even when you “rounded up” the prices to “help with” the tax. $4 is a fair price for happiness, I thought. I fell for it. I knew you had a handy little app to help with whatever strange decimals came after the 3. No one uses cash these days anyway!
And yet: I fell for it.
I fell for you. And occasionally on your floors, after a mopping.
But now, it’s time to get up. Scrape whatever is left of me, my wallet, and my dignity off of your beautiful blond wood seats. I mean, horrible blond wood seats! And stupid, artisanal tree-trunk table. I mean, where do you even buy something like that? The tree store?
Ugh. I’ll have to go to Darwin’s from now on. At least they have wine. And egg sandwiches until 3 p.m. on the weekends! I mean, how can you ALWAYS expect me to get up before 11 a.m.? Seriously? You were always so needy, Clover. I’m glad you’re moving away. Take your stupid syrupy sodas with you, your egg and eggplant, your meager mezze. Yes, I KNOW what a popover is; don’t explain it to me again. You see me here EVERY DAY. And after all this time: not one discount.
I think it’s time I go, Clover. I really expected some more maturity from you. I mean, you got bought out by the SMITH Center? Really? That’s not even a real name. That’s like a name someone wrote down as a stand in until they thought of a better name. And they still haven’t.
So go. Go forth with your beer tastings, pack up those awkward curbside tables set up on a sidewalk too narrow to begin with, abscond with your cutesy paper packaging that never actually kept food safe from spillage.
Leave, with your chickpea fritters that are called falafel EVERYWHERE ELSE IN THE ENTIRE WORLD. EV-ER-Y-WHERE. Literally. Check out that place around the corner. It’s called FALAFEL CORNER. I’ll never again taste those crunchy, crispy, fritters, the likes of which drew me to Holyoke Street during the worst of storms, which I always wish I had ordered if I dared to try the new turnips instead... No! No. Your locally grown wiles will work on me no more. Elope with Yogurtland! Skip town with B. Good! Enjoy your time with Al’s—I always knew that lunch special was too good to be true. And, really, Oggi’s? Otto’s is only a few blocks away. Have some self-respect.
By the way, I’m keeping the cat.
And by that I mean: Yo, Gato, ever thought about serving sandwiches? I’ve got some Rojo cash with your name on it.
Sections
For the last three summers, I’ve woken up at 7 a.m. each morning, donned a neon-orange apron, and clipped a radio to my front left pocket. I keep my hair boyishly short around my ears; or, when it is long enough, swept back in a messy ponytail, from which an increasing number of flyway hairs escape throughout the day. By evening, my apron and shoes will be splattered with blue and green paint, sticky clumps of drying playdough or white glue will flake off of my fingernails, and my eyes and shoulders will be tired.
But the morning is the best time. At the children’s museum where I work, crooked into the curve of the Sam Francisco Bay right where the Golden Gate Bridge meets the hills to the north of the city, the morning means improbable masses of fog, like whole mountains or sky-bound oceans drifting into the hills. The morning means sleepy-eyed parents clutching coffee in one hand and toddlers who rose before the sun ready to play in the other. It means rooms full of bright paper and sharpened pencilsnot yet ravaged by little hands.
On one such morning I give a small boy a handful of blue playdough and receive a frown in exchange.
“Do you work here?” he asks. I tell him that I do.
“But how can you work here if you’re a kid?”
Like every morning since sometime in seventh grade, I woke up that morning five feet, one-and-three-quarters inches tall, and I will likely continue to do so for the rest of my life. I almost never wear makeup, for reasons which are complicated but largely depend on the fact that I can’t be bothered to get out of bed the 10 minutes earlier that this would require. I have never been really comfortable wearing anything other than jeans and t-shirts; the frighteningly feminine and perfect outfits of my peers have felt both out of reach and undesirable. The result of this has been a decade and a half of confusion, of being mistaken for a boy when I was young and for a much younger girl regularly since.
I can’t remember the first time this happened, but if you’re interested, I can give you a list taller than me (not saying much) of the other times: like the time when I was sixteen and the two moms staffing the ticket booth at the homecoming game wouldn’t let me in without a parent because they weren’t convinced I was a high schooler. Or the time last year, that I was given a menu that clearly indicated it was for children 10 and under. Or two months ago, when I almost wasn’t allowed on the plane back to Logan because I looked too much like an unaccompanied minor. I could go on.
I’ve learned, in many ways, to cope. Jokingly referring to myself as “vertically challenged,” insisting that good things come in small packages, etc. I like being small, I like how I dress, I like not wearing makeup. It all comes with certain advantages: My favorite stripey shirt from elementary school still makes regular appearances, and I can jam myself effectively into tiny, comfortable spaces, like bookshelves and lockers. I honestly like it (usually) that my friends can pick me up and sling me over their shoulders, and I like that most hugs put me firmly at mid-chest range. Being small and looking young has made me more approachable to children at the museum where I work, and has allowed me to get away with ridiculous behavior like climbing trees and sitting on my knees in public for far longer than most.
But there are downsides, too, strange dimensions to my diminutive size, which people on that higher plane of average height can’t seem to see (perhaps I’m just too far below their line of sight?). I’ve been whacked in the face by backpacks more times than I care to count, and I’ve had to become adept at scrambling on top of countertops and makeshift stepping stools to reach the highest shelves. I am too short to become an astronaut, and will likely get carded well into my 40s. I wish I could say that these are the things which bother me most about my appearance.
There are times when being called cute is nice, and times when it hurts so much.
There are times when being called little is to be made to feel small. When I wonder if the person who is shocked to find I am not a child would also be shocked to find that I don’t think or act like one, and times when I don’t have to wonder because they tell me as much. 
There is also a difference between a stranger being confused by my height, and a friend or a classmate being confused by me—by the things I do, not to appear younger or older, but simply as a function of being myself moving through the world. 
There are times when I’m told, no, this is not for you—not for you to be drunk or in love or a part of this conversation, because you are little, you are a child, so I adapt. I still remember crying at slicing up my legs shaving badly and for the first time at summer camp, trying desperately to look and act as old and as much like a girl as everyone else there. In high school, it was a joke to hear me say certain words—little Emma, wash your mouth out —so I stopped saying them. The laughter of friends, amused or disgusted at the idea of me, still a child while they believed themselves adults, having sex or being drunk or simply existing, continues to slice me up, but usually I say nothing. The assumption that I act like a child because I apparently look like one makes me afraid that other assumptions are being made as well: assumptions about how smart I am and what I’m capable of, about who I might fall in love with or what that might look like, about a million other things which I shouldn’t have to justify. 
I know I can’t have it both ways. But also, why can’t I? Is it so wrong to want to be able to be small, be this comfortable version of me with short hair and not have to explain it, not have to ask anyone not to laugh at me? I don’t think it should be. 
So for now, I smile at this little boy, hand him the play dough and grab a handful myself, because if I have to deal with the various injustices that come with being five feet, one-and-three-quarters inches tall, I might as well get to have some fun, too. 
“I can be a kid and work here, too,” I tell him. There are, I suppose, much worse things

Emma K. Talkoff ’18 is an FM and news writer in Currier House. She has a rainbow of playdough at home.
Sections

Colleagues—
It is my second time reporting undercover from the tastefully-glorified bowels of the Harvard art world. Nearly a year ago, I risked my metaphorical, aesthetic skin to faithfully recount the student opening of the Harvard Art Museums.
I write to you today to convey the recent opening of sculptor Josiah McElheny’s “Two Walking Mirrors” at the Carpenter Center last Thursday, Oct. 1, at 5 p.m.
I arrive promptly at 5o’clock, stumbling in from the rain to discover a room bubbling with soft conversation and muted but cultivated anticipation for “the show” to begin.
Two black-clad student bartenders serve a room of about 50 patrons of the finer, more obscure, arts. They purvey wine and snazzy lemonades from Trader Joe’s, all the while gesturing to a table that is sumptuously bedecked with too-grainy tortilla chips, salsa as white and mild as Duluth, and a selection of nearly out-of-season fruits. There are also dad beers—darkened ciders and lightened lagers —which are quickly snatched up by the many young men in tweed.
These men had a plan for their libations, but were unsure how to then proceed.
“Hey dude, I’m wondering what’s happening.”
“Yeah man, I heard free food and drink…” He raises his eyebrows. “Or just drink. What’s with the mirrors?”
The mirrors are, in fact, the whole shebang. McIlheny has arranged two five-foot parallel mirror structures on woodish-looking pedestals in the center of the gallery space, conveniently out of the way of the bar line. Each set of parallel panels is joined together by thin beams of wood. Two straps connect the mirrors. According to the program “actual human forms…inhabit the sculptures on a published schedule, transforming them into a kind of costume.”
The audience is waiting with bated breath for said transformation.
The audience, ah yes. The aforementioned men in tweed, are subsumed in a larger subcategory, those wearing chunky, artistic glasses. The ratio of glasses-wearers to non-glasses wearers stood at roughly 1:1, although many of the unbespectacled (or alas, we may never know, debespectacled) part before the show begins.
And it takes a while for the show to begin. A woman who looks like a female Mr. Ratburn, the devilish third-grade teacher from the Arthur series, is taking notes and talking rapid fire about “funding development.” She pauses to exchange a few words with an earnestly-cardiganed older man who is wearing a vaguely floral scarf.
“I thought it was supposed to start right at 5.”
The man shrugs. He’s drinking a dad beer. No reason to complain.
“I was expecting something wonderful. They’re just mirrors.”
They are, indeed, just mirrors, until Elizabeth S. Leary, a student at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, walks up to and puts on one of the mirrors. Two student-attendants help her off the pedestal, and she begins tracing the fine line that McElheny has drawn on the floor.
The crowd quickly hushes. Those who came only for the food dart out before they are forced to participate in this “Society of the Spectacle,” and the others turn their heads towards the aesthetic moment like sunflowers towards a weary late fall beam.
Leary moves with poise and grace, but it’s clear that moving in the mirror is no easy feat.
A woman behind me whispers, “She’s gonna break her face.”
The attendants move in seemingly random horizontal and vertical directions around the floor, following no discernable pattern.
Staff released from their shift at the Art Museums take advantage of the free happy hour next door to banter curatorially.
“I know we’re imprisoned in the present moment, but you just have to wonder about the stasis in the piece.”
“Yeah, I know there was a performance in Brooklyn, but I have no idea where.”
“Somewhere…” The taller of the two trails off, and they both guffaw knowingly.
The stasis continues for a good 20 minutes. Right before the end, one of the few survivors of the non-lensed contingent whispers to a buddy, “As soon as I understand this, I’m getting the hell out.”
Leary eventually finds her way back to the pedestal. The attendants lift the mirror off, and she sighs with relief.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: October 8, 2015, at 7:16 p.m.
Harvard History professor and famed Henry Kissinger biographer Niall C. Ferguson will leave Cambridge for Stanford’s Hoover Institution after 12 years, following several other of Harvard’s esteemed academics in moves out West.
In a post to his Facebook page Wednesday afternoon, Ferguson broke the news of his departure, writing that he will become a full-time senior fellow at Stanford’s Hoover Institution, an American public policy think tank. Ferguson has served as an adjunct senior fellow there for more than a decade. 
At Stanford, Ferguson will focus on researching and writing the second volume of his biography of Kissinger, the former U.S. secretary of state, Ferguson wrote. He will not immediately teach at Stanford as he works on the biography, according to the Facebook post.
“Harvard is a remarkable institution and I have been more fulfilled here as a teacher and scholar there than at any time in my professional career,” he wrote on Facebook. “I shall miss the intellectual ferment and my many friends there, but this really is a perfect time for me to take a break from the classroom.”
Ferguson, 51, hails from Scotland and came to Harvard from New York University in 2004. A professor in Harvard’s Center for European Studies, Ferguson is known for his political commentary in addition to his academic work as an economic and international historian. In 2009, he also won an International Emmy award for his six-part film series on the history of money, credit, and banking.
Stanford has recruited away some of Harvard’s top economic thinkers in recent years, including Alvin E. Roth—a Nobel laureate—and recently Raj Chetty ’00, an up-and-coming economist who was one of the youngest professors to be offered Harvard tenure at age 28.
“This is also a chance for me to get a closer view and, I hope, a better understanding of the extraordinary things that are going on at Stanford and in Silicon Valley,” Ferguson added in his Facebook post. “The economic historian in me cannot help but be fascinated.”
Ferguson could not be reached for comment on Wednesday, but according to History professor Charles S. Maier ’60, the departing professor had been considering leaving for Stanford “for a while.”
“Insofar as I knew he was considering it, many of us were trying to persuade him to stay,” said Maier, a former Crimson editorial chair.
Maier added, “Stanford is a powerful place. There aren’t many places where Harvard professors will leave for.”
Ferguson’s time at Harvard has not been without controversy. In 2013, Ferguson met international backlash after alleging at a conference that economic theories of John Maynard Keynes were unsound because Keynes was childless and gay and therefore unconcerned with the future. In the aftermath, Ferguson apologized for his remarks, to mixed reactions from students at Harvard.
History professor Alison Frank Johnson, a colleague of Ferguson’s, wrote in an email that he is “utterly irreplaceable” and that his departure will have a “dramatic effect” on the department.
Jeff Neal, a University spokesperson, wished Ferguson well in a statement Wednesday afternoon.
“We are grateful to Professor Ferguson for his many contributions to the University,” Neal wrote. “We wish him well on his new chapter at the Hoover Institution.”
—Staff writer Jessica Min contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at meg.bernhard@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meg_bernhard.
—Staff writer Mariel A. Klein can be reached at mariel.klein@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter@mariel_klein.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: October 8, 2015, at 2:43 a.m.
Police arrested a man on Wednesday evening after receiving a report of a “potential stabbing” near Harvard Law School’s Cambridge campus.
Harvard police officers responded to a report of a fight behind the Harvard-Epworth United Methodist Church at 1555 Massachusetts Ave. shortly before 7 p.m. on Wednesday, Steven G. Catalano, a Harvard University Police Department spokesperson, wrote in an emergency campus notification message.
Officers observed two men, one with blood on his face and standing over the other, who was lying on the ground. The first man, who is unaffiliated with Harvard, fled the scene when approached by police, who observed that he may have carried a knife, Catalano wrote.
“After a lengthy foot pursuit” and locating him in a Follen Street backyard, Catalano wrote, officers from HUPD, the Cambridge Police Department, and Transit Police placed the first man under arrest for “outstanding warrants.” They did not find a knife there after a search.
When officers returned to the scene of the initial fight, the other man had disappeared. According to Catalano, it remains unclear if a stabbing had in fact occurred or how the man was injured.
Harvard initially issued an emergency alert just after 7 p.m. on Wednesday indicating that police officers had responded to a call reporting a “potential stabbing” at 1555 Massachusetts Ave. and were searching the area. A subsequent alert described the suspect as a white male with dreadlocks wearing a yellow sweatshirt and jeans.
Officials lifted shelter-in-place instructions for campus just after 7:30 p.m.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Serenity Room, which the College introduced last fall as a space for freshmen to practice self-guided relaxation exercises, will offer daily half-hour drop-in sessions to teach meditation and “mindfulness.” It is now open to all students as well as faculty.
Located in the basement of Grays Hall, the room—which was opened following a report on campus stress levels as well as in response to requests for a quiet space in the Yard—is open 24 hours a day and features cushioned chairs as well as beach-themed art. To facilitate meditation, room users can enjoy tea and listen to soothing music.
This year’s changes were inspired by the popularity of drop-in hours at Harvard University Health Services and are part of a University-wide initiative to promote mindfulness, said Jeanne M. Mahon, the director of the Center for Wellness who spearheaded the expansion of the Serenity Room’s services.
The instructor-led drop-in sessions take place Monday through Friday from 12:15 to 12:45 p.m. and Monday through Thursday 5:15 to 5:45 p.m. They consist of a guided meditation.
The sessions focus on breathing, Mahon said, adding that instructors can choose which mindfulness technique to propose to the group.
While the room was underutilized last year, there have been anywhere from four to 12 people at each session since drop-ins were introduced this fall, she said. 
“Mindfulness has been shown to be a mechanism of stress reduction,” said Alexandra E. Kutler, a Serenity Room instructor who studies mindfulness at Harvard Divinity School.
The drop-in hours “give people a space to disconnect,” she added.
Matthew J. Goodkin-Gold ’19, who attended drop-in hours last week, said that the guided exercises help familiarize students with meditation.
“For anyone interested in going, one session is enough to feel comfortable,” he said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When it comes to Nobel laureates, Harvard has plenty to brag about. The 26 affiliates who have won the Prize—including five for the economic sciences—put Harvard in a comfortable place among its competitors: first. 
But with one star professor’s decision to leave the school at the end of the year, Harvard may not only have lost its 27th Nobel. It may have lost its footing at the top of economics academia.
The news came as a shock and a huge blow. Faculty at Harvard and elsewhere have projected that professor Raj Chetty ’00—a MacArthur “Genius” Grant winner and one of the youngest tenured professors in the University’s history—will one day win the Nobel prize. Undergraduates, graduates, and colleagues alike adored him. And Chetty’s close ties to Harvard—he earned both his B.A. and Ph.D. here—only added to the sting of the loss.
Since his departure, the department has been scrambling. When Economics professor Pol Antràs returned to Harvard this fall after a year-long leave, he said “morale was not at its highest.”
Chetty wrote in an email that he left for “a mix of personal and professional reasons.” Through his assistant, he declined to comment further.
Chetty’s startling resignation brought into harsh light a recent trend of faculty who depart from Harvard’s Economics department to other top schools across the nation, including Alvin E. Roth, who won a Nobel Prize just months before he left for Stanford.
In fact, three of the 12 Economics professors who received tenure since 2006 have since left for jobs at Stanford: Susan C. Athey, Guido W. Imbens, and Chetty.
Some professors attribute the recent losses to rising competition from economics programs at peer universities. Others, however, point fingers internally to some of Harvard’s own practices, including competition with salaries, recently stagnant hiring, and insufficient space.
“Raj’s departure felt like out of the frying pan, into the fire,” said professor David I. Laibson ’88, who became chair of Harvard’s Economics department in July, but he has met with administrators in the months since. The determination they have shown to confront challenges that have faced the department for years meant he no longer felt “overburdened” by the task ahead, he said.
Now more than ever, faculty and administrators are striving to keep Harvard’s name at the top of economics—a challenge that has never seemed so daunting.
CROWDING THE MARKET
Harvard has been a dominant name in American economics for as long as professors in the department can remember. For much of the 20th century, its reputation was rivaled only by MIT, and even then professors recall how easy it was to recruit rising stars.
But over the past decade, Harvard has been losing that reliable foothold as other universities strengthen their departments and hiring efforts. Harvard’s Economics department still attracts top graduate students and tenure-track faculty, but in recent years, the name “Harvard” just has not been enough to get people to stay, Laibson said. 
“It used to be enough to say, ‘It doesn’t matter what those other guys are paying you, we’re so great you want to stay here no matter what,’” Laibson said. “Well, that line is losing some of its bite.”
Better salary packages are one way peer departments try to lure away top faculty at rival schools. Other universities, including Stanford, have also made efforts to attract faculty by offering lab space and specifically targeting tenured professors.
“We’ve certainly been doing a lot of hiring, and we’ve been building a core group of mid-career senior faculty,” said B. Douglas Bernheim, chair of the economics department at Stanford. “We hired Raj Chetty from Harvard; he fits that description.”
These competitive hiring efforts have created pools of talent in specific economics fields at other top universities.
“I don’t think I could have thought of any place other than Stanford to leave Harvard for,” Roth said, noting Stanford’s strength in his field of market design.
LITTAUER: A LIMITING CONSTRAINT
Ask Harvard Economics professors what aspects of the department concern them, and most will start with the same issue: space.
Littauer Center, which houses the department and its professors’ offices, has narrow hallways, few commons spaces, and limited office space, making it difficult for professors to collaborate with their research assistants and students. Laibson said many faculty members in the department, including himself, have to walk across Cambridge to meet with their research teams. 
Economics faculty also say that the kind laboratory work common in modern economics—and exemplified by Chetty’s work on government policy—require physical space that is lacking in Littauer and scattered around campus.
“You need infrastructure to run the types of projects he is running,” Antràs said.
Bernheim said Stanford was working “on much closer collaboration and integration” between its economics research buildings to provide adequate space because of Chetty’s arrival and other new hires. He would not comment on the specifics of Chetty’s hiring package, including any lab space he may receive.
And of course, Littauer is old. It hasn’t undergone a major renovation in decades and lacks a functioning air conditioning system.
Whether there are plans to renovate Littauer is uncertain. FAS Dean Michael D. Smith would not comment on any plans to add space to the building, though he noted that conversations about department space across FAS are ongoing.
Even more, the Fine Arts Library, which moved temporarily to Littauer in 2007 during the renovation of the Fogg Museum, compounds the problem of tight space in the building.
University professor Jerry R. Green said the move “pained” him and that now many books used by the Economics department are housed in the Harvard Depository.
But even with the Fogg’s reopening last year, if and when the Fine Arts library might move out is uncertain at best.
“It’s a sore subject for the Economics department,” professor Richard N. Cooper said.
EXPANDING THE FRONTIER
With these administrative and physical roadblocks, Harvard’s Economics department has spurred to action, launching a campaign spearheaded by its new chair to keep its spot on top.
With a surge in support from the FAS administration, Economics professors are hoping to pump vitality into the department with a series of new hires and by alleviating the burden of being the College’s most popular concentration.
Increases in ladder faculty were limited in recent years as Harvard faced challenging financial situations from the financial crisis to sequestration, and the Economics department made no tenure-track hires last year. But Smith said FAS will fund new junior positions for Economics this year, and he is discussing opening posts for senior faculty.
“In the past we felt that we had insufficient slots to identify terrific talent and bring the talent to Harvard,” Laibson said. “Now I feel just the opposite. If we find terrific people, we have the support of the administration.”
Laibson said increasing the department’s size with “new talent” will help retain a level of dynamism that will keep professors in Cambridge. Increasing the department’s diversity through the hiring process—a personal goal for his chairmanship—will help in that revitalization, he said.
New faculty members will also help alleviate teaching and advising burdens placed on current professors who work in the College’s most popular concentration. With 618 concentrators as of 2014, some professors say they cannot keep up with the undergraduate demand.
“The Economics department feels that it’s understaffed based on its teaching responsibilities,” Cooper said, emphasizing that there are not enough faculty to teach undergraduates. “This is an ongoing tension between the Economics department and the administration.”
Amidst the new hiring and departmental changes, though, administrators and faculty members have not forgotten what originally jolted them into action: the loss of Chetty, a deeply admired colleague.
“We’re very sorry to see him go. We wish him well,” Smith said. “We hope he decides it’s better to come back.”
—Staff writer Karl M. Aspelund can be reached at karl.aspelund@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @karlaspelund.
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at meg.bernhard@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meg_bernhard.
—Staff writer Jessica Min can be reached at jessica.min@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @jessmin17.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Challenges facing Harvard graduate students who seek to unionize came from a new source Wednesday at a Graduate School of Arts and Sciences student government meeting, when the first public sign of student opposition to the movement cropped up.
The student unionization effort, months in the works, has gained momentum in recent weeks, even though University President Drew G. Faust has indicated that she does not support it. Student organizers have partnered with the United Auto Workers Union, launched a website, and continued their push to recruit new members. Their efforts follow graduate student unionization movements at peer universities. 
Still, despite that progress, some graduate students voiced concerns about a lack of information surrounding the unionization effort on Wednesday at an unusually crowded Graduate Student Council meeting in Dudley House.
Jae H. Lee, a third-year graduate student in the Physics department, proposed that the Graduate Student Council organize two committees—one in favor of and one opposed to unionization—to educate potential union card signers about the movement’s pros and cons.
He suggested that the Graduate Student Council provide a platform laying out all sides of the issue for students “to develop informed opinions on whether to support the graduate student unionization at Harvard.”
Despite pushback at the meeting, members spearheading the unionization effort promoted an upcoming nationwide event for graduate students around the country to declare “collectively that We Are Workers.” They also tried to recruit graduate students to sign call cards.
“A lot of private universities now are doing what we are doing and saying we want to be recognized as a union. We should be recognized for the work that we do that benefits the university too,” Cristina V. Groeger ’08, an organizer of the unionization effort, said at the meeting. “We are going to have speakers, faculty, politicians, undergrads, talk about why this movement and this nationwide movement is important.”
Abigail Weil, another member of the unionization effort, urged people to commit their support to the effort.
“We are at a point in our process right now where we are running an affiliation card drive, so we can officially stand up and join the union. I have already signed my card, has anybody else?” Weil asked. “We have cards for everybody, whoever is ready to join.”
—Staff writer Jill E. Steinman can be reached at jill.steinman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @jillsteinman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Following widespread concern over the prevalence of sexual assault at Harvard, the College will host a series of student-run town halls for identity-based groups later this month to solicit feedback on how the issue affects different students on campus.
Undergraduates will lead the series of discussions, which will include sessions specifically tailored toward women, men, transgender and genderqueer students, students with disabilities, and students who identify as bisexual, gay, lesbian, transgender, or queer.
According to Emelyn A. dela Peña, the College’s assistant dean of student life for equity, diversity, and inclusion, the Harvard Foundation for Intercultural and Race Relations will coordinate a discussion for students of color as well.
The College decided to host the meetings after analyzing the results of the spring’s campus sexual assault climate survey, which were released late last month. The data show that respondents from specific identity groups, including women and people who identified as LGBAQN—lesbian, gay, bisexual, asexual, questioning, or not listed—reported experiencing higher rates of sexual misconduct.
Among LGBAQN undergraduate females, 17.9 percent reported experiencing nonconsensual sexual contact involving physical force or incapacitation since fall 2014; 12 percent of straight undergraduate female respondents, meanwhile, reported experiencing it during that time. For LGBAQN undergraduate males, that rate of experiencing nonconsensual penetration and sexual touching was 10.9 percent in that time, compared to 2.7 percent among their straight male peers.
Students with disabilities also reported experiencing sexual assault at a higher rate, with 14.2 percent indicating that they had experienced nonconsensual penetration or sexual touching involving physical force or incapacitation, compared to an 8.3 percent of students University-wide who did not indicate having a disability.
Following the data’s late September release, the College hosted a series of general town hall events. At these discussions, dela Peña said undergraduates said they wanted the College to host further conversations geared toward specific identity groups.
The upcoming town halls, dela Peña added, fit into recent conversations about the intersectionality of sexual violence, or how discrimination affects different students in unique ways. Those discussions have become more common recently, she said.
“We recognize that violence and harassment and discrimination intersect with different forms of identity, and so we wanted to acknowledge that this happens,” dela Peña said.
Along with dela Peña, Harvard’s Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response has been leading efforts to coordinate and plan the upcoming meetings. Alicia Oeser, the director of OSAPR, said her office has been collaborating with the College to address sexual violence in a way that recognizes its intersectionality as well.
Undergraduate activists, including organizers for anti-sexual assault advocacy group Our Harvard Can Do Better, have reiterated a call for Harvard to take an identity-specific approach to understanding and addressing issues surrounding campus sexual assault.
Joshua D. Blecher-Cohen ’16, an intern at the College’s Office of BGLTQ Student Life, praised administrators both for initiating the identity-based meetings and allowing students to lead the discussions.
“Building in undergraduate voices in structural ways is so important, and that’s why this is exciting,” Blecher-Cohen said. “Creating undergraduate-specific spaces acknowledges there is a need for people to continue thinking about the report and reacting to the report on their own terms.”
While administrators will not participate in the discussions—two trained undergraduates will lead the sessions—dela Peña said they will receive confidential notes summarizing points raised and try to address common threads and individual suggestions.
Already, dela Peña said administrators are responding to consistent suggestions from students that the College bolster sexual assault training into a yearly mandate. In addition, she said Houses are working on improving ways to make undergraduates feel safer, referencing new social spaces that some Houses opened this semester.
—Staff writer Noah J. Delwiche can be reached at noah.delwiche@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ndelwiche.
—Staff writer Ivan B. K. Levingston can be reached at Ivan.Levingston@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @IvanLevingston.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Mark C. Elliott, a professor in East Asian Languages and Civilizations and a renowned scholar of Chinese history, has been bringing his expertise in Chinese affairs to Harvard’s administration since he became Harvard's second-ever vice provost for international affairs.
Elliott, who replaced Government professor Jorge I. Dominguez last month, will coordinate the University’s global strategy, sign agreements with foreign governments, and meet with alumni around the world to fundraise and network, among other priorities.
Elliott said he accepted the position this summer after realizing it would be “foolish” to pass up the opportunity, adding that in addition to improve Harvard’s global outreach, he wants most, if not all, undergraduates to travel abroad before graduating.
Though only a month into the position, Elliott has already traveled to Ireland to meet with alumni, overseen the renewal of a contract with Mexico, and received on campus delegates from a Spanish university that awarded former Harvard president Derek C. Bok an honorary degree.
Fellow East Asian Languages and Civilizations professor Carter J. Eckert, one of several faculty members who recommended Elliott for the position, said the new vice-provost is “a true internationalist.” Eckert said his colleague’s knowledge of China is particularly beneficial, considering the large number of Chinese students who attend Harvard.
Dominguez agreed, adding that Harvard’s growing presence in China, as well as the country’s position as a global power, make his successor even better suited for the job.
Previously, Elliott traveled with University President Drew G. Faust to China to act as her cultural interpreter and meet Chinese alumni as part of Harvard’s fundraising efforts amid its record-seeking capital campaign.
History professor Andrew D. Gordon, who has collaborated with Elliott in the past, said the professor will excel in his role representing Harvard abroad.
“He’s very good at presenting what our part of Harvard, the International and the East Asia field, is up to” Gordon added.
Elliott has also served as director of the Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies since 2013, but he said he plans to step down soon to focus on his duties as vice provost.
“He’s been a wonderful leader of the Fairbank,” said East Asian Languages and Civilizations professor Peter K. Bol, who is Elliott’s colleague at the Fairbank Center. “I think he’s worked hard to get faculty and students involved with each other in learning and thinking about China.”
—Staff writer Meg P. Bernhard can be reached at meg.bernhard@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @meg_bernhard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week’s Harvard Foundation dinner honoring South Carolina Governor Nikki R. Haley has come under fire from students—including the foundation’s interns—who questioned whether the governor deserved recognition for advancing racial justice.
Haley garnered national attention this summer for her call to remove the Confederate flag from South Carolina’s statehouse grounds following the shooting deaths of nine black members of the African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C., allegedly in a racially motivated attack by Dylann S. Roof. 
“Many Foundation interns were not in support of what was perceived as an honorary dinner that Nikki Haley received Thursday night,” all 14 of the Harvard Foundation’s undergraduate interns wrote in a collective statement, which they provided to The Crimson. “A certificate of appreciation, for her coming to speak with students about the act of removing the flag, would have been the most appropriate. We apologize for any hurt we caused to the communities we strive to serve.”
Individual interns, including Tiffany M. Ramos ’16 and Kirin Gupta ’16, said they felt making a statement was necessary after their experience at the event and the feedback they received from fellow students. The interns emphasized that they were not speaking on behalf of the Harvard Foundation.
In response to the students’ concerns, the Harvard Foundation’s director, S. Allen Counter, wrote in an email that the speech and dinner with Haley were consistent with the format of previous events with the foundation’s guests.
“Students were not asked to agree with her philosophy or points of view, but to listen and engage her with questions in the civil manner accorded all of Harvard guests,” Counter wrote.
Haley, a Republican who is serving her second term, is Indian American and the first woman to serve as governor of South Carolina. Counter said the foundation’s alumni and faculty advisory committee approved her invitation on the basis of her work to improve race relations in her state.
Several of the interns, however, objected to the recognition of Haley as a progressive on racial issues.
Gupta and several other Harvard Foundation interns organized a conversation about the Haley event on Wednesday night. A dozen undergraduates and two Winthrop House race relations tutors discussed their reactions to the dinner and broader issues of racial and ethnic identity in politics. The group plans to host another conversation early next week.
“We as a race relations office certainly were not trying to take a political stance in any way,” Ramos said in an interview. “I don’t think it was an error for us to bring her, because I think it’s important for us to have conversations with diverse perspectives...but I personally didn’t agree with a recognition of Nikki Haley for her triumph in race relations.”
Gupta wrote in an email that she believed the event had misrepresented the views of many at the foundation.
“The Harvard Foundation didn’t intend to ‘honor’ Governor Haley, and the crux of the issue was that the framing of the event was poorly done,” Gupta wrote. She added that she personally disagreed with some of Haley’s remarks, including Haley’s assertion that protests in cities such as Ferguson, Mo., had caused further harm to black Americans.
Other students who attended the Haley event, however, expressed support for the governor. For his part, Aaron I. Henricks ’16, the president of the Harvard Republican Club, said he believes Haley has affected progress in her state.
“You may disagree with her politics, you may disagree with her opinions before the tragedy happened, but she led the charge to bring down the flag,” Henricks said. “I think she certainly deserves recognition.”
According to its website, the Harvard Foundation for Intercultural and Race Relations “works to improve diversity relations among individuals and student groups within the University.” A team of undergraduate interns supports the Foundation’s full-time staff.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This summer, Harvard University Dining Services partnered with local food entrepreneur Karl Dias to turn 120,000 pounds of tomatoes into 14,000 gallons of the local marinara sauce, a new offering in the College's 13 undergraduate dining halls.
Dias facilitated the sale of the tomatoes from six local farms and worked with HUDS to develop a new marinara sauce recipe. According to Dias, these tomatoes were used to produce the marinara sauce for use and storage at Harvard throughout the school year. 
The marinara sauce goes through an extensive cooking and cooling process to destroy bacterial growth and maintain its 12 to 18-month shelf life, Dias said.
“In all honesty, the sauce 24 months from now will taste just as good as it does today,” Dias said. “There might be some discoloration, but the integrity of the product is still there.”
The switch away from ordering tomato sauce from California and other West Coast states is a part of Harvard’s effort to support local farmers and provide a fresher product. Some of the tomatoes procured for this year’s batch of marinara sauce come from a local supply of tomatoes that cannot be sold for retail.
“Our intention is to try to help farmers utilize the products that they don’t necessarily get to use,” said John M. Aiken, procurement manager at Harvard Dining Services. “If there is a blemish on this side, it doesn’t mean the food is bad. It needs a home, so we took some of those products to try and help local farmers make money.”
According to Aiken, buying marinara sauce produced locally is more expensive than buying sauce made along the West Coast.
HUDS spokesperson Crista Martin said that in addition to supporting the local economy, the new marinara recipe has significantly reduced sodium and sugar levels compared to the marinara sauce HUDS previously used.
“When you look at the label of the sauce—that’s what you would call a clean label, made so fresh that we don’t need additives and other things,” Martin said, emphasizing the importance of providing nutritious foods to undergraduates.
When asked about the new marinara sauce, several students reported no significant change in taste.
—Staff writer Lara C. Tang can be reached at laratang@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University President Drew G. Faust called for investing in higher education to combat economic inequality on Wednesday, speaking before an audience of students, professors, and local residents at a town hall meeting at Roxbury Community College.
Faust’s opening remarks and a subsequent panel discussion, part of ongoing HUBweek forums and festivities, addressed the issue of “Economic Growth For All.” It was organized by Setti D. Warren, the mayor of Newton and the U.S. Conference of Mayors’ community development and housing committee chair. 
“Any discussion about reducing inequality in this country, and creating economic growth that reaches everyone, has to begin with investing in education—from early learning all the way through higher education,” Faust said in her speech, which largely emphasized the role of universities in providing the “intellectual infrastructure” for economic growth in cities.
“All of you, and mayors across the country, should view the universities in their communities as assets, as infrastructure, and as allies,” Faust said, addressing city mayors who were in attendance.
“Universities and their host cities should link arms and together drive progress, particularly as it relates to the sharing of knowledge that comes from universities and can be applied to to students in K-12,” Faust said.
Following Faust’s speech and brief pre-taped video addresses from Boston Mayor Marty J. Walsh and U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, the panel of mayors and economic experts further discussed economic inequality and immobility.
“We live in an era of staggering inequality, certainly in regard to wealth, but also in regard to opportunity,” said Boston Globe editor Brian McGrory, who moderated the panel. Many of the panel participants emphasized the importance of education in combating issues of race and income inequality.
The town hall meeting, hosted by the U.S. Conference of Mayors, also served as a platform for Newton Mayor Setti Warren’s America Leads 2050 initiative, which focuses in part on education.
One goal of the initiative, according to Warren, is to “engage as many civic leaders, widely-recognized public and private institutions like Harvard, and members of the public as possible to focus on what is being done to connect people with the economic opportunities they and their families need to be financially independent.”
“[Faust] framed the discussion so well and spoke poignantly to the importance of education in helping people prepare for a successful career and give them access to pipelines to the middle class,” Warren wrote in an email.
The town hall meeting comes in the middle of HUBweek, which will continue to host events in Cambridge and Boston through this Saturday.
—Staff writer Emma K. Talkoff can be reached at emmatalkoff@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“The bottom line is, the preseason’s over.”
So said Harvard coach Tim Murphy in his press conference last Friday night, after his team cruised to a 45-0 victory over visiting Georgetown. Six days earlier, the Crimson trounced a sloppy Brown squad in its Ivy League opener. The week before that, Harvard claimed a 31-point win over Rhode Island.
The Crimson football schedule is typically backloaded, meaning that the team has yet to face its toughest opponents. Those showdowns—Princeton, Dartmouth, Penn, Yale—will come later like a string of punches that must be absorbed, with little time to catch your breath.
Accordingly, the lopsided stat lines from these early games can be deceiving. No one thought that Rhode Island and Georgetown could hang with the explosive Harvard offense or wear down its staunch defense. A host of unforced errors doomed Brown to defeat seemingly just moments after the game began.
But if Murphy is right—that the “preseason” really is over—it’s as good a time as any to take stock of the 2015 Harvard football team.
What jumps out immediately is the high-powered offense centered around quarterback Scott Hosch. The senior may have guided Harvard to six wins last year, but there remained plenty of questions surrounding the position as late as preseason. After all, the team didn’t even name a starter until Hosch’s competitor went down with an injury in the days leading up to the opener.
But through three games, Hosch seems to exude a newfound confidence that likely results from a combination of game experience, skill development, and increased familiarity with the playbook.
Last week, with the pocket collapsing around him, Hosch assessed the situation, slipped through incoming defenders, and dashed nine yards for a first down. In 2014, the outcome of that play may have been a throw into traffic or a sack.
Another staple of the 2015 Crimson offense has been balance, especially in the aerial attack. No member of the Crimson has amassed more than 78 yards receiving in a game this season.
That’s not at all to say that the passing game has struggled. To the contrary, it’s a testament to Hosch relying on a host of targets to advance the ball downfield.
In the first contest of the year, five different receivers racked up at least 50 yards, and four different individuals caught touchdowns.
As of now, it’s been smooth sailing for the Crimson on offense. But here’s one factoid that may very well become relevant: Since 2010, only once has Harvard had a quarterback play a season from start to finish.
Indeed, the Crimson offense will at some point be thrown a wrench. Whatever they may be, new challenges and unexpected obstacles will arise. The success of the 2015 season may very well depend on how the team responds.
On the other side of the ball, the veteran Crimson defense may be even better than advertised. Last season, the Harvard defense surrendered an average of 11.7 points in its first three games. That unit went on to become the top-ranked scoring defense in the FCS.
This year, anchored by a senior linebacker corps headlined by captain Matt Koran, Harvard has allowed just 12.3 points per game. While such a stat is impressive in itself, it bears emphasizing that most of the 27 points Brown scored came against the Crimson’s second-string defense. Harvard’s performance thus far may be even more dominant than the numbers suggest.
Of course, caution is necessary here, too. The Crimson hasn’t yet faced an offense with the firepower that some Ivy opponents will feature. As is the case for the offense, the true tests for the defense are still to come.
So what can we say about the 2015 edition of Harvard football? The team seems to have performed as well as it could have in its opening trio of games. A lineup of able veterans is healthy and hungry.
But much remains to be seen.
Harvard has so far played clean football; it hasn’t lost a fumble or even allowed a sack. But the team hasn’t yet suited up in driving rain that nearly doomed Princeton against Columbia last weekend.
Likewise, the Crimson may have scored more than 40 points in each game so far. But it hasn’t faced a defense that can match up physically with its talented offensive line.
And Harvard certainly handled Rhode Island, Brown, and Georgetown with ease. But teams like Dartmouth, Yale, and Princeton present different challenges entirely. These opponents will come in motivated and prepared, ready to knock off the champs.
The preseason is over. Expect answers to many of these unresolved questions soon.­
—Staff writer David Steinbach can be reached at david.steinbach@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: October 8, 2015, at 4:36 p.m.
In 2013, the Harvard men’s soccer team was experiencing a rags-to-riches fantasy in conference play. A year removed from its second straight season without a win in Ivy League play, new head coach Pieter Lehrer had his team on the cusp of the Ancient Eight title.
After struggling throughout nonconference play and dropping its conference opener at Yale, the Crimson rattled off five consecutive Ivy wins and only needed a tie against Penn at home to claim the title.
2-0.
That was the score, in favor of Penn, which sent Harvard spiraling back down to earth on that cold November night.
Though the loss stung, there was a silver lining to the situation. There was talk of the Crimson becoming a perennial Ivy League contender under Lehrer, of competing yearly in the NCAA tournament, even whispers of a Cinderella run to the national title.
Fast forward to the present: After two years of “almost” for the Crimson, this season is arguably the best opportunity to finally take the next step and claim the conference title which has eluded Lehrer’s men.
At the end of this year, Harvard loses a class which features seven players who have started at least five games this season. But that’s just the start.
The Class of 2015 has combined for eight of the nine goals scored this season and contains the Crimson’s attacking core of Tim Schmoll­, Jake Freeman, and Oliver White.
Leading assist man Michael Klain will be another casualty of graduation for an offense that has struggled at times this season.
Defensively, Harvard has had early admission to the difficulties of losing a member of this year’s senior class. Without captain and reigning Ivy League Defensive Player of the Year Mark Ashby due to injury, the backline has looked susceptible at times, particularly in transition.
In 2016, the Crimson will not be able to hope Ashby returns from injury anymore. Another defensive stalwart who has provided stability in the backline, Andrew Chang, will no longer be on the field as well.
Further back, Harvard will bid adieu to starting goalkeeper Evan Mendez, whose saves have kept the Crimson afloat on various occasions. The damage does not stop there, as backup keeper Joe Festa will be gone as well, stripping the team of keepers with collegiate experience.
All in all, 11 of 29 players will don the H for the last time in their careers this year.
That’s not to say there isn’t hope sfor Harvard in the next few years. Junior co-captain and 2014 All-Ivy first team member Andrew Wheeler-Omiunu will return for his final curtain call, joined in the midfield by 2014 Ivy Rookie of the Year Sam Brown, who has continued his stellar play this season.
Lehrer has done a great job on the recruiting trail as well, bringing in four-star recruits such as freshmen Jake Miler and Cesar Farias along with sophomores Christian Sady and Brown. The UCLA grad has also found players who have made an early impact in sophomores Tyler Savitsky and Nate Devine.
The Crimson has the pieces to continue its upward trajectory in the future, but the senior class is still arguably irreplaceable.
The importance of the seniors was highlighted this past weekend at Yale, as Schmoll and Freeman found the back of the net. White was the primary instigator in the Elis' own goal and drew the penalty that Schmoll converted. Klain assisted Freeman’s goal, while Mendez stopped two of the three shots on frame.
The 3-1 victory against Yale is a step in the right direction for a team that looks to finish atop the Ivy League, but the next stretch of games will be pivotal.
The Crimson faces Cornell and Brown before back-to-back games against defending co-champions Princeton and Dartmouth. With every game being equally important—just ask the 2013 team, which could have claimed the title before playing Penn had they not lost to then sixth-place Yale—it is imperative Harvard follows Lehrer’s philosophy of one game at a time.
In Lehrer’s third season in charge of the Crimson, the squad is finding its groove at the right time and will gain some confidence following its performance in New Haven. This could be the lightning-in-a-bottle moment that Lehrer needs to finally take his team atop the Ancient Eight.
However, if Harvard squanders its newfound momentum and its last year with the class of 2015, it might prove difficult for that Ivy League championship to come sometime soon in the Lehrer era.
—Staff writer Julio Fierro can be reached at julio.fierro@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Today is Thursday, October 8, 2015. On this day in history in 1956, Don Larsen pitched a perfect World Series game between the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Yankees. Today in Harvard, if you’re looking to unwind after a week of midterms, DAPA is hosting a BYOBlanket Outdoor Movie Night from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Kirkland Courtyard, and there will be free popcorn and apple cider.
IN THE DHALL
LunchTeriyaki Chicken with Scallions and GarlicGrilled Cheddar Sandwich with Tomato and Red Onion
DinnerDiced PorkSpanish-Style Roast ChickenSuccotash with Edamame
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
Today is going to be sunny and a high of 63 degrees, with a zero percent chance of rain.
ON FLYBY
The Flyby Matchmaker is Back (With New Improvements)!
Looking to spice up your love life? We can help you there- and pay for your date too.
Listen Up! Returns Better Than EverYou have burning questions about your life. Sara and Dev want to answer them.
IN THE NEWS
At the Margin: Harvard Economics’ Precarious Spot on Top
But with one star professor’s decision to leave the school at the end of the year, Harvard may not only have lost its 27th Nobel. It may have lost its footing at the top of economics academia.
Harvard Foundation Interns Critique Event Honoring Nikki HaleyLast week’s Harvard Foundation dinner honoring South Carolina Governor Nikki R. Haley has come under fire from students—including the foundation’s interns—who questioned whether the governor deserved recognition for advancing racial justice.
Elliott Draws on Scholarship as International Affairs ProvostMark C. Elliott, a professor in East Asian Languages and Civilizations and a renowned scholar of Chinese history, has been bringing his expertise in Chinese affairs to Harvard’s administration since he became Harvard's second-ever vice provost for international affairs.
Dining Halls Serves Up Local MarinaraThis summer, Harvard University Dining Services partnered with local food entrepreneur Karl Dias to turn 120,000 pounds of tomatoes into 14,000 gallons of the local marinara sauce, a new offering in the College's 13 undergraduate dining halls.
EVENTS
Candy Crowley’s IOP Study Group is today at 4 p.m. in IOP L166. She will be addressing questions about polling with special guest CNN Polling Director Keating Holland.
BYOBlanket Outdoor Movie Night tonight at 7 p.m. in the Kirkland Courtyard. There will be free apple cider and popcorn.
The Son Also Rises is going on tonight at 8 p.m. at the Adams Pool Theater.
The Harvard Undergraduate Humanities Initiative presents Arts, Humanities, and the Environment tonight at 8 p.m. in the Barker Center Cafe. There will be cookies, fruit, tea and a discussion about arts-activism of environmentalism.
The Intrinsics are hosting the College Brain Break at the Queens Head tonight at 9:30 p.m. There will be free food and refreshments for those 21+.
Sections
This past Tuesday, Uber partnered up with HUBWeek in Boston to offer #UberMentor. I decided to give it a try.
October 5, 2015
1:00 p.m.: I wake up to an exciting email from Uber (read: not an email from Uber reminding me that I Ubered to McDonald’s last night twice.)
1:05 p.m.: I comprehend aforementioned email. It reads #UberMentor and explains that this is my chance on October 6 from 1-4 p.m. I can ride along with an #UberMentor to get some career advice, talk through some ideas, or just learn from one of Boston’s brightest. AKA help me get a job.
October 6, 2015
10:31 a.m.: Walk into class half an hour late. Open my computer. Realize it is October 6 AKA #UberMentor. Peep the ProTip that Uber graciously provides "(ProTip: Get the most out of your session by being prepared for your trip. Have your resume available or a clear list of goals you’d like to discuss during your ride)."
10:33 a.m.: Find my resume and realize it is no use. Decide that I will write a Flyby article about my time with #UberMentor instead….Wait until 1 p.m. to meet my #UberMentor.
--------------------------------------
12:55 p.m.: My heart begins to flutter as I realize that there are just 5 more minutes until I can meet my #UberMentor. I am ready to begin requesting.
2:14 p.m.: I wake up from an unexpected nap. Full panic mode. Did I miss #UberMentor?
2:15 p.m.:
One Hour Later….
3:21 p.m.:
…….same “All mentors in meetings! Check back soon.” for next 38 minutes……..
3:59 p.m. (one minute before #UberMentor ends):
4:06 p.m. (give up and take UberX to McDonald’s):
Moral of the story: If at first you don’t succeed, UberX to McDonald’s.
