Sections
With reading period upon us and many exams fast approaching, long nights in are becoming staples in every undergraduate’s life. The trendiest bags at the moment are the ones under everyone’s eyes. But is it better to choose an extra hour of studying over an extra hour of sleep? When does an all-nighter do more harm than good?Associate Professor of Psychiatry Robert Stickgold ’66 answers these questions in his Medical School course, MBB980: “Conscious States: Waking, Sleeping, and Dreaming.” In 2010, he gave a TedTalk on the subject of sleep and memory. FM asked him how to optimize our sleep and studying schedules.
Fifteen Minutes: How many hours should we sleep each night to perform at our best?
Stickgold: I don’t know, because it really varies from person to person. But on average to function properly, each of us needs about eight hours of sleep a night.
FM: What’s the best way to make the most of the sleep you do get?
RS: Consistency is key. Emily Hogeland ’07, an undergraduate MBB student, studied a select group of students taking inorganic chemistry at Harvard over the summer, and found that the students who performed the best were the ones who had a fairly consistent sleep schedule. This means getting seven hours a night for four nights in a row before your exam will leave you feeling much better than if you get five, then six, then two, then seven hours of sleep in the days preceding your exam.
FM:  If I have a 9 a.m. exam the Monday after reading period, how should I prepare myself to be awake and alert so early in the morning?
RS: By going to sleep at a reasonable hour and getting up before 9 a.m. the three to four nights before your exam, you will establish a pattern for your brain that will make getting up and focusing at 9 a.m. much easier. If you are getting the proper amount of sleep, but always going to bed at 2 a.m. and getting up at 10 a.m., it is going to be extremely difficult to force yourself to go to bed at a reasonable time the night before [your exam] and to wake up early the morning of the exam. This is because your brain and internal clock are used to the pattern you’ve created. The feeling of trying to break that pattern is very similar to jet lag, because of the adjustment your body must make to your new sleep schedule.
FM: What’s the minimum amount of sleep you would recommend for one night?
RS: If you get six hours you will suffer, but you will survive. However, [with] anything less than that, you are at risk to make very silly mistakes and to possibly even fall asleep during your exam. When I was an undergrad I accidentally slept through a one-hour physics exam because I stayed up much too late the night before.
Additionally, your brain makes a plan every night for how much sleep you are going to get based on how much you’ve gotten in the previous few nights, and then decides how it will process your memories from the day. For this reason, getting four hours of sleep catches the brain off guard and it is unable to complete all of the memory processing it had planned.
FM:  What are your thoughts on using caffeine to stay awake longer and to feel more alert?
RS: There are two very important things you need to understand about sleep before I answer this question. First, sleep is meant to prepare you and your brain for the next day. As most people will tell you, if you don’t get enough sleep, the next day you feel like shit. It is extremely difficult to maintain focus and alertness, and your functionality is very low. Second, while you sleep your brain is actively processing information. Your brain makes connections between different ideas...and identifies what is important, so the next day your memory and synthesis skills are greatly improved. All of that being said, caffeine and other stimulants may simulate alertness, but they cannot make up for the memory processing you miss out on by not sleeping.
FM:  What are your thoughts on naps?
RS: I love naps! A 90 minute nap provides as much memory processing as a full night of sleep, but only if you’re not severely sleep deprived. Additionally, a 90-minute nap is for some reason much more effective than a four-hour one for processing memory. This is likely because the brain is allowed to go through both REM and non-REM sleep. However, if you are just looking to increase your alertness, power naps are great. As little as 15 minutes of sleep can give the feeling of rejuvenation and increased alertness.
FM: What would you say to a student about to pull an all-nighter?
RS: Make sure that the all-nighter is actually necessary. If the test you have to take the following day contains mostly spit-back questions where you have to regurgitate memorized information then, OK, go for it, but pray you don’t fall asleep in that exam tomorrow. If the questions on the test are going to force you to make connections between information that you have never made before, such as an unexpected essay prompt or solving a math problem based on intuition, then an all-nighter is a bad idea because you need to get sleep in order to make connections between the information, and to process your memories of it.
FM: Is there anything else you would like students to understand about how the amount of sleep they get affects their cognitive functioning?
RS: Let me walk you through some math. If you decide to get six hours of sleep, rather than four, you are getting 50 percent more sleep that night. However, you are also only able to study for 18 hours, rather than 20, a 10 percent decrease in the amount of time you are awake and studying. The most important thing about this concept to understand is that if you can study 10 percent more efficiently with six hours of sleep then you have broken even, and I can guarantee you that you will be a minimum of 10 percent more efficient, if not more.
FM translation: Go to bed.
Sections
What do I say? How do I ask her? Am I coming on too strong? How do I word this so I don’t sound like a total freak?
Would you mind if I took your dog out to brunch tomorrow?
Rosie is a three-month-old mini Australian shepherd. She belongs to Peter Gamble Bacon and Lauren Dahlin, two proctors in Matthews. I meet her outside her dorm a little after 10:30 a.m. on Friday morning. Standing (on all fours) about 10 inches tall, Rosie has soft white fur and a merle pattern across her coat that includes shades of grey, black, and tan. Her most distinguishable feature is her piercing blue eyes. It’s love at first sight.

Upon picking her up at her place, I notice that maintaining eye contact is going to be a challenge. Once she steps foot onto the soft, leaf-covered ground, there’s no stopping her from smelling and tasting absolutely everything in sight. We walk a few feet…sniffs…another foot…sniffs…“C’mon Rosie, keep walking!” She’s probably just nervous. First dates are always nerve-wracking.
I realize that deciding where to go is going to be difficult. While I prefer real, human food, Rosie seems to prefer sticks, leaves, and possibly even some scattered dog/mouse/squirrel poo left on the ground. “Rosie, don’t eat that!” I mean, to each her own, right?
Rosie’s parents call her “the youngest dog ever accepted to Harvard,” and she is quick to flaunt her intelligence. She performs tricks for me, such as “sit” and “touch,” with perfect grace.
We talk about our hobbies. Mine: studying, watching Netflix, hanging out with friends. Rosie’s: playing fetch, biting people’s ankles, hanging out with friends. Despite our differences, we definitely have some things in common. One of Rosie’s best friends is the six-month old Samoyed puppy Daisy, who also lives in Matthews. They often play together, or with dogs who live in Straus, in the courtyard between the two dorms. Their owners now call the space the Straus Dog Park.
The thing about taking cute dogs out for brunch is that they are usually noticed by other people. Throughout the course of our date, about five people in total stop to compliment Rosie. “Your eyes are just the most beautiful!” or “Aren’t you just the cutest little thing?” A couple passersby even come over to pet and play with her for a while.
I drop her off at Matthews a little after 11 a.m. Overall, I’d say the date was a success. Make sure to say hello if you happen to spot Rosie out in the Yard—she loves the attention.
Sections
1. You should really feel poorly about shopping week and the hell it wreaks on graduate students. (“Scrambling for Stability: The TF Experience at Harvard,” 2/5/15)
2. Binge-eating a pound and a half of grapes at midnight is a great recipe for nausea.
3. Heaven exists and it’s filled with artisanal cheeses. (“The Cave Man,” 11/12/15)
4. There’s always room in the magazine for more felching.
5. It is possible to craft a theatrical drama around gamefowl. (“Harvard’s Favorite Turkey,” 10/1/15)
6. People make food dishes entirely inspired by literary puns. It is a thing they do. (“Edible Book Competition,” 4/9/15)
7. The managing editor probably won’t let you print any jokes about acts of terrorism or mass shootings. It’s a shame.
8. Oftentimes, it’s okay to cry. (“Pity Party,” 9/24/15)
9. It is really weird to attempt to match make at a group photo shoot.
10. If you write two stories involving start-ups, you will become The Crimson’s official tech beat writer. (“The Dropouts,” 2/19/15 and “There’s an Agency for That,” 10/22/15)
11. FM writers have pitiful upper body strength. (“Body by ROTC,” 2/26/15)
12. When trying to skip commitments, definitely call the person in charge and ask sheepishly.
13. Adult men say things like this: “Think about if you want to put a 200-year club at risk or gamble it on the metabolism of an 18-year-old woman… That’s what it comes down to.” (“Grad but Not Gone,” 4/9/15)
14. Don’t ever open the fridge in your office.
15. When you leave The Crimson at 9 a.m. after 40 minutes of sleep, you will be very cold and feel very intoxicated. (“Boots on the Ground: ROTC at Harvard,” 2/26/15)
Sections
I meet up with The Intrinsics in a small practice room beneath Lowell dining hall. They aren’t hard to find—I just follow the faint strains of trumpet and saxophone to the end of a long hallway. It’s crowded inside with their 10 members—they’ve had to move here after being kicked out of Eliot for being too loud.
“There really aren’t that many places [on campus] for bands to rehearse,” says bandleader and keyboardist Ethan I. Simon ’16. After three years playing together, they’ve gotten used to it.
Admittedly, The Intrinsics aren’t a “senior,” per se. But they’ve certainly been on campus for long enough, and are primarily composed of musicians who are, in some way, seniors. Simon founded the band with Rachel Horn ’14, a member of earlier soul group the Nostalgics, in 2014.
Since then, they’ve emerged as one of Harvard’s most in-demand live acts, lending their signature Southern soul and R&B sound to venues ranging from the Cambridge Queen’s Head to last year’s Yardfest. And with five of their members graduating this year from Harvard and Berklee, they’re preparing to round out their legacy.
The band has come a long way from its first rehearsal. “I feel like there was a point where we went from, ‘Oh, we’re probably not going to be that good but we’re still going to have fun,’ to ‘Oh, we’re actually good,’” John B. Tournas ’16 says.
Since then, they’ve branched out and started writing original songs, something vocalist Jeremy Sabath ’16 describes as one of the most rewarding parts of his experience: “It’s one thing to play a cover and get everything dancing, but another thing to play a song that one of your bandmates and you wrote, and see people dancing to that.”
And people have noticed: The Intrinsics have a devoted following on campus. Simon attributes this to the ease of finding venues: “A lot of our early gigs were at final clubs and house formals,” he says. “Which is so much easier than if you’re a normal band starting out and trying to get gigs in the real world. So it was really easy to build a name for ourselves with those outlets.”
Another factor is their distinctive sound. “I feel so happy to be able to make a different space in parties than the normal EDM kind of music that people grind to,” says trumpet player Tree A. Palmedo ’16, a former Crimson Arts executive. “Where everyone’s just dancing together.”
Playing outside of Harvard, without a guaranteed audience, has been more challenging. Another issue is the band’s age: Not all of their members are over 21, which some venues don’t appreciate.
But that hasn’t stopped The Intrinsics from booking shows at venues across Boston and Cambridge. Simon says that playing to “empty bars” is all “part of the experience,” and that “it’s fun in its own way.” And after some rocky initial experiences, they’re beginning to draw crowds both at Harvard and beyond.
The band wants to keep this momentum up, even after their five senior members graduate. Simon is optimistic that at least some of them will go on to success: “It might not happen before we graduate, next semester, but it’ll happen for some of us individually.” His own dream is to enter the music industry full-time by starting a record label.
For now, the band’s immediate goal is to record the music they’ve written. “We don’t know exactly what’ll happen after people graduate, but we’ve all loved being in the band and want to have some stuff for posterity,” Sabath says. “So recording our originals is important.”
And they still have a few last shows planned. Vocalist Nadia L. Urrea ’17 recently got engaged—and she wants the band to play at her wedding. “Everyone in this band is someone I feel completely comfortable with,” she says.
As I pack up my things to leave, The Intrinsics are still making noise—laughing, blowing riffs on their instruments. They ask me to send them my recording of the interview, so they can listen to all the stories and memories they’ve recalled. It’s one more recording they can save.

Sections
“There are basically two career paths: you go into the CIA or you become a professor. And as far as anyone knows, I’ll be a professor.”
Rivka B. Hyland ’16 is sitting on an overly plush couch in the Lowell House Junior Common Room talking about her Islamic Studies thesis. She’s been chasing down this academic goal since she was in a ninth grade world history class.
“We did medieval everything. Nothing has ever interested me as much as Christian and Islamic theology,” Hyland says, smiling earnestly and heaving a backpack, which is bursting with books, off the coffee table.
She’s currently working on a thesis in comparative medieval Islamic and Christian theology. And when she goes to Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar next year, she has one goal in mind.
“I guess I could go and study math or whatever, but I just want to study theology,” she says.
She’s known since she was 13 that she’s wanted to be an academic. The dream came naturally to Hyland, whose parents are both professors. Family lore has it that she is the “mythical and theoretical final descendant” of Franz Kafka’s mentor, Max Brod. For Hyland, academia has also been a preferred social space.
“I grew up at academic cocktail parties,” she says. “I’m at my best around 25-year-old grad students.”
She applied to Harvard because of its Islamic Studies program and threw herself headfirst into the coursework her freshman year. Although it felt like an academic home, Hyland quickly realized that she needed more of a social life than coffee at Darwin’s over German readings and draft syllabi.
“I was taking mostly Islamic Studies grad-level courses. It was rough because I was the only freshman and sometimes the only undergraduate,” she recalls. “Graduate students are really great but are not going to be your freshman friends. I had literally two friends.”
So, during her freshman spring, Hyland rebalanced her schedule, looking for new groups and spaces, applying the same fervor that she relied on for scouring for connections between Byzantine and Islamic art. She applied to all but one peer counseling group, to be a Writing Center tutor, and to staff the Boston Area Rape Crisis Center Hotline. She soon found what she was looking for.
Hyland is now the co-director of ECHO, Harvard’s Eating Concerns Hotline and Outreach student peer counseling organization. “The people in ECHO really form my closest group,” she says. “The sheer amount of TLC [tender loving care] that happens on a continual basis—that, I couldn’t find anywhere else.”
Hyland gushes about the Writing Center as “the best kept secret at Harvard.” She even picked up rowing her sophomore year with Lowell’s intramural team, a hobby she hadn’t practiced since she was in ninth grade. Hyland became captain of the squad.
“I was captain because I staged a coup,” Hyland jokes. “I think [this year] I’m going to make them stroke even though I’m not good enough for it.”
Even during her most tranquil moments, she’s voraciously exploring. This summer, Hyland and a friend started taking midnight bike rides around Boston and Cambridge. They’d stop on the Esplanade and gaze at the stars. On lazier nights, they’d bike around the all-too-manicured suburbs stretching west from Harvard Square.
“We go to West Cambridge and look at the bougie houses and play ‘Where do you want to live when you’re a professor?’”
These days, her nose is still in the books as she races to finish her thesis. She had a recent run-in that showed the relevance of her work, as obscure as medieval theology may sometimes seem.
“This woman said, ‘You don’t see a lot of Jewish girls named Rivka reading Arabic.’ I didn’t know what to say… It’s one world—you have to study all of it.”


Sections
If you’re looking for the life story of Moiya A.S. McTier ’16, you can find at least some of it inked on her skin.
At last count, McTier sports four tattoos. She tells me she might get another one tomorrow, or she might not. Each has  its own significance. A row of turtles stack down her spine, a reference to the “turtles-all-the-way-down” trap about cosmology (if the earth rests on the back of a turtle, what does that turtle rest on?). The words “Onward, ever striving” loop around one wrist. Her first and favorite tattoo is a depiction of the constellation Orion, which hangs out just below McTier’s left collar bone.
McTier’s tattoos can also tell you a bit about the universe. The graphs on her left leg chart a complex matrix of factors which can collectively reveal how dense and hot a galaxy is, as well as its metallicity. These factors can help determine whether that galaxy’s planets are habitable. The graphs are the product of research McTier conducted a couple of summers ago as part of her ongoing fascination with galaxies, exoplanets, and habitability.
“I feel like there’s some perfect combination so life won’t be disturbed in that region of the galaxy, so that’s what I’m trying to find,” McTier says.
Despite her propensity for permanent ink, McTier claims to be terrible at making decisions. Perhaps this is why she’s chosen to pursue a joint concentration in Astrophysics and Folk and Myth.
“For the most part, they’re really separate interests, but every once in a while one of them will really help with the other,” McTier says. “Astronomy is one of the sciences that requires people to communicate their science the most, because people don’t really understand it…It’s really useful to be able to tell a story to be able to communicate your science, so Folk and Myth definitely helps with that.” The combined concentration also helps McTier approach creation myths about the beginnings of the universe from a different perspective.”
McTier’s double concentration and fascination with potentially life-supporting regions of the universe has also led to a creative thesis—a science fiction novel about an alien race based on McTier’s original research about an exoplanet that she identified. Factors about that planet’s atmosphere, its relationship to its sun and the rest of its solar system, and more helped McTier determine what her alien characters would look like.
“The planet’s really hot,” she explains. “To our best estimate it’s around 400 degrees fahrenheit.” To account for life in this harsh environment, McTier will either have to “play around with the atmosphere on the planet to make it habitable,” or, she says, more likely, “play around with the life form.”
A college career spent studying the stars has also left McTier with an acute awareness of where Harvard astrophysics falls short. After interning at Harvard’s Banneker Institute last summer, where McTier participated in a pre-grad school astronomy program directed at students from underrepresented minority backgrounds, McTier began to notice a lack of diversity in the field.
“I realized just how skewed everything is here—I’ve only ever had one black professor, [and] I’ve never had any female science professors,” McTier says. “It amazes me that I didn’t notice before this summer.”
McTier’s solution, which she cites as the most important thing she’s achieved during her time at Harvard, was to spearhead the formation of an astrophysics mentorship program which will kick off next spring under the purview of an undergraduate astrophysics society.
As for the future, McTier hopes to continue her studies in both Astrophysics and Folklore and Mythology. She plans to pursue a Ph.D. in astrophysics (a decision which, like her choice to come to Harvard, she says she may leave up to a coin toss). She may later add a master’s degree in Medieval Urban Legends “or something absurd like that.” Someday, she hopes to run a museum or planetarium,  to “teach people about science who might otherwise not learn about it.”
She is also hoping to keep asking some of the biggest questions about the universe. McTier interest in extraterrestrial life doesn’t end with her thesis. She “super believes” in extraterrestrial life, if only on the basis of probability and because to assume otherwise would be “egotistical” of humans. Luckily, McTier has a pretty laid back philosophy about all of this.
“I find it comforting, actually,” she says. “If we screw up, there’s maybe someone else out there who won’t screw up like we did.”

Sections
Faculty opinions have made it clear that our current Gen Ed system is in radical need of improvement to meet students’ intellectual needs in our complex, changing world. As per request, we have pared students’ non-concentration requirements down to only four Gen Ed varieties, often combining old categories that are similar enough if we don’t overthink it; plus, an expository writing course and the study of a foreign language. 
“Read This To Say That You’ve Read It”
Hamlet. Paradise Lost. These books are just vital to the Western canon, and are considered to be books that “everyone” should have read at some point during college. Students can give a handful of literary classics a requisite check-off as they complete the “Read This To Say That You’ve Read It” Gen Ed requirement, which will consist of a speed-reading assignments and cultural-literacy-centric basic plot discussions for the (Western, white-guy-focused) canon of a student’s choosing. Offerings tailor to a number of different student interests, including Vaguely Sexist Very Old Plays and Myths, Vaguely Sexist Modern Theater, and We’re Getting Really Diverse by Including Books by Russian Guys Along With Ones by British Guys. We’re sure there will be books that are edifying, thought-provoking, inspiring, and maybe even healing to all varieties of students, given the assumption that their inner dialogues and personal concerns are generally similar to those of the guys writing books 200 years ago.
NOTE: “Dean Pfister: Selected Emails” DOES fulfill this requirement.
“I’m Gonna Push Back on That”
Essential to student understandings of the modern world in its nuanced diversity, each course in the “I’m Gonna Push Back on That” category provides ample time both in section and lecture for student discussion, letting arguments get heated without fear of informed and researched teacher commentary cutting in. “I’m Gonna Push Back on That” course options will introduce a variety of political and social issues, past and present, with a quick, cursory skim of nuanced details and a thorough, rigorous introduction to all the necessary relevant buzzwords, leaving plenty of time for class discussions facilitated by the loud, confident kids, who clearly must know more than anyone else in the room. Since many students have been struggling to adjust to Canvas course software, “I’m Gonna Push Back on That” response papers will be posted in the forms of Tumblr arguments.
“Token Class With a Lab Component”
We’ve all heard it before: a loud sigh, followed by, “I can’t, I have lab.” Fear not, student body! Even with the old Gen Ed system gone, there is still a requirement that makes sure that every student has to take a course with a lab component. Whether you enjoy spending time in sterile white rooms, like having a busy, full schedule that stresses you out, or want to “try a new thing” (and by that we mean partially watch your lab partner try a new thing while you covertly check Instagram under the table), “Token Class With a Lab Component” is sure to fill three hours of your evening once a week—I mean, meet your educational needs!
“Please, No Laptops In This Class”
For years, many professors have banned laptops in their lectures and sections in an effort to boost participation and hone focus. This also accords with studies that correlate “unplugged” time with improved mental health. We have no idea what the guy at the front of the lecture hall is talking about, but since there are absolutely NO laptops or phones allowed in any courses in this category, this is a guaranteed hour in which you don’t have to worry about finishing up that response paper, clicking “Hide From Timeline” on all those unflattering pics from formal on Facebook, or losing focus as you marvel at the person in front of you sending thirty emails and reading eight New York Times articles. More importantly, though, this requirement will (hopefully) never leave you feeling like you’re not being productive enough while literally doing what you’ve come to college to do: going to class. Take a deep breath… and maybe take real notes on paper?
Sections
If you’re hoping to find Kevin B. Li ’16, try poking around the piano practice rooms in the basement of the music building. Sometimes, when Li’s preparing for a recital, he only leaves the building to sleep (he “skip[s] a lot of class”). Most recently, he’s been holed up down there working through Chopin’s Third Scherzo and Beethoven’s 27th Piano Sonata. After a day at the piano, Li ascends from the bowels of the music building and collects his bike from the rack.
“My most emotionally drained moments haven’t been break-ups or failing an exam or whatever, it’s been at that bike rack, like, ‘Wow, I’m so spent,’” says Li. “To really do justice to whatever you’re playing, it should be emotionally exhausting... you kind of have to let it subsume or consume you.”
Li’s clothes also suggest a certain tendency toward monasticism. During his freshman year, Li decided he no longer wanted to think about what he was wearing every day. He bought about a dozen of the same casual blue-grey button-down and a pair of raw denim jeans, which Li bought not for their newly trendy connotations, but because they don’t need to be washed for long periods of time.
With the time saved dressing himself, Li, an Economics concentrator, could focus more of his considerable intellect on academics. Li was elected to the Phi Beta Kappa “Junior 24” and has a tidy CV in finance: president of the Harvard Financial Analysts Club, chief executive officer of the intercollegiate Global Platinum Securities, and part of the team that won the 2013 College Federal Reserve Challenge. At the end of the year, he’ll join Blackstone’s investment banking division in New York.
Talented musicians majoring in economics and pursuing careers in finance are not terribly hard to find at Harvard. And Li was a typical Harvard success before he was even a Harvard student (perfect score on the SAT, National Honor Society, a literary magazine called Piano, accompanying piano-related charity, etc.). Li’s sense of humor and eccentricities, however, defy stereotypes of the typical economics major-to-investment banker path.
Indeed, Li did briefly try less conventional extracurriculars like Satire V. He quit, however, shortly after the initiation.
“Satirizing Harvard is too easy,” Li jokes. “[It was] a compromise of my artistic integrity.”
Li was also a member of the Glee Club, where he met his blocking group and served as fashion manager (a role which offered “limited discretion,” given that the all-male choral group always wears tuxedos).
Li says he’s good at blocking out distraction, but next year, for the first time, he’ll have to make a choice between his career and his artistic passion.
“Becoming a really intelligent and resourceful finance thinker requires a huge amount of mental energy and time and effort,” Li acknowledges. “Becoming a musician who’s actively improving and that sort of thing really requires you to drown yourself in that pool.”

Sections
“I didn’t think people knew who I was here.”
Those are words you wouldn’t expect from a college athlete who has been in the national spotlight for over a year and has taken home some of his sport’s most prestigious honors. But at a school where the Lamont culture is probably stronger than the hockey culture, most kids don’t perk up when the senior forward from the men’s hockey team walks around campus.
“I’m kind of a quiet guy,” Jimmy Vesey '16 says.“I’m not really outgoing besides with the guys on the hockey team. So it was a bit of a surprise I was chosen for this.”
Last year, Vesey took home the Walter Brown award, given to New England’s best American-born player in NCAA Division I men’s hockey. He put up a league-high 32 goals to go along with 26 assists. This summer, he played on Team USA in the IIHF World Championship alongside professionals such as Bruin Torey Krug. He finished as a runner-up for the Hobey Baker award—honoring the best overall player in D-I Hockey—to childhood acquaintance Jack Eichel, who currently has eight goals and five assists for the NHL’s Buffalo Sabres.
Last year, Vesey had a chance to follow Eichel as well as Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates and leave early to pursue a lucrative opportunity outside of Cambridge, Mass. The Nashville Predators General Manager, David Poile, was actively rooting for Harvard to lose in its playoff run so that he might lure Vesey to leave Harvard early and contribute to the Preds’ playoff push. But Vesey made the decision to stay and work towards completing his Government degree.
“Watching NHL highlights, I sometimes see guys I grew up with playing or played against in college or played on Team USA with,” Vesey says. “Sometimes I’m like, ‘That could be me,’ but at the end of the day, I’m going to have a Harvard degree.”
Living in Cambridge rather than Nashville brings an additional burden that most college hockey players at other premier programs don’t face: a Harvard course load.
“[Other] schools would probably be a lot easier,” Vesey says. “I think [other players] get a lot of breaks from their college and their professors. Here, we’re treated like every other student.”
Staying at Harvard also ensured the winger one more year in Boston, where he grew up and has spent his entire life. The Charlestown, Mass., native went to Belmont Hill High School. For Vesey, being close to home was a significant factor in both choosing Harvard to play college hockey and electing to return for his senior year. So too, perhaps to a lesser extent, was a fear of cooking and doing laundry.
“I’m pretty nervous [about moving to Nashville], actually,” Vesey said. “I usually go home a few Sundays a month and my mom does my laundry. I’m also scared of having to make my own food.”

Sections
Finals period is coming, and with it, the need for non-HUDS food is stronger than ever before.  To help you through Harvard’s hell week, FM has compiled a list of ways to get a satisfying—and cheap—culinary fix.
For the networker:
Looking to land that sweet summer internship and make all your blockmates jealous?  Hit up the Harvard Alumni Entrepreneurs’ Holiday Party on Dec. 11 from 6 to 9 p.m. at One Main St.  Vietnamese food, hors d’oeuvres, a view of the Charles, and a room filled with prime networking targets—the perfect environment to get your holiday schmooze on.  Tickets start at $10.
For the businessman:
After hitting up the holiday party, head on over to the Ticknor Lounge for the Harvard Extension Business Society for their Holiday Cockail Party (also on Dec. 11) from 7:30 to 10 p.m.  This is a great opportunity to find the Zuckerberg to your Saverin.  Cocktails, agua fresca of an absurdly large number of flavors, and food will all be provided.  Tickets start at only $5—even cheaper than the average late-night Felipe’s burrito!
For the guac-lover:
El Jefe’s Taqueria just opened in the Square, right next to our favorite semi-fast-food burger joint (hint: It’s tasty). We haven’t been yet, but they don’t charge extra for guac and they stay open until 4 a.m., so we can already tell you that it’s one of our favorite places.  Let’s be honest—is there really ever a time in your life when you don’t want a burrito?
For the cheapskate:
Speaking of cheap... If you’re anything like us, you already know all the tricks to get free food on campus:  Stalk every Harvard Facebook page you have access to for mentions of study breaks, follow around your linkmates in hopes of stumbling across an open house, and most importantly, troll your favorite eateries around closing time to see if they give away free food at the end of the day. Try Mike’s Pastry for stale cannolis, Otto for desperation pizza, and Panera for (day-old, but still delicious) rolls. Some things get better with age.
For the late-night crammer:
After merciful restaurants that give away free, delicious food, the greatest institution humankind has ever created is the 24/7 eatery. Harvard Square’s never-closing market (fittingly, if uninspiringly, named “24 Hour Market”) makes sandwiches better than the OCS gets you internships. OK, bad example, but trust me, the sandwiches are AMAZING—we can think of nothing better to help a stressed student on the verge of breaking down through their last exam. If you can’t ace the p-set at 4 a.m., at least you can give up and eat your problems without waiting until morning.
Sections
Harriet W. Kariuki ’16 never dreamed of going to Harvard. In fact, she had never even heard of it.
Sitting in a cyber cafe in her home country of Kenya, Kariuki came across Harvard while Googling American universities. She only had two hours to decide which schools to apply to. It was her first time using a computer.
Growing up in a small village in Kenya—“you’re not going to find it in Google Maps,” she tells me. Most of Kariuki’s friends from middle school didn’t finish high school, and those who did finish proceeded to quickly get married and have kids. “People don’t go to college from my area,” she explains, let alone go to college abroad. “My whole life I knew that I’m never going to leave Kenya.”
But an opportunity arose when Kariuki was accepted to the Equity Scholars Program at Equity Bank Kenya. After graduating from high school (at age 16), she spent two years working at the bank. Near the end of her internship, she had the chance to apply to colleges outside of Kenya.
When she was accepted to Harvard, the financial aid package was a very important consideration. The $2,000 flight from Kenya to the U.S. alone, she explains, was far beyond her parents’ combined yearly income. The fact that Harvard offered to pay for both her tuition and her travel meant a lot to Kariuki. “That was a determining factor—to have someone trust you to give you all that money,” she says.
First semester of freshman year, Kariuki recalls, was a difficult adjustment. Her first paper assignment at Harvard was a 10-page paper, double-spaced. Without much experience in typing, Kariuki assumed that meant putting two spaces between each word. “It took me forever,” she recalls. When she handed in her paper, her professor explained her mistake. “I guess that was when I realized that I was very behind in everything.”
There were non-academic challenges, too. During her first trip to Annenberg, she encountered the salad bar. She took a plate of vegetables to the grill and asked the staff to fry them for her, not understanding that they were meant to be eaten raw since salads are not a typical menu item where she’s from. “That was a culture shock,” she recalls, laughing. “The whole concept of eating was different.”
After a hard semester of catching up, Kariuki hit her stride in the spring. Today, she concentrates in Government with a focus in East Asian Studies. She’s part of a number of organizations, including Harvard African Students Association, Harvard College Association for U.S.-China relations, and Eleganza.
Photography in particular has become a passion of Kariuki’s; she bought her first camera sophomore year. In a recent initiative called “Pens4dreams,” instead of payment for her photography work, Kariuki asks for school supplies donations to students in Kenya. Growing up, Kariuki’s parents could only afford to give her and her siblings five pens each at the beginning of the school year. Notebooks, too, were in short supply. Once she filled hers up, she would borrow blank pages from her friends and knit them into her books.
“Giving a kid a pen from the U.S.—it tells them that someone truly cares about them,” she explains. Kariuki complements these donations with visits to schools in Kenya, where she encourages students to apply to college. Her excitement about Harvard is contagious, and she hopes other students from Kenya can have the same transformative experience she did. “Everything that I do here, even the salad that I ate, has led me to become someone completely new, she says.”

Sections
Depending on where you’re looking, Jon D. Young ’15-’16 is likely either picking people up, or throwing things.
As the proud owner of a tandem bicycle that he acquired his sophomore year, Young, who lives in Cabot House, likes to offer fellow students rides to and from the Quad if his backseat happens to be empty.

If he’s headed Riverside on the bicycle, it’s likely that he’s on his way to the Quincy House pottery studio, of which he is one of the directors.  He likes to throw pots—big ones—and to teach other students how to practice the art of ceramics.
Before we head into the pottery studio, Young invites me, like he would a Quad-bound shivering traveler, to take a ride on the back of the tandem (though if we were actually biking the streets of Cambridge, he informs me, he would insist I wear a helmet, an extra of which resides in the rear basket for such occasions).
I hop on the second seat, Young at the helm. The left pedal for his half of the tandem promptly breaks off. Unfazed, Young continues to make loops around Quincy courtyard on a bicycle with two seats and three pedals.
Inside the pottery studio, Young quickly whips together a massive pot that requires an even larger agglomeration of clay. He molds what was once a gray lump into a sleek spinning form, expertly pulling away excess strips as the pot rotates on a pedal-controlled disk—clearly, Young knows his way around wheels.
“My dad taught me how to make pottery when I was about 6 years old,” Young says. He won’t be gifting his family any pots for the holidays—their home, he says, is already filled with homemade wares.
His phone case has a smiling (or unsmiling, depending on how you look at her) image of Hello Kitty on the back. “My cousin and I started a gift war of Hello Kitty items that culminated in us going to the L.A. Museum of Hello Kitty,” says Young, referring to “Hello! Exploring the Supercute World of Hello Kitty” at the Japanese American National Museum.
At Harvard, Young has been both a lightweight and heavyweight rower, a FOP leader, a member of the Harvard Outing Club, and a writer for Satire V. He has worked at Quad Bikes, in his building manager’s office, at PBHA, and is starting a call-in tutoring program for students in Boston with his cousin, also a Harvard senior. Before the dessert shop closed, he was one of Yogurtland’s biggest fans. He has taken time off to live in Japan, as well as to drive for Uber and work at a pottery studio in Los Angeles, where his family recently moved from his hometown of St. Louis, Mo.

“If you want to find friends that make you happy, you need to be constantly exploring and make an effort, which is more easy if you’re vulnerable,” says Young, who cites his diverse experiences and interests as his personal effort to explore what makes him happy. “Vulnerability is huge if you want to build communities.”
Young believes that he became much more confident in opening up to strangers, and to what he doesn’t know, as an Uber driver. “Telling strangers your story, asking them theirs, and having conflicts when you don’t agree with them...is really difficult for people to do,” he says. He says that groups like FOP encourage Harvard students, who often thrive on the barriers created by exclusive social organizations, to open themselves up to things and people they don’t yet know.
“I don’t get why people wait to hug people they don’t know,” muses Young. “I want to live my life hugging people I don’t know.”
 
Sections
Before meeting Kimiko M. Matsuda-Lawrence ’16, I could count the number of people I knew who were mentioned on Wikipedia on one hand. Now, having met Matsuda-Lawrence, I require an extra appendage.
The senior is responsible for the multimedia promotion of “I, Too, Am Harvard,” a play based around the experiences of people of color on campus. The photo campaign went viral in her sophomore year. Matsuda-Lawrence again made headlines in her junior year, when she collaborated with other students of color on campus to launch Renegade, “an art and advocacy collective of Harvard student artists, writers, musicians, poets, activists, and thinkers who have come together in solidarity as people of color.”
Our desire to sit outside is thwarted by an aggressively bright sun shining across the Charles, so we settle down at a table inside Leverett House. I fire off a question that makes Matsuda-Lawrence first burst out laughing, and then thoughtfully ponder in silence for a few moments: What makes you interesting?
“I believe in the unapologetic existence and unfiltered expression of black people and people of color,” she responds after collecting her thoughts. “Which shouldn’t be interesting. But, unfortunately, in this world, and in this nation, and on this campus, it’s still a radical concept. The work in my time here has all been a part of that, and working for that.”
But, she’s quick to add, “I don’t like to talk about myself.” Matsuda-Lawrence stresses that all of her work has been incredibly collaborative with other students on campus, and even more so, it is nowhere near done. “I don’t want this to be like, oh, here’s Kimiko Matsuda-Lawrence, who’s done this incredible work on race and racism on campus, and we’ve made it. Because no! I’m still really angry! I still think: Why is the unapologetic and uncompromised existence of people of color still such a radical concept here on this campus?”
Matsuda-Lawrence speaks passionately about issues of diversity and inclusivity on campus. She discusses how frustrations with debates about affirmative action and the 2014 Primal Scream protest, where Matsuda-Lawrence and others tried and failed to get the primarily white Primal Screamers to join them in four and a half minutes of silence, inspired her collaborative projects. She relates the shock that came with having Renegade posters defaced and mocked in Pforzheimer House, but adds earnestly that she believes “that when you get that backlash, that’s just a sign that the work you’re doing is so needed.” She talks about her desire to merge arts and activism, an endeavor she wishes to make the pursuit of her life.
But more than any of that, Matsuda-Lawrence emphasizes how much more she believes there still is to be done on this campus. She points out the lack of faculty of color, of students of color in the arts, and of a multicultural center for the campus. “We can’t just act like these are problems we have at Yale, or Mizzou. This is in your own house, Harvard,” Matsuda-Lawrence says. “We students of color are going to keep shouting, and keep raising our voices, and keep being here, and keep protesting and rising up until you make a change.”
 
Sections
Making a newspaper, I’ve found, is something of an art.
There is—literally—the act of printing the thing, 2,700 of them, clanging through the presses in our basement as I make my way home down Plympton Street bleary-eyed at 5 a.m. That’s a process, and I think it’s beautiful, but the work starts hours before. 
I’m the managing editor of The Harvard Crimson, which depending on your perspective is either a really impressive campus newspaper or one whose reporters you should ignore if they call. My job is to define and maintain high standards for the quality of our writing and the rigor of our reporting. At its most simple, I am supposed to make a good newspaper, whatever that entails.
Since my guard and I took over The Crimson in January, we’ve produced some very good papers. We’ve printed some pretty mediocre ones, too, but most of them have had at least something—one story, one photo, one quote—that made it worthwhile.
Twelve months and some 135 papers in, I think I have enough perspective to say this. It took a while, though, for me to learn and appreciate what makes a truly good newspaper—the subtleties in smart prose, the nuances in headline choice, the angles to capture, or rather not to miss. Real quality, I now know, has nothing to do with any number of pages, and everything to do with the questions they answer and raise.
The best papers are aggressive, expertly reported and full of Harvard’s responses to our toughest questions, or taking it to task for not answering them. They thirst for scoops, offer smart analysis, and eschew fluff. They embrace our purpose of keeping campus decision-makers accountable, and they do it well.
When I sit at my desk at the end of my day, though, and reflect on the paper that will soon emerge from our basement presses, the stories that stick out—the writing that takes a paper from uninteresting to good to great—are not only about Drew Faust or University fundraising. A good paper has those stories, and it should, but they are not always what pushes it over the edge.
What often makes a great paper, I’ve come to learn, is color. It is thoughtful, and clever, prose. It is a mix of stories that take everyday issues and approach them with a creative twist.
We tell the story of a fast-growing Faculty with a walk through cramped offices in converted Cambridge homes. The NCAAs become a grounds for fundraising during Harvard’s record-seeking drive. And a final club party scene under administrative scrutiny, it turns out, is best viewed from Felipe’s rooftop; a weeklong protest of Harvard’s investments, from a dorm room window.
These stories are often quirky; my favorites are fun, sarcastic, and sometimes flatly absurd. They are always revealing of some aspect of campus life, doing our part to document the day-to-day at an elite academic institution in 2015. We catch Harvard’s many characters—because, oh, there are characters—at their most candid, and then we write it down.
I have just one year to make a newspaper—this newspaper, my pride and my joy. But in that time, there are dozens in between.
There are many thrills to making a paper—the rush of scooping a big story, the agony over word choice, that feeling of accomplishment when, the sun not quite rising, we finally put a finished product to bed. But perhaps the best part of the process is knowing that you have the chance to do it again, and do it better, the next day.
A former editor once described this job as crazy; a year in, I have to say he’s right. Making a newspaper, day in and day out, is all-consuming. It’s frustrating and stressful and hard.
It’s also among the most intellectually challenging, creative, and rewarding projects a group of college students could take on. All together, this newspaper is a constant back-and-forth to best tell the ongoing narrative that is Harvard. It’s fast changing, sometimes baffling, and so consistently exciting to a group of student editors doing our best to keep up.
It’s an absorbing thing, this newspaper. I’ll be sad to let it go.
Sections
Billy Orman is climbing down a 10-foot ladder on the airy second floor of the Carpenter Center when I first meet him. He’s got a silver stud in one ear and an oatmeal-colored beanie hugging his head; Afrobeat is floating out of the speakers behind him.
Here are some basics about Orman: He rides around campus on a double-decker “frankenbike,” which he made himself (he calls it “High Horse,” so his friends can yell at him, “Get off your High Horse!”). He loves to work with his hands. He’s from a very small town in Arizona called Tuba City, which is situated on a Navajo reservation (though Orman himself isn’t Native American).
We meet in the Carpenter Center because this is where Orman spends “almost all” of his time; he’s “basically an artist-in-residence,” he tells me. He’s taking three Visual and Environmental Studies courses this semester, because he just transferred into the concentration (yes, indeed, in the fall of his senior year). He’d previously been a History concentrator, but came back to campus this year “dreading” taking more history classes. So he chose to spend the rest of his time here doing what he actually enjoys, which goes back to the basics: He loves to work with his hands.
I learn very quickly that Orman is used to making big changes in his plans. He came to Harvard as a recruited cross-country runner—he modestly glosses over the fact that, in high school, he was a “pretty successful runner” and set a few state records. But he was ultimately “dissatisfied” here as a freshman, so he transferred to Stanford his sophomore year. During track season there, he decided that collegiate athletics weren’t for him, so he quit. “And then I realized, like, I didn’t have any friends,” he explains. So he transferred back to Harvard, where he felt he’d established a tighter-knit community.
Enter: Sculpture classes, Kirkland House, and dropping extracurriculars in order to have time for “self care.”
“I guess what makes me interesting, in a Harvard context, at least, is that I’ve done what I like as opposed to what I’m good at,” Orman tells me. “I don’t know if any of this art is good. And it doesn’t really matter to me. I just do it because I love it. And I’m really good at running, but I quit, because it wasn’t something I loved.”
I ask him to show me one of his favorite pieces, so we walk up to a tape measure hanging from the ceiling. Yet this tape measure is completely blank—Orman stripped its numbers with “heavy duty” chemicals. In general, Orman likes exploring the idea of rendering ordinary objects (tape measures, chairs, T-shirts) completely useless; he thinks it’s “kind of poetic.”
Although Orman doesn’t have any concrete plans for after college, he does know he wants to pursue art in some capacity. And he’s sure of a couple other important things.
“I want to be happy, and I am so happy in the studio, making the stuff I want,” he says, motioning towards the sculptures that surround him. “It took me sort of a long time to act on that idea, but now I feel like I’ve sort of just figured it out.”

Sections
When I was 5 years old, my parents took me to a Fourth of July fireworks show, and I asked whether every third explosion was the grand finale. I wanted to show off my new vocabulary words, but I didn’t realize that it would mean the end of the show. As we stood in a field in upstate New York, necks straining backwards to watch the colored explosions, vibrations travelled from my feet to my eardrums. They lingered there in the car on the way home.
As a third grader, I loved learning new words, but I was even more enamored with learning itself. I walked around with stacks of blank paper and piles of books, pretending that I had lots of homework. To have work felt important. It made me feel old. Now, as I hand in pages that are certainly not blank, I sometimes wish my assignments were pretend.
It is easy to romanticize the future. During the week, we look forward to the weekends. We look forward to final exams and completed papers. We look forward to the end of the semester, the end of the year, and the end of this phase in our lives. There’s always that one kid who asks about the midterm the first section, and about the final before we’ve even taken the midterm.
We might judge this person, but we’re also a little bit grateful that he asked. I wonder, though, if the final, the end lurking in the back of our minds, detracts from what we do in the moment.
As this semester winds down, the conversations before lecture and in the dining hall simultaneously scare and reassure me. I am worried about my own three papers and exams, but then I hear from people who are somehow more overwhelmed. The phrase “I don’t know when things are going to get done” is a common one. While these conversations are groan-inducing, they do help us reassure ourselves that it will all get done.
In the middle of sophomore year, nothing is really ending or beginning. It’s a weird kind of unremarkable, no-longer-so-exciting place. Yet I look back on the semester and realize that it has been a valuable one, both personally and academically. In addition to asking the hard questions about Virginia Woolf’s use of parentheses and declaring a concentration (although I am still unsure about when it is socially acceptable to wear my History and Literature T-shirt), I learned a lot about myself. Still, I find myself looking forward to the next semester.
I am ready—I think we are all ready—to move on from this semester. Reading period feels like the last 40 pages of an overwritten novel. We know what has happened and what is going to happen. We know what we are supposed to learn. But it’s still dragging on. We can’t skim it like we can scan that 60-page PDF we were supposed to read for section.
Maybe we’re hoping for a beautiful last line, or maybe we’re just hoping that craning our necks will be worth it. We’re just waiting for the grand finale.
Sections
Before meeting with Shree Bose’16, I Google her name.
The first site to appear is Bose’s own—shreebose.com—which chronicles her speeches, interests, and press coverage of her success. The second item? An article titled, “What Happens To Genius Kids After They Win The Google Science Fair?”
I’m already intimidated.
Delving further into my online research, I learn a few things: In 2011, at age 17, Bose, a former Crimson design editor, won Google’s inaugural Google Global Science Fair. The grand prize included $50,000 and a 10-day trip to the Galapagos Islands. She then went on a speaking tour to promote research to other youth, traveling to places as far as India and Korea, and speaking at forums including TEDx and Girlstart’s Annual Luncheon. Somewhere along the way she also met President Barack Obama.
Walking into Dunster to meet Bose, I anticipated that after so much media attention she would be prepared to recite a few well-rehearsed lines and call it a day. With a contagious smile and a healthy dose of self-deprecation, Bose shatters all preconceived notions.
Bose begins not with herself, but with the role her older brother, Pinaki, has played in her success. “When I was little...he would explain everything he learned in science class,” Bose says. “He was just so excited about it, and that made me excited. I fell in love with science.”
Bose was specifically drawn to cancer research (the topic she presented on at the Google Fair) because of her grandfather’s battle with the disease. Bose’s grandfather passed away during her freshman year of high school, concurrent with her first class in biology.
“I remember…on the board, there was a diagram of what cancer was supposed to be. It was like a lightning bolt striking a cell. And it made no sense. I was like, does that explain what’s making my grandfather so sick?” So, like me, Bose began online, watching YouTube videos and reading about cancer and therapy. After realizing that her questions resembled those shaping current research, she began contacting professors and found a mentor at nearby University of Texas Health Science Center, Alakananda Basu.
During her second summer under Basu’s guidance, Bose focused on how ovarian cancer cells become resistant to cisplatin, a common cancer treatment. Her findings suggest that introducing an inhibitor to the AMP-kinase protein into a cocktail with the chemotherapy may be effective in treating recurrent disease. Since then, Basu has continued to gather data in Bose’s absence so that “hopefully [it] gets pushed into the clinical realm.”
Bose recalls presenting this work at the Google Global Science Fair in 2011. Since “you can’t have cancer cells on public display,” she brought a statue of a cowboy to represent her Texan identity, she tells me. “But along the way, the head got broken off. So I had a headless cowboy with no display whatsoever, while the kid next to me had this fully functional prosthetic Lego arm.” Bose chuckles. “I thought to myself that we’re definitely not winning, so I was really surprised when I won. I thought they must have made a mistake.”
Two months later, she, along with the two other Google age-category winners, received an invitation to the White House. Bose says President Obama knew her by name and recalled the topic of her work. “It’s incredible to see how the leader of the free world cares so much about young people getting into science,” she notes.
Traveling around the world to share her story, Bose has embodied a similar care for youth involvement. She speaks of meeting a student in South Korea who was interested in neuroscience, but unsure of how to get involved. “So, I told him my story. A couple months later, I got an email saying that he started working in an Alzheimer’s lab. Right there, I realized that this is what I want to do.”
Since then, Bose and co-founder Mark Pavlyukovskyy have also created Piper (playpiper.com), a minecraft toolbox that allows kids to create and share their creations. They launched the Kickstarter in March, hoping to raise $50,000, and have received $280,000 in funding. Working with their hands, participants build the hardware themselves,  and learn how currents flow and circuits work. “Piper is bringing together physical and virtual play,” Bose. says. “It’s a really cool way for kids to learn.”
Bose is writing a thesis on metabolism neurons, working in Gary Yellen’s Lab at Harvard Medical School. Ultimately, while she is unsure of her plans after graduation, one thing seems constant.
“I want to create things that can improve people’s lives.”

Sections
Gen Ed:
Bananas, terrorism, and cocaine
The history of global infections
FAS can’t agree how to teach
Abstinence as a byproduct
Both:
Failing is a bad sign
Sounds more fun than it is
Designed for middle schoolers
Prepares you for adulthood?
Sex Ed:
Bananas and condoms
How not to get an infection
The government can’t agree how to teach
Sometimes, abstinence-only
Sections
UPDATED: December 14, 2015, at 12:31 p.m.
Unchecked enthusiasm creeps into the voice of Javier F. Aranzales ’16 as soon as he begins talking about ballet.
Sitting in the upper mezzanine of Ticknor Lounge late on a Sunday afternoon, Aranzales is explaining how he came to dance during the summer before his freshman year of high school. It’s clearly a well-told story. “At the age of 13 in eighth grade, we had a talent show, and one of my science lab partners was performing a ballet variation for the talent show. And just seeing her, like the epitome of being in the moment, just like, you’re on stage, it’s over and everything you worked for was on that stage in that minute or two minutes.” Finally, he adds, “It was so beautiful, so I knew that I wanted to be a part of this.” For the past eight years, he certainly has been a part of it.
Shortly after watching the performance, Aranzales took “a 15 minute drive and like, a 45 minute train”  to a non-profit ballet conservatory in where he participated in his first class. The director offered him a full scholarship and the possibility to train for entrance to an arts high school after observing his performance. It was a Saturday; class would start on Monday.
“So, within 30 minutes of having this conversation, everything in my life changed,” Aranzales explains. The next year, he was accepted to the arts high school. Three years later he would be deciding between Harvard and a professional dance conservatory.
Aranzales, who was raised in Miami but born in Bogotá, Colombia, chose Harvard.
“In Colombia, it’s the presidents’ sons and children who go to Harvard; presidents go to Harvard, so it’s like, OK, let’s see what happens,” he recalls.
Opting to attend Harvard, however, does not mean Aranzales has stopped dancing. He joined the Harvard Ballet Company as soon as he came to campus, dancing the leading role of Romeo in “Romeo and Juliet” during his first year. After sophomore year, he took a semester off to dance in the newly formed Colombian National Ballet Company in Bogotá.
Dance is not the only interest Aranzales has pursued at school. A Government concentrator with a focus on international development and the arts, Aranzales has traveled extensively on the University’s dime. “Harvard has opened up the doors of the world to me,” he pronounces. Those doors have taken many shapes and forms. The summer after his freshman year, when he was still pre-med, Aranzales studied neuroscience in Trento, Italy; prior to the trip, he had never been to Europe before. That August, he participated in Harvard Summit for Youth Leaders in China in Shanghai, where he taught a seminar on ballet and modern dance in the U.S. He traveled to the Philippines through the Philippine Forum, where he helped create a performing arts show case for children. He has taken part in a Harvard Habitat for Humanity trip to El Salvador and an HCAP trip to India. Similar trips are planned for this year. Last summer he worked with professor of Romance Languages and Literature Doris Sommer to bring an arts on a literacy program to Uganda and practiced his Swahili in Tanzania.
For Aranzales, his interests in ballet and international development are heavily linked. He hopes to one day use both backgrounds to work with international art initiatives.
“My dream is a conservatory for dance in Tanzania, in India and Colombia,” he says, citing three of his favorite places out of the many global locations he has lived and visited over the past three and a half years.

 
Sections
CORDELIA F. MENDEZ ’16, Chair
I’m not going to say Cordelia F. Mendez ’16 could run the world, but I’m confident that she could at least run the country. That’s because Cordelia is easily one of the most competent people you will ever meet. And if you haven’t met her yet, then you should, because she is as smiley and friendly as she is capable.
Over the past year, I’ve watched Cordelia rally sleepy execs every Tuesday, solve FM disasters, and organize a Crimson-wide Secret Santa. In other words, she gets shit done. Which begs the question: Who would be getting all that shit done in her absence? If Cordelia hadn’t been born on that 18th of June in 1993, would this magazine even exist today? (I dare say I doubt it.)
Other things that make Cordelia great: She wears circle scarves very well and is much better at spin than your average Harvard student (hello, Flywheel). She is the queen of “cool, cool, cool”; she brings gummies to scrutiny editing; she takes on extra work so that we can all go home early on production nights.
We will miss you terribly, Cordelia, mostly because who will be on top of everything once you’re gone? Oh… I guess that’s Maia’s and my job now, huh? Gulp.
- Lena K. Felton ’17
BAILEY M. TRELA ’16, Chair
On Friday night, I saw Bailey at a party. I waved, and he approached me. He placed a pinecone in my hand, and then he walked away.
I stood there, clutching the pinecone in my palm, as Bailey disappeared into the crowd.
I showed the pinecone to my friends, and they were confused. Then I told them that Bailey gave it to me, and they were less confused.
What did the pinecone mean? Was it a passing of the torch? A gesture of trust? A token of friendship? Or was it just a weird Bailey sort of thing to do?
I often find myself asking such questions after interacting with Bailey. On occasion, Bailey has given me the invaluable guidance of a talented writer, an experienced editor, and a caring friend. On other occasions, he has given me pinecones. Sometimes, it’s hard to tell the difference.
Bailey, I hope that you’ll never stop writing, and never stop doing strange things at parties. And I hope that, next semester, you’ll stop by the FM office for a prickly exchange or two.
-Maia R. Silber ’17
OLIVIA M. MUNK ’16, Editor at Large
Olivia was asked last minute to be Editor-at-Large,and we should all thank god that she said yes. Though brought into the role totally unaware of what it entailed, she’s been an indispensable part of FM this past year. Her weekly pitch emails make everyone’s Monday nights just a little more bearable and keep the compers coming back each week, even those that have long wanted to unsubscribe from our Google group. Her slotting skills are surpassed by none, and she’s undoubtedly a caring, careful editor.
But beyond her weekly responsibilities, Olivia’s been the glue that has held us together. She leads the charge in making fun of stupid pitches with us during Exec meeting, while simultaneously helping to move the process along. On Tuesday nights when everyone is starting to get cranky, she’s there with a smile on her face. She’s the queen of fuzzy clothes, which she sometimes lets me pet.
When shoot came around this year, I was unsure of the path to take. Exec? Chair? Keyon? And then I realized that there’s no one whose footsteps I’d rather follow than Olivia’s. I can only hope that Josh and I together can do even close to as well the job that Olivia did solo. She’s made FM feel like family, and will be greatly missed.
-Molly E. Wharton ‘17
LENA K. FELTON ’17, Chair
Here’s what you all should know about Lena. She’s super calm and she often wears really cool pants. Tonight, Lena's wearing a really hip dip-dye jean jacket, whereas I look straight out of an Eileen Fisher catalog in a very un-ironic way. I think that my obsession with her stylish production get-ups and overall persona has become incredibly clear over the year I've spent working with her as an exec.
Lena is one of two people who have routinely arrived at FM production before me or, more realistically, actually on time. She works a hell of a lot faster than I do, so hopefully she will be instrumental in vanquishing the old 3:30 a.m. CTP. Already an adept editor, she's got an eye for design and actually understands what is and is not aesthetically pleasing on a page. Next year's guard is in for a treat.
I've met few people as gracious, poised, and thoughtful as Lena. Those qualities will probably be gone in a year, after 12 months of running this godforsaken magazine. I'm excited to see what sizeable scrut-edits, libelous levity, and empty-headed execs do to her collected demeanor. Ha.
-Cordelia F. Mendez ’16
MAIA R. SILBER 17, Chair
When I was first told I'd be writing the parting shot about Maia, I thought to myself: What's a parting shot? Why would Cordelia resurrect this tradition? And is it something I can make Josh ghostwrite?
Honestly, I've been mean to Maia. I've denigrated her editing skills. I've suggested that her typical hair color is not in fact her actual hair color. I've used words that she didn't know when addressing her, sometimes three at a time.
And yet, for all the times I've asked her to exculpate the alluvial conurbation, she has never once made up an excuse to get out of doing it. Sure, this is partly because guile will never come naturally to her—in that sense it's a lot like what she claims is her hair color. But it's also because she's a hard worker or something.
Strong, confident, aggressive, well-heeled—these are all words that describe my old dog, Ozzie, but now that I think about it, each of them would also apply to Maia, which just goes to show that if you're fundamentally uncomfortable with being sincere, you can always make jokes for four paragraphs and then use a dead pet to get out of it.
-Bailey M. Trela ’16
JOSH A. GOLDSTEIN ’17, Editor at Large
Remember that first-year we called “Josh” (because his name is Josh) who asked FM how to be cool? Well, for all the future “Josh’s” out there, you’ll soon be asking this Josh (he’s outgrown the quotation marks) for the knowledge he has accrued in his two and a half years on FM. Now that he is one of two incoming Editors-at-Large, here’s some advice from someone who has given advice to Josh on how to be the best me he can be.
How can I be a good Editor-at-Large?
Good question, Josh. Being an Editor at Large is all about the emails, and as we know, emails at Harvard are all about the gifs. I recommend cat ones.
How can I make FM a fun, social environment?
I’m glad you asked, Josh. Organize only pregames, and never look beyond.
How do I remove the indent from the first paragraph of each section when working in InDesign?
There are no stupid questions, Josh. You go to “Paragraph,” and change the little indent box from “1p0” to “0p0.” You know what I mean.
Did Olivia M. Munk actually enjoy my profile, published this week?
She did, Josh! Incoming Comp Director Laura E. Hatt can confirm.
Have I done a good job as a writer, exec, and comp director for FM so far?
Absolutely, Josh. We all know we can count on you, and can look forward to seeing more fantastic writing and editing from you online and in print in the future (every dining hall, every Thursday). In the center of a Venn Diagram between “CS50” and “50 Cent,” besides “cult following” and “lots of swag,” is our friendship.
-Olivia M. Munk ’16
MOLLY E. WHARTON ’17, Editor at Large
It’s a little known fact around these parts is that Molly and I go way back. We’re from the same town, so naturally we grew up together. And by grew up together, I mean we occasionally ran into each other on the little league soccer fields in middle school. And I vaguely remember a small party at her house one time (and leaving through the back door when we thought her parents were pulling into the driveway).
In high school, our relationship blossomed. We took the bus together a dozen times. It was always quite eventful. Since we went to different schools, we got off at different stops. She also slept most of the time.
Who would have known that we’d end up co-comp directing, let alone that I would make it to Harvard. We all knew she’d make it to Harvard. She went to Horace Mann, after all.
Molly and I have an interesting relationship. It’s predicated on her printing the comp forms, and me supplying the Kong. She never fails to do her job, as I often do.
In all honesty, for the last year, Molly single-handed ran the comp. She prepared lesson plans, came up with icebreakers, and dealt with compers when they were being ridiculous. Somehow I duped her into letting me be good cop and taking all the credit. I’m going to miss Mondays with Molly, but hopefully I’ll see her around Kirkland on Sunday mornings.
-Josh A. Goldstein ’17
Sections

It’s 10:30 a.m. on Friday, December 4th, and the Science Center is already mobbed. People sit on fold-up chairs and on the ground. Others lean against the wall. The long line of eager people recalls last week’s Black Friday shopping, when thousands camped outside Best Buys, Targets, and the like for the best deals of the year. But this event was better than any chance at a half-price Sony 48” flat screen TV. The line was for entrance to the IGP’s annual “Player of The Year” show, featuring special guest Nick Offerman. Offerman is best known for his role on the award-winning NBC sitcom “Parks and Rec,” in which he plays Ron Swanson, the indifferent head of the Pawnee Parks and Recreation Department.

When the doors open at 11:40, the audience streams in slowly as the Parks and Rec theme song plays over the speakers. In a matter of minutes, the entirety of Science Center B is filled, no seat unclaimed, with more students standing in the back of the lecture hall. It seems that the audience is eager to see if Mr. Offerman will be as deadpan as his character, Ron Swanson.  Rather than a hundred bored and overtired LS1a students, the large space holds at least 300 rowdy students who’ve come to see the IGP work their magic with Offerman.
Around 12:15, the IGP, dressed in their trademark red and yellow-striped ties, emerge from the side door to raucous applause. They introduce their “Player of the Year,” the man of the hour, the illustrious Nick Offerman. Finally, the moment we’ve all been waiting for. Offerman emerges, leaves briefly, and reemerges again, presumably soaking in the huge applause that greets him, although it’s something he’s definitely used to by now. Offerman’s sizeable moustache looks just as impressive in person as it does on TV. Addressing his iconic stache, he says, “Someone asked me earlier if my moustache was real. What the fuck is that? If my moustache wasn’t real, what am I?” He makes a good point.
The IGP proceeds to present Offerman with a Harvard sweatshirt, a diploma, and a bottle of whiskey, to which Offerman asks, “Is it customary to not jerk off on these items?” Nick Offerman has truly arrived. Finally, the IGP presents Offerman with his very own red and yellow tie. He kneels down as if being knighted, and accepts the tie with marked grace.

Offerman turns the attention to the audience, asking for a one word prompt. He hears “potato,” and the IGP begins their act. They perform skits on things like parent-teacher conferences and blind dates set up online. I carefully watch Mr. Offerman as the IGP performs: He stands idly by, casually sipping his coffee. His expression is as stoic and unemotional as ever. He’s the Ron Swanson of our dreams.
After a round of skits, Offerman gets up on the table, talking about an acting program he was enrolled in at his alma mater—the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. He has clearly captured the undivided attention of the audience; every time Offerman so much as chuckles, the audience responds with an uproar of laughter.

At some point, there is a noticeable shift in Offerman’s tone. He brings up the recent violence in Paris and the shootings in San Bernardino, CA. “I think humor and music are the two things that can save us from this type of vitriol,” he says. And he asks us, as future leaders, to do something to change this.
Offerman toes the line between humor and seriousness with perfect ease. The audience is silent and contemplative, thinking about the violence and suffering that Offerman has mentioned. He quickly breaks the tension with a well-timed joke.
Of everything that Offerman says, one thing particularly resonates with me. “Everybody’s the same kind of dipshit. We’re all trying to find our asses with both our hands everyday.”
The show begins to draw to a close, and Offerman offers his thanks and gratitude to the audience. Not one to leave without a dramatic exit, he holds up the whisky bottle, as if in triumph, and departs in a flourish.
 
Sections
Sierra L. Katow ’16 has been going to clubs since before she was old enough to drive.
“I did my first open mic at a comedy club around L.A.,” Katow recalls. “I was typically the youngest [performer]. Most of the clubs don’t let you in until you’re 21, so I would have to wait outside on the sidewalk and they’d come grab me and then I’d go up and then I’d get kicked out.”
But long nights and dark sidewalks were never enough to keep Katow from the stage. In fact, after spending most of high school breaking into the standup industry on the West Coast, she’s become a major figure in Harvard’s comedy community. As co-­president of the Harvard College Stand Up Comedy Society and vice president of the Harvard Lampoon, a semi­-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-­called humor magazine, she spends the bulk of her free time writing, drawing, and performing jokes.
Unsurprisingly, Katow jokes about everything––including her academics. She is a computer science concentrator, and cites that decision as the product of a childhood Neopets obsession.
“That was a big part of the shaping of my life,” Katow says. “It was how I got interested in a lot of coding stuff, and probably introduced a lot of people to HTML. I designed my homepage. All those glitter GIFs and that 90s, early 2000s web aesthetic.”
While Katow still enjoys computer science, her academic interests have recently begun to stray elsewhere. “Code jokes, theory for computer science, there’s not that much of an audience for jokes about that,” she explains. To complement that skill set, she’s begun taking classes she thinks will inform the way she uses humor. “I think that there needs to be a re­examining of what we’re making fun of. It’s not even just being sensitive about it; it’s about being up­-to-­date. I want to understand more before I start blabbing.”
Katow describes her style as predominantly personal. “I’m a young comic. A lot of the audience is older than me. I don’t want to be like ‘Hey, this is how the world is.’ They’re going to be like, ‘Shut up, you’re a child.’” Instead, she writes jokes that focus on her own experience, especially topics of family and identity. Within that experience, however, nothing is off­-limits. “I definitely believe that there’s no topic that should be untouched.” As a result, Katow’s humor tends to range from the relatable to the truly bizarre: Her repertoire includes bits about race, relationships, roommates, and flushing whole chicken breasts down the toilet.
Her pursuit of honesty and range has led Katow to pursue standup comedy even off­-campus. Over the years, she has regularly frequented the comedy clubs of Boston, signing up for open mics and coordinating other gigs with comedians she met backstage. She’s even found serious venues closer to home: The Comedy Studio, a club on the third floor of the Kong, runs five shows a week.
Apparently, this East Coast comedy scene has a very specific flavor. “People are real thinkers here,” Katow explains. “Everyone’s like, “Oh, right, that reference and then that reference. Okay. Now I can laugh.” She characterizes this brand of humor as “smart people being funny.”
While this definition clearly applies to Katow, she seems eager to explore other styles as well. In fact, after graduation, she plans to leave Boston. She doesn’t anticipate staying anywhere long: At first, she’ll be doing a college tour with three other comedians, doing standup and travelling around in an effort to make some money and get some practice. “It’s hard to be on the road and I don’t think it’s really a practical lifestyle, but it’ll be fun to start out doing that and I’ll hopefully learn something from these other guys.”
When Katow eventually throws herself into full­time, big­-city standup, she plans to go west.
“I’ll probably go back to L.A. That’s where I’m from, and that’s where I started standup comedy,” she says. “I know all these comics out there, and once I went back to school, they kept working. It’s nice to have people in the thick of it that you know and know you.”
 
Sections
Michelle L. Picard ’15-’16 keeps her Olympic silver medal in a box at her parents’ house outside of Boston. Sometimes, if her friends ask to see it, her mother brings it to Picard’s dorm in Adams House.
Picard identified her passion for ice hockey, the sport that catapulted her all the way to the Sochi Olympics, at a young age. “Basically, from right when I was born, I was in a hockey rink,” she explains. “It’s just kind of what my family did. I was put in skates just about the same time I could walk, so I got into right away and loved it and stuck with it.”
Her persistence has paid off. During her career, Picard has won two medals at International Ice Hockey Federation U18 Women’s World Championships, taken home three medals at International Ice Hockey Federation Women’s World Championships, competed at five Four Nations Cups, captained her high school hockey team, and achieved a slew of other accomplishments.
When it came time to pick a college, Picard deemed Harvard, both an academic juggernaut and a women’s ice hockey powerhouse, as the right fit for her. “I just loved that Harvard expected me to be a great student and a great hockey player, and I’d get pushed in both,” says Picard, an archaeology concentrator and women’s ice hockey team member.
But she put Harvard on hold when a little thing called the Olympics came knocking. After earning a spot on the 2014 United States Olympic Women’s Ice Hockey Team and completing her sophomore year at Harvard, Picard began training with her Olympic teammates in to shape up for Sochi. She recalls, “We lived the professional athlete life for those few months: Woke up. Went to the gym. Went to the rink. Came home. Made dinner. Went to bed. Repeat.”
For Picard, the Olympics seemed both surreal and familiar. “For the first game, we stepped on the ice and saw the boards that said ‘Sochi’ on it––when it hits you where you are, it is surprising and exciting, and you’re just like, ‘Wow, I’m finally here,’” she says. “But then once you start playing and you’re in the moment, you forget all that. It’s the same game I’ve been playing since I was six years old.” The American team excelled, advancing to the finals but losing the gold medal round to Canada in a crushing 3-2 loss.
Back in Boston, Picard resumed her college career as a junior in the fall of 2014. This year, Picard and Kyle Criscuolo, the captain of the men’s hockey team, started a learn-to-skate program for children in a local Boys & Girls Club. For an hour each week, Picard and Criscuolo teach the kids techniques on the ice, give them snacks, and get to know them––a program that the seniors hope will continue after they graduate.
After her time at Harvard draws to a close, Picard has plans. She may join the brand-new National Women’s Hockey League, the first-ever professional hockey league for women, and find a job on the side to supplement her income. As for a spot on the Olympic team in 2018 to fight for the gold in Pyeongchang, South Korea? “I hope so,” Picard says. “I still love playing and still love training. I’m just taking it day by day, enjoying doing what I’m doing. We’ll see what happens.”


Sections
“I’m often typecast as the weirdo,” Ema H. Horvath ’16 confesses, smiling mischievously.
You won’t find her complaining about it. For Horvath, who spent the better part of her summer filming a hush-hush new movie in Los Angeles, the crazy  roles are definitely her favorites. “I don’t want to play myself. Whenever a part is too close to my life, I’m like, what’s the point?” she says. Her first on-screen acting experience involved silently eating six cupcakes in front of a rolling camera.
Horvath’s career began at the age of five when she spotted an advertisement for auditions at a local theater while reading the newspaper. It’s rare to find a preschooler who consumes the news at breakfast, but even rarer to find one so passionate about acting. Ever since playing a tulip in that very first show, Horvath was hooked.
Years of art school followed, including two at prestigious arts boarding school Interlochen Academy. In high school, Horvath fully intended to enter an acting conservatory after graduation. “I basically applied to Harvard as a joke,” she laughs. But when she got in, she couldn’t pass up the opportunity.
Still, she says, it was terrifying. “If you go to a conservatory,” she explains, “you’re pretty much guaranteed an agent after you perform in your senior showcase.” Harvard offered no such certainties to the aspiring actress.
Fortunately for Horvath, she quickly found a home in the world of Harvard drama. “I told myself I would try to broaden my horizons and join new extracurriculars, but I was at auditions the very first week of school,” she confesses. Her obvious talent earned her a lead right away: As a freshman, she played Katerina in an all-female production of “The Taming of the Shrew.” Throughout the show, she developed a close relationship with her director, who encouraged her to try acting for a camera.
But for a girl coming from 12 years of art school, Harvard pushed Horvath outside of her on-stage comfort zone. “I’m fairly open about being someone who struggles academically here, because of my background,” she says. The longest academic paper she wrote in high school was three pages long, double spaced. Fast forward to today, and Horvath, an English concentrator, is no longer a stranger to writing papers. In fact, she’s working on a creative thesis, a screenplay about a Slovakian immigrant, inspired by her own parents.
Entering Harvard’s diverse community was also a novel experience. “Artists can be a really homogenous group, so I was thrilled to be meeting people from so many different backgrounds,” she tells me. Coming to Harvard is the best decision she’s ever made, she says, adding, “I’m already nostalgic.”
Now, about to enter her last semester of college, Horvath is already thinking about the future. She plans to move to Los Angeles and is dedicated to pursuing her acting career. A month before graduation, Horvath’s career will go live. “Basically, I’ll become available as an actor—my managers will start actively seeking out roles for me, and I’ll start submitting tapes,” she says, grinning.
Her untitled Blumhouse Production project, coming from the same studio that produced “Paranormal Activity,” is slated for a 2016 release. But when asked about it, Horvath politely demurs—she’s under contract, and really can’t say much about her character.
“She’s weird. She’s weird like all the other girls I play.”

Sections
Mark J. Arildsen ’16 likes facts.
For instance, the capital of the Fergana Valley is Khujand.
For instance, the leading export of Zambia is refined copper.
For instance, Abraham Lincoln wrote poetry.
Arildsen reaches under his gray Harvard Physics department fleece and pulls out his phone. He reads “My Childhood Home I See Again.” It’s about the death of young soldiers. Arildsen grimaces, and pushes his round glasses up his nose. “Pretty depressing stuff.”
As a high school student at the University School of Nashville, Arildsen placed first in the National History Bee & Bowl. He had already placed third in the National Geographic Bee—winning a $10,000 scholarship—at the age of 13. Now, he’s a Physics concentrator with a backpack covered in GeoBee decals. He’s a Harvard Quiz Bowl competitor with a penchant for the oddities of mountain formation and national borders.
Yet after nearly a decade of capital-memorizing and buzzer-slamming, Arildsen believes that geography is as much about drawing connections as it is about collecting facts.
“[Geography  is] about the study of cultures and peoples and natural science and the various forces that shape the world,”  he says. For Arildsen, there’s a story behind each piece of trivia.
Arildsen illustrates. He pulls a napkin out of the container on the center of the table, and draws the western border of the United States and Canada. In the space between Vancouver Island and Washington State, he draws several small circles to represent islands. He outlines the boundary dispute that started the Pig War in 1859.

When you compete in academic challenges, Arildsen explains, you have to memorize some funny names of wars: “Then you realize that there are 100,000 funny names.” 100,000 reasons to go to war.
Arildsen draws a line that represents the settlement of the dispute. Then he tosses the napkin aside. “Infinite free paper!” He grins. Arildsen and his friends started “the napkin system” during a late night physics session in Currier d-hall. He likes working in the dining hall because when the automatic fountain turns on at 4:30 a.m., it reminds him to go to bed. He’s taking three graduate courses in physics this semester and hopes to study at Stanford or MIT next fall.
Late nights scribbling physics equations on napkin pads and weekends brushing up on geography have left Arildsen with less time to focus on his other academic passion, Latin. Still, he’s maintained his ear for the language and its grammar by practicing puns.
“Why did the Roman centurion give his troops Nutella?” Arildsen asks, drawing a blank look.
“To slaughter their enemies!” He answers, drawing another blank look. Arildsen explains that the joke’s funny because “tella” means “spears.” Unfortunately, Latin puns are lost on most audiences.
Arildsen’s fondness for collecting puns and trivia puzzles his physics advisors, because the science almost discourages memorization—if you understand the formulas, you should know how to derive them. Yet Arildsen, who first started studying physics when his parents, both doctors, bought him a bound set of Richard Feynman’s lectures, says that he likes physics for the same reason that he likes facts.
“It’s the idea that you have this really complicated universe, but that at some level you can understand it,” he says. “You can systematically approach it and break it down into its component parts.”
Arildsen knows from experience that small observations matter in science. At the age of 15, Arildsen broke his arm while hiking Mt. Washington in New Hampshire. The orthopedist who treated Arildsen noticed that the tips of his fingers bulged slightly and curved under his nails—a disfiguration called “clubbing,” a classic symptom of cystic fibrosis. Arildsen was tested for and diagnosed with the chronic lung disease, and now maintains his pulmonary functioning with daily treatments. The orthopedist’s second glance at his fingers saved his life.
Arildsen’s own research focuses on the smallest parts of the universe. In high school, Arildsen studied subatomic particles—quarks—via b-tagging in heavy ion collisions. Now, he’s studying the light optics of beetle wings at the Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences. When Arildsen explains his research, he demonstrates the motions of quarks and light particles with his hands: thousands of infinitesimal pieces, flowing in the path of the universe.

News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was just one of those seasons for senior quarterback Scott Hosch. In his first full year starting as the Crimson’s signal caller, Hosch tallied some of the highest statistical totals in Crimson football history and led the Ivy League in virtually every passing category.
And with a third Ancient Eight title under his belt, the Sugar Hill, Ga. native won the Crimson’s sixth straight Asa S. Bushnell Cup as the Ivy League Offensive Player of the Year.
Hosch led the Crimson to nine wins his senior season as well as a share of the Ivy League trophy. His conference-leading 2,827 yards through the air set the Harvard’s single season passing record. He also led the Ivy League with 22 touchdowns, three more than the next quarterback. That, along with his 3,033 total yards, were good for the second-highest totals in school history.
Over the course of his career at Harvard, the senior totaled 4,255 passing yards. Last year, he saw his first game action when then-starter Conner Hempel went down with a back injury. Hosch played in all 10 games, and went 6-0 as a starter. He threw for a team-leading 1,428 yards and 8 touchdowns. His career passing yards and 30 career touchdowns were good for the eighth and sixth highest totals in program history, respectively.
In addition to his recognition as the Offensive Player of the Year, Hosch is a member of the 2015 All-Ivy League First Team. The quarterback was named Harvard’s Frederick Greeley Cocker Award as the team’s Most Valuable Player. He was also named to the All-New England team and won the New England Football Writers’ Association Division I Gold Helmet of the Year Award. Hosch was the Ivy League Offensive Player of the Year three times this season as well.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
If you’re finding that the stress of impending exams is making you go through a box of tissues a day, don’t worry; it’s perfectly natural to get a bit (a lot) teary-eyed at this time of year. However, your snot-covered crying face is probably less than cute and sobbing in a fetal position in the middle of Lamont Cafe is probably less than optimal. Never fear— we’ve got you covered with a list of the best places to have your reading period emotional breakdowns.
1) The Harvard Art MuseumsPeople cry at art all the time. How could you not weep at Harvard’s impressive collection? You can cry to your heart’s content and be assured that no one will know it’s because you haven’t cracked open any of your textbooks since September. Also, no chance of running into any of your fellow classmates, because who has time to casually peruse art during reading period?
2) Your showerJust kidding, you won't remember to shower this week.
3) By the John Harvard StatueThis one is more a public service than for your own emotional well-being. Give the tourists that flock here each day an authentic look into the life of a Harvard student, of which stress-induced blubbering is obviously a component. Bonus points if you yell at a concerned mother with a selfie stick who asks if you’re okay.
