Sections
UPDATED: July 14, 2015, at 10:05 a.m.
Hope you enjoyed the week, Harvard! It’s probably about the halfway point in your summer job/internship/research position, so congratulations for making it this far. In other good news, there are only six weeks until we’re all reunited in Cambridge together. (Awwww.)
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
After that scorching hot weekend we just had, temperatures should cool down a little bit this week, with highs around 82 or 83 degrees every day. Also, expect some rain scattered throughout Wednesday and Sunday—we all know wouldn’t be a week at Harvard without some 10-minute thunderstorms.
IN THE NEWS
Education Department Dismisses Admissions Complaint
The Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights dismissed a complaint from Asian-American groups about racial biases in Harvard’s admissions process. According to spokespeople from the OCR, the complaint was dismissed because of a similar ongoing lawsuit filed against the University.
Former Stillman Space Awaits Review
Harvard University Health Services’ Stillman Infirmary officially shuttered its doors on June 1, and a planned renovation of the space is still pending approval from the state Department of Public Health. Previously, UHS Director Paul J. Barreira said the transformed space would be used to expand mental health resources.
EVENTS
Tuesday
The 13th annual Taste of Cambridge is from 5:30 to 8:30 at 38 Sidney St. Buy tickets online to enjoy music and food and drink from more than 100 local restaurants. Profits go to resources for alcohol and drug prevention and treatment.
Tuesday-Sunday
Outside the Box, a free outdoor music and performing arts festival, is happening at Boston Common this week. Check out a full schedule online, but stop by to see everything from “The Voice” contestants to Ruby Rose Fox and interactive exhibits from the Boston Aquarium.
Thursday
The Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum is hosting the second installment of its Third Thursday garden parties at 5:30 p.m. Come to explore the beautiful museum and surrounding outdoor spaces. Tickets are $5 with your Harvard ID. (We went last month and recommend it.)
Friday
Whole Foods in Newton is putting together an all-you-can-eat sushi buffet from 6 to 8 p.m. Call ahead to make a reservation so you can feast upon sushi made fresh.

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: July 14, 2015
Due to an editing error, an earlier title for this article misstated the week. In fact, this article covers events from July 13 to 19.
