News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
WASHINGTON—I thought I knew D.C. I’d been there on family vacations at least three times, and on school trips twice. I knew the National Mall wasn’t actually a mall, I had vague recollections of the Metro, and I even met Ruth Bader Ginsburg once and almost cried. I thought I knew D.C.
How wrong I was.
Five minutes in, and I was already lost. I told the cab driver my summer address, and I noticed there was something strange after the street name: SE. What on earth does that mean? I assumed it wasn’t important, so I didn’t mention it. “Southwest?” my cab driver barked at me. “Yes,” I responded. I had no idea what he was talking about, but I told him the street address, didn’t I? 20 minutes later I found myself in a part of the city that I definitely did not sign up to live in.
And that was the day I learned about the quadrant system.
And the quadrant system isn’t the only thing that has surprised me this summer. I’m living on Capitol Hill and interning at the Library of Congress (conveniently located two minutes away from my place of residence). My official title at the LOC is “junior fellow,” which just goes to show that Harvard’s not the only institution with an unhealthy penchant for the word “fellow.”
On my first day of work, I showed up at the Jefferson Building, which is very grand and majestic. Do a Google image search for “Library of Congress,” and that’s what you get. I walked in and announced myself. I was promptly turned away and redirected to the building across the street, which I hadn’t even noticed before. The Madison Building is gray, boxy, and strongly reminiscent of Mather House. The inside of the Madison is equally underwhelming. Something about D.C. just makes people want to divide things into four sectors, apparently, because the Madison is also divided in fourths, each one color-coded.
I work in the Serial and Government Publications division. This summer, my project is to research any topic that interests me and create an online guide (called a topics page) directing prospective researchers into our Chronicling America database, which contains digitized historical American newspapers. It’s pretty neat, and I’ve already written pages on Margaret Sanger and Victoria Woodhull. The coolest part is digging through the library’s microfilm collection and using the scanner to peruse the pages of old newspapers preserved on reels of microfilm. In these moments, I truly feel like I embody the word “researcher.”
Work aside, it’s been quite the adventure here. I’ve toured the monuments at night, shopped in Georgetown, gone to the Congressional baseball game, explored D.C. nightlife (extensively), and officially spent all my money on food. But the best experiences I’ve had have been simple ones: hanging out with all the amazing people here this summer from my roommates to my coworkers, other interns on Capitol Hill, and, of course, my fellow Harvardians.
I still have so much to learn—such as how to do laundry, how to feed myself without spending my life savings, and how to survive this crippling heat and humidity. But things are looking good so far, and I expect that they will only get better as the summer goes on.

Nian Hu ’18, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Mather House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Hello and happy summer, Harvard! We hope you all are enjoying the characteristically up-and-down New England weather and the chance to explore some areas of Cambridge outside the Science Center Plaza or Lamont Cafe.
This summer, Flyby will break down what’s going on around campus and Cambridge each week. Check the blog on Mondays for an update.
IN THE ATMOSPHERE
Fortunately, it won’t be this cold and rainy all week long. Temperatures should get up to 79 degrees on Tuesday, and remain partly sunny in the 70s to low 80s for the rest of the week.
IN THE NEWS 
1) Douglas Elmendorf to Lead Kennedy School: “Douglas W. Elmendorf, an economist and the former director of the U.S. Congressional Budget Office, will lead the Kennedy School of Government as its next dean, the school announced on Thursday.”
2) College Deanship Renamed After Donation: “Harvard is renaming its College deanship after a donation from alumni Ami K. Danoff ’84 and William A. Danoff ’82—marking the second time this year that the University has sold the naming rights to a major dean position.”
EVENTS
Wednesday
“Made in Somerville Night” is happening on Wednesday at 6 p.m. at Bantam Cider in Somerville. Stop by to learn about and taste free products from locally-run businesses.
Berklee School of Music-based ensemble ChoroBop will be having a free one-hour concert on Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the Central Library in Copley Square. Come to enjoy Brazilian, jazz, and contemporary music in the library courtyard.
Thursday
Boston’s Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum will be hosting a garden party on Thursday at 5:30 p.m. Come to enjoy the beautiful atmosphere of the museum’s historic courtyard, as well as live music and a chance to explore the galleries; entrance is free with your Harvard student ID.
Friday
Violinist Akiko Kobayashi will be holding a concert at 12:30 p.m. on Friday, also at the Central Library in Copley Square. Stop by to hear free solo classical music.
Widener Library is celebrating its 100th birthday at the Widener Centennial Celebration on Friday at 2 p.m. There will be music, refreshments, and a collections care open house.
The annual Donna Summer Memorial Roller Disco is on Friday at 6 p.m. at Boston City Hall. Bring or rent roller skates to join this disco party!
Saturday
