News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Republican Club announced it would not support Republican presidential nominee Donald J. Trump, and called for Republican leaders to withdraw their support of the candidate they called a “threat to the survival of the Republic” in a press release Thursday.
In the scathing statement, the largest conservative group at Harvard cited “both policy and temperamental concerns” about Trump and condemned his divisive campaign rhetoric they say “is poisoning our country and our children.”
The Republican Club polled its members earlier this week and found that 10 percent of Harvard Republicans intend to support Trump for president, while an “overwhelming majority”—80 percent of polled club members—indicated they would not support the party nominee and 10 percent remained undecided.
“His authoritarian tendencies and flirtations with fascism are unparalleled in the history of our democracy,” the Republican Club said in a statement. “He hopes to divide us by race, by class, and by religion, instilling enough fear and anxiety to propel himself to the White House.”
In an email to Harvard Republicans on Thursday, Republican Club President Declan P. Garvey ’17 stressed to members that although the Harvard Republican Club officially opposes the nominee, the group will still help coordinate with members interested in campaigning for Trump.
The Republican Club has appeared uneasy with Trump’s nomination ever since his lead of the Republican pack widened early in the election. No respondents to a straw poll conducted by the organization in November indicated support for Trump.
As the Republican field narrowed during the primary season, members of the Republican Club continually voiced their disappointment with Trump’s ascendancy. In March, after Marco Rubio suspended his campaign for the nomination, Aaron I. Henricks ’16—then president of the Republican Club—said he believed Republicans at Harvard, and across the country, lost their “first and second choices in some order or another when Rubio dropped out after Bush.”
“I think everyone is pretty dejected and pretty disappointed with how the race has gone and the way that the frontrunner has conducted himself,” Henricks said.
Republicans are a minority on Harvard’s largely liberal campus, and Trump supporters make up an even smaller pool. In a May survey conducted by The Crimson, 4 percent of likely voters polled in the Class of 2016 said they would vote for Donald Trump in a matchup between him and Democratic nominee Hillary R. Clinton. Eighty-seven percent of respondents said they would vote for Clinton, with the remaining 9 percent undecided.
Most recently, the club denounced Trump’s derogatory comments about Khizr and Ghazala Khan, the parents of a captain in the Army who was killed in Iraq who spoke at the Democratic National Convention.
“It should go without saying that Captain Humayun Khan is an American hero,” the Republican Club posted on Facebook this week. “Anyone who claims otherwise, or criticizes the family of a fallen soldier, is grievously misinformed.”
Though the club will not support Trump in his presidential bid, Garvey announced the club’s intention to “continue the fight against liberal overreach on campus” and campaign for at least two Republicans seeking re-election in New Hampshire and New York.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
If you’re anything like us, you are enjoying this brief reprieve from the sweltering temperatures over the past few weeks. Many of you Harvard Summer School students are coming up on your final exams, so for the sake of keeping your noses to the grindstone, we’ve focused our events on weekend activities we can all look forward to after the work week.
Shakespeare in the CourtyardThursday at 6:30 p.m. | Museum of Fine Arts
It sometime seems like the summer of Shakespeare—and for good reason! This week finds the Commonwealth Shakespeare Company Apprentice Program putting on a production of Cymbeline, a cinderella-esque tale of a young girl’s conflict with an evil stepmother and, according to a description on the event’s Facebook, a “gender-bent expedition to a war between nations.”
Sounds like a good excuse to extricate yourself out of the pile of textbooks littering your room and head on over to the Museum of Fine Arts’ Calderwood Courtyard.  Did we mention that the event is free?
First Fridays: White Hot PartyFriday at 5 p.m. | Institute of Contemporary Art/Boston
We love a good summer themed party. This Friday, dress up in your favorite linen ensemble and head down to the Institute of Contemporary Art/Boston for their annual waterfront white party. Dance the night away to DJ That Somebody on their beautiful Boston Harbor boardwalk and soak in the August breezes. The event is 21+ and costs $15.
5th Annual Boston Seafood FestivalSunday from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. | Historic Boston Fish Pier
Though the New England Lobster Bake may be sold out, the Boston Fisheries Foundation is throwing down on at the Historic Boston Fish Pier this weekend to bring together several vendors severing the best Boston seafood. For Harvard students looking for a way to get away from that good old dining hall swai, then this is the event for you. Unfortunately, it’s not free, but you can grab tickets on the event’s website.
Open Newbury StreetSunday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. | Newbury Street
This Sunday, Newbury Street—one of the best shopping areas in Boston—will be completely devoid of automobile traffic, in a new initiative the city is rolling out. For one day, Newbury Street pedestrians can explore the restaurants and clothing stores without having to worry about an incensed Boston driver threatening their lives with caustic driving. The street will be car-free from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Sections
Nicki Minaj has the right idea. With Harvard summer housing officially over, and most programs winding down, Harvard students are likely finally free from their responsibilities. It’s time to chill out and do the time-honored summer tradition: go to the beach.
Good news, New England: Uber is giving away free beach bags, filled with everything you need to have a dynamite day at the beach—and valued at nearly $200, according to Uber’s website. Here’s how it works: if you open up the Uber app at any point today between 11 a.m and 2 p.m, you’ll have the opportunity to insert the promo code BEACHBAG2016 in the app. From there, all you have to do is request the beach bag to come to your location, and a brand ambassador from Uber will arrive to deliver the entirely free beach bag.
Trust us, you should take advantage of this opportunity and get away for a weekend. You’ll thank us later.
