News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Forty-two students won election for a seat on the Undergraduate Council during this academic year, after results were announced Friday afternoon by UC Election Commission Chair Matthew C. Estes ’18.
Of the 42 newly-elected representatives, 12 are freshmen—three from each of the four freshman yards. Sixteen sophomores were elected, along with 10 juniors and four seniors. Of the 30 sophomores, juniors, and seniors who were chosen to serve on the Council this term, two-thirds of them have previously served on the UC.
A total of 1,820 undergraduates (about 30 percent) voted in the election, which began Monday. Of those who voted, 894—just under half of the total voting population—were freshmen. Crimson Yard saw the highest voter turnout, with 243 votes, while Currier House had the highest voter turnout among the Houses, with 171 total votes.

The following students have been elected to seats on the Undergraduate Council for the 2016-2017 academic year:
Adams House
Nicholas Whittaker ’19
Cabot House
Chris B. Cruz ’17
Cameron K. Khansarinia ’18
Catherine L. Zhang ’19
Currier House
Ashri Anurudran ’19
Ziyad J. McLean ’18
Dudley House
Laila M. Smith ’18
Dunster House
Victor C. Agbafe ’19
Alex Popovski ’19
Eric Wang ’19
Eliot House
Taylor D. Marquis ’18
Kenneth C. Palmer ’19
Mati C. Reed ’19
Kirkland House
Laura S. Chang ’19
Diana Im ’17
Joseph A. Paul ’17
Leverett House
Ruiqi He ’19
Kai Potter ’19
Neha K. Reddy ’18
Lowell House
Benjamin F. Molin ’18
Mather House
Nicholas D. Boucher ’19
Al B. Corvah ’18
Eduardo A. Gonzalez ’18
Pforzheimer House
Meriton Ibrahimi ’18
Neel Mehta ’18
Quincy House
Denise J. Kwong ’19
Olu Oisaghie ’19
Saloni Vishwakarma ’19
Winthrop House
Evan M. Bonsall ’19
Vimal S. Konduri ’17
Crimson Yard
Arnav Agrawal ’20
Nadine Khoury ’20
Maureen Tang ’20
Elm Yard
Henry S. Atkins ’20
Tingyue Cui ’20
Adam Harper ’20
Ivy Yard
Sruthi Palaniappan ’20
Grace Pan ’20
Ben Sorkin ’20
Oak Yard
Jungyeon Park ’20
Michael Scherr ’20
Katie Wang ’20
—Staff writer Brian P. Yu can be reached at brian.yu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @brianyu28.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Some undergraduates are criticizing the Harvard Foundation’s selection of Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi as its 2016 Humanitarian of the Year, arguing Myanmar’s recently-elected head of government has remained silent on persecution against the country’s Muslim minority.
The Harvard Foundation grants the annual award to “an individual whose works and deeds have served to improve the quality of our lives and have inspired up to greater heights,” according to its website. Recent award recipients include education activist Malala Yousafzai and United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon.
Suu Kyi won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991 for her work promoting democracy. In 1989, she began 15 years of house arrest for protesting the country’s dictatorship. But, since she became state counsellor—the country's top leader—in April, activists across the globe have denounced her for failing to aid Myanmar’s Muslim minority, the Rohingya, who the United Nations has called one of the most persecuted minorities in the world.
The Harvard Islamic Society Director of External Relations Anwar Omeish ’19 said the student organization felt the decision to award Suu Kyi, who will receive the award at a ceremony Saturday evening in the Science Center, was “really jarring.”
“I think for us we see the type of rhetoric surrounding the Rohingya in Myanmar, the similar war on terror rhetoric that creates violence against people across the world and that affects us here,” Omeish said. She added that the choice was surprising, given that the Harvard Foundation has over the years provided support for the Islamic Society, including funding.
Harvard Foundation Director S. Allen Counter wrote in a statement that the Foundation has met with a small number of Islamic students who plan to protest Suu Kyi’s visit Saturday.
“We believe that the protest of this distinguished Harvard Foundation guest, who is widely respected by Harvard students and faculty of all ethno-cultural backgrounds, including Harvard Muslim students and faculty, is hurtful to our Burmese/Myanmar students and improper,” Counter wrote.
Omeish said that the Islamic Society is still working out plans for the event.
Organizations unaffiliated with Harvard also criticized the award. The Burma Task Force USA, a group that advocates for an end to persecution of the Rohingya, has called and sent emails to the Harvard Foundation to express its concern, according to Media Relations Director Jennifer Sawicz.
“The message [this award sends is] that our educational institutions care far more about surface images than the complex truths,” she said, “Yes, Suu Kyi did fight for democracy and that’s great, but this isn’t a democracy award, this is a humanitarian award.”
In his statement, Counter wrote that, “In our choice of guest speakers and honorees from student and faculty nominations, as in all aspects of the Harvard Foundation’s work, we focused on the constructive and the betterment of humankind through interethnic understanding and respect.”
Suu Kyi addressed the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum in 2012, before becoming state counsellor, to speak about her experience as a political dissident.
—Staff Writer Mia Karr can be reached at mia.karr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @miackarr.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Before Friday night, senior quarterback Joe Viviano had never started a college game, never completed a pass, and never accounted for a touchdown.
So much for those statistics.
In the 143rd season opener for Harvard football, the senior rookie looked more like a senior than a rookie. He completed 24 of 32 passes, threw for three touchdowns, and rushed for another.
A winless Rhode Island program (0-3, 0-1 CAA) provided little resistance as the Crimson rolled to a 51-21 victory. Statement made: The three-time champions are back, and they have no interest in abdicating the throne.
“Hats off to Harvard,” Rams coach Jim Fleming said. “I think [the consistency] is a tribute to Murphy and the program…. They’ve reloaded nicely.”
On an evening when backups saw significant action, production came from all over the roster. Junior running back Semar Smith earned 107 yards on 19 carries, senior tight end Anthony Firkser caught seven balls for 111 yards, and sophomore wideout Justice Shelton-Mosley caught nine for 108 yards.
But the game ball clearly belonged to the 6’5” senior under center.
Viviano’s premier highlight came in the final two minutes of the first quarter, with the Crimson already up 14-0. Facing a third-and-seven from the Rams’ eight, Viviano backpedaled, bumped into a pass-rusher, jump-cut another, and fled the backfield.
He ended up in the end zone—an eight-yard scamper that felt more like 80. Harvard fans might forgive Viviano for the unsportsmanlike conduct penalty he received for spiking the ball.
“Just having fun,” Viviano said. “[I was] pretty excited after my first run. Probably shouldn’t do that.”
By no means did the Crimson (1-0) play a perfect game. Despite not getting the start, Rhode Island quarterback Paul Mroz came in and caused problems for the Harvard secondary at times.
A crack in the defensive armor appeared late in the first half, when the Rams started on their own 45 after a kickoff. Aided by a roughing-the-passer call, Mroz marched his team to the goal line, capping the campaign with a one-yard plunge into the end zone.
By that point, though, the Crimson already held a 24-0 advantage. The hosts scored points on six of their first seven possessions; by the end of the first period, Harvard had outgained Rhode Island 158 to 36.
The Crimson’s opening drive encapsulated this dominance. On the first snap of the season, a play-action fake sent the Rams reeling and set up junior tight end Jack Barann for a 30-yard gain.
The touchdown came two minutes later. At 11:05, senior tight end Anthony Firkser veered into the end zone, and Viviano delivered a strike.
Firkser added a third-quarter score on one of the most picturesque plays of the contest. Facing a third-and-nine from the Rhode Island 18, Viviano lofted a spiral towards a sideways-streaking Firkser; the tight end scraped his feet in bounds to push the rout to 37-7.
“I think we are a more cohesive group,” Firkser said. “[From] last year’s team, we had a bunch of big, top-skill, talented guys that set a good example for us.”
The run game proved similarly effective, powering to 244 yards. All night long, a young offensive line opened up holes, allowing rushers to average five yards per carry.
Overall Harvard’s ground attack tallied four touchdowns. The first occurred with 5:56 in the first quarter, when Smith punctuated a 70-yard drive by bouncing off his line and scurrying untouched for an eight-yard score.
All drama had seeped out of the building by the start of the fourth quarter, when the Crimson led by 30. But the period turned out to be the highest-scoring part of the night as the teams played to a 14-14 draw.
Senior running backs Van Johnson and Dallas Schray rumbled for a pair of scores, and the hosts needed that production to keep pace with a suddenly dangerous Rams attack. In those 15 minutes, Rhode Island put together two scoring drives of 70-plus yards, ending once with a 22-yard touchdown toss from Mroz and once with a one-yard tumble from junior back Markey Clarke. But those points came too late to pose a real threat.
More concerning was a goal-line hit on tight end Jack Stansell early in the second quarter. The junior was steaming for the end zone when a defender rammed into his knee, popping the ball loose in the process.
While Barann recovered for a touchdown, Stansell lay on the ground for several minutes. Eventually he walked off the field with help from trainers.
The collision provided a lone asterisk to a night of exuberant entrances and grinding success. While a long season awaits, this much is certain: Harvard has new faces, but something fundamental about the program remains intact.
“We always talk about the team that plays the hardest and makes the fewest mistakes is going to win,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said. “That was us tonight.”
—Staff writer Sam Danello can be reached at sam.danello@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
