News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Fairy tales say that apples were golden only to refresh the forgotten moment when we found that they were green,” writes G.K. Chesterton. “They make rivers run with wine only to make us remember, for one wild moment, that they run with water.” It follows, he argues, that stories return us to the state of mind of a bright-eyed child, where everything is full of wonder. 
Since I first read this argument, I have turned it over in my mind many times. I am far from an expert on myth—I once confused Joseph Campbell with Joseph McCarthy on public television. But, I imagine, when it comes to myth and fairytale, the most ordinary of ordinary people has as much a right to speak as an expert. So as a child of (mostly) the West, all I know is that in fairy tales, things come in groups of three.
One of my first memories is of tropical fish. I am age three or four, wearing an orange dress and sitting on a dock with crisscrossed bars, looking at my feet and the reef below. The wind ripples across the ocean and I think, rather morbidly, about growing old.
The second is of white chocolate buttons. My parents have frozen a large packet of them for our dessert and every day after dinner, I get to eat two. Every hot, humid day I look forward to them—they’re almost like ice cream. I can still taste them now: smooth as sugary plastic, chalky and delicious.
The last is of going on an unexpected journey. I meander into the forest and meet all sorts of strange and wonderful creatures. As clever as I’ve ever been, I trick my way into keeping a magic ring, and I encounter my first dragon, via Tolkien’s “The Hobbit”.
To four-year-old me, white chocolate buttons—or even learning to count—were as wonderful as were tropical reefs or elves. To people in winter-cold Massachusetts, a tropical island seems magnificent, but if you live on said island, it’s the same as living in a humid city anywhere else. In adulthood, chocolate buttons taste only of chalk, and it’s easy to let our world become small. It’s easy to think that to keep life interesting we have to be constantly going to new places and meeting new people. But one only needs to read "The Hobbit" as an adult to know this is untrue.
In stories, a mundane morsel of food can keep a person strong for days, and we marvel at its ability. In stories, dragons can be brilliantly good or hellishly evil, but household dust can be as curious as either of them. In story, recipes can bring to mind at once both the romantic and the terrible, and shoes might only fit one woman out of the masses. A humble fisherman might conquer the supernatural… and so on. Stories, time and time again, are an escape from the doldrums of despond.
Wonder seeps forth from the cracks in reality: from fairy tales, fantasy, magical realism; from beautifully written stories and beautifully crafted plots; from the masterpieces that combine the two; from those stories spoken before they were written; from books with political undertones, and from books with undertones of love.
Wonder oozes from films. Not just blockbuster films, not just arthouse films, but films that do myth well—films that make you yearn for centuries past or future. Wonder comes from films that sharpen, not dull, you to suffering: films where the beautiful is otherworldly, and the sorrowful makes you cry for the world.
Wonder sprouts, also, from the creation of art. From writing the absurd apparitions of 2:30 a.m.; the thoughts from a train ride through the countryside. It comes from writing about childhood and the childhood impossibilities, from immersion and engagement with stories and myths from different times and places. Wonder comes from writing about our world as if it were a dreamlike fantasy to be explored—because it is.
So read, engage, write. And if you have no books, then listen. If you have no paper, then tell stories in your head. If you can do neither, then remember: Both the world as it was, and the world as it might have been if it were new.

Siobhan McDonough ’17, a social studies concentrator, lives in Kirkland House. Her Summer column appears on alternate Mondays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
This week, Flyby is bringing you more events outside the Harvard Bubble. We encourage you to journey beyond Harvard Square, and if you’re feeling daring, maybe even cross the Charles to enjoy one of the many summer activities taking place in Boston this week.
Sunset Yoga on the EsplanadeWednesday at 6 p.m. | The Esplanade, Fielder Field
There’s no better way to get through hump day than to zen out with some outdoor yoga. If you can’t make it this week, don’t worry, this free yoga class runs every Wednesday throughout the summer. Whether you’re new to yoga or a certified master, you’re welcome to a relaxing evening of Warrior II and Child’s Pose. Remember to bring your mat!
“Abroad” Themed Evening at the Gardner MuseumThursday at 5:30 p.m. | Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, 25 Evans Way
Ever wanted to experience a museum after hours? Every third Thursday of the month, the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum stays open until 9 p.m. complete with music, a cash wine bar, and other activities throughout the galleries. This Thursday’s theme is “abroad”—tickets are required for admission, but you can get one for free with your Harvard I.D.
Free Ferry to Spectacle or Georges IslandFriday at 8 a.m. | Boston Harbor Cruises Ferry Center, 1 Long Wharf
With the weather looking sunny for Friday, it’s the perfect opportunity to take advantage of a free ferry to Boston Harbor’s Spectacle Island or Georges Island. Tickets are available starting at 7 a.m. with the first ferry leaving at 8 a.m.—make sure you set your alarm and get to the docks before tickets run out.
Poké-WalkSaturday at noon | Boston Common
Instead of awkwardly running into fellow Pokémon Go players, this Saturday you can intentionally meet up with them. Begin at the Boston Common anytime after noon, and continue your quest for virtual greatness, befriending other Pokémon-catchers along the way.
Beyonce v. Rihanna Dance PartySaturday at 9 p.m. | Middle East Restaurant and Dance Club, 472 Massachusetts Avenue
Whether you’re team Team Bey, Team Riri, or can’t decide, for $15 you can dance the night away to some of your favorite pop hits at Central Square’s Middle East this Saturday. As the Facebook event advertises, there will be “no remixes, no mashups, all originals.” This event is 18+.
South End Open MarketSunday at 10 a.m. | Inkblock, 375 Harrison Avenue
Conclude your week with an adventure into the South End of Boston to explore food trucks, an arts market, and a farmers’ market all in one place. Located less than a 10 minute walk from the Red Line stop at Broadway, the South End Open Market is both artsy and accessible.
Sections
Cramped, condensed living spaces may be an inconvenient norm of college life, but Harvard Business School graduate Jon Staff and current Harvard Law School student Pete Davis don’t see it that way. With their vacation service Getaway, the two show the benefits of small-space living.
Starting at $99 a night, anyone looking to escape the digital grind of everyday life can rent a tiny house in a rural location. The house is at most a two hour drive from Boston or New York, depending on where the renter lives. All the necessities are provided—bed, bathroom, a supply of food, stovetop, and even a few amenities like books and board games—making the house a perfect place to unwind.
Millennial Housing Lab, formed by Staff and Davis while at Harvard, serves as the “catch-all for fresh ideas for housing,” and from those ideas came Getaway. At the intersection of over-priced vacations, unnecessary large homes, and too much stuff in said homes, Getaway perfectly orchestrates your stay so you can put down the cellphone and “do nothing,” as the company puts it.
In order to prevent over-planning, the company does not even tell you the precise location of your house until 24 hours before your departure. For those who identify as type-A and struggle with spontaneity, you may have already made up your mind that Getaway is not for you. However, the tiny-house movement is growing at such a rate that it could become unavoidable, at least that’s the hope of the Getaway team.
Seen as more environmentally sound and financially accessible, minimalist living is becoming an increasingly viable alternative to traditional living spaces. Getaway seeks to give people a test-drive of living tiny and show how it’s not as claustrophobic as one might think.
So before returning to the endless parade of eye-tiring computer screens and overstuffed dorms, consider venturing out to the woods, curling up with a book in one of Getaway’s six locations, and enjoying the distance from city noises.
