News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In recent years, the College has greatly expanded efforts to admit students from wide-ranging socioeconomic backgrounds, aiming to make a Harvard education affordable for all undergraduates. Though Harvard's financial aid packages are among the most generous in the nation, financial aid itself is not a panacea for all issues of financial inclusion in the classroom. Once on campus, students find that the cost of course materials varies wildly, with Professor N. Gregory Mankiw’s required Economics 10 textbook an especially relevant recent example.
Accordingly, textbooks and other course materials can be prohibitively expensive for some students, and the onus is placed on them to find a way to acquire these materials affordably or choose classes with materials they can afford. This burden on students runs counter to the College’s most fundamental ideals, as we have previously argued.
With these issues in mind, the Undergraduate Council’s recent announcement of a "soft commitment" from administrators to incorporate a question about courses’ affordability into Q guide evaluations will help increase the financial accessibility of courses at Harvard. Adding a question about cost to this tool will allow students to inform their peers about the best ways to purchase course materials for each class in a commonly read and accessible forum.
This development is largely praiseworthy. Ideally, this system will gather positive attention for the College’s most affordable courses and encourage professors who offer unnecessarily expensive courses to find more cost-effective ways to educate their students. Further, by highlighting successful ways to offer equitably-priced classes, the Q guide data could provide models for professors to decrease the cost of their classes.
That said, there is reason for pause at administrators’ “soft commitment” to implementing this Q guide question in the spring. The UC has commendably taken the initiative in proposing this measure to the administration, which must follow through by solidifying its commitment to this question. Its implementation is an important step toward greater financial accessibility at the College.
Still, not all ways of framing this query in the Q guide would be equally beneficial to the student body. The question about course costs should specifically ask students which materials they purchased, where they purchased these materials, and how much they paid, instead of asking students for vague evaluations of the financial strain the course placed on them. The former method would point prospective enrollees toward the best ways to pay for each course, whereas the latter may be useless, given that a sum causing a financial burden for one student may not pose any difficulty for another, and vice versa.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“When I say my name I hear a burned-down church.” - Bob Hicok, Elegy Owed
You would think that I was paying attention, given that I was in a church, sitting in the hard wooden pews during mass. You would think I would listen to the Portuguese sermon, resting on the lilts in the priest’s "Pai Nosso" and laying my head on intonations. You would think I would try to feel the serenity imbued in the hymns and spend the rest of the hour trying to compress all that is holy into a eucharist and swallow it, nesting it in me.
But I wasn’t.
My mind was racing, a million locusts a minute, crawling against the stained glass windows, banging its fists in rhythm with the wind. What stories the walls could tell, holding gems like insects in amber—how many salvations, how many sins. I wondered if the confessionals ever smelled like something other than disappointment. A cocktail might taste better than regret. God, I wish I could sit here and focus and reflect on my life choices like I’m supposed to—or maybe I’m not. I don’t know.
I watched the clock in bated breath.
The last prayer was prayed, the last praise preached, and the devout filed out in silence, returning to their lives of mundane mistakes until they came back on their knees next Sunday, looking for forgiveness. And I would join them in rote, silent solidarity.
Memorial Church sits surrounded by metal bars and barriers. The Church is currently closed for the rest of the year due to renovations slated to end come spring 2017. For now, Sunday Worship falls under the stained glass windows of Annenberg at brunch instead of between the wooden pews. The confessionals are left hollow. Yet, the mistakes continue to pile up—not out of spite or increased depravity but by twisted destiny, as if the world refuses to pause misfortune where sources of distress-relief deflux. How rude.
The weeks are no less holy than they were back home, where Mom would wake you up, and the family would dust off their Sunday best to go to worship out of faith or routine or an uneven mix of both. But now, Mom isn’t sleeping in the top bunk. It’s your roommate who, back in Boulder, would go to parties every night and wake up hungover every morning, and he brought that attitude to college with him. It’s not your scene but you go along with it anyway, try to live the “college life.” "This is wrong," you think, as you trudge through the Yard looking for a party at two in the morning. "Four Avé Marias, two Glórias." That’s what you should be doing right now. But even still, you go out on Saturday nights and wake up Sunday afternoon, and the world passes you by outside Annenberg’s windows and you’re content with who you are, what you believe, but there is this sneaking feeling wrapping its hands around your neck, whispering that you’re doing it all wrong. "Como era no princípio, agora e sempre." You hold your hands together in rote over your green tray. "Amen."
College has taught me many things. It has shown me freedom, given me the tools for change and expression, presented boundless opportunities—but it has also shown me I am my own person. I may not find myself between the arched ceiling and the marble floors, but God does it feel holy when it’s four in the morning and the Charles is still and the air is calm and the conversations are easy and I can breathe, God I can breathe—the world waits in bated breath for me, spinning on my terms.
The change might not be comfortable at first; you may despise yourself for not sitting in the pews, going to the mosque or sitting in temple like you were raised—or you may still go to your chosen place of worship. And that’s perfectly fine. But if you find yourself staying up late and sleeping in on Sundays, this does not necessarily invalidate the way in which you participate in a belief system or understand yourself. Introspection comes in a spectrum; faith knocks on the door differently for everyone.  The answer is not in hating yourself for adopting a different version of self-understanding as you transition through a different part of your life; it’s those moments that make you most complete. Whether they may be in a prayer room in a mosque or synagogue or within yourself, the goal within any belief system—and really, the goal in life—is to find, and do, whatever makes you happy.
Jessenia Class '20 is Crimson Editorial comper living in Canaday Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Charles J. H. Dickens loved three things about Boston: its literature, its oysters, and its Harvard men.
Born on Feb. 7, 1812 in Portsmouth, England, Dickens spent most of his early life in his home country. Later, once his career had taken off, the famous writer and social critic began to conduct international tours to promote his novels. At the age of 29, he made his first trip to North America.
Dickens arrived in Boston Harbor on Jan. 22, 1842. He stayed in the Tremont House, located at the intersection of Tremont and Beacon St. in downtown Boston. (The hotel is just a short walk from Park Street station, though the original building is no longer there.)
During his stay, Dickens became very close with two Harvard Professors: Cornelius Conway Felton, a professor of Greek literature who would later become President of the College from 1860-62, and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Smith Professor of Modern Languages. Dickens had already been aware of the professors’ existence, but first cemented friendships with them at a gathering in his rooms in Tremont House on Jan. 26, 1842.
These men became quite fond of one another. “Dickens has arrived,” Longfellow wrote to his father on Jan. 30, 1842. “He is a glorious fellow.”
The feeling was mutual. “The Professors at the Cambridge university, Longfellow, Felton, Jared Sparks, are noble fellows,” Dickens wrote to his friend John Forster.
Two days later, on Feb. 1, 1842, the newly-created Dickens Welcome Committee set up a dinner for the famous author in Papanti Hall on Tremont Street. Two-hundred guests paid $15 for their dinner tickets. President Josiah Quincy of Harvard University delivered a speech. The dinner featured three types of oysters.
That weekend, on Feb. 4, Dickens met up with his new friends again. Alongside several other guests, Dickens dined at Henry Wadsworth Longfellow’s house on Brattle St. Formerly George Washington’s headquarters during the Siege of Boston in the Revolutionary War, this building is now a national historic monument.
The next day, Dickens left Boston for New York, making stops in Worcester, Hartford, and New Haven. Felton joined him for three weeks on this trip, and returned to Cambridge on Feb. 26. On Mar. 14, 1842, almost three weeks after Felton’s return to Cambridge, Dickens wrote to him, “We and the oysters missed you terribly in New York.”
In the same letter, he mentioned oysters a second time. He wrote, “Come to England! Come to England! Our oysters are small, I know; they are said by Americans to be coppery; but our hearts are of the largest size.”
Dickens wrote again of oysters in a letter to Felton on May 21, 1842, while addressing the professor’s mild complaint about his joints. Dickens wrote, “They can’t be stiff,” then explained that “at the worst they merely want the air of New York, which, being impregnated with the flavour of last year’s oysters, has a surprising effect in rendering the human frame supple and flexible in all cases of rust.”
In the same letter, Dickens jokingly mentioned a passing concern of his. “A terrible idea occurred to me,” he wrote. “The oyster sellers—what do they do, when oysters are not in season?  Is pickled salmon vended there—do they sell crabs, shrimps, winkles, herrings?—The oyster openers, what do they do?”
In a letter sent from London on July 31, 1842 to Felton, Dickens wrote about Edward Dando, an infamous dine-and-dasher of the 1830s. “He was an oyster-eater, my dear Felton. He used to go into oyster-shops, without a farthing of money, and stand at the counter eating natives, until the man who opened them grew pale, cast down his knife, staggered backward, struck his white forehead with his open hand, and cried, ‘You are Dando!!!’” Why share the story? Perhaps Dickens saw a part of himself in this gourmandizer.
On Jan. 2, 1844, Dickens heard from his beloved pen pal and the oysters struck again: Dickens claimed that he felt “a moist and oystery twinkle in my eye” upon receiving Felton’s latest letter.
Fifteen years later, little had changed, and Dickens continued to write about oysters to Felton.  “We shall yet come round to joviality and Oysters,” he  wrote to his friend on June 20, 1859, anticipating his next trip to Boston. He continued to express his interest in returning: “Now, I begin to have hopes that I may possibly enjoy the great sensation of reading ‘A Christmas Carol’ to American listeners.”
In “A Christmas Carol,” published the year after his 1842 trip to Boston, Dickens labeled Scrooge “as solitary as an oyster.” But it is hard to believe that oysters represented solitude to Dickens—for him, oysters are to be consumed in large quantities, and preferably, in the company of important Harvard men.
Sections
I am well acquainted with a certain part of the night—the hour between three and four in the morning. Between these hours, garbage trucks make their languid stops around Cambridge, homeless men by the Harvard T stop reach an angry stalemate in their nightly chess game, and rats the size of rabbits scurry across the silent streets, searching under fallen leaves for scraps leftover from the tourists who flooded the Square the day before.
Twenty minutes pass between the time I close The Crimson’s front door after sending another day’s newspaper to print and the time I step into my dorm room in Pforzheimer House. In those 20 minutes, starting when the glowing digital clock atop the Cambridge Savings Bank reads 3:39, I see and hear a world vastly different than the one I know during the daytime. There is usually a faint smell of rising bread. A few men and women huddle under sleeping bags around the Square, crowded on benches and tucked away on storefronts. The air is so quiet that the rustling of tree branches startles me. The cab drivers at the taxi stand on Mass. Ave. smoke cigarettes out of their windows and keep their engines stalling, though there are surely no passengers at this hour. Most nights, they look at me and nod toward their cars, but I keep walking. I do not need a ride.
I have wanted to write this story since my first time walking home as The Crimson’s Managing Editor last January. On a campus as busy as ours, and with a job as busy as mine, my nightly walk allows me a brief period of silence, an escape from a frenetic daily routine of making a newspaper, Monday through Friday. It’s easy to forget about my own personal life when I am so consumed with documenting the lives of others, but my walk from The Crimson gives me time to remember. So every night, I think of Haley.
***
Haley A. Rue ’17. That’s Crimson style. Middle initial, class year. Our style guide dictates we write this for every student on campus. Our style guide has a certain notation for students who have taken time off. But it does not tell me how to write the class year of a friend who has died.
We got to know each other when we were far apart. It was summer 2014, and we were both in Europe, backpacking alone—she in Austria and Hungary, I in Spain and Portugal. We spoke every day, of ancient buildings and avenues, of bright green fields in Austria or dusty red hills in Spain. Some days we felt lonelier than others. A man followed me down the street, I told her. I got lost,  Haley told me. But for Haley, those moments could not surmount the overwhelming joy she felt from simply walking through an unknown city, meeting strange new people. Then, she wrote about those people and places, about how young and adventurous she felt. Wherever she went, one thing was certain: Haley was sure to tell a good story.
I still know little about her death. I learned on a humid mid-July night, sitting alone on my borrowed bed in a hostel somewhere in Portugal. A vague Facebook post from her aunt. Haley had been hiking and slipped, fell into a whirlpool.
I spent much of the next year trying to piece together what had happened, replaying scenarios in my head. I asked the people closest to Haley to please help me understand.  Eventually, I gave up.
***
Recently,  as I walked home alone, between the hours of three and four, I thought of Haley’s hometown of Tacoma, Wash. The sleepy port city sits on Puget Sound, in the shadow of a snow-capped mountain that rises over an expanse of tideflats. You can see the mountain from most places in the city, past bobbing white boats and wooden docks. I visited Tacoma for the first time in August 2014, for Haley’s funeral. I realize now, I have known Haley in death longer than I knew her in life.
Every night as I walk my quiet mile, I grasp at memories. The sound of her voice. The way her eyes squinted when she was smiling too hard. The words she liked to write. I fear I am forgetting details.
Rewind two-and-a-half years. It was late May 2014, just after Commencement. Haley and I were sitting side-by-side in The Crimson, booking weeks worth of trains and buses and hostels for our upcoming trips. I can’t remember what we said then, but we stayed for hours. It grew dark. We hadn’t noticed. The air was warm as we walked back together, past the taxi stand, down Garden St. Some students, we saw, opted to take taxis back the mile from the Square. We laughed at the thought—it was too nice out. We did not need a ride.
—Meg P. Bernhard '17 is The Crimson's Managing Editor. She will miss her nightly walks. 
Sections
You would be hard-pressed to find flavors like bourbon pecan pie or goat cheese with smoked orange marmalade at most ice cream parlors. But at a not-so-typical shop on Mass. Ave., creativity is on the menu.

Hipster chic meets farm-to-table at Honeycomb Creamery, which opened in late September and is located just past the Quad. Last Monday, as the scent of lemon zest wafted through the storefront, I sat down with the owner Kristen A. Rummel while munching on vegan horchata ice cream topped with homemade chocolate sprinkles. I feigned sophistication by pretending to know what horchata is. (It’s a blend of coconut, rice milk, cinnamon, and vanilla, I later learned.)
Honeycomb is the brainchild of Rummel and her husband, Rory M. Hanlon. Over a meal at the fine-dining eatery Oleana a few years ago, the duo realized that fancy restaurants serve quirky concoctions like corn ice cream. Run-of-the-mill ice cream counters, though, rarely do.
Rummel, a graduate of the Cambridge School of Culinary Arts, paired her pastry skills with Hanlon’s business acumen to channel the level of sophistication they sensed missing from many ice cream serveries. They started selling their homemade ice cream at farmers markets in the Boston area in 2015 before opening Honeycomb this fall.
Farmers markets introduced Rummel to what she calls a fierce community of small business owners. “Every time I talk to somebody back home in Delaware, I’m like, ‘Oh, my friend who owns her own cookie business…’ All of my friends are small business owners,” she says.
The flavors are reminiscent of those you might find in swanky spots in Brooklyn. Yet Honeycomb also celebrates locality; ingredients come from New England farms, so the flavors reflect the produce that the farms are producing seasonally. The milk and heavy cream, for instance, come from a nearby farm, and Honeycomb pasteurizes its own base—it’s one of only two ice cream companies in New England to do so, according to Rummel.
Though her course on making ice cream only lasted for one week in culinary school, Rummel has a knack for whacky flavor pairings. She keeps an ever-growing list of ideas—like black peppercorn mixed with pieces of lemon cake—on her store’s refrigerator. Offerings are generally inspired by the flavors that Rummel and Hanlon are craving at the moment. “I like eating banana toffee pie, so I’m going to make that an ice cream,” Rummel declares.
Rummel’s cooking process often comes down to trial and error. One flavor combination gone horribly wrong? Chocolate and mustard.
While new customers can be loyal towards classic ice creams, Rummel has observed a positive response to Honeycomb’s zaniness. “We celebrate those flavors,” she says.
Sections
Bo H. Seo ’17 perches on a couch in the Barker Center Café, surveying the room from behind round, half-tortoise shell glasses.
“I don’t even really think of myself as interesting,” Seo says, though a quick Google search on him suggests that he’s worthier of the title than he lets on. “Just really interested. And interested in a lot of different things, and interested in those things deeply.”
A two-time World Debating Champion, Seo has found his greatest success in the art of arguing.
He describes debating as the “fullest experience of genuine teamwork I’ve ever had.” In high school, Seo debated against fellow Harvard senior Fanelesibonge S. Mashwama ’17—Seo for Australia, where he attended high school, and Mashwama for Swaziland. The two then joined forces at Harvard, taking home the 2016 World Debating Championship as a team. Now, they’re
“best friends,” Seo says.
A Social Studies concentrator living in Pforzheimer House, Seo has put his mind to work off the debating stage, as well. Since coming to Harvard, Seo has spent his semesters and his summers studying and promoting human rights.
“There is this mysterious entity called ‘human rights’ that’s emerging through all of this work, and trying to parse out what those things are—what it is, what it isn’t, what it presses us to do—that’s been really interesting,” Seo says.
Seo’s dedication to human rights is also tied to his global upbringing. Born and raised in South Korea, Seo moved to Australia at age 10. Listening to his eloquent, Australian-accented speech, you’d never guess that Seo didn’t know a stitch of English when he started school in Australia in 4th grade. Learning English over the course of the next year, says Seo, was a formative experience.
“As children we endure a lot and experience a lot, and I think the rest of your life is just reverberations of that original moment,” Seo says. “For me, I’m pretty attentive to how people are responding to things or to me.” 
Seo describes how conscious he is of other people’s facial expressions and body language, a habit from a time when eye contact and hand gestures were easier to understand than language.
Seo is currently writing his thesis on the “recognition of identity and culture and situating that between identity politics and the contemporary doctrine of human rights,” so he is indeed turning his 10-year-old self’s experience into an opportunity for research.
Seo’s latest project? Assembling a literary anthology on Korean diasporic perspectives on North Korea. Seo has assembled students from cultural groups and publications across campus to create literary and visual art. “I thought there was a role for me to bring people together,” he says, adding that he hopes the project will be published as a book.
In addition to his academic accomplishments, Seo is a black belt in Taekwondo. “There’s still something about that kind of very disciplined performance that kind of speaks to me,” he says. These days, though, Seo prefers yoga to his previous dedication to martial arts. He concedes that others think it’s “basic” that he practices yoga at the Square’s Barre and Soul, but he brushes off these criticisms.
“They told me the other day that my hips need to have more integrity, which I’ve never been told,” Seo says with a laugh.
Seo combines these diverse interests with care for other people, which he insists is the most important interest he possesses.
“It’s not as if they become interesting because you met them,” Seo says, speaking about the people he’s met at Harvard. “They’ve always been interesting—you just didn’t know about it.”
Sections
The weather is a notoriously fickle creature. Its unpredictability has plagued humanity since the dawn of time. But Katie Tutrone ’17 has finally put an end to all that chaos. She runs an Instagram account, “Cirrusly Yesterday,” that covers the weather with pinpoint accuracy.
Except that it’s not tomorrow’s weather. It’s yesterday’s.
“My philosophy in life is that the sky is one giant cinema for the world,” Tutrone says. “We’re all watching it. It’s one thing you can’t control.”
As we sit in the Harvard Community Garden on an unusually warm November afternoon, a pack of Tutrone’s friends wanders out of Lowell, where she lives, and passes us by.
“Katie! What was the weather like yesterday?” they yell.
“Kinda like this!” she replies. “Weather is relative!”
"My dream thing would be to be a weatherwoman for yesterday’s weather,” Tutrone says. “Some type of satirical weather job, even though that’s not an industry. I want to make that. The weather is the one thing in life that constantly lets you down. So why not let them down from the start?”
To pursue her faux meteorological ambitions, Tutrone is taking online courses at Mississippi State University to get a broadcast meteorology degree in geosciences. She has interned at MTV, CNN, and Comedy Central. Her favorite meteorologist? Jennifer Gray. Her backup plan? A Kickstarter-funded cheese shop called “Cheesus of Nazarus.”
Despite her focus on the recent past, Tutrone is a master of prediction; she’s a “self-proclaimed psychic.” She credits her psychic abilities with her acceptance to Harvard—she panicked during her interview four years ago and blurted out that she was a psychic. “I’m better at predicting the future than reading minds,” she clarifies.

Today, in the Community Garden, I ask her to read my palms. She points out my marriage line and my life line, then instructs me to look for an “M” shape, which indicates success. My “M” is fractured in the middle. “You’re gonna have a midlife crisis,” she tells me cheerfully. “But you’re going to get through it. Exercise your hand wrinkles to get that ‘M.’ You need to clamp this together. Control your future through that clamp.”
To hone her skills, she goes undercover. “I visit a lot of psychics. An absurd amount. I always go to scrutinize their strategies. It’s like you’re reading me, but I’m reading you,” Tutrone says. “My future is... mmm... not so bright.”
At Harvard, Tutrone concentrates in psychology with a secondary in Theater, Dance, and Media. “A lot of theater is about performativity. The psychological aspect of it. Taking on different characters. I consider my life a musical. I perform so many different characters,” she explains.
I ask her to name one of the characters she plays in her life. She thinks for a moment. “A middle-aged Jamaican woman,” she says at last. “Always. Always.”
Her other interests include traveling (she went to Cabo three times in one year and only once got salmonella after being pooped on by an iguana), varsity squash (“I was that kid that couldn’t sit still, so squash was perfect for me”), beekeeping (she has about 20,000 bees at home), and, most of all, indulging in Lowell Brain Break.
“It’s my social scene,” she explains. “I like to just frolic around and meet people and troll at night. It’s the most inclusive social space.” 
Her favorite Brain Break recipe consists of peanut butter, Cracklin Oats, and hot chocolate. Her record for soloing a jar of peanut butter is 40 minutes. “Some people keep their empty alcohol bottles,” she says. “If I kept my peanut butter jars? Oof.”
Tutrone closes with sage advice for those who wish to follow in her footsteps. “Don’t be scared to read people’s minds,” she counsels. “Don’t think that there are any limits. You know everything. But at the same time you know nothing. You have to accept that. You have to accept that uncertainty.”
Sections
For Sasha G. Scolnik-Brower ’17, music is a family business.
“I have very specific memories of first playing in a full orchestra when I was 10 years old,” he remembers. As a cellist, and the youngest in a family of musicians—his mother is a flutist, and his sister is a pianist who also attended Harvard—he’s been immersed in classical performance for much of his life.
“Always going to concerts, it makes you think that that’s what life is normally like,” he laughs. “Which I guess it’s not.”
Even among his family, Scolnik-Brower stands out. A winner of the Boston Symphony and Boston Youth Symphony concerto competitions, he’s accrued a long list of honors for his cello performances, including a recent masterclass with Yo-Yo Ma. When we schedule an early interview so that he can catch a train to New York, I expect that he’s heading off to another illustrious recital. This time, however, he tells me he’s just visiting his girlfriend. “Not musical,” he says. “Just recreational.”
It’s a rare respite for the director of both the Harvard College Opera Society and the Bach Society Orchestra. Indeed, classical music devotees are as likely to see Scolnik-Brower on the conductor’s podium as in the cello section. In his time as a student, he’s been involved with many of Harvard’s various student ensembles. It’s difficult, in fact, to imagine the classical music scene at Harvard without his involvement and leadership.
Yet Scolnik-Brower is humble about his roles. “I never worry about there not being classical music at Harvard,” he tells me. “There are so many things and so many people interested. If I weren’t here, everything would be totally fine.”
Keeping the Harvard community engaged, on the other hand, is an ever-present task. “In BachSoc, we made our concerts free last year,” Scolnik-Brower says, “which we found has been helping. And things like that—just trying to figure out how to make things sustainable and interesting.”
In his last year at Harvard, Scolnik-Brower isn’t slowing down. He’s currently serving as musical director for the Harvard College Opera Society’s production of “Le Nozze De Figaro,” which will be sung in its original Italian. “It’s a really big project,” he says, “and kind of crazy that undergrads manage to pull off an opera every year somehow. But people are into it.”
Directing the opera, on top of Scolnik-Brower’s other musical commitments, is a full-time job. We’re meeting in Harvard Yard because Scolnik-Brower walks through here every day, on his way over from Winthrop House to the Music Department building. “I have a very weird schedule,” he says. “I have two or three hours of coachings with singers. I might practice the cello for an hour or two.” When he’s not practicing, he’s just a normal student: “And other times I’m doing work in the library over there.”
Although Scolnik-Brower’s days in the Yard are numbered, his musical career is only just beginning. After a year at the New England Conservatory to finish his dual degree, he plans on pursuing a master’s degree in conducting. “I’m inspired by the amount of work I would have to do in order to do it,” he says. “How much I don’t know is frightening, but also really amazing.”
Sections
Meg G. Panetta ’17 is a gentle soul. Her voice is very quiet. “I was a strange little kid,” she says. “I feel like most people are.”
Panetta grew up in Atlanta, Ga., and spent most of her childhood playing outside. “There was a park near my house [and] behind it there was an uninhabited floodplain,” she says, pausing to describe the plain at length. “I grew up playing in the woods all the time and being really interested in all the plants I saw. That’s kind of defined me ever since.”
As she got older, Panetta began to look beyond the floodplain, educating herself about botany wherever she went. “When I go to a new place, I try to get a field guide about the trees or the plants,” she says. “People are complicated, nature is complicated, everything is complicated. [A field guide] is a slice of a place that I can gain some traction in.”
Over time, the guides began to accumulate: When Panetta moved to Boston, she bought a New England Audubon Society guide. When she visited Hawaii, she bought a guide there, too. Then, in April 2016, Panetta won $1,500 and second place in a competition for undergraduate book collecters.
But Panetta’s academic work is a far cry from her early vegetation fixations—some 7,200 light-years away, in fact. She is a joint
physics and astrophysics concentrator—“which is distinct from astrophysics and physics, as people will have you know”—and has done research in both fields.
Panetta’s senior thesis centers on experimental condensed matter physics. She’s been researching the topic since the summer before her junior year, which she spent at the University of Cambridge in the U.K.
Her astrophysics research focuses on globular clusters, tightly bound groups of thousands of stars. According to Panetta, stars in the clusters can be billions of years old, making them a useful way to calculate the age of the universe (13.8 billion years).
“People used to think the universe was younger than it was,” Panetta says. “Then they estimated [globular clusters] to be older than the predicted age of the universe and they were like, ‘Well, we might need to reorder.’”
When’s she’s not studying plants or outer space, Panetta spends most of her time working with the Honor Council, a group of faculty and students who review and judge violations of Harvard’s new honor code. A voting member of the Council, Panetta has been involved since its first year in 2015. “We built a lot of the procedures and a lot of the traditions… from scratch,” she says.
In the past, Panetta has found it hard to feel connected to Harvard. “It’s august and it’s large and it’s slow-moving, like a cruise ship,” she says.
The Honor Council presented a solution. “I really enjoy it. That’s odd to say, because it’s not fun dealing with people who are having a crappy time. Either they’ve been accused of something, or they did something. Nobody is happy,” Panetta says. “But the chance to think with empathy and compassion, and do what I can to make the process smooth and transparent and attentive? I like that.”
Though Panetta keeps busy with research and Honor Council, she has fingers in other pies. She reads Latin, and is pursuing a secondary in Classics. She helped found the Harvard College Astrophysical Society. She’s a member of the Harvard Public Opinion Project, the Harvard Political Review, the Harvard-Radcliffe Modern Dance Company, and Alpha Phi.
It’s a tough list to make sense of. Science, politics, science, sisterhood, science, a quiet scarf-clad senior sitting upright, hands folded, in the sun-soaked engineering department cafe—what ties it all together?
Panetta sees an internal logic based in systems and beauty. “Playing in the woods when I was little, I developed this appreciation for how the world fits together, out in nature,” she says. “I think that’s why I study physics. The beauty of describing the natural world as best we can—it’s really compelling.”
Sections
Nwanneka Mariauchenna Nikki” Okwelogu '17 will never forget the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, where she represented Nigeria in shot put.
“To walk into a 100,000-man stadium… I’d never even seen anything that big, let alone being the show, being center stage,” Okwelogu says. “To just see all of the different cultures and all of the different outfits—it was just so cool.”
Okwelogu has also had success competing in shot put and discus for Harvard for the past three years. As she enters her fourth year of competition, Okwelogu boasts four All-American titles, seven All-Ivy League titles, and two Academic All-Ivy League awards. She’s broken and re-broken the Harvard records for women’s indoor and outdoor shot put and women’s discus.
Her favorite place on campus, she says, is “right in front of this record board” on the wall beside the indoor track.
“It’s the thing that I’ve been looking at for the past three years. First it was getting on it, then staying on it, and getting better, you know? Seeing where I was last year and watching myself progress is my favorite part,” she says.
For Okwelogu, a Human Evolutionary Biology concentrator, it can be difficult to balance athletics with a rigorous academic schedule—especially last semester, when she was training for the Olympics. But she managed to pull off straight As, a feat she considers her greatest accomplishment at Harvard so far.
“There wasn’t even a minus anywhere, and I thought it was a mistake!” Okwelogu laughs. “I thought about going to one of my professors because one of my classes in particular, I was like, ‘There’s no way.’... You just never know. You try your best, but you never know.”
She has found a reprieve from the rigor of her academics and athletics in the Harvard Noteables, a show choir she describes as “a little oasis.” 
Before the Noteables, before her multitude of track and field titles, when the Olympics were still a distant dream, Okwelogu and a friend decided to get tattoos together. Okwelogu’s was a small bird with a banner reading “Miles to go.”
“I wanted to put life in perspective and remind myself that there is always more to come,” Okwelogu says. “Nothing is the end of the world.”

Sections
In the days before Title IX, games like drop-the-handkerchief and musical chairs were considered sports at women’s colleges. Anything more would be scandalous—as Diane Crowley, an early coach of women’s field hockey, recalled, “It was barely acceptable to see ladies running, let alone brandishing weapons in the pursuit of a little ball.”
So when Constance M. K. Applebee brought hockey to Radcliffe College, she was considered a radical by many establishment figures at the University. Applebee, an Englishwoman and graduate of the British College of Physical Education, was encouraged to apply to Harvard Summer School by Dudley Allen Sargent, director of the Hemenway Gymnasium.
Applebee registered for a class on Indoor Track, but was disappointed to find that musical chairs was a prominent part of the coursework for women. “We play those games at parties,” one woman recalled her saying. “For exercise we play hockey.”
After receiving permission from a reluctant Dr. Sargent, Applebee and a group of young women staged a field hockey demonstration in Harvard Yard with makeshift sticks and ball. This game was controversial at the time.  “One feels that only a person with Miss Applebee’s qualities could gain access to this famous yard, followed by 22 other ladies armed with clubs,” Crowley later recalled.
Charles Eliot Norton, a popular Harvard lecturer and member of the Class of 1846, expressed concern over the rise of field hockey and other less conservative sports in his 1901 commencement address at Radcliffe. “But there is one form of vulgarity to which you young women are in these days especially susceptible and exposed,” he said. “You are tempted to rival your brothers in sports fit for men alone.”
Applebee, not the type to give in to criticism, stayed in the U.S. to teach hockey at other women’s colleges. In 1901 and 1902, she travelled to Vassar, Smith, Wellesley, Mt. Holyoke, Radcliffe, and Bryn Mawr. Field hockey caught on quickly with the support of female athletic directors at each college, prompting some concern that it would replace another popular new women’s sport—basketball.
Applebee’s colorful personality quickly won over the holdouts—even the basketball fans. One document from the Bryn Mawr archives notes Applebee’s use of a “particular brand of encouragement.” A student recalled her yelling, “Put both claws on your stick, you one-legged turnip.”
After 1904, Applebee stayed at Bryn Mawr as the Director of Outdoor Sports, where she stayed until her retirement in 1929, although she continued to coach informally until her death in 1981 at the age 0f 107.
In spite of her success, women’s athletics at the turn of the century was still unusual. In 1905, 60 percent of the entering class at Bryn Mawr was excused from all physical activity “because of the female complaint.”
Applebee fought against these Victorian ideas of female athletics, which she saw as intimately related to other gender-related concerns. She once told M. Carey Thomas, the female suffragist president of Bryn Mawr, “You want all these students to go out and do something in the world, to get the vote. What’s the good of their having the vote if they’re too ill to use it?”
However, progressive activity in the early 1900s had a darker side beyond women’s suffrage. Eugenics played a large role in the rise of physical education, particularly for women. Dr. Dudley Allen Sargent, who first invited Applebee to the U.S., was a major figure in all these movements.
After graduating from Yale Medical School, Sargent came to Harvard in 1879 as the inaugural director of the Hemenway Gymnasium. He was controversial at first, not because of his advocacy of eugenics, but because of his opposition to football, which in its anarchic early days resulted in many fatalities and injuries among college students. On Nov. 25, 1905 alone, three football players died midgame across the U.S.
Although Sargent failed to receive a full professorship thanks to fierce opposition from football-loving alumni, he spent much of his time researching athletes’ bodies to define what a healthy figure looked like. He produced complex charts, comparing age to lung capacity to “pubic arch height.” These measurements attracted Applebee to Sargent in the first place—their correspondence began after Applebee wrote a letter to Sargent expressing admiration for his work.
At the height of Sargent’s career at Harvard, there was great concern over whether women were “fast assuming the physical proportions and mental characteristics of the man,” as one magazine on physical education reported at the turn of the century. Sargent himself was worried about this. Unlike Norton, though, he saw women’s athletics as a solution rather than a separate problem.
“The failure of past generations to provide for the physical as well as the mental training of women has been to me one of the most unaccountable things in men’s efforts toward human progress,” Sargent once wrote. At the same time, his concerns were hardly geared towards female empowerment. He believed in “strong mothers” to raise the men of a future America. In the same article, he wrote, “Growth in the size of the pelvis must keep pace with growth in the size of the head and both must necessarily accompany a high standard of civilization.”
To be fair, Sargent did believe that the physical and mental education of women was valuable in its own right. But he saw that goal as secondary to motherhood. “It is in the breeding power of women,” Sargent wrote, “not in their voting power that the hopes of the future depend.”
Voices like Sargent’s greatly accelerated the acceptance of women’s athletics in America. The doctors who wrote excuses for the women of Bryn Mawr quickly shifted their attitudes as progressivist eugenics swept across the country.
However, women like Applebee were perhaps even more important. The movement for women’s athletics gained steam quickly after Applebee’s field hockey tour of the Seven Sisters—after only a few years, games went from small gym classes to intercollegiate varsity events.
Shortly after her death, several Bryn Mawr alumni wrote that all female athletes today “can trace their efforts back to this indomitable woman who is remembered by generations of loving and awe-struck students as ‘The Apple.’”
Sections
“I just like opening doors,” Tim E. LaVelle ’17 says as we duck into a dark, narrow passageway in the basement of Eliot House. This tunnel, which opens by the underground art room, is one of many Eliot secrets LaVelle has stumbled upon during his three years in the House.
But unearthing House secrets is far from the only thing LaVelle has done for Eliot. He runs the record room, the recording studio, and the Eliot bike-sharing program, and he’s the official House librarian. If this sounds like a lot, that’s because it is. “At the beginning of the year, it definitely feels like a full-time job” LaVelle says.
LaVelle says that he picked up these jobs naturally over the course of his time in Eliot. The record room, for example, is his favorite place in the House. Tucked away in E entryway, the room is bare yet homey, with only a couch, a shelf lined with records, and a record player. To the tune of Chopin’s Nocturne No. 1, one of his favorite records, LaVelle tells me that he’s reorganized the record collection alphabetically. He’s also started a weekly music listening hour on Wednesdays from 9-10 p.m.
LaVelle has been interested in music since high school, when he learned to play the saxophone, and views listening hour as a way to share his passion with others. Each week, he and an Eliot tutor put together program notes on a few classical pieces and listen with about 10 students over cheese and crackers. “If people know about the history of the pieces and a little bit of the music, it becomes much more approachable,” he says.
LaVelle started working as Eliot’s librarian in the beginning of his junior year. His work involves mostly re-shelving, but the appeal was “just the knowledge,” he says. He shows me two famous biographies of Charles Eliot that he describes as “the fountain of all [his] facts.” LaVelle hasn’t finished the books, but to a Charles Eliot rookie like me, his knowledge seems encyclopedic. LaVelle offers me his best Charles Eliot facts: Eliot was the longest serving and youngest president of Harvard, and he tried to buy MIT five times.
“I just like doing lots of different things,” LaVelle says, when I ask him how he picked up his other Eliot jobs. This attitude defines not only his roles in Eliot but also his course of study: LaVelle is a joint concentrator in Bioengineering and German. He picked Bioengineering because “it has a real breadth of information” and chose German serendipitously; he took it for the first time to complete his language requirement. LaVelle has spent the last two summers working in Germany and hopes to return after graduation.
Despite a rigorous academic schedule and so many Eliot responsibilities, LaVelle is also acting in a German play called “Hin und Her” (“Hither and Fro”) about border politics, and is the captain of the club broomball team. But, LaVelle admits, “If I’m going to be honest, I’m known as the Eliot man.”
This is a title LaVelle embraces, but as graduation nears, it’s one he’ll have to give up. LaVelle reassures me that Eliot will continue to run smoothly—he has students lined up to take over his many jobs. As for him, leaving Eliot will “be a big change, no doubt,” he says. “I have jobs, and I run rooms, but in reality it’s for the people. I’ll miss the people.”
Sections
If it were possible to trap a free spirit in a human body, the end result would be Luke C. Mendola ’17.
He tells me he likes spontaneity, so perhaps that’s why he asked if we could have our conversation on Weeks Foot Bridge on a Wednesday at 9 p.m. More likely, however, he didn’t even really think about the strangeness of the setting, because when I joke about it, he laughs and responds simply: “I like being outside.”
Mendola, who plays defense for the men’s lacrosse team, lives simply, too. Last year, he decided to downgrade from his iPhone to a Motorola flip phone, which he did in part to unplug from social media, but mostly just to talk to more people.
“If I’m lost somewhere, I can’t look at my phone, so I’m forced to interact with people, and say, ‘Yo, where’s this or that.’” Mendola explains. “Even interacting with strangers, it’s so important to try to brighten someone’s day or say ‘What’s up’ to someone you don’t know, that’s what keeps me going through the day. There’s definitely a feedback loop of positivity.”
To understand Mendola’s commitment to positive interactions with strangers, just  ask him about his childhood home in Ithaca, N.Y., a place to which he still feels very connected. Mendola enjoyed spontaneity even then, and, together with the nine other neighborhood kids that made up his posse, would create wacky games, usually out of a desire to “break the monotony of the day.” He recalls taking an old refrigerator box and setting it up on a busy street corner with his friends. One of them would hide under the box with one walkie-talkie, while the rest hid in the nearby bushes with the other. “And every time someone walked by we would yell ‘Go, now!’ in the walkie talkie, and he would shake it and scare the crap out of people. We were like nine years old at the time. It was absurd.” Mendola says, with a smile that suggests little remorse. 
Now, 13 years later, Mendola still keeps things interesting. He carries around a case of eight harmonicas in different keys everywhere he goes, a habit he picked up one summer at camp, where he felt that bonfires lacked a critical musical component. Mendola acknowledges the lack of bonfires around Harvard’s campus, but says his harmonicas still come in handy.
“I bring harmonicas with me wherever I go because you never know,” he says. “There’s been live music here, and I’ve hopped up on stage and [asked] if I could play along or rip a solo.”
Mendola said that when he took up the harmonica, his friends “strongly disliked” his playing, but as he got better, his music quickly became a fixture in their gatherings.
During his time at Harvard, Mendola has also become something of a fixture in his home of Kirkland House. There, not only is he known as the star of a recent Kirkland House Drama Society play, but also as ‘Luke with no plates.’ He stopped using plates in the dining hall at the beginning of his sophomore year, and explains his reasoning to me with a well-honed system of four pillars: “The first pillar is that the tray is just one big plate. The second pillar is that you have to live simply and… all a plate does is separate my food from the other plate… and it provides clutter. The third is, I was dishwasher for a couple summers, and after experiencing that, I would rather just slap off the couple remnants from my tray and throw that in the dishwasher instead of using several plates. And fourth, it’s better for the environment—less plates, less water, less use of resources.”
Mendola’s plan for the future is also structured on “less.” In the short-term, he plans to return to his childhood camp this summer, where he has been a camper-turned-staffer for 15 years. For the long term, though, Mendola is as breezy as the bridge we stand on: “I’ll be poor for the rest of my life as long as I’m making a positive impact on other people’s lives and having fun. That’s what really counts.”
Sections
“I’m not naturally a funny person,” Karen Chee ’17 says.
I’m not convinced. Chee is president of the improv troupe the Immediate Gratification Players (IGP), the founder of “SKETCH,” a comedy show that now runs every spring, and a former intern at “Full Frontal with Samantha Bee” and “The Late Show” with Stephen Colbert, where she appeared on camera one night alongside Keegan-Michael Key.
“I was never the class clown [in high school,]” Chee continues. “But I really wanted to learn how to craft and write comedy, and the willingness I put into in doing that showed me that this was something I was really interested in.” 
As a child, Chee wasn’t allowed to watch television “pretty much ever,” with the exception of Arthur and PBS Kids on the weekends. But she was exposed to humor nonetheless. “I grew up laughing a lot,” she says. “My mom has a big laugh... you can hear it from rooms away, and I grew up listening to that and loving it.”
Chee’s big revelation came at age 13, when she stumbled upon “The Office” and “The Colbert Report.”  She remembers researching the shows’ actors and writers, and discovering other comedy shows that way. After learning that Chee planned to pursue comedy, her mother, who grew up speaking Korean and for whom American comedy was foreign, became an “Office” devotee as well.
“She knew that if this was something I was interested in and wanted to do, she wanted to understand, too,” Chee says.
Chee’s favorite Office character? Mose Schrute, a cousin of a major character who seldom actually appears on the show.
Michael Schur ’97, the performer who played Mose, has worked on “The Office,” “Parks and Rec,” and “Brooklyn Nine-Nine.” His is the comedic career Chee says she admires the most.
“The reasons I love his work so much is that he uses his comedy to celebrate friendship and love and supporting each other,” Chee says. “I love when comedy is positive... as opposed to comedy that brings people down and makes fun of people.”
This philosophy mirrors Chee’s own approach to comedy at Harvard, where she has led efforts to create spaces for minority students to participate in comedy.
Last year, along with her friend (and one of 2016’s Fifteen Most Interesting Seniors) Sierra Katow, she organized “The Other Comedy Show,” which featured comedians of color alongside two “token white males." 
“It can be a little intimidating to enter a space where nobody looks like you—it just sort of feels like there isn’t really room for you,” Chee says, though she notes that the various Harvard groups she’s been involved with have always been welcoming.
Now that Chee helps lead many of these organizations, she says she’s conscious of including minority students during comp and audition processes.
“I try to make sure that people who might feel intimidated or awkward or uncomfortable to be there feel comfortable,” she says. “If you have the ability to make room for people, you absolutely should... That’s an obligation I feel as a minority student.”
Before she graduates, Chee hopes to host a pop-up show featuring only women.
“I thought it would be great to have a space that was all about celebrating women and hearing them and giving a platform for them to do their thing,” she says.
In addition to performing, Chee writes comedy. She’s been published in The New Yorker, McSweeney’s, and CollegeHumor, among other publications.
“Writing is very solitary—it’s just me alone in my room and there’s not really a pressure to be funny immediately,” she explains. To practice her writing, Chee often turns to Twitter.
“Now I have more than, like, two followers so it’s nice to see what jokes land and which don’t,” she says.
Chee concentrates in History and Literature (following in the path of the comedian Conan O’Brien ’85). Her senior thesis focuses on Asian American satire in the 1920s and ’30s. Chee says her work is focused “on learning about these people and these stories and how they reflect the time period.”
If comedy doesn’t work out, Chee will fall back to a similarly ancient profession: agriculture. “I used to joke with my friends that I would drop out of school and become a farmer in rural Scotland, so now I’m imagining that I would graduate and then become a farmer in rural Scotland,” she explains. Chee spent a summer working at a farm in rural France, until she was kicked off and had to hitchhike her way back to Paris.
But given her success so far, we don’t expect to see her returning to the plow anytime soon.
Sections
In the summer of 2015, at a campsite in eastern Oregon, Rachel L. Hampton ’17 woke each morning at 5:30 a.m. As the sun peeked above the horizon and the desert around her sprang to life, she would sprint through the dry western wilderness, training for her upcoming cross country season.
When she returned to the campsite, she would strip off her running shoes and strap on her gloves. She had work to do: For eight to 14 hours daily, she worked alongside a Stanford Ph.D. student—examining rocks, collecting samples, charting data—to study the oldest Yellowstone volcano.
“That was it. I just fell in love [with geology],” Hampton gushes. “I was like, ‘This is what I’m supposed to do.’ I’ve never had more fun. I’ve never felt more fulfilled.”
In the Harvard Museum of Natural History, surrounded by scores of colorful rocks in shiny glass cases, Hampton traces her passion for volcanoes back to her childhood in the mountains of Telluride, Colo. “I just always marveled at the power of nature through volcanoes and their ability to just totally turn society upside down,” Hampton says. “I think that really always spoke to me.”
Hampton disputes the idea that geology is boring. “We’re historians,” she says. “We’re just historians of the earth and of deep space and time.” 
Hampton’s path to Oregon began in the fall of her freshman year, when she got lost on the way to a class she had planned to shop in the Science Center. She found herself in “How to Build a Habitable Planet.” Geochemist Charles H. Langmuir ’72 was delivering a lecture about the Big Bang.
Hampton was hooked. By the end of shopping week, she had enrolled in the class. By the end of the academic year, she had declared a concentration in Earth and Planetary Sciences. By the end of the summer, she had travelled to Hawaii with her fellow concentrators on a department-funded trip.
“I’ve touched lava in Hawaii. With a hammer, not with my bare hands—that would be intense,” she says. “When you see those sorts of things, that’s when you really get a sense [of] how amazing this planet is... and how little we actually know about the place where we live.”
Within her concentration, Hampton has carved out a focus in volcanology, a field for which her department does not currently offer courses. She has pieced together a specialized curriculum by crafting an independent study class, taking a field camp course in Idaho, and penning a thesis about Boston’s ancient volcanoes.
“I’ve learned pretty much everything I know either on my own or from just talking to professors, not through a class, which has actually been a really cool way to learn in that it’s entirely just because I’m interested in this,” Hampton says. “I love volcanoes.” 
When Hampton is not studying nature, she is racing through it. Recruited to Harvard as a skier, she balanced three athletic seasons—cross country in the fall, skiing in the winter, track in the spring—throughout her first three years of college. “The hardest part was being involved with both teams and not losing contact with either team when I wasn’t in season with them,” Hampton says. “I’d practice with one team most of the time wherever I was in season but try to do one or two practices with the other team.”
In her senior year, Hampton, the captain of Harvard’s skiing team, has bowed out of cross country and track to devote herself solely to her winter sport. She has competed twice at the NCAA Skiing Championships and hopes to return this year. “[Skiing is] just the ultimate test of my athletic ability every time I get out there,” she says. “It really pushes me to my limits... It’s humbled me.”
The first snow of the year fell on Hampton’s birthday last month—a gift from mother nature. “[Skiers] might be the only people on campus who are excited that it’s snowing right now,” she quips.
Her collegiate athletic career may be nearing its end, but her ambitions in volcanology are just getting started. She plans to pursue a Ph.D. in the field. Her degree might lead her to become a professor, to work for the United States Geological Survey, or to enter a career in scientific journalism. “I really personally love the research process,” she says. “I think it’s really rewarding—the fact that you can take a problem that nobody understands and nobody knows about and you can figure it out. You can understand more about the earth than anyone’s ever understood before.”
And Hampton is not slowing down anytime soon. After just three weeks of training, she ran her first marathon in Providence, R.I., in May, clocking in at three hours and 11 minutes. That time qualified her for the Boston Marathon, which she will run alongside her father in 2017.
“I think I’ll probably be done with really high-level competition after this season, but I can’t just stop doing these sports,” she says. “They’ve been such a big part of my life. I think I will keep running—maybe run marathons or keep doing fun races. Something like that, that keeps me in touch with the sport but is just for me.” 
Sections
In 2014, in a video interview with The Crimson, then-Undergraduate Council presidential candidate Luke R. Heine ’17 was asked to name his spirit animal.
“I’ve been told I look like a golden retriever, which generally comes through when I run, because I usually have a weird facial gesture or am laughing while I’m running,” Heine said at the time.
After running with Heine by the Charles two years later, I can confirm his answer. With his mop of floppy blond hair, his bobbing gait, and his complete and utter lack of cynicism, there is something undeniably retriever-esque about him. A former cross country runner, Heine uses runs like these as rewards for studying.
“I’ll do a lot of work, and then go on a run to treat myself,” he says. 
Heine (hey-nee, not high-nee, though “it’s a lot like jazz; you say it how you like it”) is perhaps best known on campus for his unsuccessful upstart 2014 campaign for Undergraduate Council President, characterized by whimsy and frequent public violations of the UC’s elections regulations. His campaign was fined $15 dollars, for instance, for replacing dining hall bulletins with versions watermarked with his campaign logo.
“Slap us in the cuffs. I’ll serve my time,” Heine said at the time.
Heine’s CV reads a little like the Dos Equis man’s. He has delivered a keynote address in Amsterdam, visited Copenhagen at the behest of his Danish heiress ex-girlfriend, and run the 180 miles to Canada from his native Minnesota, just for the hell of it.
Heine created the Summer Playbook, a website that collects and shares information about where fellow college students are spending their summers. He also created the Harvard College Midwest Club and the Fair Opportunity Project, a free college admissions guide distributed first in the midwest and then nationwide. He has worked for eBay, applied for a patent, and run the Boston Marathon.
Though Heine’s numerous projects may have little in common to the casual observer, he sees a certain coherence. 
“When you look back upon it all, it’s clear that there was some sort of similarity in terms of how it was creative, how it’s enterprising,” he says. “I think it goes to one of my favorite quotes, which is a Navajo saying: ‘Life can only be lived forward, and understood backward.’”
In fact, Heine is quite the fan of sayings. And analogies.
Choosing a concentration? It’s “a lot like knowing who you want to marry.... [You] need to go on dates, you need to get your heart broken, you need to break some hearts sometimes.”
Leaving the country for the first time as a high school senior, for a college visit to Singapore? Like “taking a dried coconut and just throwing it on the cement floor.”
Looking back on his time at Harvard? “You’re given this pantry of ingredients. How do you recombine them creatively to create a tasty dish? How do you make something cool out of it?”
Sections
LENA K. FELTON ’17, Chair
I’ve always suspected that Lena K. Felton is a secret party goddess. I don’t know exactly where this theory comes from. Maybe it’s that little twinkle in her eye. Maybe it’s that little bounce in her step. Maybe it’s the eight gajillion party pics on Facebook. You look great, Lena.
But: my theory can’t be true. After all, last spring FM hosted two Bachelor wine nights, and Lena did not attend either one. That’s right: 0 for 2. Where were you on the evenings of Feb. 27 and March 5, Lena? And don’t even get me started on poker night. It’s fine, though. It’s fine.
Other things I know about Lena: She knows how to write a kickass scrut. She knows how to edit a kickass scrut (heh). She knows how to use InDesign. She knows how to guide FM with a light and well-manicured hand. Lena Felton, you have been a gift to this magazine. Thank you for your time and your love.
But don’t just take it from me:
“When I turned back to my room the place seemed much pleasanter than before. Lena had left something warm and friendly in the lamplight.”
––Willa S. Cather, “My Antonia.”
P.S. Lena’s puppet is the only one with pants. Does this mean that the other puppets are naked, or just that the puppet world is pants-optional?
––Laura E. Hatt
MAIA R. SILBER ’17, Chair
The first time I spoke to Maia, we were standing in a cavernous underground freezer full of books. I was a lowly first-year writer fresh off my first scrut; she a golden-haired FM veteran with an apparently boundless capacity for eloquence.
“I really liked your scrut,” she said, shivering in the artificial chill of the Harvard Depository.
“Thanks,” I said, internally screaming.
Maia and I have spoken many times since then, often in book-filled environments, often about scruts, rarely in temperature-controlled modular media storage units. The feelings of fangirl-y awe that I experienced in our first conversation have never really faded, and with good reason.
As Maia ascended the FM throne, I came to love this quirky, archives-obsessed human, and deeply respect her editing prowess. I’ve watched her passionately defend usage of the word “whom,” become disproportionately excited about crossword puzzles, and adorably misunderstand pop culture references. I’ve watched her marshal an army of writers and make the tough choices her job requires with grace. But I know that Maia’s best accomplishments—her most powerful writing, her boldest leadership, her most fashionable sunglasses—are all ahead of her. I can’t wait to see what they are.
—Emma K. Talkoff
LAURA E. HATT ’18, Chair 
Oh, lovely, lovely Laura. She’s lovelier than the following things: drinking steamed milk in front of a roaring fire, the smell of jasmine bloom in California in the spring, and brown paper packages tied up in string. (You’re right. I didn’t make that last one up, but they are lovely, and “string” rhymes with “spring.”)
The nicest Canadian you’ll ever meet, Laura also produces some of the loveliest language in all of the land. I don’t doubt that she has the writing skills, people skills, and design skills (via her close relationship to one of our star designers (just kidding!) to make this magazine as lovely as can be next year.
In all seriousness, Laura is one of the most competent, empathetic, and gifted people I’ve seen walk through this newsroom. And, in all seriousness, I’m still wondering how she manages to keep her hair looking so darn lovely during long nights at production. Laura—before I leave, tell me your ways!
—Lena K. Felton ’17
EMMA K. TALKOFF ’18, Chair 
Like me, Emma’s a worrier. She worries about the articles she writes. She worries about the articles she edits. I think sometimes she worries about trending articles on The Huffington Post, such as “A Lot of Women Are Shaving their Faces. Here’s What You Need to Know.” (Well, perhaps that’s a legitimate cause for concern.)
Here’s the not-so-secret truth: Emma worries because she cares. Whether she’s investigating Harvard’s sexual assault policies or profiling the NCAA’s first transgender swimmer, she approaches her subjects with sensitivity, thoughtfulness, and profound empathy. And whether she’s guiding a new writer through her first reported article, or chasing commas late on a Tuesday night, she employs these same qualities as an editor.
Emma, you’ll have plenty to worry about as Magazine Chair: writers who miss deadlines, sources who don’t call back, and printers that mysteriously malfunction. I hope that you won’t let the stress get to you, but I know that your close attention to both prose and people will serve this magazine well.
So, no worries, Emma: You’ll be great.
­­­—Maia R. Silber ’17
JOSHUA A. GOLDSTEIN ’17, Editor-at-Large
We’re pretty sure they assigned two of us to say farewell to Josh because he’s around so infrequently it’s going to take two pools of memories to stretch this to 150 words. Josh knows his fair share about stretching: We’ve never seen someone so optimistic about how far a six-pack of PBR will go towards inebriating a party of 20 people.
Josh likes to make statements. Sometimes, it’s wearing a power suit to a casual meeting. Other times, it’s naming Andrew as his favorite comper—in front of the rest of the compers.
Honestly, we can probably write whatever we want here; it’s not like Josh reads our magazine anyway. He’s much too busy quietly being one of the sweetest, smartest, and quite frankly, sexiest men that we know. So farewell Josh, we’ll miss catching you up on the pitch we discussed eight minutes ago, but hopefully our four feet will fit into the big shoes you’ve left to fill.
—Andrew W. Badinelli ’18 and Ben G. Cort ’18
MOLLY E. WHARTON ’17, Editor-at-Large
FM already has a cool factor. But Molly E. Wharton ’17 ups it considerably. Whether she is overseeing mixers, chiming in at exec meeting, or setting up shop at production, Molly brings a real spirit of coolness to just about everything she does and every place she goes. FM will remain cool next year, but its cool factor will surely suffer a little without Molly’s presence at 14P.
Molly has served as a staple of FM for as long as I can remember. She must have been a talented Comp Director because some pretty swell writers came out of her comps. And I know she was an able Editor-at-Large because some pretty swell pitches came out of this year. FM will miss her firm opinions and get-the-job-done attitude in the year ahead.
—Emily B. Zauzmer ’18
BEN G. CORT ’18 AND ANDREW W. BADINELLI ’18, Editors-at-Large
I’ve tried writing my parting piece to you, Ben & Andrew, three times now. Each time I look at the 150 words and find them inadequate. Wholly inadequate. To describe Ben & Andrew is a daunting task; no man or woman has done it well thus far.
As people, Ben and Andrew have glorious souls. As a unit, Ben & Andrew transcends all FM categories. It is a magical combination of George and Theodore.
Orwell’s language—never a dull metaphor because your brains don’t work like others. (They’re different, and that’s rad.) And never the imprecise language that riddles the classroom, because you write from the heart and not from some preconceived notion of what an article should look like. (That’s pretty swag too.)
And Roosevelt’s drive. Y’all know how to live life. Ben & Andrew is not just about FM, though it does manifest itself on our pages almost every Thursday. Ben & Andrew is about finding enjoyment in the routine, turning a meal in the dhall into wackiness on a page. If Josh has one piece of advice, it’s keep that going. Keep doing your thing. Keep the category in FM and keep the lifestyle for the rest of your days. Kumbaya, my friends: Y’all make the world a better place.
—Joshua A. Goldstein ’17
EMILY B. ZAUZMER ’18,  Editor-at-Large
I always knew E. Zauz was something special. But the night I proofed her endpaper about how she makes famous paintings out of cakes, I realized she was straight legend.
The only folk-and-myth concentrator I will probably ever know, Emily has been an invaluable member of our exec team this past year. She brings an unimaginable amount if excitement and energy to production—usually more than I’m prepared for. Whereas our outgoing chair Maia would be hard-pressed to define a “Kardashian,” celeb-whiz and former “People” intern Emily keeps FM in touch with pop culture. She is also, of course, a beautiful writer and thoughtful editor.
Thus, I am honored to pass the Editor-at-Large torch to Emily. I know she has some big ideas for the job, and I’m so excited to see what she can accomplish.
—Molly E. Wharton ’17
Sections
“There’s such a limited amount of time to try things and just explore. That’s something that’s always been a bummer to me: that there’s not more time to just do everything,” Yunhan Xu ’17 says with a touch of exasperation.
Xu has spent her time at Harvard straddling the worlds of STEM and art. As a statistics concentrator with a secondary in computer science, Xu enjoys pursuits that allow her to bring a creative perspective to typically mathematical fields. 
Xu began doing so her freshman year, when she worked as a research-assistant for Tadashi Tokieda at the Radcliffe Institute of Advanced Study. She helped Tokieda examine objects and toys that teach children—as well as adults—basic physics and math principles.
“[Tokieda] has been able to so seamlessly and cleverly combine all these things that he’s so passionate about,” Xu says. “That’s what I’m trying to do—exactly.”
Xu explores her artistic side through blind contouring, a sketching technique in which she only looks at the subject and never the paper.
“Your drawing will always be strangely more honest, in a way,” Xu says. She gestures to the stack of index cards she brought in preparation for our interview. “I would consider myself a more type-A personality. I don’t know if you could tell by the notes,” Xu says with a laugh. “Something about this type of drawing is that you have to… lean into imprecision and rely on intuition, because you’re not going to know how the drawing looks until you look down. So I feel like that’s helped me become less tense and excessive.” 
Though Xu considers blind contouring simply a hobby, she illustrated a textbook  on experimental design for David Glass, a senior lecturer at Harvard Medical School. She has also designed album covers and logos for various friends.
Xu finds that her art complements her scientific endeavors. “I think what I enjoy about pursuits that combine STEM and art is that one will provide you with a unique perspective on the other,” Xu says. “You’ll be able to come up with new insights about things that people within the field have looked at for a long time.”
Xu also has an extensive knowledge of rap and hip-hop. She’s contributed hundreds of comments to the lyric annotation site, Genius, which allows her to “annotate [a song] in the same way you’d annotate a book.”
When asked to name her favorite rapper, Xu sits in silence, thinking. “Oh no, this is so hard. Could I actually get back to you on that?” she asks. Later, Xu writes in an email that, after much deliberation, she has decided on her all-time favorite hip-hop group: A Tribe Called Quest.
Xu spends most of her time, however, annotating books rather than rap lyrics. She is working on using her technological skills at the Library Innovation Lab to solve the problem of link rot, which occurs when a URL points to a broken page. It’s problem for librarians, newspapers, and legal systems alike. This past summer she worked at Google Books, which she counts as “the ultimate digital library.”
Xu credits her love of libraries to her passion to “make sure that knowledge is preserved for future generations.”
“It never fails to boggle my mind that you can read anything for free via public libraries,” Xu says. “My dream job when I was younger was to be a librarian. The books that we did have, I would stamp them.”
Xu will continue to work at Google next year. There, she’ll continue bringing a creative perspective to technical work.
“I really enjoy collaborating with people, other artistic people, and drawing in a way that helps other people or contributes something meaningful or useful,” Xu says. “I’ll just keep doing that on the side for now. We’ll see what happens.” 
Sections
Whitney Hansen ’17 says she only speaks two languages: Italian and English.
But seated across from her at a picnic table in the BioLabs courtyard, I have to disagree. Hansen isn’t looking at me­—her eyes are trained upwards, towards the engraved animals that rim the courtyard’s inner walls.
These are not the familiar denizens of the barnyard. I don’t recognize a single species. Yet Hansen navigates the frieze of wildlife without a hitch.
“There’s all these awesome species up here, and actually, one of my favorites, the maned wolf, is up here, and no one knows what it is,” she says. “See, there it is, it’s right next to the guanaco.”
She points toward something vaguely resembling a fox, nestled adjacent to something that looks a little like a llama.
Hansen, an Integrative Biology concentrator, can’t remember when or how she fell in love with animals. Maybe it began with her childhood dog, “the coolest... on the planet, ever.” Or maybe it was just a function of growing up in Northern California, the home of conservationist John Muir, and a place where “we protect salmon more than we care about people getting water.”
Now, Hansen, who hopes to pursue a career in conservation, is fighting to save the animals she loves. As a sophomore, she co-founded the Harvard College Conservation Society, which works to promote sustainable development, wildlife protection, ecotourism, and environmental conservation. Next year, she plans to research climate change-induced animal migration in Trentino, Italy, before applying to Oxford University’s Wildlife Conservation Research Unit, a Ph.D. program focused on solving conservation problems.
When Hansen first registered the fledgling organization, the conservation society had exactly 10 members: herself, her blockmates, her brother, her brother’s girlfriend, and a few of her then-teammates from the women’s varsity volleyball team.  After four semesters of  Hansen “slaving” over the club, the conservation society boasts more than 20 members. Hansen says founding and growing HCCS has been among her proudest accomplishments at Harvard.
Another was her decision to quit the volleyball team at the end of her sophomore fall. Hansen recalls crying as she stood in front of her teammates, explaining that she had to leave. The choice, she says, stemmed from conflicting desires: Hansen badly wanted to keep playing volleyball, but she wanted to “make an impact” with the club more. Though she is fiercely proud of her resolve in retrospect, she remembers the decision as a “really tough” one.
Another dark moment came on Nov. 8 of this year, when Donald Trump claimed the presidency and shocked the nation. As she watched the election results stream in, Hansen says her “environmentally-minded” friends worried about the impact Trump’s presidency might have on the environment.
Weeks later, her unease has sharpened to fear. “Obviously, Trump has been going back and forth, but he seems to be consistent with selecting the top climate-change denier [Myron Ebell] to the head of the Environmental Protection Agency,” she says. “This is really concerning, because now my field might not become a preventative thing, but a mitigating damage thing. We’re all really scared.”
Hansen’s gaze flicks momentarily to the maned wolf, classified as a “threatened” species since 2008. With effort, she returns to the present and gives a clipped laugh. “This isn’t supposed to be political, whoops.”
I ask what she does for fun, and Hansen laughs again—a real laugh, this time. “Let’s remember, let’s think back to free time,” she says. Hansen doesn’t have much. In addition to serving as president of the conservation society, she is co-president of Harvard’s pre-veterinary school society and recently began researching population genetics in a lab on campus. She also helps run the all-female acapella group the Harvard Fallen Angels.
In her fleeting spare time, Hansen says, she has been learning the ukulele and teaching her boyfriend how to play piano. Sometimes, the pair sings duets. Otherwise, Hansen loves to gather her friends and share a bottle of red wine—but only if she can pick the vintage. “I’m from Northern California, so I know what good wine tastes like,” she says. “That sounded really snobby, but it’s the truth.”
I am about to leave when Hansen remembers another hobby. “I think I dress really well,” she says, noting that she regrets not wearing one of her fedoras to the interview. I ask if she’s ever entered The Harvard Shop’s campus-wide “Best Dressed” contest.
“No,” she says. “I don’t need a title to know what I am.”
Sections
In April of 2014, Molly K. Finlayson ’17 visited the home of a woman in a suburban Ukrainian apartment building. For Finlayson, a Mormon who had left Harvard after her freshman year to complete missionary work along the Ukraine-Russia border, the visit began routinely enough: As Finlayson and her companion introduced themselves, the woman showed them around her apartment, telling them about the art on her walls.
But soon, images on the TV in the next room distracted Finlayson. She saw the square she walked past almost daily, but this time it was full of opposing waves of protesters intercut with images of chaos in the Ukrainian parliament.
A few weeks earlier, Finlayson had began to notice signs of unrest. Protesters were starting to congregate in larger numbers near the metro stop she took to church, eventually setting up tents and fires. Without access to internet or international calls, Finlayson could only snatch at rumors of the larger political situation.
Then, one morning as she was helping an elderly man take the bus to church, she caught a radio report. Soldiers had fired on protesters in a square in Kiev. “I remember thinking I never thought I’d find myself in a country where they’d be killing their own citizens,” Finlayson says.
After that report and the violence in the local square, things happened quickly. Finlayson and her companion were told they would be evacuated within 36 hours. The next night, they were on one of the last trains out of the city.
Even before political unrest came to a head, life during the mission had been far from easy. Finlayson started each morning at 6:30 a.m. with exercise, scripture, and Russian study, and spent the day teaching English, working on service projects, and approaching Ukrainians on the street, in their homes, or at pre-arranged sessions to speak about her faith. The work felt thankless at times—in a rough economy exacerbated by corruption and political instability, many Ukrainians, says Finlayson, could only spare time for more immediate day-to-day concerns. It was difficult to determine whether Finlayson, who seems pained by the thought of not helping others, was making much impact at all.
“There were a lot of long, dark nights knocking on doors,” she says. “Growing up and being at a place like Harvard, you’re used to getting very clear results from your efforts, like, ‘Oh look, you got an A,’ or ‘You’re going to States,’ or ‘Here’s your score.’”
In Kiev, Finlayson says, “nothing was really measured, and I felt like I was putting in so much effort and seeing very little of what the expected output would be.”
Still, when it came time to leave the country and all its challenges and opportunities, Finlayson found herself overwhelmed with a desire to stay, to try to find ways to help.
“I was worried about the people that I had been working with,” Finlayson says. One woman of Russian descent told Finlayson that she was afraid her neighbors might turn on her if war broke out; a man asked fearfully if the authorities who had decided to evacuate Finlayson knew of impending chaos. Despite the hardships she had faced in Ukraine, Finlayson says, leaving was by far the most difficult part of the trip.
Half a world away in California, Finlayson continued her mission and found new ways to do meaningful work. She helped out in a food pantry, and found a community more open to talking about Mormonism—albeit one with its own diverse set of challenges and struggles. The new environment was a stark contrast to Ukraine, but in some ways a welcome respite. In Ukraine, Finlayson joked, she was usually the only one smiling, but California was different. “I’ve lost my edge, I’m not the smiliest person anymore,” she laughs.
The return to Harvard brought its own adjustments, too. Used to the routine and single-minded focus of mission work, Finlayson found herself temporarily overwhelmed by the possibilities of campus life.
“I hadn’t been thinking about me in a year and a half,” she says. “The whole time I was on my mission, it was like, ‘What can I best do to help the people I’m working with, how can I best use my time?’ I didn’t know how to sort out what I was interested in anymore.”
Returning to old loves—books and violin and the outdoors—has helped. She’s immersed herself in her studies—Finlayson will graduate in December with a concentration in History and Literature and an East Asian Studies secondary—and gotten more involved with the Mormon community on campus, which she says has become like a family.
Ukraine isn’t far from her thoughts, though. Finlayson imagines someday returning to the country, walking with her parents along the dirt roads that became so familiar over her time on the mission, “just to have them see what’s there.” And though the months she spent abroad were incredibly difficult, the impressions which linger are overwhelmingly positive.
Sections
“I’m allergic to cats, but not if they’re cooked,” Devon M. Guinn ’17 tells me.
I gape. Guinn smiles. “When I started to find my voice, I enjoyed making absurd one-liners,” he says. “Things that aren’t true and don’t make any sense... Of course I’m not going to cook a cat! I’ve never tried cat.”
His comedy career may have begun with “absurd one-liners,” but today Guinn is a versatile performer. Lately, he’s been experimenting with talking about personal experiences in short story form. “I’m super short, so I talk about that sometimes,” he says. “My doctor, for years, told me I was going to be 5’9”. I’m 5’2”. One year he was just like, ‘Yeah, I think you’re done, buddy.’” Guinn was forced to adjust.
Apparently, this kind of flexibility is crucial in stand-up. “The best joke in the world isn’t going to hit every time,” Guinn says, shrugging. “There are things you can do to figure out whether or not it’s going to be funny or work in certain contexts. For me, and the stand-up club, we write jokes and run them by each other to figure out how we can tighten it—take out as many words as possible and get the same thing across.”
When it comes to workshopping, Guinn knows what he’s talking about. He’s co-president of the Harvard Stand-Up Comic Society and has served as executive producer of On Harvard Time.
Guinn took on the OHT leadership role during the group’s first year working without a studio. “For so many years we had a studio and really solid branding... It was a well-oiled machine,” Guinn says. “When we lost the studio, it made the club change completely.”
Undeterred, Guinn set a goal of increasing the number of videos produced each week, placing greater emphasis on sketches and adding interviews with comedians like Keegan-Michael Key. In the process, the group made some of its most successful “man on the street” videos ever.
Guinn says the experience shaped him. The year in which OHT lost its studio “was definitely a tough year,” but Guinn says he “learned a lot about how to see a project through from start to finish.” He also learned about collaboration.
“I think I maybe went into On Harvard Time as somewhat of a control freak, wanting to write my stuff or direct something and have it turn out exactly as I wanted,” Guinn says. “But it’s always going to be better to get other people’s opinions, especially because you’re not going to be the only person watching the video or listening to the jokes. It’s the same in the Stand-Up Comic Society. I can write a joke that I think is incredibly funny, but it may be that I’m the only person who’ll think it’s funny.”
Guinn has also ventured outside comedy. Encouraged by his grandmother, a retired ballerina, and his grandfather, a retired opera singer, Guinn was a serious pianist in his youth, and attributes his comfort on stage today to “some terrible flops playing piano.”
“I got hardened to feeling like a failure on stage so I’m not really that worried about it now,” Guinn says.
While Guinn’s confidence on stage is key to his success as a comedian, it is equally central to his other passion: beatboxing. Guinn is a competitive beatboxer—he placed in the top 10 in the Midwest Beatbox Battle, and was the winner of the 2015 Boston Urban Elixir Beatbox Battle.
“One of my passions is trying to push beatboxing past being some vocal-percussion, hip-hop art form and turning it into mouth music,” Guinn says. He has worked to ensure that Harvard keeps up with the beatboxing scene outside of Cambridge, working as a student coordinator for the Office of the Arts to host some of the biggest names in beatboxing for a workshop. Guinn also spent eight months planning events for a week-long residency with Reeps One, who he says is “arguably one of the most famous, important, and talented beatboxers in the world right now.”
Post-graduation, Guinn plans to continue sharing his love for the arts. “Right now, there is no notation for beatboxing. I am working with a company called humanbeatbox.com on trying to create a beatboxing archive of sounds and beats,” he says. “I want to spend time with them after college to create this archive to teach beatboxing.”
Sections
When I interview Jonathan S. Roberts ’17, we sit on the floor, cross-legged. The space buzzes with the dull hum of lunch hour: dress shoes and sensible heels tap past us, in and out of the building. The lobby of 124 Mount Auburn St.—an office building for University employees—may seem like an odd choice for Roberts’s favorite spot on campus, but it’s a meaningful one.
“Being in here right now, I still feel a lot of the energy,” Roberts says. He’s referring to the last time he sat in this spot: About a month ago, Roberts and more than 100 supporters packed this same lobby for seven hours, cheering and singing in solidarity with Harvard’s dining workers.
“It was one of the few moments in my entire time here where I felt like there was so much student support around something that I truly care about,” Roberts says. “Looking at our workloads and the ways that we work within academics and within social spaces it’s very difficult to get some… sense of unity.”
For Roberts, an organizer with Harvard’s Student Labor Action Movement, activism extends from picket lines to the classroom. He’s pursuing a special concentration in organizational behavior, which means he studies the nuts and bolts of social movements: how activist groups maintain membership, and how protest work transforms its participants, both individually and collectively.
“For me, it’s about more than just creating a movement,” Roberts says. “It’s about sustaining a movement.”
Harvard’s activism scene certainly differs from others that Roberts has observed. He spent the summer in Santiago, Chile, researching a student-led movement for education reform that began more than 15 years ago.
At the first rally he attended in Chile, Roberts found himself running from water cannons. With eyes burning from tear gas, he watched thousands of protesters dashing through the streets. At that moment, Roberts realized this experience would mean more than “just a research project.”
Since his return to the Northern Hemisphere, Roberts, like most Harvard students, has been busy. He’s writing a thesis and spent three weeks in October organizing with SLAM during the HUDS strike. Before this semester, Roberts had participated in labor activism occasionally, but this time, he knew that he needed to be on the picket lines consistently. He found the strike particularly powerful, not only because of the outcome, but because the movement “centered on the workers and their experiences.”
“I think what was really important about this campaign was trying to show the narratives of members of our communities who are, to me, family members,” Roberts says. “Isabel and Mike and Derek and everyone else in Winthrop are just people who made my Harvard experience so sustainable, because they showed me love that’s sometimes hard to come by here.”
When he’s not marching, sitting in, or walking out, Roberts tutors at the Harvard College Writing Center, supervises at Y2Y homeless shelter, and welcomes freshmen to campus through the Freshmen Urban Program. For the first three years of college, he devoted his weekends to traveling with the Mock Trial team. These days, he’s trying his hand at creative writing and hip-hop dance.
Roberts hails from Southern California and has two parents, a sister, and a remarkably energetic 93-year-old grandmother. After graduation, he hopes to write a narrative family history, starting with his grandmother’s experiences as a black nurse in the deep South under Jim Crow segregation.
“There are so many people I look back to,” he says about his family. “And I have to keep going, I have to move forward, because I can’t waste their energy and their time.”
Starting in the fall of 2019, Roberts will attend Harvard Law School. With Donald Trump taking office in January, he plans to immerse himself in two years of full-time activism and organizing.
“If there were ever an opportunity to act in the political atmosphere, now is the time,” he says. “But social change is never something that happens because ‘now is the time,’ it happens because we’ve made the time and we carved out that little corner for ourselves, and that’s what’s going to keep me going.”
Sections
Ryuji YamaguchiRyuji Yamaguchi ’03, known 14 years ago for being a dance phenomenon, spent the past nine years as the Director of Residential Life and head of the Department of Fine and Performing Arts at a newly founded boarding school in Jordan called King’s Academy.
Yamaguchi is passionate about the impact boarding school can have on a student. He has carefully considered the impact his own presence has had at King’s Academy. “As an artist and dance teacher, what kind of dance should I be teaching that is not colonialist?” he recalls asking himself. “How can I bring what I have to the community while respecting each individual and respecting the culture that is already there, and also bringing what I have experienced from the United States?”
Now, Yamaguchi is back in the U.S. as a graduate student at Columbia University Teachers’ College studying private school leadership. He is also creating and performing in dance pieces.
Michelle KuoIn 2002, Michelle Kuo ’03 was “unsure of her plans for next year, torn between applying to Teach for America, driving an ice cream truck, and opening a children’s bookstore in her Michigan hometown called ‘Kalamazoo Zoo.’”
Kuo opted to teach, and ended up in rural Arkansas at a school for kids who had been expelled from other institutions. After completing her program with Teach for America, Kuo returned to Harvard for law school. After that, she worked with undocumented immigrants in Oakland, Calif., then clerked for a judge on the federal appeals court. Eventually, she ended up at the Prison University Project, which grants college degrees to prisoners. There, just when she had given up “completely on ever finding a partner,” she met her husband.
Now, the two live in Paris, where she teaches law and society classes at the American University of Paris. She has a new book out soon.
Carl E. MorrisAt the end of his senior year, Carl E. Morris ’03, then-Ivy League football MVP for two years running, signed with the Indianapolis Colts. During his six-year professional football career, he transferred to the Philadelphia Eagles, the Miami Dolphins, New Orleans Saints, and, eventually, the San Diego Chargers.
As stressful as college athletics can be, Morris describes professional football as infinitely more difficult. “It was a lot of work and it was a lot tougher than most people would think from the outside,” he says. Much of the anxiety came from “always fighting for your job.” Ultimately, though,  Morris was grateful for the time he spent playing, because it was “something unique that not a lot of people have the opportunity to do.”
Now, he works in the surgical field, doing marketing for a company called KCI, which focuses on wound care. Although he has moved on from playing football, Morris remains a devoted Crimson fan, and says he tries to make it up to Cambridge once a year to see Harvard play.
Justin A. ErlichJustin A. Erlich ’03 is single-handedly responsible for the transformation of the Quincy Grille from an unreliable, modest dive into the popular late-night eatery it is today. But Erlich’s post-college legacy has been far less culinary. He worked as a teaching assistant at Harvard before joining the Kerry campaign in 2004, going to law school, clerking for a federal judge, and consulting at McKinsey & Company. Today, he advises California Attorney General Kamala Harris as her special assistant for technology, privacy & data.
His interest in the public sector dates back to his college days, so he isn’t surprised at where he ended up. But in the future, he is interested in venturing into the “fourth sector,” which he describes as “how to get all the other sectors (public, private, non-profit) to work together.”
Richard T. HalvorsonRichard T. Halvorson ’03 is the CEO and founder of Synergy Fuels, where he primarily focuses on energy technologies. Currently, he works with a nuclear engineer “to create innovative approaches to how we do nuclear power.” But he’s a man of many interests, just as he was in college. Halvorson is also interested in global efforts to open developing countries, like Cuba. And he’s exploring a collaboration with the Marines to advance human performance. In addition, he eventually hopes to work to improve inner-city schools.
But deep down, he explains jokingly, all his work is merely an attempt to satiate this newspaper’s readership. “I’m just trying to live up to what The Crimson asked me to do all those years ago,” Halvorson says.
Matthew E. SpotnitzSince he last spoke with Fifteen Minutes, Dr. Matthew E. Spotnitz ’03 finished his thesis on nanotechnology. In fact, it was published—“I’m very proud of that,” he says.
After college, Spotnitz went to University of California at Los Angeles for a master’s in physical chemistry. There, he started to explore “how cool it would be to use nanotechnology to fight and diagnose disease.” He headed to medical school, then back to Harvard for a degree in public health.
Currently, Spotnitz is a radiology resident at Pennsylvania State University, where is learning diagnostic and interventional radiology. He also tries to keep up with his research.
Julia JarchoWhen Julia Jarcho ’03 was a freshman at Harvard, she was cast in what she described as “a really bad Shakespeare production.” She spent so much time sitting around, she says, that she decided she would never do it again. She remembers thinking: “I’m never going to let someone tell me what to do.”
This manifesto led her to a passion for “making things.” Now settled in New York City, she works as a playwright and director at her company, Minor Theater. In 2013, her play “Grimly Handsome” won an Obie, a prestigious award for off-Broadway plays. She is also a professor in New York University’s English department.
Jarcho categorizes her plays as “experimental theater” because “they’re narrative, but the narratives tend to be bent or fractured or fragmented.” She exlores themes of desire, violence, and identity.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: December 1, 2016, at 12:40 p.m.
Protesters gathered in the pouring rain outside Harvard’s Institute of Politics Wednesday evening to denounce the University for inviting advisers of President-elect Donald Trump to a campus event this week and to call for the dismissal of Trump’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon.
Bannon was scheduled to appear at an IOP event along with Trump’s campaign manager Kellyanne Conway and some of Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton’s advisers. A Kennedy School spokesperson said Tuesday that Bannon would no longer attend the event.
The Kennedy School has held similar campaign debrief events since 1972.
Harvard affiliates and local residents had planned to protest Bannon’s appearance Wednesday, and still gathered despite the news of his withdrawal from the event. The crowd of roughly 200 then marched down John F. Kennedy and Mount Auburn Streets, which Cambridge police kept closed for the duration of the demonstration.
With chants ranging from “Not my president” to “No Trump, no KKK,” protesters criticized Trump’s rhetoric, which they said has emboldened white nationalists throughout the country.
Harvard University Dining Services worker Edward B. Childs, who spoke at the protest, criticized the University for offering to host Bannon and Conway in the first place.
“The administration has no right to invite these people,” Childs said to applause. “This is our institution. This is our country. We’re not going to let them do this to our country.”
Although many protesters said they came from the Boston area, some Harvard undergraduates and faculty members also attended. Gabriel G. Hodgkin ’18 said he came to the protest because he felt compelled to repudiate what he said was Trump’s “hateful” rhetoric.
“I feel that as a Jew I need to stand up against hate,” he said. “And also as a Harvard student, I think we need to make it very clear that we won’t condone any form of hate.”
Vincent Brown, a professor of American History and African and African American Studies, said he attended the protest to support his students, many of whom were disappointed that the University invited Bannon to campus.
“They don’t think that this is a normal election,” Brown said. “They don’t think that Trump’s candidacy, his campaign was normal, and they don’t think that his presidency is going to fall within the normal course of American democracy.”
Brown said he wondered whether inviting Bannon to speak at the IOP went against Harvard’s core values.
“As a candidate, he lied, he lied aggressively, he lied frequently, and he lied seemingly without any kind of shame,” he said. “If Harvard’s motto is truly Veritas, is truth, we should be standing up for truth, and we should be standing up for truth in campaigning even as we’re standing up for truth here at the University.”
Kennedy School of Government Dean Douglas W. Elmendorf was slated to open the IOP event Wednesday afternoon. In remarks prepared for the event beforehand, he emphasized that inviting campaign strategists after a presidential elections is a long-standing tradition and part of the school’s “contribution to the political history of the United States.”
“We invite people who have significantly influenced events in the world even if their actions or words are abhorrent to some members of our community or are in conflict with the values of the Kennedy School itself,” he wrote.
Kennedy School spokesperson Doug Gavel declined to comment on the protest.
Not all protesters said they disagreed with Harvard’s decision to invite Bannon to the IOP event.
Kennedy School student Shanoor Seervai said “a large number” of students she protested with did not oppose the University’s decision to invite Bannon, but were instead upset by his appointment in the White House.
Boston University student Ibrahim Rashid, who is Muslim, said he was “fine” with the invitation but showed up to protest the rhetoric.
“Just shutting [Bannon] down I think only creates this divide that we’re seeing in this country right now,” Rashid said.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
—Staff writer Leah S. Yared can be reached at leah.yared@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Leah_Yared.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A set of explosions that happened thousands of years ago could provide clues about the formation of the earliest stars, according to Robert A. Simcoe, a research fellow at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study and an associate professor of physics at MIT.
During a talk to about 90 people on Wednesday, Simcoe spoke about the emergence of the universe’s first stars and how to detect their traces as part of the 2016–2017 Fellows' Presentation Series hosted by the Radcliffe Institute.
Simcoe said the first generation of stars were “massive, hot, and short-lived,” and their explosions permanently changed the formation of future stars because they released new elements. Originally after the Big Bang, only a small number of elements including hydrogen and helium existed.
That change in the composition of the universe gives researchers like Simcoe clues about the formation of the earliest stars.
“Archaeologists talk about finding the first humans. There is no time when you can find the first human, but you can get a holistic sense of when they appeared. It’s the same thing for us,” Simcoe said. “We’re not finding the first star, we’re trying to find the first generation of when the elements formed.”
Astrophysicists use spectroscopy—the analysis of the interaction between objects and light—to look for indirect signs that they are looking at the first stars since it is impossible to look at them directly, Simcoe said.
“If a picture is worth a thousand words, a spectrum is worth a thousand pictures,” Simcoe said.
Simcoe is currently working on developing technology that will allow physicists to study the universe at the epoch when the first generation of stars began forming. His team at MIT is creating an on-ground infrared spectrometer for a space telescope that is set to be launched in 2018.
“I think the next couple of years are going to be really pivotal," he said. "There are a bunch of lines of reasoning that suggest that we’re kind of within striking distance of being able to study this epoch, and once we’ve done that, those are the earliest stars. We can’t go further than that. So it’s like reaching the end of a map.”
Simcoe said that he geared his talk to the audience, which included a significant number of fellows.
“The fellows are a group of highly intelligent individuals from every imaginable subject discipline, and so you can’t give a specialized talk to this group, but you have to assume that they will follow a lot of what you say. I geared this talk higher than I would for a normal public talk because this is not the general public,” Simcoe said.
Kelly N. Luce, another Radcliffe Fellow who attended the event, praised Simcoe as “a brilliant astronomer and scientist.”
“I would just love to be one of his students and have him explain this stuff to me because I know it’s really complicated, but he can always make whomever he’s talking to understand what he’s saying and make what he’s doing sound super interesting,” Luce said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Margaret “Maggie” A. Williams, who served as director of the Institute of Politics before taking a leave of absence to advise Hillary Clinton’s campaign, will return to Harvard in January, according Kennedy School spokesperson Doug Gavel.
Williams, whose unpaid leave of absence was announced in August, joined the Clinton campaign to work on the former Secretary of State’s White House transition team—an effort made unnecessary by President-elect Donald Trump’s victory on Nov. 8.
“Maggie Williams took a three month leave of absence from the Kennedy School from Oct. 1-Dec. 31 in order to work on the Hillary Clinton transition team,” Gavel wrote in an email. “She has indicated to us that she intends to return to the School in January.”
Neither Williams nor the Clinton campaign responded to a request for comment.
After the announcement that Williams would take a leave of absence to work on Clinton’s transition team, 15 Harvard alumni penned a letter to Kennedy School Dean Douglas W. Elmendorf calling for Williams to step down completely, citing concerns over the IOP’s ability to host “a truly independent and free discussion for this fall’s spirited U.S. Presidential debate” without her complete resignation.
“When Ms. Williams was hired, the Kennedy School leaders made clear that she was finished with partisan politics and would work with both sides of political aisle,” they wrote. “Her desire now to go back in to the political fight forces us to therefore call for her immediate resignation and for you to appoint a new director with deference to all political views.”
However, Gavel defended Williams at the time of the controversy, saying her public service record made her uniquely qualified for the IOP leadership position.
“Maggie Williams has an accomplished record in public service, and her experience working in the White House for two presidential administrations is widely known,” Gavel said in August. “[I]t provides her with a unique perspective to work with students at the IOP.”
William has longstanding ties to Clinton. She previously served as chief of staff to Clinton during her time as First Lady, and was campaign manager for Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign. During Williams’ absence, former U.S. Representative for Massachusetts William D. “Bill” Delahunt served as interim director of the IOP.
—Staff writer Brandon J. Dixon can be reached at brandon.dixon@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BrandonJoDixon.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A group of undergraduates and graduate students are circulating a petition among Harvard affiliates that calls for the formation of an ethnic studies department and research center.
The group, which calls itself the Ethnic Studies Coalition, met for the first time in early November, according to member Juhwan Seo ’17. Seo said they discussed the possibility of writing a proposal for ethnic studies at the meeting and decided to go forward with the idea after the election of Donald Trump.
“What the election really brought to light was just how urgent problems of race, ethnicity, division, and so on are,” graduate student and group member Ruodi Duan said.
According to Seo, the idea for a petition was inspired by an earlier petition circulated in November urging Harvard’s administration to protect undocumented students in the wake of Trump’s victory, which has garnered more than 4,000 signatures.
In their petition advocating for ethnic studies, the group makes three main proposals: establish an ethnic studies department which offers degrees in Native American and Indigenous Studies, Latinx Studies, Asian American Studies, Arab and Muslim American Studies, Comparative Ethnic Studies, and Ph.D. degrees in ethnic studies; establish a center for research in critical ethnic studies; and hire and retain more faculty in ethnic studies and related fields.
“We believe that now is the time to act—for the University to be at the forefront of teaching, learning, and research in an academic field that seeks to examine some of the most fundamental and critical questions of our time,” the petition reads.
The petition is addressed to top administrators University President Drew G. Faust, University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76, Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Dean Xiao-Li Meng, and Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana.
This petition is the latest in a long line of proposals submitted by students for ethnic studies, according to coalition members. According to the Ethnic Studies Coalition, students have submitted 11 proposals for ethnic studies over the past 44 years.
In the recent history of ethnic studies advocacy at Harvard, students successfully advocated for a Latino Studies secondary field and formed the Task Force on Asian and Pacific American Studies.
“I think, of course now more than ever, Harvard needs to put in a university commitment to the resolution of a longstanding historical problem,” Duan said.
In an email, College spokesperson Rachael Dane noted the existence of academic departments and programs such as African and African American Studies; East Asian Languages and Civilizations; and Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality, as well as the secondary field in Ethnicity, Migration, Rights.
However, coalition member Kaipo T. Matsumoto ’17 said ethnic studies advocates will not be satisfied until their proposals are met.
“We’re not going to be happy until we see infrastructure built, and that probably translates to money moving,” he said.
Seo agreed that there are significant gaps in Harvard’s course offerings, which the election highlighted.
“To me, the most aggravating thing about Harvard and the election was that we really don't have scholars who can really explain much of how the election happened or the major topics that were discussed,” Seo said. “ If we’re talking about Asian Americans we have no faculty basically who can explain anything that’s going on.”
Seo said the group plans to deliver the petition, which has gained over 700 signatures, to administrators within the next week.
“[The petition] has this ability to kind of represent what was previously anecdotal support for an Ethnic Studies Department,” Seo said. “Now we have a picture as to how much support we actually have.”
—Crimson staff writer Mia C. Karr can be reached at mia.karr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @miackarr.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard University Health Services confirmed there were five active mumps cases on campus as of Tuesday, up from four when the most recent outbreak was announced nearly two weeks ago. Yale also reported potential cases of the virus at the university earlier this week.
Harvard’s current outbreak is the second for mumps on campus this calendar year. At the beginning of March, HUHS confirmed the first cases of mumps and the number of infections rose steadily throughout the semester, culminating in a total of 66 confirmed cases by the end of summer. At the start of September there were no active cases of mumps at Harvard.
HUHS Director Paul J. Barreira said state and local public health officials are still in the process of investigating whether the most recent cases are connected to those from the spring.
According to Barreira, it also remains unclear whether the virus was spread from Cambridge to New Haven during the weekend of the Harvard-Yale football game. On Nov. 19, the Crimson football team hosted this year’s playing of the Harvard-Yale game, an annual tradition between the two schools which drew hundreds of Yale students to Harvard’s campus.
“The message that went out to the Harvard community on Nov. 17 was shared with Yale prior to the Harvard-Yale game to alert them that we had cases on campus,” Barreira wrote in an emailed statement. “It is possible that the virus was spread during that time, but we do not have confirmation of that at this time.”
Yale Health Director Paul Genecin announced that two suspected cases of mumps had been identified in an email to Yale affiliates on Tuesday. The news of the two cases came 10 days after Harvard-Yale.
Genecin wrote that Yale will keep students at the university health center if they are unable to return home. Harvard chose to quarantine infected students in the spring in student housing, particularly the Harvard Inn—a decision which generated concerns from residents living there.
“Students who have mumps or mumps-like symptoms will be asked to go home if they live close enough to New Haven or if their parent or guardian is able to pick them up. Students who are not able to go home will be cared for at Yale Health until they are no longer contagious,” Genecin wrote in the announcement.
Other schools besides Harvard have confirmed cases of the virus on campus. Sacred Heart University in Fairfield, Conn., had confirmed eight cases of mumps in April 2016. At least two colleges in the Greater Boston region, Tufts University and Boston University, had their own cases in the spring as well.
Yale Health declined to comment. The university’s Office of Public Affairs and Communication did not respond to multiple requests for comment as of Wednesday evening.
Barreira said HUHS is continuing to work with state and local public health officials to track and monitor the situation and urged students to contact HUHS if they experience symptoms of mumps, which include facial swelling, jaw pain, and testicular swelling.
—Staff writer Menaka V. Narayanan can be reached at menaka.narayanan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mnarayanan97.
—Staff writer Kenton K. Shimozaki can be reached at kenton.shimozaki@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @KentonShimozaki.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“I keep hearing about more and more friends of mine or friends of friends who have been assaulted, or roofied, or raped, at parties (particularly final club parties),” one comment reads. “And it is NOT ok.”
“Finals clubs are a cancer to the college,” another reads.
“GET RID OF THEM FOR GOODNESS SAKE,” blasts a third.
These remarks are three out of hundreds of anonymized student responses to College surveys conducted over the past five years that contain the words “final club,” “fraternity,” or “sorority.” They were drawn from regular freshmen, senior, and House life surveys administered by the College and generally used for internal purposes.
The comments, which Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith sent compiled in an email to voting members of the faculty last week, represent the most extensive and candid student feedback made public during a divisive debate about Harvard’s role in curbing the influence of off-campus, single-gender social organizations. 
Together, the hundreds of comments paint a portrait of the immense pressure facing administrators to act on concerns a majority of the selected responses raised about sexual assault, discrimination, and elitism within these organizations, particularly all-male final clubs.
Smith, through FAS spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven, declined to comment beyond his email to Faculty. Several professors indicated that such extensive sharing of survey results, which comes before a potential Faculty vote on the issue, was unusual.
In May, after a year of behind closed doors talks with leaders of male and female final clubs—which, for decades, have operated independent of the University—Harvard administrators did respond. They crafted an unprecedented policy penalizing the groups, and with it, ended years of administrative distance from the final clubs.
The policy bars members of single-gender final clubs, sororities, and fraternities from holding varsity captaincies, becoming leaders of recognized student groups, or receiving College-endorsement for top fellowships, starting with the Class of 2021.
Despite the pressure on administrators to act, the announcement of the sanctions was met with immediate opposition from students in female groups, alumni of the organizations, and faculty.
Smith sent the responses, compiled in a 158-page PDF document, to faculty members ahead of an anticipated debate of the policy and a faculty-sponsored motion opposing it. The dean wrote in his email, obtained by The Crimson, that he hoped the survey comments would “inform the Faculty’s discussion.” 
The comments were largely critical of the College’s social atmosphere. Many survey respondents charged that final clubs—institutions that are hundreds of years old—were responsible for stratifying Harvard along class lines and perpetuating sexual violence at the College, though some respondents defended the clubs. Several women respondents called the final clubs “unsafe.” Dozens of comments criticized Harvard for failing to curb the clubs’ influence on students’ social lives.
“Most of the final clubs are essentially institutions of rape,” one comment attributed to a senior male reads. “I understand that they are not technically affiliated with Harvard, yet it is mostly Harvard students that attend these clubs and the university chooses to turn a blind eye towards sexual crimes that take place in its back yard on a regular basis.”
“Final clubs totally dominate the scene. Harvard knows this and condones it. Yet, Harvard takes little responsibility for what goes on there,” another response from the 2014-2015 academic year reads.
A scathing report released in March by a University-wide task force on sexual assault prevention supported students’ concerns, lambasting the clubs for perpetuating “deeply misogynistic attitudes.” Many women who were members of female final clubs or attended male final club events indicated they had experienced “nonconsensual sexual contact” while in college. Male final club leaders sharply rebuked the report, and one final club commissioned a statistical analysis criticizing the findings of the task force.
Many survey responses Smith compiled argued that final clubs enjoyed an outsized role in students’ social lives because the College had not done enough to create alternative social opportunities.
“The reason why many students seek to go to final clubs, which are unsafe in terms of sexual, alcohol and drug abuse and foster a climate of gender inequality and exclusiveness, is because there are no good places provided by the university in which students can mingle and have a fun time,” one comment reads.
One senior respondent, who appeared to be a member of an all-male final club, wrote that,“When we turn people away, we get called elitist, exclusive, and douchey, but the majority of people only care because they don't have an alternative.”
Another respondent seemed to agree, writing “I think there is a strong need for more final club/fraternity-type opportunities for undergraduate students. This experience is currently restricted to only a small percentage of the male student body, and could offer tremendous opportunities for growth.”
After Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana began his tenure in 2014, he made clear his opposition to the exclusive practices of final clubs. As early as 2011 he said that he was “always suspicious of a club that builds itself on gendered exclusivity.” Years later, as Dean of the College, Khurana reiterated his belief that “single-gendered organizations are not appropriate for the College.”
Khurana began meeting with undergraduate and graduate leaders of the clubs in closed-door meetings, asking them to reconsider their single-gender memberships. After the tone of these meetings intensified, two historically all-male final clubs added women to their ranks. Last fall, the Spee Club became the first of Harvard’s all-male final clubs to go co-ed. The undergraduate members of the Fox Club also accepted a group of junior and senior women into its membership last October, much to the consternation of some graduate members.
The year of intense back-and-forth between College administrators and final club affiliates culminated in the University’s May announcement that members of unrecognized single-gender social organizations would be penalized starting with the Class of 2021. Although all-male final clubs had been the administrators’ focus, all-female final clubs, sororities, and fraternities would also be penalized.
Since its inception, that policy has come under fire from students, faculty, and outside observers. While professors, varsity coaches, and members of the Harvard Corporation have praised the policy, one vocal group of faculty members crafted a motion opposing the policy last May, writing that “Harvard College shall not discriminate against students on the basis of organizations they join.”
That motion is expected to go to Faculty vote at the body’s next full meeting Dec. 6. It is unclear whether an affirmative vote would have the power to overturn the policy.
—Staff writer Derek G. Xiao can be reached at derek.xiao@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @derekgxiao.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As faculty debate whether the College should have a policy penalizing members of final clubs and Greek organizations, the senior fellow of Harvard’s highest governing body said the policy itself will not be revoked, though its implementation will determine its ultimate impact.
“Now I think that the policy’s a policy, now the question is to implement it and make it work,” William F. Lee ’72, who leads the Harvard Corporation, said last month.
“The devil’s in the details,” Lee said of how the implementation of the policy will actually work.
Later this month, members of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences will likely vote on a motion that aims to overturn the policy, which will bar students—starting with the Class of 2021—who are in unrecognized single-gender social organizations from holding student leadership positions in recognized groups, becoming varsity captains, or receiving endorsements for top post-graduate fellowships. While it remains unclear what impact a Faculty vote against the policy could have, University President Drew G. Faust has said that the sanctions could be subject to change after consultation with faculty members.
A 37-member committee of faculty, students, and staff have met with members from a variety of student groups, including student athletes and fellowship nominees, to determine how the policy should go into effect. They will decide what leadership positions and fellowship endorsements are covered by the policy, as well as how student organizations “fulfill the expectations of inclusive membership practices” and how the College will “handle transgressions” of the policy.
But some Faculty members have challenged the policy itself. At the last full Faculty meeting in November, professors packed University Hall to argue over the merits of the sanctions, and former Dean of the College and computer science professor Harry R. Lewis ’68 introduced a motion that condemns the policy without explicitly naming it.
The motion, penned in May, reads “Harvard College shall not discriminate against students on the basis of organizations they join.”
Lewis said he believes the motion, if approved by the Faculty, would strike down the sanctions. While Lee, Faust, and FAS Dean Michael D. Smith all expressed a commitment to working with faculty members to combat the influence of final clubs and Greek organizations on campus, they stopped short of confirming that the motion would nullify the policy.
“I think rather than getting into a struggle over who has the right to do what, I think what [Faust] said is we have a shared responsibility to solve these issues,” Lee said. “I think the first major step was the policy.”
Lee said he has spoken with Lewis, other faculty members, and graduate members of final clubs about the sanctions, and that the feedback he has received has been “overwhelmingly supportive of the goal and the policy.”
While many Harvard affiliates, including faculty members, sports coaches, and other members of the Harvard Corporation have publicly expressed support for the policy, it has been met with resistance from hundreds of students, professors, and club affiliates.
In April, before the sanctions were announced, Lee said the Corporation “regularly” consulted with Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana about the role of fraternities, sororities, and final clubs in undergraduate social life.
Last week, Smith emailed the Faculty a 158-page report compiling five years of undergraduate survey results that included the words “final club” “sorority” or “fraternity” to “further inform” the upcoming debate and vote on Lewis’s motion.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
—Staff writer Daphne C. Thompson can be reached at daphne.thompson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @daphnectho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
With reading period and finals (a.k.a the end of the world as we know it) rapidly approaching, it’s more important than ever to have great treats to eat while you cram nonstop. But if you’re plowing away on that last pset, chances are you don’t have time to wait for the crowd in front of  the serving line to clear up. And with the weather degrading into a sad, drizzly, and cold mess, you likely want to stay inside as much as possible to stay warm.
While procrastinating for a class or two, we had an epiphany: we could make brunch more exciting without having to go on strike to convince HUDS to bring back smoked salmon on Sundays. By getting a little creative at the waffle bar, we were able to whip up chocolate waffles, and trust us: once you’ve had them, your life will never be the same again.
Ingredients
Waffle batter Chocolate syrup (used for ice cream and Sundae Sundays)Whipped Cream‘Pancake’ Syrup
And if you’re feeling fancy: 
CinnamonSoft Serve Ice Cream
Estimated Cooking Time: 7-10 minutes
Pour the waffle batter of your choice (regular or whole wheat) into a cup, filling it halfway. Then pour chocolate syrup into the cup.  The waffle batter/chocolate mixture should fill most of the cup but not all of it. Use a spoon to stir the mixture so that the chocolate is fully mixed with the batter and not just resting dejectedly at the bottom of the cup.
This is important: make sure to spray the waffle iron. Too many Harvard students have ran to the waffle bar only to have their Veritaffles fall to pieces when they remove it.
Wait the two and a half minutes necessary to cook the waffle, and then pop open the waffle iron and remove your masterpiece. Adore it for a while; you likely haven’t seen anything as gorgeous since those 4.0s you used to rack up when you were in high school.
Add whipped cream and “pancake” syrup if don’t you have a friend from Vermont to supply you with actual maple syrup. You can also add many more toppings like strawberries, blueberries, cinnamon, etc… The world is your oyster—or at least the servery is. Take the obligatory snapchat and enjoy.
Sections

You: I need to finish this paper due tomorrow.
You to You: But I can watch Netflix whenever and wherever I want...
That’s right. On Wednesday, Netflix released the news that they were finally allowing users to download shows so they can watch offline. Bye-bye, any hopes of getting pity A-minuses. Hello, sweet, sweet procrastination.
So far this feature is only available on the mobile app, and users can only download select shows. But more content will be available in the future. Right now you can watch binge-worthy shows like House of Cards, Parks and Recreation, Master of None, and more.
Thought you would be able to concentrate on your p-sets in Crema? Thought you could use the excuse of unreliable wifi in Starbucks to look at lecture readings instead of Stranger Things or The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt? Nope. Your finals will suffer, your papers won’t be the best, but you at least you will be able to download videos in standard or high quality  to watch at your leisure. C's get degrees, people.
When the next Harvard blackout occurs, it will nice to be able to watch Orange is the New Black while waiting for the wifi to restart. Though it would have been nice to have this new addition before Thanksgiving to help us deal with long flights (and avoiding relatives), we'll take any good news we can get in 2016.
