News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The NFL draft has quickly become an important event on the Harvard sporting calendar. Despite falling short of hopes that multiple players might be drafted this year, the Crimson placed four players on NFL training camp rosters, no small feat. However, getting all four players on final 53-man rosters will be a tall task for the Crimson. Below, we look at the situation that each of the four recent grads faces.
Cole Toner, Arizona Cardinals:
The only drafted player of the group, Arizona Cardinals fifth-round pick and right tackle Cole Toner, enters camp with the clearest path to the 53-man roster after the Cardinals saw their 2015 right tackle Bobby Massie depart in free agency. Arizona has D.J. Humphries, who was inactive in all 18 games a year ago, penciled in as the starter but Toner was brought in to compete for the job and should push him during training camp.
However, even if Toner is not the starting right tackle, the 6’5” lineman noted shortly after being drafted that he feels comfortable playing any position on the line. He never played center in college, but practiced snapping in the offseason and said he would feel “very comfortable” in that role.
“I definitely think I can be a guard,” Toner told ArizonaCardinals.com shortly after he was drafted. “I think I can play anywhere, really. If they have injuries, I think I can step in at tackle, for sure. I can play guard, and I can even play center.”
Ben Braunecker, Chicago Bears:
Of the undrafted free agents, the most notable performer has been new Chicago Bears tight end Ben Braunecker. The rookie was projected to be a draft pick, with some sources putting him as high as the fourth round, the Wall Street Journal calling him the best player in the scouting combine, and ESPN running a short profile of him just before the draft.
“Projections had me anywhere from rounds four to six and I sat there on draft day for about seven hours on my couch with an ESPN camera in my face watching every pick go by,” he told ChicagoBears.com. “That definitely puts a chip on my shoulder.”
However, despite disappointment on draft night, Braunecker signed with the Bears shortly after the draft and the early returns have been very positive. The Chicago Tribune wrote that Braunecker “impressed” during early-summer organized team activities, getting work with the second team. In some ways this isn’t a surprise; Braunecker was reported to have multiple offers but chose the Bears because of the uncertainty behind presumptive starter Zach Miller.
“I think a nice, strong, reliable, (split-) wide tight end is what the Bears are looking for right now,” Braunecker told The Daily Herald. “So I’m just very thankful to be given the opportunity.”
Braunecker will have to fight with four other tight ends to earn the backup role, but has the advantage of being the youngest of the group. Veterans Tony Moeaki and Rob Housler profile as the stiffest competition, but at 29 and 28, respectively, neither has a history of prolific NFL production.
Anthony Fabiano, Baltimore Ravens:
The competition is a bit lighter for the other two undrafted free agents—center Anthony Fabiano and offensive lineman Adam Redmond. Fabiano, who signed with the Baltimore Ravens, is one of just two listed centers on the current roster. Although the starting lineup appears to be set, Fabiano should be able to compete with veteran Ryan Jensen for the backup center spot.
Adam Redmond, Indianapolis Colts:
Redmond, however, faces a situation more like Braunecker’s. The guard is part of a large set of offensive linemen brought in by Indianapolis Colts general manager Ryan Grigson to compete for starting jobs in the offseason. While the Ravens carry just 11 offensive linemen on their current roster, the Colts have 16, including six guards.
In some sense, this isn’t surprising: the Colts had significantly more trouble than the Ravens protecting their quarterback in 2015. Given the team’s investment in quarterback Andrew Luck, Grigson pushed hard to upgrade at the position in the offseason, drafting four offensive linemen.
Luckily for Redmond, none of the four drafted rookies—who are almost locks to make the final roster—are listed as guards, making his work a bit easier. He faces an uphill battle nonetheless, however, and need to will rely on his quickness (at 290, he is more than 20 pounds lighter than his slimmest competition) to gain an advantage over the field.
–Staff writer David Freed can be reached at david.freed@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
