News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If anyone has had any complaints about Marvel Studio’s critically acclaimed superhero blockbusters, it’s their tendency to focus on stories starring straight white dudes, despite fan outcry for protagonists who deviate from this norm.
By contrast, recent issues of Marvel’s beloved comic books have been bucking this same trend by having other characters take up the mantles of well-established superheroes, such as Captain America, Thor, and Spiderman. Since these new comics were ultimately praised for introducing unexplored perspectives in established universes, it’s easy to mock the fans who initially panned these changes as being culturally backwards. But we should seriously examine the introduction of new perspectives and especially the discomfort they can bring, as we become a “minority majority” nation.
I personally felt such discomfort due to one of my favorite comics, which isn’t a part of the superhero canon. “The Wicked + The Divine” illustrates a world in which, once every 90 years, 12 gods and goddesses are reincarnated as musicians with supernatural abilities. Rather than relying on the tired Greco-Roman pantheons, the comic uses deities from cultures around the world, imagining their music styles and personalities accordingly. (Baal Hadad as a badass, lightning-slinging Kanye-esque superstar? Consider me sold.) This cultural diversity is further highlighted by the gender, racial, and sexual diversity of the comic’s characters, resulting in a world as colorful as its story is intriguing. Yet, something about the comic still put me off.
I couldn’t figure out why until I came to a three-panel sequence in the neon-soaked eighth issue, in which the protagonist Laura dances with another girl at a rave. The goddess Amaterasu then grumbles, “I’m the boring one. I prefer guys. I’m so boring.” I suddenly realized that, as much as I enjoyed the concept of these diverse characters, I was failing to relate to any of them.
The narrative is so saturated with distinct cultures and identities that I felt like there wasn’t any space left for me.
I fully recognize the benefit of seeing your identity in the pages of a book or on a TV screen; I sometimes have difficulty immersing myself into a video game unless I can create a black avatar. However, what happens if the range of identities presented in a work is so wide that you can’t find your own? Picture this: You’ve always seen yourself in some form in your favorite shows, novels, and movies. Suddenly, many are creating new media—and recreating media with which you’re already familiar—with characters and worlds that no longer resemble what you know. Wouldn’t you feel a little uncomfortable?
That discomfort was finally resolved for me when I looked beyond the comic’s diversity. While the characters’ gender, race, and sexuality can provide some insight into their personalities, it does not define them—nor does the comic excessively highlight those characteristics. Why should I primarily know Cassandra—the snarky reporter who doggedly and bluntly interrogates everyone involved in her search for the truth—as a transgender woman? Why focus on that one characteristic at the cost of all else, when her personality and motivations have a complexity far beyond just her gender?
Part of the problem is that much of the diversity presented in contemporary media is still grounded in prevalent social norms. No matter how fleshed out they may be, if characters deviate from those norms, they are primarily defined by that deviation: the gay best friend, the wacky black sidekick. Truly diverse media, therefore, ignores or even replaces prevalent social norms so that its characters can be seen as complete persons, rather than just variations on stereotypes about minorities. By focusing too heavily on the characters’ minority status even while the comic did not, I kept myself from being fully immersed in the world of “The Wicked + The Divine.”
Striving for diversity means expanding our capacity for empathizing with those with whom we usually do not. It’s difficult, uncomfortable, and scary to dismantle norms that reassure you of your place in society, but that discomfort is a stepping-stone to a society in which you can deeply relate to others, regardless of their identities. Superheroes are meant to represent the best of us, how we rise up for the greater good due to (or even despite) our backgrounds. If we can see their heroism first and their race, gender, or sexuality as an integral yet ‘normal’ second, then we’ve taken a step in the right direction.

Hansy D. Piou ’18, a Crimson editorial writer, is an applied mathematics concentrator living in Quincy House.


Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
When Amber Heard accused her now ex-husband Johnny Depp of domestic abuse and filed for divorce, virtually nobody believed her at the time.
Benicio del Toro, a friend of Johnny Depp’s who was not there to witness the alleged attacks and who also admitted that he didn’t “know the specifics,” nevertheless felt qualified to assert that Heard was a “manipulative” and “twisted” woman who lied about being abused so she could get Depp’s money.
Depp is a “nice guy, very caring, very smart,” insisted del Toro. This was, to him, enough proof of Depp’s innocence. And all over the Internet, people echoed his sentiments. Someone even edited Amber Heard’s Wikipedia page to describe her as a gold digger who “married the super talented and respected actor Johnny Depp to take advantage of his kind nature” and then started “blackmailing him with abuse allegations” in order to take advantage of him.
Why is it so hard for people to believe women when they say they’ve been abused by their partners? Somehow, it’s far easier for people to imagine that a happily married woman would go to absurd lengths, forging evidence and police reports and painting fake bruises on her face, just to squeeze money out of her husband.
It didn’t matter that Amber Heard called the police, that they saw her injuries and trashed house, or that they encouraged her to make a statement. It didn’t matter that Heard was granted a restraining order. It didn’t matter that she provided overwhelming evidence to prove her claims. People still refused to believe her.
After obtaining the divorce settlement, Heard proceeded to donate all $7 million to charity—a generous move that also silenced the gold-digger accusations. And while the donation is laudable, it is sad that she needed to donate her settlement in order to prove to everyone that she was, in fact, abused.
We know that domestic violence happens, and that it happens with an alarming frequency. 1 in 3 women and 1 in 4 men have been victims of physical violence by an intimate partner, and many people experience emotional abuse as well. These numbers are concerning. We should help domestic violence victims, and we should penalize those who abuse their partners.
But that’s not what happens. We let Chris Brown off the hook for viciously beating Rihanna. We continue to listen to his songs, chant his name at concerts, and idolize him. And we ignore some cases of domestic abuse altogether. A horrifying recent video shows Lindsay Lohan’s fiancé Egor Tarabasov grabbing her and savagely twisting her arm behind her back. Yet this story got almost no media coverage.
Domestic violence is often overlooked because of the intimate nature of the crime, and the idea that it’s “none of [our] business” to intervene. Excuses are made for the perpetrators. And, worst of all, survivors of domestic violence often endure victim-blaming, as they are asked why they stayed with their partner or why they didn’t report sooner.
The reason why people stay in abusive relationships is because they feel powerless and afraid of what would happen to them if they were to leave. Approximately 1,500 women are killed each year by husbands or boyfriends—the consequences of leaving an abusive relationship can be deadly. And the reason why people abuse their intimate partners is to exercise power over them. There’s a reason why 85 percent of domestic violence cases involve men attacking women—domestic violence is all about power dynamics.
There’s a social theory that explains the persistence of these power dynamics. Toxic masculinity is the idea that men in our society are expected to conform to a specific model of manhood. This model of manhood dictates that the only way men can be “manly” is through violence, aggression, and dominance. This toxic idea of masculinity, therefore, pressures men to view women as inferior, perceive sex as an act of conquest, and see violence as a way to establish dominance over others. Toxic masculinity isn’t only harmful because it condones only one way for men to behave; it also contributes to domestic violence by leading men to believe that they must establish dominance over women, and that they can do so through violence.
And toxic masculinity hurts male domestic violence survivors as well. When men experience domestic violence, they often face very little support and resources. Toxic masculinity keeps men in perpetual fear that they might seem soft, weak, or emotional. It stigmatizes men who cry, denigrates men as “pussies” if they show emotion, and teaches men from a young age that it’s not manly to show weakness. As a result, male survivors of domestic violence are unlikely to report their assault, and even if they do report, they are often not taken seriously by the authorities—especially if the perpetrator was a woman. In this way, both men and women can be victims of domestic violence, and both men and women are hurt by unrealistic and violent standards of masculinity.
Therefore, in order to address domestic violence, we must dismantle this toxic construct of masculinity. At the end of the day, the patriarchy causes harm to everyone, regardless of their gender. And if we are able to dismantle the patriarchy, then maybe society would believe female domestic abuse survivors like Amber Heard and even begin to listen to the countless men who have also experienced domestic abuse.

Nian Hu ’18, a Crimson editorial executive, is a government concentrator living in Mather House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the editor:
I applaud The Crimson’s Editorial Board for standing shoulder to shoulder with the Harvard University Dining Services workers in a recent editorial. The dining workers at Harvard University transform an institution into a home for students and staff alike. As you point out, HUDS workers reflect the diversity of the student body, helping students of color feel more welcome on a campus that does not always fully appreciate this diversity. Harvard is apparently rewarding this important role by proposing healthcare plan changes that would raise copays and shift costs onto dining workers—further driving down an annual average income of less than $35,000.
In the event of a strike, members of Teamsters Local 25 will honor and support the dining workers’ picket lines. Each day, Local 25 members deliver parcels, freight, equipment, and perishables and pick up trash at Harvard University and its dining halls. The services Teamsters provide, although not directly involved with dining services, education or research, are an important element of ensuring that University runs smoothly.
It is my sincere hope that the Harvard University administration reconsiders its position and negotiates fairly for the benefit of both the Harvard dining workers and the students and staff that they care for.
Sean M. O’Brien is the President of the Teamsters Local 25 union.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sports-loving North Carolinians were treated to a rude shock last week when the NCAA announced that it would not hold any tournament games in the state to protest the anti-BGLTQ bill passed last year by the state’s legislature and signed by Governor Pat McCrory. More was to come: Two days later, the Atlantic Coast Conference relocated its neutral site championship games. For a state that is home to collegiate basketball powerhouses like Duke, the University of North Carolina, North Carolina State, and Wake Forest, these moves are a moral as well as an economic blow, and both the NCAA and the ACC should be commended for their resolve. They have joined dozens of major companies in denouncing the law—commonly known as House Bill 2—as a discriminatory abomination that deserves swift repeal. Still, while the sports boycotts in particular are good moves that underscore the legislation’s harmful effects, we should exercise caution before heaping unqualified praise on all of North Carolina’s corporate critics.
Despite the complicated relationship many businesses have with H.B. 2,  the importance of the boycott by collegiate sports is noteworthy. In the face of severe criticism from the likes of Franklin Graham, the NCAA and the ACC have made clear that the values of the great educational institutions they represent demand a far more inclusive vision from elected leaders. Systematically undoing local anti-discrimination ordinances and forcing transgender people to use a particular restroom clearly incompatible with their gender identity rails against such a vision. Should Harvard have the opportunity to play in NCAA tournaments in sports from fencing to basketball in the coming months, it will do so as part of an organization that has taken a strong stand for equality.
This move, however, will not come without collateral damage. It will harm working North Carolinians who should have benefited from the investment and jobs these sporting events would have brought to their state. While moral considerations alone should have prevented H.B. 2 from being drafted in the first place, we hope that its economic effects will now encourage supporters to rethink and repeal it.
One crucial aspect of the economic pressure levied against North Carolina is the campaign undertaken by dozens of large corporations to pressure legislators and the governor to undo H.B. 2. Uber, Airbnb, Facebook, and Bank of America, among many others, have all signaled deep disapproval of the law, and PayPal cancelled plans for a 400 job global operations center in Charlotte. These corporate actions are, like the NCAA and ACC boycotts, crucial parts of the struggle to get H.B. 2 off the books.
But the story of corporate involvement in the law is, sadly, more complicated. As the Charlotte Observer’s Editorial Board has pointed out, H.B. 2 included a provision that ended employees’ rights to file discrimination suits in state court, a change which large corporations have a vested interest in preserving. When the North Carolina Chamber of Commerce finally proposed minor changes to the law, it advocated restoring that right to sue but adding intermediary steps, and did not even demand changes to the provisions forcing transgender North Carolinians to use the wrong bathrooms. Even more ironically, some companies that have denounced the law donated to Republican political action committees that supported candidates who voted for H.B. 2.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Say what you will about Tom’s BaoBao, but whoever writes its marketing copy is doing a stellar job. A brief, inconspicuous sign posted by the door of BaoBao, one of the Square’s newest eateries, promises an experience as metaphysical as it is gustatory.
“Bao shimmers like a pearl,” the sign croons. “Bao gives in,” it coos. “Find the sublime in the juicy borders,” it exhorts. When you sniff good bao, the sign counsels, “you should be able to exalt in its subtle aromas, just like a fine glass of burgundy.”
The food-as-fulfillment trope, a leading fad among College undergrads in recent years, is a centerpiece at Tom’s BaoBao. Despite the hyperbolic hype-building, though, the end product, though passable and even tasty, does not quite live up to its billing.
A brief note for the culinarily uninitiated: Baozi, or bao, as they’re popularly known, are pale, steamed dumplings generally about the size of a fist stuffed with any of a variety of meat and vegetable fillings. Baobao founder Tom Tong, according to a 40-second sizzle reel on the restaurant’s website, started his business as a way of “resurrect[ing] the forgotten art... of bao making”, and putting the “art of traditional bao-making... on display.”
Walking into the store for the first time, a customer could be forgiven for thinking it was a Chipotle-style “build-your-own” endeavour. Lined up right by the entrance behind a glass partition are three workers (or “Baoists” as the marketing personnel have christened them) preparing the raw bao for the bamboo trays in which they will be steamed.
There is something undeniably zoo-like about the Baoists. In their glass enclosure, they  feed the dough through some sort of kneading machine, measure out balls of the stuff, weigh the balls on a digital scale, flatten the balls into circles, stuff the dough circles with filling, weigh the dough and filling combined on yet another digital scale, and finally twist the dough into a familiar scalloped clothing around the top of the dumpling. There’s a temptation to tap the glass to see how they might react.
Given the meticulous care with which they construct each bao, though, one wonders how the final product can suggest so much carelessness. The filling-to-dough ratio is wonky, leaving far too many bites in which the overriding taste is unflavored, unadulterated dough. The Reuben bao, part of a sort of fusion cuisine theme that’s prevalent throughout Tom’s menu, is tangy, cheesy, and overall pretty good, but that’s about it.
Perhaps these flaws can be put down to growing pains, and the restaurant does have that undeniably charming air of an eatery just starting out. Whether Tom’s can survive the constant, business-destroying churn of Harvard Square capitalism, though, will depend on whether it can elevate its already-decent offering to the mythic heights that its marketing materials and sizzle reels seem to promise.
Sections

Bar #1: Daedalus
Daedalus was the bar on our list closest to Mather, so we started there. It was about 9:30 p.m.
Daedalus has a nice interior and a good vibe, I think. I say “I think” because I couldn’t really tell or hear through the throng of people that had flooded the upper deck and bar. Judging by their nametags, we had stumbled into some kind of company social.
I had left my pack of nametags back in our room, so we were not prepared to blend in at all. The night being very young, we decided to skip Daedalus and loop back around later when we stumbled back to Mather.
Bar #2: Grendel’s Den
Despite my roommates complaining that the food at Grendel’s tastes microwaved, I’ve enjoyed eating there in the past and was looking forward to trying their drinks. The outdoor patio was empty when we arrived, so we figured we would ask the bartender if it was cool if we camped out there with our drinks.
It was not cool. In fact, I think the bartender used the word “illegal” when we asked. Also, Grendel’s food tastes microwaved.
Strike two. We abandoned ship and hopped over to our next location, our morale lowering.
Bar #3: Charlie’s Kitchen
When we got to Charlie’s, we handed our IDs to the bouncer and he waved us in. Unfortunately for the Italian man in line with us, Charlie’s did not accept any of his four different Italian IDs, including his passport. Let that be a lesson to all of you Italian ex-pats.
To be clear, though, this wasn’t some bright-eyed youngster trying to slip one over on Charlie’s. I understand the need to ID everyone, but judging from the bags under his eyes and his slightly greying hair, this man was clearly at least 35. And who’s faking passports to get into bars? So shout out to you, middle-aged Italian man. Let us tell you what you missed.
Charlie’s was actually a solid move. The drinks were strong and relatively cheap, the vibe was busy but not packed, and our waitress, though awkward as hell, was trying her best. One table was on fire—no one was roasting marshmallows, but it was still cool. And though we saw a mouse, his chill vibe said “drinking companion” and not “revolting vermin.”
Bar #4: The Sinclair
I had no idea that The Sinclair was also a restaurant in addition to being a weirdly packed music venue, so I was pretty interested in seeing what they had to offer. It certainly was the classiest joint we visited that night, although that aesthetic came at the cost of a price bump.
We balked at the high prices on the specialty cocktail menu and ordered gin and tonics. We enjoyed drinking them on the rooftop in a relatively quiet atmosphere. The bartender was also very attractive, so be on the lookout for him when you visit. And don’t worry about the impending cooler weather—the patio has heating lamps that kept us quite comfortable while we drank and chatted.
Bar #5: Felipe’s
Oh, Felipe’s. What review of outdoor drinking in the Square would be complete without our new favorite venue? Unsurprisingly, however, getting onto the roof was an absolute shit show. I would describe the atmosphere at the steps leading to the second floor as “brogressive.” The bar at capacity, a middle aged woman (who I am not convinced actually worked there) was blocking access while Brooks Brothers-clad 18-year-olds approached and whispered pleas in her ear. I’m not sure what they were saying, but I imagine it was along the lines of, “My father owns blah blah blah, please let me in.” They were unsuccessful, as were we.
Instead, we opted for my original Felipe’s strategy, the “Marg-to-Go™.” This involves ordering a frozen margarita and taking it on the road. Because Felipe’s serves its frozen margs—which would be more aptly named Tequila Slushies—in styrofoam cups, one can take it to go quite surreptitiously. Highly recommended.
Interlude: Quincy Dhall
Post Marg-to-Go™, we were stumbling. (It was our third drink of the night.) Seeing as we still had one bar left to hit, we decided to pump the brakes and visit our favorite drinking establishment, Quincy, to refuel with some water.
Stay hydrated, folks.
An infinitely better DAPA motto than “Double Fist This.”
Bar #1 (Reprise): Daedalus
Daedalus at 12:30 a.m. on a Friday morning is a pretty sad place. In the three hours since we left, the bar had gone from “dorm party-packed” to “wistfully reminiscent of a modernist novel.”
The bartender was nice, but not too chatty. The sports were on, but not too loudly. The two men at the bar looked sad, but not “help me” sad. It was the perfect environment for us to nurse our last drinks over the course of a half hour and chatter on about life.
I feel like we missed the sweet spot timing-wise with Daedalus, but if we had made it, it would have been really dope. The drinks are quite good and not especially expensive, and as Ben said, it was a good spot to debrief  on the adventures of the evening. Highly recommend the Sailor Punch.
Sections
You step off of the Green Line and cross the street. Before you is an orderly queue of museum-goers. They buzz amongst themselves quietly, softly illuminated by the electronic lantern-screens in their palms,  shuffling forward as the movement of the crowd permits. The line stretches around the neoclassical building, further than the eye can see in both directions. A stream of humans without end.
It’s 10 p.m. at Boston’s Museum of Fine Arts, and you are one of many pilgrims who will join this line and wait—for hours, for as long as it takes. You try not to think about how much time is passing. Later, this will become impossible. You are here to think about time. 
Finally, it’s your turn. You step behind the heavy black curtain, into a space damp with its own quiet darkness. It is a theater, full of silent silhouettes draped on austere white IKEA couches. Everyone stares at the larger-than-life screen on the far wall. You do, too. A man steps into frame.
“What time is it?”
Everyone laughs.
Let’s back up. The vaguely existential daydream (nightmare?) you’ve just experienced is the work of Swiss-American collagist Christian Marclay. In 2005, Marclay began work on the piece that become “The Clock,” a 24-hour installation video depicting nothing more or less than the passage of time. A montage of thousands of clips stretching from distant film history to the recent cinematic past, “The Clock” is a real-time movie of minutes passing. In each surgically precise clip, a clock is present, or the time is spoken aloud, synchronized with the local time zone. For an entire day.
The result is a four-dimensional quilt of moments stitched together by time and vaguely by theme, a kind of anti-narrative “story” that has left viewers mesmerized. It’s currently on display at the MFA until Jan. 29. 
There are a number of commandments for exhibition, handed down from Marclay himself and rigorously maintained at the limited venues which have been blessed by the presence of “The Clock” since its creation. The screen must be indoors and meet Marclay’s specifications for size; the aforementioned IKEA couches are an absolute necessity. Visitors must be allowed into the exhibition for free (in part to combat the staggeringly numerous copyright claims that could be, and have not been, made on the film), and can stay for as long as they’d like.
Most importantly, to allow the film to be experienced in its complicated totality, hosting museums must stay open for a full 24 hours at least once during the exhibition. This is the first of four all-nighters the MFA will be pulling in coming months.
Marclay has said that the piece is meant to serve as a kind of memento mori, keeping viewers inescapably and utterly aware of the passage of time—not just through the film’s obsessive tracking of minutes, but also as actors pictured in different moments of their careers age over the course of the film. Whereas most movies offer an escape route from our own timelines, “The Clock” tells us again and again that time is passing, that we are aging, that nothing is permanent. (And of course, all of this contemplation of time takes on an additional valence when coupled with the astonishing wait outside. Remember, you are dying. And also remember, you just waited three hours to be reminded of this fact.)
But if the line outside the MFA on Saturday was any indication, it seems to be a reminder we crave. Can a film about its own duration possibly maintain such manic levels of devotion? Only time will tell.
Sections
The stream of college-age guys clutching suit-shaped bags labeled “Keezer’s” indicates I have arrived. Keezer’s Classic Clothing, located between Central Square and the River St. Bridge, has been outfitting Harvard men in affordable suits and tuxes for over a century.
When I get  into the boxy one-story shop, I am a little surprised to see the interiors is more 1990s than 1890s. I ask a man who works there if there is anyone who can tell me about the shop’s history.  “You want to talk to that guy,” he says, pointing to a man taking a call.
The man on the phone is Len Goldstein, the owner of Keezer’s Classic Clothing. He is not a descendant of founder Max Keezer, but he has been working here for almost 39 years. I also learn, though not until the end of our conversation, that today is his birthday.
Max Keezer started the business with the aim of selling the expensive, hand-made clothing of wealthy Harvard students second-hand to people looking for bargains. “A lot of the Harvard students grew up in the mining camps out west or the railroads, and the fathers wanted to send them east for a gentleman’s education, but they wouldn’t give them a lot of money to spend on drinking,” Goldstein says.
Goldstein explains that the families of these students wanted their sons to look like real gentlemen, so they’d receive clothing allowances large enough to secure high-quality suits. When desperate for booze or date money, they’d sell their expensive suits to Keezer.
This tradition continues, though in a different location. Keezer’s has been in its current building on River St. for almost 31 years, but its been in several locations since their founding, including the space currently occupied by the Harvard Bookstore. “In the old days, way back, we were right in Harvard Square on Mass Ave.,” says Goldstein. “But we stopped being able to afford that rent many, many, many years ago. Probably close to 50 years ago.”
More recently, Keezer’s has been seeing a large wave of business because of a certain Harvard tradition that takes place in early fall. “Every late September, early October, the club guys all start coming in because they have their fall punching, they punch for the clubs, so they all start coming in, buying tuxedos,” Goldstein explains.
“A lot of these guys are football players, basketball players, rugby players, tennis players, and have big muscles,” he says. “So we’ll ask them ‘do you build thighs?’ and they’ll look at us funny.  ‘Well, we need to know that to know what type of pants to give you.’”
Len tells me that as a kid, he was told that his generation was going to be the biggest generation, in terms of physique. “But now these kids now—it’s unreal… Some of these guys have huge shoulders, no waist, and they’ve got thighs, so it doesn’t sound like you can fit these people, but we figure out a way to do it.”
I ask if the shop has had any celebrity clients, and he mentions John F. Kennedy ’40, a former Crimson business manager.
“He used to tool around Harvard Square in his convertible, but his father never gave him money and every spring he’d send his valet in to sell his cast-off clothing,” Goldstein says. “He was one of the last people at Harvard to have a valet. So his father gave him a valet but not spending money. But a lot of people did that in those days, they didn’t want their children to go to ruin.”
Kennedy was not the end of Keezer’s celebrity fair. “Every couple of years we get people who’ll come in and they’ll buy or rent white ties and tails because they’re invited to one of the Nobel Prize parties,” Goldstein says. Three or four years ago, Goldstein helped economist Peter Diamond—then a professor at MIT—find the right outfit for his Nobel Prize acceptance.
“And it sounds kind of every day here, but around the world, it’s not everyday,” Goldstein explains. “But Cambridge is a different kind of place, in case you hadn’t noticed.”
Sections
Wedged triangularly at the intersection of JFK and Brattle, The Curious George Store boasts that it is the world’s only store of its kind. That is a shame. We need more Curious George Stores in this world.
Curious George can be a maddening little fellow—in the first book I pulled from the shelf, “Curious George Goes to the Aquarium,” he releases a whole flock of penguins from their cage and somehow gets praised for it in the end. But this is not about the questionable moral logic of the books. This is about the dazzling artistic merit of the Curious George Store, a darling amalgamation of the thematic genius of Disneyland, the radiant color palette of Munchkinland, and the self-aware hokeyness of Las Vegas.
First things first: I like themes. I thrive on themes. I consider few things as satisfying as a theme done well. The Curious George Store is for everyone who ranks thematic consistency next to godliness—everyone who matches his socks to his sweater when nobody can tell, everyone who cracks puns when others groan, everyone for whom the Hallmark Store at Christmastime is a sparkly incarnation of paradise, everyone whose towels and bedspread match.
The Curious George Store knows how to carry out a theme: The place is a veritable zoo of Curious George wooden cars, Curious George costumes, Curious George puzzles, Curious George pajamas, Curious George kaleidoscopes, Curious George CDs, Curious George notecards, Curious George cups, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. An airplane piloted by George and a hot-air balloon captained by him drop from the ceiling. Doll versions of George dressed in the uniform of every profession imaginable crowd the shelves.
Perhaps even more than themes, I like creativity. The Curious George Store is a shrine to it. It’s an unapologetic ode to imagination, a monument to free spirits, a loud, glitzy, gorgeous declaration that originality is important, and valuable, and marketable, and meaningful, even in a day and age in which STEM subjects are treated as nobler and more practical than the arts and humanities.
Part of the brilliance of the Curious George Store is that it is not just for children. It is, more widely, for children at heart. There are few experiences as sentimental as flipping through Laura Ingalls Wilder’s “Little House in the Big Woods” as “Part of Your World” wafts through the sound system and The Man with the Yellow Hat stares down from the wall. In that moment, all I needed was a turkey-and-cheese Lunchable to feel as though I were right back in first grade. (Or ninth grade. I stopped reading the Little House books in elementary school, but I kept eating those damn Lunchables all the way through high school. My sodium levels have got to be deadly.)
Most of all, the Curious George Store is for the parents who are willing to shell out $100 for a three-foot-tall plush simian. The children of these indulgent parents will grow up to use “summer” as a verb and consider kale a legitimate side dish. But I won’t spend my time worrying about them. For as long as we, the nostalgia-ridden children of the ’90s, get to walk by this magnificently charming shop every day, the store is for us, too. Let us rejoice in this bastion of childhood whimsy we are so very lucky to call our own.
Sections
“God is dead. God remains dead. And we have killed him. How shall we, murderers of all murderers, console ourselves?” - Friedrich Nietzsche
“O tempora o mores!” - Cicero
One JFK St. is, by any objective measure, a beautiful piece of property. You could argue it’s the nicest in the Square. Settled snugly in the acute angle created by the bifurcation of Mass. Ave into Brattle and JFK, the building is a charming combination of marble foundation and red-brick upper levels. Its least attractive feature is without a doubt its first-floor tenant: the self-styled “The World’s Only Curious George Store.”
More than anything else, the store is an assault on the senses. Primary colors, towering product displays, and decorations hanging from the ceilings create a swirling claustrophobic nightmare made worse by the piercing cries of children pawing over the newest Lego set. While a poster stuck in the window by the entrance claims that the store “seeks to celebrate Curious George, [authors of the Curious George book series] the Reys, and their local roots,” the merchandise has a decidedly non-literary bent.
And the stuffed Georges! Perched on seemingly every available vertical surface sit hordes of stuffed Curious Georges. Curious George as a doctor; as a fireman; as a pirate; as a baseball player. Two oversized stuffed Georges in red shirts (one 16 inches tall and priced at $50 and one 36 inches tall and priced at $100) claim the highest shelf at the back of the store, their dead plastic eyes gazing gloomily over their domain. Stretched taut across their simian visages are the gloomiest, grimmest mouths I have ever seen sewn onto a stuffed animal.
The real trouble with The World’s Only Curious George Store, though, is not its extreme unpleasantness. The trouble with TWOCGS is that it misunderstands the origins of its current predicament.
For those not abreast of the latest Harvard Square Business news: TWOCGS is in something of a crisis at the moment. Its landlord, Equity One, has decided that developing 1 JFK St. into a mall of sorts would be the best use of its capital, leaving TWOCGS to face the possibility that it will not have real estate in the near future.
A change.org petition, articles in numerous Boston-based outlets, and a pleading sign outside the store’s entrance urging supporters to tweet using hashtags #savegeorge and #staycurious paint the store as a Harvard Square staple in the process of being forced out by the faceless corporate power of Square gentrification—a convenient narrative based on lies, misdirection, and a cynical tug on naive heartstrings.
TWOCGS is not a tragic victim, however. The store swept into the Square in 1996 under the management of WordsWorth’s, a real bookstore with operations just down the road at Brattle St. By 2004, however, the owner of WordsWorth’s was shuttering its doors, claiming that TWOCGS was the only one of his two stores that could “stand on its own.” In 2012, its current managers took over, introducing toys in addition to books in an effort to bolster sales among a consumer base less and less interested in the written word.
Ultimately, the store rode to success on the wave of kitschy gentrification that so ravaged the Square’s once-distinctive culture over the past half-century. It was started and has remained a monument to kitsch. Harvard promised us Veritas and the Square gave us Lego sets and a volume called “JavaScript for Babies” masquerading as children’s literature.
The World’s Only Curious George Store does not have any editions of the Bible. If they did, though, they would be wise to take a look at Galatians: “for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.”
Sections
Running around in the front yard with our neighborhood friends, we glorified battle. We took cover in bushes, shot each other with finger guns,  and in the evening, watched movies that portrayed soldiers as strong and proud—as heroes.
For Christmas, we received Nerf guns and spent winter break shooting soft foam darts at anyone who dared pass by our bedroom doors. Harmless.
Before long, nerf guns turned into airsoft guns, BB guns and paintball guns. All talk seemed to turn to video games, like HALO and Call of Duty.
Combat was idyllic, romantic even.
A lot of us had grandparents who had been in wars. We would boast about it. One kid would say, “My grandpa was in World War II and he’s still alive.” And we’d all coo and ooh and ahh.
But at the time, we didn’t really understand what it meant.
It was Veteran’s Day in 2008. I was in the sixth grade and my grandpa came to speak to my class about his experience in the Vietnam War.
He had never talked about it before. Everything I knew about his time in the war—his bullet wound, his honorable discharge, his Purple Heart—came from comments made in passing by my dad, my mom, and occasionally my grandma.
I was excited that my grandpa was the one speaking to the class. It was as if I had won some unspoken battle of my own.
I don’t remember too much of what he said during the hour he was talking—just that this man, who was always laughing and drinking wine at family dinners, had suddenly become grave and sullen standing before me. Clasping his fingers together he asked, “Does anyone have any questions?”
One boy in my class raised his hand. “What kinds of guns did you get to use? Did you use the AK-47s?”
Protective anger rose in me.
Tears in his eyes, my grandpa responded. “We had to kill people. People we didn’t even know. People in the villages who didn’t deserve to die.”
It took me a few years to work out how I felt about what my grandpa said that day, and it only became more complicated the more I learned: that Vietnam veterans weren’t celebrated by the country they fought for, that many of them came home with PTSD and other health challenges, that others didn’t see my grandpa as one of those heroes from the movies.
As a kid, it was easy to romanticize war as we stood behind the leaves of the mulberry tree in my neighbor’s backyard with our feet stained purple by the fallen fruit.
But I now know that war isn’t fought with Nerf guns from the safety of a bedroom. In real life, hands, not feet, are stained, and they’re stained red, not purple. In real life, people died. And in real life, my grandpa is a hero.
Sections
I first encountered murder face-to-face when my grandmother smashed a squirrel to death with a brick. A little too clever and determined, the rodent vaulted the netting my grandmother had woven around her tomatoes and green beans. That barrier was the penultimate step of an arms race that had begun months before: my grandmother versus bugs, birds, heat, gravity, and overly inquisitive Chinese neighbors (“I think the old Liu woman might have taken one of my tomatoes,” she confided); waged using repellent sprays, hoses, trellises constructed from fallen tree branches, and vigilant patrolling of the dirt plot in front of our building.
My grandmother didn’t clean up the squirrel quickly enough to prevent my mother and me from nearly stepping on it on our way to the car. I don’t think she considered the clean-up necessary. The body would serve as her spoils of war, an example to any other potential horticultural terrorists.
My mother was aghast. “Grandma killed it,” she whispered, as if saying it too loudly would irreparably disturb me.
My grandmother grew up in Liaoning, a province in the region of what English-speakers recognize as Manchuria. People in China just call it “Dongbei,” the Northeast, a regional marker instantly capturing a distinct set of characteristics. The landscape is austere and inhospitable; its people are big, sailor-mouthed, drunken, hardy, and honest. We speak too loudly, with an accent that thickens consonants and ungracefully mates words.
“Dongbei people are cu,” I’ve heard—“thick,” unrefined. I liked to fancy we were a little Visigothic, or akin to the Wildlings in “Game of Thrones.” Or maybe I should say they were akin to us: The Great Wall built to keep us out predated both Hadrian’s and George R.R. Martin’s.
Whenever we ate at Chinese restaurants, my father inevitably struck up a conversation with the proprietress about our family origins.
“We’re Dongbei people,” he always said proudly, his teeth broad and white, his face still tan from two decades working on a farm, his appetite grotesquely engorged after a childhood eked hand to mouth. The proprietress—usually, my father told me conspiratorially, from Guangzhou, because all restaurant owners were—would nod and scan our faces.
“You’re not from Dongbei, are you?” my mother was often asked. She’s from Heilongjiang, which is even farther northeast than Liaoning. You couldn’t blame anyone, though, for seeing her sitting there, fine-boned and soft-skinned, and thinking she hailed from a more hospitable place. Since my father highly valued physical hardiness, my brother and I were always tan and sturdy from outdoor sports he encouraged us to play. To this day, running outside feels like an honorary ritual, a return to an idyllic past.
I liked to think all those restaurant owners would have been able to guess where my ancestors were from, even without my father’s declaration. Sitting there in front of a cup of loose leaf tea and a plate of roast eggplants and potatoes, speaking fluent Mandarin, I could have been back home in Manchuria.
“I can’t believe it,” sighed my mother, rehashing the squirrel incident years later. It’s remained a sore point for years. “She actually killed it. I hope none of the neighbors saw.”
“The squirrels have a right to live, too,” my brother said philosophically.
“Oh, they have a right to live too,” said my grandma. “They’re eating my plants. What about my plants’ right to live? What about my right to grow plants?”
“You didn’t need to kill it,” my mother said. “We’re not growing those vegetables for survival anymore.”
“Right, right, I shouldn’t have killed it,” my grandma laughed.
I will always be able to remember the image of squirrel sprawled cleanly against the beige concrete. I didn’t feel particularly bad then, and I never have. I imagine picking up a brick, feeling its texture and heft, hard on palm and wrist. Looking the squirrel in its eye like a daub of rich tar. I don’t think I could have done it, but I find myself wishing for the breed of conviction that could bring that brick down with the logical force my grandma had surely used.
I think that was the first moment in which I consciously tried on the identity of a big-boned, uncouth barbarian girl from Dongbei. A buoying rush, like wearing an article of clothing that not only fits well, but changes your body into its better self.
Sometimes, my mind involuntarily connects brash behaviors or character flaws back to the hinterlands I never needed to survive. My real home is the Midwestern heartland of the United States, not the harsher outskirts of mainland China. But just as ancient people felt deep camaraderie with their gods in the sky, the distance and improbability make my personal myth all the more alluring—through affectionate faith, truer.
The thought always evokes an unwarranted smirk. I think of the squirrel, laid out more like a felled warrior than a poignant casualty. Another dynasty fallen to the Manchus.
Through the sun-frosted windows, I watched my grandmother squat in front of her chives, their shoots an optimistic green against the soil. She’d taken the steel netting down; the squirrel corpse seemed to have served its purpose.
The chives would later appear in our dumplings, which we ate for dinner about once every other week. In my father and grandma’s Liaoning, they had been a luxury saved only for the New Year.
My grandmother reached forward with one sun-beaten hand and stroked a chive plant’s pale chartreuse tip—tentatively, tenderly, as if astonished, even after all these years, by the miracle of finding it quivering, breathing, ever-so-slightly against her skin.
Sections
UPDATED: September 24, 2016, at 9:19 a.m.
Many Harvard students have spent sleepless nights in the library, hunched over problem sets or essays, running on coffee fumes. Few, however, have sat guard for up to 48 consecutive hours in the burning heat and freezing cold, as Giora A. Ashkenazi ’17 did while serving in the Israel Defense Forces.
Ashkenazi fulfilled his three-year mandatory service in the IDF before coming to Harvard. During his six-month preparatory training, he lived by his watch, traveling all day from one hour-long activity to another. If he arrived late, he had to run or do pushups as punishment.
Once training ended, Ashkenazi entered active duty, and his days became even harder. He was kept on a strict schedule, alternating endlessly between work and supposed “rest” periods. Due to personnel shortages, Ashkenazi often had to forego sleep to complete menial tasks, like washing dishes or cleaning, during his rest shifts. On some nights, he was able to sleep for only four hours.
Other nights, Ashkenazi sat guard duty in the desert. He’d pack up his weapons and ammunition, some food, warm clothes, and a small blanket, and travel to an assigned location. There, he’d sit for hours on end and “just stare,” alternately sweating and shivering as day changed to night and back again. 
Ashkenazi notes that these experiences have given him an “interesting perspective” on having to occasionally stay up late to complete a problem set.
Student veterans like Ashkenazi often arrive at Harvard older, more mature, and with a broader perspective on life than their peers. But with these students’ expanded outlooks comes the difficulty of fitting in among classmates whose experiences differ vastly from their own, in an environment that often does not feel like it was designed with them in mind.
Though Harvard boasts student-run organizations for undergraduate, graduate, and alumni veterans, the University does not currently run any programs aimed at recruiting student veterans to campus, or at easing their transition once they arrive.
Left to navigate a radical life change mostly on their own, Harvard student veterans express a desire for more outreach and support. 
Ashkenazi, who was 24 when he arrived in Cambridge, had no idea what to expect from his first year at Harvard. So, he watched “The Social Network.”
Having spent the last five years serving in the IDF, working in Israel, and volunteering in Nepal, Ashkenazi had no frame of reference for college other than the cinema.
“I remember watching [movies] before I came here and thinking, ‘Oh, okay,’” he says. He  pledged to “try to keep an open mind to freshman culture”—as he hoped his classmates would to him.
Ashkenazi soon discovered that Harvard students and Harvard student veterans tend to have distinct worldviews, drawn from their different life experiences. As fellow IDF veteran Limor P. Gultchin ’17 puts it, “I think that there is a direct correlation between the thing you did before coming here and your experience here and expectations here.”
Ashkenazi knew he was different from most freshmen. He began his military service in Israel at age 19. Afterwards, he spent time in a kibbutz, worked as a waiter, and traveled to Kathmandu, where he worked with two Nepali to establish a kindergarten. 

“When I came [to Harvard] I decided to very knowingly immerse myself,” Ashkenazi explains. “I tried to be patient and open with people, and I found people to be very curious and genuine.
“It’s not that I didn’t have moments like, ‘Oh my God, what am I doing here, why-are-they-shit-faced-and-it’s-3-a.m.-and-I’m-trying-to-sleep’ kind of moments,” he adds.
“But overall I found it to be a positive experience, though there were things that I knew people wouldn’t understand.”
Ashkenazi says his time in the military gave him more perspective, allowing him “a way to kind of zoom out” and see things in a different light. For example, he’s never had complaints about the food at Harvard.
“[Harvard is set up to] make us focus on studying, like, ‘Just study, we’ll do the rest for you,’ [which is] a huge, huge privilege,” Ashkenazi says. “I’m always in awe of people making food for us, and the food is so good, and I never have to cut a vegetable or wash a dish, and I washed plenty in the army.”
In particular, Ashkenazi, a joint concentrator in social studies and studies of women, gender, and sexuality, says he doesn’t understand why so many Harvard students pursue careers in investment consulting. He thinks the reason may be a pervasive herd mentality, which he finds distasteful after his time in the army.
“There was a Bain [Capital] event yesterday, I had no will of even looking at it,” Ashkenazi says. “I don’t get the ‘shoulds,’ like, ‘you should do this.’ Somewhere along the line, maybe because of the group aspect in the noncombat part [of my service], I’ve become more wary of groups.”
South Korean veteran Jae Hyun Lee ’18 also says the Harvard culture surrounding consulting and finance can be alienating. He says his previous experiences as a student veteran can make recruiting events for financial companies seem off-putting.
“[At] these info sessions for these finance or consulting firms...everybody [is going] for money,” he says. “I feel like that can really turn people off, especially if you’re from the military, [because] it does beg the question, ‘Is this who I was fighting for? Is this the company I was supposed to protect with my life?”
Logan E. Leslie ’16 says many college-eligible veterans may feel discouraged from applying to Harvard in the first place. Leslie, who completed eight years of service in Iraq, Qatar, and Afghanistan with the United States Army Special Forces prior to attending Harvard College, says many veterans he knows wouldn’t think of applying to Harvard because they view the student body as “intolerant” and the tuition as “exorbitant.” Some also fear they would not be competitive applicants.
Marlyn McGrath, the Director of Admissions for Harvard College, wrote in an email that the “College seeks to create a diverse campus community” and noted that the admissions office speaks regularly with Reserve Officers’ Training Corps leaders and the Marine Leadership Scholars Programs, among other “veteran-focused organizations.”
Still, Leslie, 30, feels like veterans considering applying to Harvard aren’t getting the message. “You ask the average veteran, and they have an image in their head of the Harvard student [as] just kind of closed-minded [and] politically intolerant,” Leslie says. “That’s how it’s viewed.”
Leslie, who is now pursuing a joint degree from the Law School and the Business School, says that he feels there is some truth to this perception.
“It’s different [for a veteran] because people might look at you differently, they might ask you questions about your background in a different kind of way,” he says. “But most people here have pretty interesting backgrounds.”
It helped that Leslie, who lived off-campus in an apartment with his wife and two daughters while he attended the College, was able to “get out of the bubble every day and go to my family and have a life.” He and his family often left Cambridge for activities like apple picking. 
But Leslie wishes that he had had more peers at the College who could relate to his experiences. “Since I’ve been here I have known personally all the vets that have come through the College,” he says. “I think it’s embarrassing that out of 6,700 students, you have two vets or one vet or three vets.”
Jason M. Halligan, who graduated from West Point and served in the military on active duty for nine years before enrolling in the joint degree program offered by HLS and the Kennedy School, says the “communication gap” between civilian students and veterans on campus may contribute to veterans’ perception of Harvard students as insensitive to their experiences.
“A lot of students are afraid to ask veterans about their experience, [and] I think it’s primarily out of good will, that students don’t want to offend veterans,” he says. “But I think also veterans don’t want to share our story sometimes, because we don’t want to offend others… There’s just a lot of good-natured uncomfortableness.”
Halligan, one of four co-directors of the Harvard Veterans’ Organization, the on-campus, student-run branch of the Harvard Veterans’ Alumni Organization, says the HVO hopes to develop a forum where veterans feel comfortable sharing their stories and students feel comfortable asking about them.
But first, more veterans would need to come to Cambridge. Leslie and Halligan emphasize that the lack of student veterans at the College is detrimental both to the institution and to its students.
“Since 2001, so [for] the majority of most of the students’ lifetimes, this country has been at war,” Leslie says. “And most of the students I’ve interacted with here haven’t even talked to just one vet. That’s huge.
“These wars have defined the course of this country,” he adds. “If the Harvard student body, which is supposedly the top, supposedly the future’s leaders, haven’t had personal interactions...with veterans, then I think that’s really bad.”
Even veterans undeterred by the prospect of potential friction with Harvard’s undergraduate student body may balk at the College’s steep tuition. Currently, Harvard charges more than $60,000 a year: a daunting price for older students who may support themselves financially.
While in the U.S. army, Eli B. Schmerler ’19 worked in cartography as a geospatial engineer, performing terrain analysis. He found this kind of analysis so interesting, he says, that he signed up to work in Harvard College Library’s map collection his freshman year.
Schmerler’s full-time work in the military also made him financially independent from his parents. Yet, when he matriculated at the College, Harvard considered him a dependent of his parents for the purposes of need-based financial aid analysis.
“Many veterans come out of the military with a strong sense of independence from their family,” he says. “For me, this is the case of, I do not want my parents to be involved in my paying for school.
“The fact that [Harvard] considers you as a dependent of your parents even though you’ve been not claimed on their taxes for the last however many years you were in the military, that’s not a good thing,” he adds.
Speaking on behalf of the Financial Aid Office, Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven wrote in an email that “Harvard’s approach to providing financial aid is based on a student’s ability to pay for college, not their willingness,” adding that, in this context, financial assessment of a student “typically” includes his or her parents. She noted that “every situation is unique,” but there is “no standard reason” a student would be declared independent from one or both parents.
According to its website, the Harvard Financial Aid Office bases its allocation of aid entirely on need, and asks students receiving financial aid to contribute to the cost of their education through term-time and summer employment. Currently, roughly 70 percent of College students receive some form of aid, while 20 percent pay no tuition.
Daniel T. Fisher, who received a joint degree from HBS and HKS this year and previously served as an infantry officer in the U.S. Army, says his biggest financial aid concern centers on Harvard’s relatively small commitment to the Yellow Ribbon Program, a provision of the Post-9/11 GI Bill that allows private universities to grant tuition benefits to veterans. Those grants are then matched by the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs.
According to Fisher, the tuition for any veteran attending Harvard would likely be fully covered by a combination of the broader Post-9/11 GI Bill (which funds veterans attending private colleges at the rate of approximately $20,000 a year), the Yellow Ribbon Program, and Harvard’s own need-based aid. Unfortunately, he says, few veterans are aware of this.
“The Yellow Ribbon Program commitment is a key component of the financial aid package because it is a signalling mechanism specifically to the veteran community,” Fisher says. “Those folks, that population is less likely to understand that Harvard has such a generous financial aid program.”
Harvard currently promises $5,000 per student veteran per year through the Yellow Ribbon Program, according to the VA website. Many veterans, seeing this, think they won’t be able to afford tuition and choose not to apply, Fisher says.
Cowenhoven wrote that Harvard’s contribution to the Yellow Ribbon Program was chosen to “reflect the amount students on financial aid are asked to work during both the summer and term-time.” She adds that it is possible this amount may change in the future.
In comparison, Yale commits $10,000 per year per student veteran to Yellow Ribbon. Yale is currently home to 10 undergraduate U.S. student veterans, compared to Harvard’s three.
Harvard’s financial policies, along with the lack of other veterans on campus, can make the College feel unwelcoming to student veterans like Schmerler.
“[It can feel like] Harvard has this idea of who the people at Harvard are supposed to be,” he says, “18 to 22, live in the dorm, do activities, and they try and make everybody fit that mold.”
For those veterans who do manage to navigate the admissions and financial aid process, the next step—adjusting to life on campus—is often no less challenging.
Jae Hyun Lee experienced this difficult transition when he returned to campus after taking what would have been his sophomore and junior years to complete his required 21 months of service in the South Korean army. 

Lee came back to campus an academic sophomore but a social senior. He was immediately confronted with pressing academic decisions and social anxieties. The friends he’d made as a freshman would be graduating in less than a year, and Lee knew no one in the class of 2018. Despite having been away from his studies for nearly two years, he was expected to declare his academic concentration that semester.
Apart from general social and academic worries, Lee says he was shocked and stressed by the sudden segue from military rigor to collegiate freedom. Like Ashkenazi, Lee says his military service was strictly regimented and physically taxing. He remembers standing on night duty for hours, staring at the stars.
At other times, Lee and his fellow soldiers would go on 30-kilometer marches, carrying 25 to 30 kilograms of weight on their backs. They’d start out singing songs and shouting catchphrases, he says, but would lapse into an exhausted silence as time went on. Lee recalls being so tired he’d run out of things to think about. 

“In the military, it’s a very fixed schedule,” Lee says, describing a typical day in which he rose at 6:30 a.m., worked until 5:30 p.m., ate dinner, helped clean, did a roll call, and went to bed at 10 p.m. “But here at Harvard, your options are infinite. You can do so much, it’s really what you make of it.”
Lee likens the experience of switching between military and college life to the experience of switching from a salad bar with only a few options to a five-star hotel kitchen where he was the head chef and could do as he pleased.
Now 22 and in his junior year at Harvard, Lee has survived this switch with aplomb. In addition to a heavy academic load—Lee is concentrating in economics with a secondary in environmental science and public policy—he helps direct YouthGlobe, a student-run, not-for-profit organization that provides scholarships to orphans in Burundi.
But Lee recalls feeling overwhelmed by the transition at the time. He says he found no help from the administration, which offers no formal programs to ease the transition for undergraduate veterans, according to College spokesperson Rachael Dane.
Harvard University Health Services offers no special counseling for student veterans, according to Chief of Counseling and Mental Health Services Barbara Lewis. Lewis wrote in an email that CAMHS can “refer students to outside providers,” and noted that there are a number of programs in “the greater Boston area designed specifically to help with concerns ranging from post-traumatic stress disorder to readjustment.”
“I’m not trying to straight-out criticize Harvard, but I haven’t received a single email or anything like that,” Lee says. “I think what you really need is a one-on-one session with someone who understands what you went through.”
Dane wrote in an email to The Crimson that “Harvard College welcomes the opportunity to connect with undergraduate veterans, as we know they may have needs that are different from other students.” She added that the College “encourages students to bring their ideas to us.”
Joon H. Yang, a South Korean student who left Harvard after his sophomore year to serve his military duty and will return next year as a member of the Class of 2019, agreed with Lee.
“From what I have seen and what I hear from fellow Koreans or Israeli friends who return to school after military service, I don’t feel like there is enough—or quite frankly, any—system in place to ease the transition,” Yang, age 22, wrote in an email.
“I get it, we don’t need to be babied. But I’ve seen friends who struggle to get back into the rhythm of things after two or three years away from Harvard’s very unique ecosystem, and there wasn’t any support that was geared towards these students, who could have used the help.”
Lee says he thinks the situation could be fixed if Harvard hired a few advisers who specialize in helping students with military experience. Even receiving one brief email from someone with a similar service background would have made an immense difference, he says.
“Harvard always asks students to be proactive,” he says, “but sometimes I think Harvard needs to make an effort to reach out to those students. Send emails, ask people… It doesn’t cost anything extra.”
Limor Gultchin, age 24, did not have what most might think of as a typical military experience. Rather than patrolling ambush sites or performing guard duty, she spent her three years in the IDF working for the Army Radio as a journalist.
Gultchin began as a reporter in the field, often filing stories from borrowed computers (she lacked one of her own). By her second year, she had worked her way up to news editor, and by her third, she was designing and hosting her own radio programs.
One of the things Gultchin liked most about her service, she says, was the intense camaraderie and all-consuming nature of her work. She remembers late, late nights and impossible deadlines. 

“The nature of my service was very much, ‘go out there in the field and gather all the information and have it back in time for this and that, or it’s not going to make it for the edition and your editor is going to shout at you,’” she says.
She also remembers how willing she and her fellow soldiers were to “go well beyond their resources and limits and the limits of what is reasonable” as they worked together toward a common goal.
One of the reasons she chose to concentrate in computer science, she says, was that its collaborative environment—with students joining forces to complete problem sets or hunching over the same line of code for hours on end—resembles the ethos of “shared work” she found in IDF.
“In many cases in the Israeli military… people end up caring so much for their friends and caring so much for the type of work that they do [that] you’re willing to do so much more,” she says. “You’re willing to not sleep, you’re willing to go out there and just get what you need.” 

Gultchin says she came to Harvard expecting to find a lot of the same intensity—except that, in Cambridge, it would be students throwing themselves into collaborative academic work, not soldiers losing themselves in military service.
She did find people who were “very intense,” but their intensity belonged to a “different realm,” she says.
“There is a similar mentality when it comes to pulling all-nighters and going to this recruiting event, then coming back and going to the club meeting, and only then starting my problem set due the next day,” she says.
“But I think it’s for a much more individualistic sense of it, because it’s all about building yourself and your resume and your path here, and you are stepping out of your comfort zone to achieve something for yourself.
“The kind of going beyond that I’m talking about is more because you’re committed to [each other and] your work, which is not so common here,” she adds.
Another thing far from common at Harvard—student veterans.
“I’m not gonna ever be the veteran... in a 60-person or a 700-person lecture who’s like, ‘based on my veteran experience, speaking as the only veteran in this room, let me tell you all about something that none of you really care about,’” Schmerler says. “At least that’s the perception that I have.”
Schmerler instead sits silent, the only veteran in the room.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: 
CORRECTION: September 24, 2016
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated the concentration and secondary field of Jae Hyun Lee ’18.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As live organ music filtered through Holden Chapel on Wednesday morning, about 50 attendees greeted the usher, accepted a program and hymnbook, and sat in silent contemplation, waiting for Morning Prayers to begin.
Harvard affiliates of all kinds—including students and administrators—addressed the audience at Morning Prayers, and the morning’s speaker was Harvard Divinity School Dean David N. Hempton. While the prayers are held every weekday beginning at 8:45 a.m., Wednesday’s event was special in honoring the International Day of Peace, observed annually around the world on Sept. 21. The day was the centerpiece of Hempton’s address.
“Is peace just the absence of war?” Hempton asked. “How many of us think that life is just the absence of death? Or that love is just the absence of hatred? Yet the question needs to be asked because I’m not sure, as a species, we’ve yet come up with a very compelling answer.”
Hempton pointed to the proliferation of violence online as one obstacle to the human capacity to envision peace.
“Thanks to the horror of the photos we see everyday on social media, we have no trouble imagining a war,” Hempton said. “But we seem to have a great deal of trouble imagining peace.  What is it really? Peace has come to be a soft word associated with flower-power and drug-induced hallucination. It’s a flakey concept for flakey people.”
Hempton challenged each member of the audience to take an active role in building peace.
“In the words of Psalms 34:14, ‘seek peace and pursue it.’ These are active verbs. Seek it, pursue it, cultivate it, work for it, insist on it, devote your talent and resources to it,” he said. “It’s a practice, not an aspiration.”
While typically the prayer services are held in Memorial Church, they have been relocated to Holden Chapel during Memorial Church’s year-long renovation.
“It felt to me that this is a moment that could be disrupted as they do the work in Memorial Church. But in fact, this wonderful tradition carries on,” Freshman Dean Thomas A. Dingman ’67, who attended the service, said. “I think all of us benefit from a moment of reflection, listening to somebody opine thoughtfully, and listening to the choir, which is always spectacular.”
A choir of 16 students sings a variety of psalms and anthems for every morning prayer.
“It definitely sets the tone,” choir member Andy J. Troska ’17 said. “I’m not particularly religious, but even for me, it’s a really great way to be centered at the beginning of the day and have a moment of calm before everything gets started.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This fall, the Center for European Studies unveiled a secondary field in European History, Politics, and Societies.
“This will give students a new way to carve out a kind of independent plan of study that coincides with their interest in Europe,” CES Executive Director Elaine M. Papoulias said.
According to Papoulias, housing the European History, Politics, and Societies program in CES—which promotes an interdisciplinary focus in the social sciences and has resident faculty members from a variety of fields—will allow students to take advantage of many disciplines.
“We have a wealth of teaching on Europe, and we have had that wealth for decades,” she said. “Students should have the opportunity to point to the fact that they have taken a collection of courses–students have always been very interested in European studies–and we wanted to the possibility to offer students a more guided process for studying Europe, a more coherent process for studying Europe, more mentorship, and really kind of put conceptual and intellectual framework around a group of courses that already have existed.”
The launch of the new secondary comes after more than three years of deliberation and discussion among CES administrators, members of the Standing Committee on European Studies, and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.
And recent and ongoing changes in Europe—from Britain’s vote to withdraw from the European Union to a major debt crisis in Greece—emphasize why the continent remains important to study, regardless of one’s concentration, Papoulias said.
“For those students whose interests don’t lie in the social sciences, it’s kind of hard to ignore Europe right now,” she said, adding, “This might be a really good moment to understand from a historical perspective.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In just eight days, the Cambridge City Council will vote for a new city chief executive.
Three finalists for the position of city manager, arguably the most powerful position in Cambridge, publicly addressed local residents Tuesday evening and City Councillors Wednesday evening as the scheduled decision nears on Sept. 29.
The months-long national selection process began last March when current city manager since 2012 Richard C. Rossi announced his upcoming retirement. Since then, finding Rossi’s replacement has been at the center of discussion for the City Council, the body tasked with choosing a successor.
Just two weeks before its decision, the City announced three finalists for the position: Robert “Jay” Ash Jr,  Louis A. DePasquale, and Paul J. Fetherston. The three selected finalists all come from city planning backgrounds and one has even served in the position of city manager before.
Ash Jr., a graduate of Clark University, currently serves as the Massachusetts secretary of the executive office of housing and economic development and was formerly the city manager of Chelsea, Mass., for 14 years.
DePasquale, the only finalist currently working in Cambridge government, is the city’s assistant city manager for fiscal affairs. Reporting to Rossi, DePasquale has served as Cambridge’s budget director and graduated from Boston State College and received a Master’s degree  in Public Administration from Northeastern University.
The third finalist, Fetherston, currently serves as assistant city manager in Asheville, N.C. A graduate of Trinity College and Western New England Law School, Fetherston was also the deputy city manager of Boulder, Colorado.
DePasquale, by virtue of his current position, is most familiar with the City of Cambridge and has worked most closely with the City Council.
“I would say that it seems to me that the entire administration, that the entire council is so proud of Louis that they are heavily leaning towards him,” Councillor Nadeem A. Mazen said. “Maybe circumstances will prove me wrong. I like all three candidates and I am truly not sure who to pick, but I think I’m in the minority there.”
The position of city manager is both influential and lucrative. As the chief executive of the city government, the city manager is responsible for enforcing laws and ordinances, advising the City Council and implementing their decisions, appointing city officials, and crafting the city budget. The previous city manager Robert W. Healy was often called the “most powerful man in Cambridge.” Rossi was paid $360,000 a year in 2015 for his tenure, one of the highest salaries of any public official in Massachusetts. By contrast, City Councillors in Cambridge are paid roughly $78,000 a year. Governor Charles D. Baker ’79 makes $151,800 a year.
The city’s Preliminary Screening Committee, a 19-member body including four city councillors and 15 local stakeholders in business, education and affordable housing, was created to help comb through 55 separate applications for City Manager. The city has also been aided by a consulting firm GovHR USA, a strategy the City Council used when selecting Rossi almost four years ago.
Mazen, a member of the screening committee, praised the final candidates for their records but did express some concern with the nature of the selection process.
“While I am in great admiration of the final candidates, I think we have a real diversity problem in the top level of city management nationwide,” Mazen said. “When it comes to actually headhunting and recruiting best in the nation, we really went to other places in Massachusetts.”
This Tuesday, the city held a public forum where the candidates had an opportunity to answer questions from the public. A multitude of issues were discussed ranging from the affordable housing crisis to current construction projects in Kendall Square.
“It’s not easy being the city manager in this city,” DePasquale said at the forum. “It’s not easy being a city councillor in this city.”
While Rossi originally intended to retire in June, the City Council requested that he remain city manager in perpetuity until a new manager was selected. Rossi is expected to retire officially on Sept. 30, according to documents from this week’s City Council meeting.
The three finalists for the city manager position did not respond to requests for comment.
—Staff writer Joshua Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A group of students from Harvard and several other universities have produced and distributed a free college admissions guide to about 40,000 public school leaders nationwide.
Titled “The Guide,” the 66-page PDF document is the product of the Fair Opportunity Project, an organization that students from Harvard and other universities including  Yale, Pomona, Brown, and Stanford created last year. Luke R. Heine ’17-’18, one of the project’s directors, said the guide models one he and other members of the Midwest Club created last year, though the newer guide is more comprehensive and not targeted at students from a particular region.
The student-produced guide is available to download for free on the group’s website and includes information about standardized testing, interviewing, financial aid and scholarships, as well as timelines for the college application process.
Fair Opportunity Project member Jonah C. Hahn ’18 said the organization created the guide to make information about the college admission project more accessible to students who would not otherwise easily have access to admissions information or quality counseling—such as first generation college students or students from lower income brackets.
“One of the driving forces behind the project is to essentially say, no matter what income characteristics of your community exist, you deserve the right to have the best amount of information possible,” Hahn said.
Several of the Fair Opportunity Project’s members are first-generation college student or come from regions not typically represented in admissions pools. Indeed, Yale junior Alan Díaz-Santana, a first-generation college student and one of the guide’s editors, said these perspectives were important to creating the guide.
Cole C. Scanlon ’18, another student involved in the project, pointed to the guide’s digital format as another way the group has tried to create as accessible a resource as possible.
In addition to the student coordinators, a group of roughly ten education experts are involved in the project as advisers. They include Richard Barth, CEO of the KIPP Foundation—which operates charter schools across the country—CEO of education nonprofit City Year Michael Brown, and Cabot House Faculty Dean Stephanie R. Khurana.
Harvard Graduate School of Education professor Katherine K. Merseth is also an adviser the project. Merseth, who teaches the popular undergraduate course United States in the World 35: “Dilemmas of Equity and Excellence in American K-12 Education,” applauded the group and its guide, calling it a “brilliant solution.”
“This is targeted to people who don’t have those resources, who are kept out of the know, and it’s a way of sharing information that could be extremely helpful to broaden the access of all students of all students to institutions of higher education,” Merseth said.
After working on the guide for the last year, the Fair Opportunity Project has begun distributing it to a total of 60,000 public school officials across the country. Heine said the group has sent the guide to 40,000 public school administrators.  In addition he said the document has been downloaded in every state and in 19 countries so far.
While the students involved in the Fair Opportunities Project are still refining and distributing the current guide, Scanlon said they have discussed potentially creating a video series or expanding to cover international universities. Díaz-Santana added that the group has talked about medical and business school guides as possible future endeavors.
The Harvard Admissions Office declined to comment on the guide or the Fair Opportunity Project.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Yale Law professor Stephen L. Carter examined on Wednesday the invisible consequences of law on African-Americans in the second of three lectures of the W.E.B. DuBois Lecture Series on “Blackness and the Legal Imagination.”
Carter discussed the intent versus the impact of laws, using voter identification laws as one example. He noted that even though voter disenfranchisement is often associated with the South, states such as Massachusetts and Connecticut have some of the largest discrepancies between white and black voter turnouts.
“There is missed opportunity in part because of the inability of a lot of people to see racism at home, in their own states,” Carter said.
Carter challenged the audience to try a complex word problem from a Louisiana literacy test designed to stop African Americans from voting. He then focused on cases, such as hiring practices, where the effect of race becomes far less clear.
“The problem is that regardless of one’s occupation, there is often an assumption about the implicit role of blackness and we rarely test to see if the assumption is wrong,” he said. “My point is not that anything that affects blacks negatively shouldn’t be allowed, but rather we should recognize and articulate when that is so.”
Carter argued that more conversations about race are needed in policymaking.
“We are often missing serious conversations about the effects of law,” Carter said. “I would like to see more conversations about these things and people recognizing the salience of race beyond those topics we code as racial.”
Hilda M. Jordan '19 said she gained new insights on how all laws can have unseen consequences.
“I walked away thinking about all the effects of law and the moral responsibilities of lawmakers when thinking about policy,” she said.
Introductory remarks were delivered by the Harvard Law professor Mark V. Tushnet ’67, who worked alongside Carter as a law clerk for Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall. Adding a personal touch, Tushnet also stated that his own daughter was inspired to pursue law after taking a course taught by Carter.
Created in 1981 with funding from the Ford Foundation, the W.E.B. DuBois Lecture Series recognizes individuals “who have contributed to a better understanding of African American life, history, and culture.” Past honorees include Condolezza Rice, Michael Eric Dyson, and Cornel West.
The third and last lecture of the series, titled “The Visible Future,” will be held Thursday afternoon at the Barker Center.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Fifteen student groups from Harvard Law School issued a statement on their website reproaching Harvard’s bargaining record with its dining service workers,  characterizing the ongoing stalemate in HUDS’ most recent round of contract talks as a class and racial justice “struggle.”
The groups issued their statement about a week after HUDS workers voted overwhelmingly in favor of authorizing a strike should the University not meet their demands for wage increases and altered health care benefits, chalking up a 591-18 vote last Thursday to approve such a move. Though their contract—which was originally extended from mid-June—expired last week,  the union will meet with Harvard negotiators for a final bargaining session on Sept. 27. A federal mediator will facilitate the contract talks.
“We the students of Harvard Law School refuse to abandon HUDS workers in their struggle for justice!” the groups wrote in the page-long statement.
The signatories include groups such as Reclaim Harvard Law—whose members spent the past year rallying the school’s administration for, among other demands, increased diversity faculty and students—as well the BGLTQ group Lambda at Harvard Law School and Harvard’s chapter of the National Lawyer’s Guild. Their statement is the latest show of student support for HUDS workers; students from Harvard’s Medical and Dental schools rallied in support of HUDS in Longwood last Monday, and a petition disseminated by a group of undergraduates had garnered more than 2,400 signatures at the time of the HUDS vote.
“Harvard deeply values the contributions of our dining hall worker[s], as evidenced by the fact that they receive some of the most generous wages and benefits in the food service industry.  Under the healthcare changes proposed by the University, dining employees will see their healthcare costs rise an average of $11 a month,” University spokesperson Tania deLuzuriaga wrote in a statement.
The groups’ statement references Harvard’s recent announcement that it had raised $7 billion for its historic fundraising drive—a popular refrain among supporters of the HUDS strike. But Harvard cannot pull money from the campaign to pay HUDS workers, University spokespeople and endowment analysts point out, especially given that many of of the gifts are restricted for particular purposes.
To date, Harvard has met with UNITE HERE Local 26—the Boston-based union that represents dining employees—for a total of 15 bargaining sessions over the course of the past three months. The two groups have clashed over the workers’ health care benefits package and a proposal from the union for increases in annual wages and more work time.
Gene VanBuren, a cook at the Harvard Law School’s pub, wrote that “it’s great to hear they’ve got our backs” after he heard about the statement. HUDS workers staff the Pub, but Restaurant Associates, an outside contractor, services the rest of the school’s eateries.
Health care concerns have been the leading topic of discussion during the course of the negotiations. Harvard offered its dining workers the same plan it extended to its largest union, Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers last winter. That plan eliminated deductibles in favor of moderately increasing copayments.
—Staff writer Brandon J. Dixon can be reached at brandon.dixon@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BrandonJoDixon.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Security was tight as people filed into the John F. Kennedy, Jr. Forum for former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak’s talk Wednesday night.
Barak, joined by Harvard Kennedy School professor Graham T. Allison ’62 as moderator, detailed his experiences working in Israel and around the world as a military figure and diplomat.
Security was at the forefront of the event with both Allison and Barak commenting on the fact that Israel is in a “tough neighborhood,” and that maintaining security is difficult given Israel’s precarious location the Middle East.
“I believe that the events of the Arab Spring have now turned into the Islamist winter,” Barak said. “Everything’s collapsing. There is no mercy for the weak.”
Barak served as the Prime Minister of Israel from 1999 to 2001 and the country’s Minister of Defence from 2007 to 2013. A fellow at the Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs until mid-October, Barak has been both praised and criticized for his role in a number of Israeli military operations in the Gaza Strip and around the Middle East.
Some students did not quite see eye-to-eye with Harvard’s invitation of Barak. A group of protesters gathered outside the forum with signs opposing Barak’s speech. Some gave out pamphlets detailing his checkered past to the individuals waiting in line, while others carried signs of protest while chanting, “There can be no peace on stolen ground.”
For a brief while, the conversation dipped into the 2016 election, with Barak commenting on Republican presidential candidate Donald J. Trump’s comment that Russian President Vladimir Putin “is more of a leader” than President Barack Obama.
“There is a grain of truth,” he said, adding that Putin “would not be elected in either Israel or the United States.”
Moments of humor pocketed the discussion. Allison, the Belfer Center’s director, made some quips to Barak’s past, including one military operation where he had to “dress up as a woman,” when he was a member of Israeli special forces. Barak did so “quite successfully,” Allison added.
Jazil Waris ’18, who is also a Crimson multimedia editor, said he enjoyed the emotional final comment by a Palestinian woman whose cousin was killed under Barak’s leadership.
“I always come to forums for this,” Waris said. “I think he was engaged.”
Attendee Ilan Goldberg ’20 enjoyed the bluntness of Barak’s answers.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harry Potter may not be divinely inspired, but for a group of Harvard students and Cambridge residents, that has not stopped them from treating the work like the bible.
Every week, members of Harvard Square’s Humanist Hub gather to analyze J.K. Rowling’s famous series while searching for life lessons. Their discussion group has proved very popular, and spawned a podcast—”Harry Potter and the Sacred Text”—that has reached as high as number two on Apple’s iTunes podcast chart.
The group has been meeting since September of 2015, and has attracted a mix of locals and students who proudly identify as “nerds.” One of the group’s organizers, Divinity student Ariana N. Nedelman, said Harry Potter’s strong following made the book well-suited as a centerpiece for discussion.
“The fan community surrounding Harry Potter is uniquely supporting and loving, and brings their lives into the text,” Nedelman said. “So there was already a potential for this kind of work in the way that people were relating to the book that just needed to be tapped.”
Group attendance, which can reach as high as 70 some weeks, includes some students but mostly is made up of local residents. However, those Harvard students that do attend said they find it a welcome break from their routines on campus.
“The makeup of the class is really interesting and you get into conversations with people in a much larger age range than what you would find at Harvard,” said Francesca E. Childs ’16, who frequently went to discussions last year.
While the group started solely as a forum for local discussion, organizers said they received messages from across the world expressing interest in the topic. Just a few weeks after their launch, organizers began considering a podcast to make the group’s discussions more widely accessible.
“We kept getting emails from people internationally saying they wish they could come to the class,” group organizer and Assistant Chaplain Vanessa M. Zoltan ’17 said. “After only half a dozen classes, we had the idea to try to do a podcast.”
Indeed, eight months after the group first met, the podcast launched with its first episode “The Boy Who Lived,” which was downloaded more than 150,000 times. While season 2, based on the series’ second book “Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets,” is set to begin producing in late October, the group is still meeting every Wednesday evening.
The podcast seasons are broken down by book, and the episodes each focus on a particular chapter. The discussions each week use the lens of a different religious tradition to search for character lessons.
Sarah J. Chandonnet, the Humanist Hub’s program director, said the discussions make “you wonder in your life what’s sacred and why you consider it as such.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Harvard’s dining service workers are threatening to strike after over three months of stagnant and tense contract talks with the University.
Since June, representatives from Harvard’s labor relations department and UNITE HERE Local 26—the Boston-based labor union that represents Harvard’s dining service workers—have met to hammer out the details of their contract after it was set to expire during the summer. After 15 meetings, HUDS negotiators and Harvard had not yet come to an agreement about several key issues, including health care and wage increases. Frustrated by the stalemate, workers last Thursday voted 591-18 to authorize a strike, though workers have yet to walk off the job as negotiators try to negotiate an 11th hour solution.
What follows is a primer on the topics on the table in this round of negotiations, and the proposals the parties have traded thus far.
Harvard and Local 26 have different estimates on an average dining worker's salary. According to University spokesperson Tania deLuzuriaga, the average annual salary for HUDS workers is $35,000, while Local’s 26 lead negotiator Michael Kramer said in an interview that he estimates it is closer to $31,000. The average hourly wage of a dining hall workers is $21.89, according to deLuzuriaga, who said that the wage “lead[s] the local and national workforce for comparable positions in the foodservice industry.”
HUDS workers have argued that while their hourly wages may be competitive, the fact that dining employees are not guaranteed year-round work by the University limits their ability to make a livable wage. HUDS workers—of which there are about 750 total—do not generally work during Harvard’s summer and winter recesses.
The union has proposed to extend year-round work to any interested employees and set a $35,000 “minimum guaranteed salary” for those employees, according to Local 26 spokesperson Tiffany Ten Eyck. In addition, the union is requesting a 22 percent pay increase over the course of the next five years.
According to deLuzuriaga, “past contracts with Local 26 have settled around 2.5 or 3 percent annually” in wage increases.
Harvard initially offered Local 26 a health care plan identical to the one extended to the University’s largest union, the Harvard Union of Clerical and Technical Workers, or HUCTW, and a smaller union, the Area Trades Council, according to Harvard Labor Relations Director Paul R. Curran. That plan eliminated deductibles—the amount a person has to pay out of pocket before their insurance company will pay a claim—and increased copayments.
Harvard estimates that the average HUDS employee would likely see an increase in cost “of less than $11/month under the plan Harvard has proposed,” deLuzuriaga wrote. Local 26 rejected that offer. Laquiesha N. Rainey, a union organizer and HUDS worker, argued that HUDS employees have lower salaries than HUCTW and ATC workers, on average, so their health benefits plan would be unsustainable for dining workers.
Throughout the course of the negotiations, Local 26 leadership has asked the University to develop a “creative” solution to the issue of health care that does not shift costs onto the union’s workers. But the union has yet to offer specifics about what changes they would like to see in the current health benefits proposal.
In an effort to devise a compromise, Curran said the University offered to pay into a benefits fund UNITE HERE Local 26 has for its members who choose not to enroll in their employer’s health benefits plan. Dining workers and their families are eligible for health insurance under Harvard’s plan if the employees work a minimum of 16 hours a week, a package deLuzuriaga described as “one of the lowest hourly thresholds in the region for granting health insurance to part-time workers.”
To date, HUDS spokesperson Crista Martin said the University has a “contingency plan to ensure a minimum of disruption for the community” if employees go on strike, but will only release the specific details of that plan if HUDS workers do strike.  According to Local 26 president Brian Lang, if HUDS workers go on strike, it will mark the first time the union has walked off the job during the academic year. Their last walkout, in 1983, occurred during the summer.
If similar contract disputes at Yale are any indication, Harvard could provide vouchers for undergraduates to dine at Square restaurants throughout the duration of the strike.
Local 26 has not set a date to strike, but Lang said in an interview earlier this month that a strike could be averted if the union’s bargaining unit felt that the University “genuinely wanted to cooperate” with them in developing a solution to health care. An additional bargaining session between Harvard and its dining services union is scheduled for Sept. 27, at which a federal mediator will facilitate the talks.  According to Kramer, the union will reassess whether it will strike after that bargaining session.
—Staff writer Brandon J. Dixon can be reached at brandon.dixon@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BrandonJoDixon.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Prospective members trickled in and out of the Signet Society’s pale, yellow-tinted cottage at 46 Dunster St. on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, gauging their interest in the off-campus arts and letters social club at the group’s two open house events.
The information sessions were part of a continued effort by the Signet to promote diversity and inclusivity within its ranks, according to Auguste J. Roc ’17, the club’s president. The Signet is currently considering candidates for admission with a two-week long, open-application process—its second year doing so.
The co-ed organization, which was founded in 1870, hosts weekly lunches and socials for its members, and engages with faculty on topics of art and literature.
The revamped open application process debuts after a members-only town hall held on Sept. 11. Continuing to rework the details of the open process, the group will hold—in addition to the open-house events—lunches throughout the next week with prospective members, as well as afternoon teas and other social events.
The new procedure for electing members is a departure from the club’s traditional “put-up” process, where new members needed to be nominated by peers within the Signet in order to be considered for admission.
“Inherently, ‘put-up’ processes are exclusive,” Roc said. “And so by opening up to the larger arts community, and focusing on being inclusive of not just race but different academic fields and different campus groups, we inevitably make a more diverse group on all of those levels.”
She added that while the traditional nomination process favored those in established campus arts organizations, such as the Harvard Advocate and Harvard Lampoon, now the Signet is beginning to court artists from “less conventional spaces in the arts community at Harvard.”
With regards to the new application process, the Signet emphasized in their house-wide emails that the events of the first week are solely for the benefit of prospective applicants, and not evaluative. Rather, membership is determined with regard to applicants’ “intellectual, literary and artistic ability and achievements,” according to the Signet’s website.
Members of the Signet publicized its application and the group’s two open house events through an email blast to every House list they could access.
“Here’s some info about an organization that’s at least nominally less morally bankrupt than some other organizations that it resembles,” David J. Kurlander ’17, a member of the Signet and inactive Crimson editor, wrote in an email to the Adams House list, referencing the controversy that has recently embroiled many of Harvard’s other off-campus social organizations.
Physically situated in between the Spee Club on one side and the Fox Club, one street over, the Signet has historically been compared to—and tried to distinguish itself from—its neighboring final clubs, some of which are also trying out open entry processes this semester.
Though the Office of Student Life does not list the Signet as a an officially recognized student organization, it has enjoyed some benefits traditionally reserved for such groups. Per OSL rules, unrecognized social groups may not publicize over house lists. Unrecognized groups are also not permitted to receive Undergraduate Council funding, through the UC, in what it later noted as an error, approved a grant request by the Signet last spring.
Roc wrote in an email that the Signet is “Harvard-affiliated.”
Joshuah B. Campbell ’16, an alumnus of the Signet present at Tuesday’s open house, noted that the most recent efforts to promote diversity within the group were already bearing fruits.
“Having been here for the change to the open applications, I can definitely say that the artistic communities that are now represented in this space have broadened quite a bit,” he said.
Beyond the application process, Campbell also noted other initiatives that the undergraduate leadership of the past few years had undertaken to make the Signet more inclusive for its members. As an example, he mentioned that all bathrooms at the clubhouse are now gender neutral.Last year administrators relabeled gender-specific bathrooms throughout Adams House with gender-neutral signage, in an effort to make the space more welcoming to BGLTQ students.
“The imperative really came from the broader shift in campus culture that was happening, starting with the administration emphasizing a turn toward inclusivity,” Campbell said.
—Staff Writer Derek G. Xiao can be reached at derek.xiao@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @derekgxiao

Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

If someone were to tell you that three out of the last four starting tight ends for a college went on to play in the NFL, there’d probably be a few schools that pop up in your head such as USC, Alabama, Notre Dame, etc. But what about Harvard?
It may be difficult to believe, but the Crimson are part of this club, as graduates Ben Braunecker ‘16, Kyle Juszczyk ‘13, and Cameron Brate ‘14 all made it to the professional level after featuring for Harvard.
Juszczyk scored four touchdowns to go with 321 yards while playing primarily as a fullback and H-back for the Baltimore Ravens in 2015, Brate tallied three touchdowns and 288 yards while playing tight end for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, and Braunecker is currently on the practice squad for the Chicago Bears after a stellar NFL Scouting Combine in February caught the attention of the team.
These tight ends were valuable during their time with the Crimson–at least one tight end has featured as one of the top two receiving options in every season from 2012 except 2014–giving the position plenty of importance in the aerial game.
In the past four seasons, 2012 to 2015, tight ends have accounted for 4081 out of the 10658 receiving yards Harvard has compiled, or just over 38% of aerial offense. In 2015, Braunecker–who was the only Harvard tight end defined as an eligible receiver by the NCAA–accounted for 850 of the team’s 3043 receiving yards, or just under 28% of the total yards. By comparison, among all other eligible FCS receivers–defined by the NCAA as having played 75% of their team’s games–tight ends accounted for only 3243 of 107,795 receiving yards, a mere 3%.
Though the Crimson constantly has NFL caliber tight ends such as Braunecker graduate, the squad has a seemingly endless stock of them ready to go and this year looks to be no different, thanks to starting tight end Anthony Firkser.
The senior from Manalapan, NY., a two-time second team All-Ivy selection, amassed 857 yards to go along with seven touchdowns his sophomore and junior years and will be called upon to be an offensive weapon throughout the season. Having played with and learned from Braunecker and Brate during his first few years with the Crimson, there were high expectations for him in his first year as the bonafide top choice tight end.
A converted wide receiver who had never played tight end before arriving in Cambridge, Firkser had a breakout performance in this season’s first game against URI, leading the team with two touchdowns and 111 yards off of seven receptions. It was the first game the tight end eclipsed the century mark in yards in his career at Harvard.
Firsker scored the first points of the season for the Crimson, lining up in the split end in a play action before splitting the coverage to get into the end zone unmarked, where senior quarterback Joe Viviano easily found him with a 16 yard bullet. Though the senior demonstrated his speed and agility with his opening score, his second one was arguably more impressive.
With the team up 30-7 at the URI 18 and the tight end lined up in the slot, Firkser charged at the URI secondary before showing some fancy footwork to lose his man and cut to the outside of the end zone. With a limited amount of real estate to work with, Viviano lobbed the ball to the tight end, who plucked it out of the air and showed the poise and finesse to barely keep his feet inbounds and extend the lead.
It was the second career game with multiple touchdowns for Firkser, who first accomplished the feat during last season’s loss to Penn. While the tight end has only accomplished the aforementioned feat twice, there’s reason to believe this won’t be the last time he’ll be picking apart defenses.
Given the likely increased defensive coverage of star receiver Justice Shelton-Mosley and the mobility of Joe Viviano that will force defenses to play conservatively, there’s an increased chance new passing lanes and targets will open up for Firkser.
“[Shelton-Mosley and Firkser] get open really well,” Viviano said. “They adjust to the ball, and they catch the ball. We have plenty other weapons, but…they’re really good at what they do.”
Along with Shelton-Mosley, Firkser will be called upon to help as the tight end and his fellow seniors look to make history as the first ever Harvard class to win at least a share of the Ancient Eight crown in all four seasons they attended the College.
–Staff writer Julio Fierro can be reached at julio.fierro@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s soccer team (5-3-0, 0-0-0 Ivy) is heading into conference play on a hot streak, having won its last three games by a combined margin of 8-2. Unfortunately for the Crimson, however, lining up on the opposite side of the field this Saturday afternoon will be Penn (4-1-1, 0-0-0), the only team in the Ivy League that can lay claim to having even more momentum.
The Quakers have gone unbeaten in their past five games, winning four of them and outscoring opponents by a combined margin of 11-2 over this stretch. They have not beaten the Crimson since 2012, but with confidence riding high after a great start to the season and the support of its home crowd, Penn has a great chance to break the losing streak.
Harvard will also be undertaking its longest road trip of the conference slate when it travels down to Philadelphia, Penn., to face the Quakers. This aspect of the matchup is something the Crimson is prepared for, however, as it has already played four road games this season. The team has gone as far from Cambridge as Louisville, KY, where it faced off against the Cardinals more than two weeks ago. Harvard will bring a 2-2-0 road record into Saturday’s contest, and Penn will counter with a solid 3-1-1 home record.
“We played a variety of opponents from both in and out of the region during our nonconference schedule,” coach Chris Hamblin said. “We played four road games in a row at one point, so we feel that we’re well-prepared to go into any environment and play our game.”
While conference games usually mean seeing familiar faces again, Harvard has a unique challenge this year in preparing for several young upstarts on the Quakers, whose two leading points-scorers are freshmen. Forward Emma Loving has three goals to lead the team in that category, while fellow newcomer and midfielder Emily Sands has contributed two goals and two assists. Despite both playing in their first season at Penn, these two players have demonstrated their abilities to compete at the college level and will try to cause problems for the Crimson defense this weekend.
Despite Penn having key players, the Crimson will not spend too much time changing up its style to negate the effects of these two players. Instead, it will rely on its tried-and-true method of defending Penn as a whole.
“We try to look at teams as a whole, and try to stop their entire attack rather than just a few players in particular,” Hamblin said. “Penn might have some standouts, but we’ll still approach our defensive strategy from a big-picture view.”
Penn’s offensive output has, as a whole, been quite spread out this year, with everyone who stepped onto the field having an impact. Seven different players have found the back of the net, with no one scoring more than Loving. Harvard is well equipped for this challenge, as it has an experienced backline of defenders who can each hold her own.
Team co-captain Bailey Gary, junior Candy Janachowski, and sophomore Alli Wiggins have provided a reliable blanket in defense, each starting all eight games that the Crimson have played in so far. Another junior defender, Marie Becker, has also featured prominently in the back four as it has tried to develop a strong chemistry before heading into conference play.
“We’re a group that really plays for each other,” Gary said. “After playing with each other for so long, we know each others’ tendencies, and we have each others’ backs on the field. ”
The Harvard offense, meanwhile, has a clear leader in senior forward Midge Purce, who has paced the team with seven goals and two assists. After scoring twice against Villanova at home last Sunday, Purce is now in a three-way tie for third on the all-time school goal-scoring list, with Noami Miller ’99 and Emily Stauffer ’99.
Another goal would take Purce into sole possession of third place. Purce already has two career goals against the Quakers, and is part of a senior class that has never lost to them. Penn’s defense will do its best to contain Purce, and change that fact, on Saturday.
“We’re excited to get on the bus down there and face Penn,” Gary said. “Starting the conference schedule is always an interesting transition from the busy nonconference schedule - there are fewer games now but each one is more important - but we feel that we’re ready for it.”
–Staff writer George Hu can be reached at yianshenhu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
“Imma let you finish, but Central Square is the greatest square of all time,” Kanye West once said. Okay, that's not exactly what he said, but the point is that Central Square is seriously cool and deserves to be called one of the greatest Squares of Cambridge.
For those of you who don’t venture beyond the confines of your dorm or for you freshmen who are new to the neighborhood, Central Square is the area sandwiched between Harvard Square and Kendall Square. Why would you bother to walk to Central Square when the journey from your room to the Science Center is already becoming a trek? Well, Central has plenty of draws, no matter what kind of person you are:
For people who like good food (though, isn't this everyone?)One of our favorite restaurants around campus is a Chinese restaurant in Central Square called Dumpling House. Everything they make here, even in the form of cold two-day-old leftovers, is heavenly. The food is amazing, it’s super affordable for your college budget, and it’s always packed so you know it’s a crowd favorite. Another favorite is Life Alive, which is a ~peaceful and zen~ cafe serving healthy and yummy salads, wraps, grain bowls, and smoothies. And did we mention that Central Square has a 24-hour Clover?
For people who love to grocery shop (#adulting)Don’t you ever miss being at home and going grocery shopping, a.k.a. putting a million things in your shopping cart because you know your parents will be paying for it at check-out? Well, Central Square has a Whole Foods, but the big deal is actually the Korean supermarket H-Mart. This place is actually amazing – it has a lot of Asian food beyond Korean food and it also does Korean BBQ night way better than HUDS. It also happens to have a food court inside it…
For the 21+ crowdThere’s a really cool speakeasy in the heart of Central Square called Brick & Mortar. The entrance to it is a plain-looking door next to a restaurant called Central Kitchen, and once you go up the stairs, it opens up into a really spacious and dimly-lit bar with cool cocktails and a nice vibe. Central is also home to the famous People's Republik, if you still #FeelTheBern want to let your socialist side show, and the Plough and Stars if you like Irish pubs and live music.
For those who like to #gramThe Wall at Central Square is a hidden alleyway displaying collaborative street art, intended to be a cultural hub for the local community. When you look up, there’s a ceiling of colored panels, which looks absolutely amazing in the sunlight, even with #nofilter.
