Sections
April 13, 2016Officer dispatched to take a report of two stolen packages containing a pair of orange Nike sneakers valued at $84.00.Orange sneakers? Maybe this is for the best.
April 14, 2016Officer dispatched to a report of a fire in one of the kitchens. Officer arrived and report no fire just the odor of burnt food.There’s something fishy about this, salmon to be exact, with capers.
April 15, 2016Officer dispatched to a report of an unattended bag on a bench. Officer arrived and report negative results.“The stray bag population sure has exploded lately.” “We’re too late, men, the cat’s already out.”
April 15, 2016Officer dispatched to take a report of a stolen black Buddy-50 moped valued at $400.00 and a chain lock valued at $150.00,Honestly, I don't know nothin' about mopeds...
April 16, 2016Officer dispatched to a report of a mulch fire. Officer arrived and CFD on scene and put out small mulch fire.Come through, it’s lit. No really, it’s the shit.
April 16, 2016Officers dispatched to a report of loud noise coming from the area. Officers arrived and report area quiet.The best police officer is a deaf police officer.
April 18, 2016Officer dispatched to take a report of a past bomb threat.Come on, the LS1b midterm can’t be that bad.
April 18, 2016Officer dispatched to take a report of vandalism done to clothes.Ahh yes, the midnight tie-dye-er strikes again
April 19, 2016Officer dispatched to take a report of annoying phone calls two individuals received.When your two booty calls turn out to be roommates...
Check back next Friday for our next installment of HUPD Crime Log!
Sections
What’s a yardfest without a pre-game? Flyby has you covered with the best Steve Aoki themed drinking game that you’ve never played. Gather your friends, ready the shot glasses, and throw on his Youtube channel (not Spotify, because 75% of the  Steve Aoki experience is watching him perform.)
Take a shot everytime the beat drops. This should be a given. After all, what’s EDM without a sick beat drop?
Alternatively, take a shot every time you think the beat is going to drop, but it doesn’t. You’ll be an equal mix of embarrassed and disappointed, so taking the shot will help to take your mind off of that.
Finish your drink every time he cakes someone, and cross your fingers that that won’t be you on Sunday.
Take a shot everytime the camera pans to that one person dancing wildly out-of-step with the crowd, and silently salute them for really knowing how to turn up.
Take a shot every time you come across a song that you’ve heard before, but didn’t realized that it featured Aoki. Aka the entire soundtrack to Project X.  And then skip over to read our Steve Aoki Study Guide.
Now, when we say “take a shot” we do hope you that understand that we mean a shot of water. Stay well hydrated everyone! It may not be projected to be terribly warm on Sunday, but we predict that there will be a considerable amount of thirst going around.
