Sections
We are often skeptical when politicians and their prominent supporters try to relate to us—have you seen Hillary Clinton trying to dab? Still, it’s important to realize that we do experience some of the same struggles. This week, we noticed that speakers at the Republican National Convention seem to suffer from writing difficulties similar to those we experience when trying to crank out a paper at 3 a.m. Turns out even leaders of the Grand Old Party are not immune to bad writing habits—trust us, we’ve gotten enough subpar essay grades to recognize what’s really going on.
1. When you’re running out of time to do substantive research, and you’re willing to cite anything
“This is a nation where every coin in our pocket and every bill in our wallet says ‘In God We Trust.’” –Ben Carson, former 2016 presidential candidate
2. When you can only speak in cliches
“He [Donald Trump] motivates me to work my hardest and to always stay true to who I am.” –Tiffany Trump, daughter of Donald Trump
3. When you make obscure references in an attempt to support your argument
“Melania Trump said, ‘the strength of your dreams and willingness to work for them.’ Twilight Sparkle from ‘My Little Pony’ said, ‘This is your dream. Anything you can do in your dreams, you can do now.’” –Sean Spicer,  RNC Communications Director, defending against accusations of plagiarism in Melania Trump’s RNC speech
4. When you’re not meeting your word count so you become Captain Obvious
“Is Donald Trump a Messiah? No. He’s just a man.” –Scott Baio, actor
5. When you repeat one point multiple times because you can’t think of anything else to say 
“We’re gonna win, we’re gonna win so big. Thank you very much. We’re going to win so big. Thank you very much ladies and gentlemen. We’re going to win so big.” –Donald Trump, Republican presidential nominee
6. When you’re not sure what you’re talking about so you just say something vague
“Of course let’s make America great again, but let’s make America America again.” –Scott Baio, actor
