News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I’m working this summer, but really, if I were just doing what I wanted, I’d be spending my time galloping horses around fields all day. I started learning how to ride when I was seven, and ever since then, it’s been a powerful need, a central part of my happiness and my identity.
My dad refers to it as a crack substitute. I see his point. So do a lot of other horsey people I know.
But why, though—why the intense, widespread magnetism between people and horses? If you ask American pop culture, you’ll get roughly three answers. There’s the cowgirl explanation, which has something to do with dirt, toughness, Americana, and general badassery. Then there’s the “horse girl” concept, which comes up in a lot of apparently infinite book series for children featuring heaps of quasi-Freudian devotion and improbable anthropomorphizing. And finally, there’s the big one, the one I see the most: “horse girl” part two, meaning sparkling, blond, wealthy, vaguely bitchy princesses. (Wearing her velvety cap, she places her velvety lips on her horse’s velvety nose. They’ve just won a golden trophy, and she loves her prize more than she’ll ever love you…)
None of these stereotypes are wrong, exactly. Most of my horse-obsessed friends and I have all been covered in a combination of sweat, dust, manure, hay, and dog hair at some point; we’ve also collected Breyer model horses as kids and enjoyed our fair share of blue ribbons and expensive hunt coats. But the types aren’t really fair in their weird, dismissive gendering of the sport, and more importantly, they miss the point. The thing in question—this thing that’s continually proven itself stronger than genetics, career ambitions, budgets—isn’t about saving the day or having a best friend or winning. I think it’s something strange, something transcendent.
Here’s what happens: you wrap your legs around an animal and you begin to speak to each other in an infinitely subtle, infinitely complex physical language. And then, together, you perform a kind of difficult, technical, mutually dangerous dance. This dance requires a kind of trust that you won’t find often between two people. When you face a four-foot fence, your horse trusts you to put him where he needs to be—impulsion, collection, spacing, focus, angle—to clear it. When you face a four-foot fence, you trust your horse to leap correctly when you ask and bear you safely through the air to the other side. You have your astounding language, of course, but sometimes that won’t seem like much assurance when your bodies are at stake. And what you’re left with can look a lot like pure faith. (Human: “Pony, take care of my bones, okay?”)
If you do it right, sometimes you get to nirvana. Sometimes, your internal monologue disappears. Your conscious mind evaporates, and you find yourself in a silence of heat and hoofbeats where you have six legs, four lungs, two hearts, and two intricately fused awarenesses. It’s like a really abstracted form of sex. It’s what the Greeks were thinking about when they made up centaurs. And there’s a lot I would do, a lot I would give up, for just a few minutes of that feeling.
And anyway, aren’t they beautiful? Holy shit. You haven’t lived until you’ve watched a warmblood go for a canter in the evening.

Charlotte L.R. Anrig '18 is an English concentrator living in Leverett House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
This week, we ventured into the hub of Harvard Square on the lookout for anyone with cool summer fashion. We faced human interaction, rejection, and the July heat to bring you Cambridge style.
Isabelle and AbigailPre-college summer students from New Mexico and Texas, respectivelySummer style: Urban Outfitters and lots of crop tops
GeorgeStudent at Harvard CollegeSummer style: Flamboyant and “very British”
TreatA two-year-old from Philadelphia, in town on a business trip with his familySummer style: Hand-me-downs; pictured here wearing his “party shirt”
David and AndyTourists from Australia and Chile, respectivelySummer style: Bright colors and “whatever Justin Bieber has just been seen wearing”
FrederickGraduate student at HarvardSummer style: Thrifty and patterns
Ji Yeon, Haeng Woon, and EunhyeTourists from Korea (this is their first day here, and they got to Harvard Yard “literally five minutes ago”)Summer style: Short skirts
MurphyGraduate student at TuftsSummer style: “Mediating my goth sensibilities with the heat”
Sections
More convenient than a taxi and more predictable than the MBTA, Uber has quickly become a go-to transportation service for many car-less students and drunk people alike. Still, there’s always room for improvement, and leave it to Harvard to go the extra mile.
Frustrated by the amount of time he was spending waiting for an Uber, Joshua Meier ’18 developed a companion app, TaxiLater, that allows you to schedule a ride in advance. Before you sigh at the thought of learning to use yet another app guaranteed to make your life easier, we assure you, TaxiLater is simple.
The app allows you to log in with your own Uber account and select what time you want to be picked up—whether you wish to schedule a ride months in advance or just a few hours. TaxiLater is designed to look like the Uber app, so it should be familiar to anyone who’s ever hailed a ride using Uber.
TaxiLater is still undergoing improvements based on user feedback, but we can’t complain. Meier created the app in his spare time between classes and other work, whereas our involvement with apps during free time is pretty much limited to bouncing between Instagram and Facebook.
“I am so grateful to have built TaxiLater within the Harvard ecosystem,” Meier told Flyby, adding, “It feels great to have people around the world using my project and to have friends close-by lending support. We are very lucky to be an environment that fosters such creativity.”
TaxiLater is free to download on the Apple app store—check it out next time your Uber is in traffic and you’re stuck waiting.
