Sections
Amid the many restaurants and coffee shops in Harvard Square, it’s easy to get lost searching for the perfect ice cream cone. But never fear! We took to the streets to provide you with a guide to ice cream in the Square. Some places may be old favorites, others may be new to you, and although only one ice cream shop comes out on top, we encourage you to follow our lead and enjoy all the ice cream Harvard Square has to offer. Just make sure you hit up the gym afterwards.
First Place: Lizzy’s29 Church StreetCost of a small ice cream: $4.19
Lizzy’s is a hidden gem in Harvard Square. It’s not as crowded as some other locations, so you’re likely to get the full attention of the friendly staff. Lizzy’s also offers the widest range of size options for your ice cream and has the cheapest price for a small serving. Smoothies, frappes, and sorbet are available too if you’re looking for an alternative frozen treat.
Second Place: J.P. Licks1312 Massachusetts AvenueCost of a small ice cream: $4.50
With plenty of flavors as well as offerings such as coffee and other drinks, sorbet, and frozen yogurt, J.P. Licks is a safe bet if you’re looking for a refreshing treat. On the down side, the shop is located near popular tourists spots, so you can usually expect a line. It opens at 7 a.m., so if you’re up for an ice cream run unusually early in the day, you can definitely beat the afternoon bustle. 
Third Place: Ben & Jerry’s36 JFK StreetCost of a small ice cream: $5.50
At its location in the Garage, this familiar ice cream brand serves favorites such as Phish Food, Americone Dream, and more in addition to a variety of smoothies and frappes. As much as we love the unique flavors and convenient seating, the Garage’s claustrophobic feel does not lend itself to ice cream eating. Besides, you can pick up a pint of Ben and Jerry’s ice cream from the supermarket for less than it would cost you to buy even a small serving here.
Honorable Mentions
If you get bored of the usual ice cream shop scene, here is a list of places you may not have expected to find ice cream.
Berryline3 Arrow Street, or 1668 Massachusetts Avenue
Berryline’s frozen yogurt and smoothies never disappoint, and as of recently, they also serve ice cream. Top it with their famous Oreo cheesecake bites.
Insomnia Cookies65 Mt Auburn Street
It was a surprise to find that this shop serves ice cream, but they do—and sandwiched between two cookies, no less. You can also get ice cream on its own in sizes from small to quart.
Shake Shack92 Winthrop Street
Ice cream is not exactly what Shake Shack is known for, but the burger joint does offer frozen custard as well as “concretes,” their signature custard blended with mix-ins like chocolate truffle cookie dough and Belgian waffles.
