News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Next week, Massachusetts voters will have a say on a sophisticated issue of education policy: whether to raise the cap on the number of charter schools allowed in the Commonwealth. Despite the issue’s complexity, the record of charters in Massachusetts shows that a “yes” on Question 2 is the best choice for voters. Much more work is needed to make Massachusetts’ education system truly equitable, but Question 2 addresses a current and pressing need, and deserves passage.
Currently, Massachusetts has a statewide cap on the number of charter schools that has not been met, as well as a cap on the number of students who can enroll in charter schools, which has been met in some areas. Several cities and towns, including Boston, have met their local caps, and have large waitlists for charters. Statewide, more than 32,000 students are on waitlists, and cities that have reached their limit have student populations that are much more heavily low-income, immigrant, Black, and Hispanic.
The mechanics of Question 2 would allow the state to approve 12 additional charter schools per year, and in years with more than 12 applicants would give an advantage to those districts with test scores in the bottom 25 percent of the state, ensuring that charters go where they are most direly needed.
Notably, independent research has found Massachusetts’ urban charters to be among the best in the country. The positive effects of charters are especially prominent in Boston: According to a Brookings Institution report, “The test score gains produced by Boston’s charters are some of the largest that have ever been documented for an at-scale education intervention.” Though suburban charter schools in Massachusetts have no appreciable positive effects, the urban ones that would be allowed to expand by this ballot measure have made great strides in helping students.
Crucially, a greater percentage of charter school students in Massachusetts come from economically disadvantaged backgrounds, speak English as a second language, and are Black and Hispanic than in district schools. Some charters perform less well on these measures, but have been improving. In the same vein, though charters educate a slightly lower percentage of special education students, studies have found that these students make impressive gains from attending charters, and charter schools have worked diligently over the past six years to enroll more.
Given charters schools’ robust record, opponents of Question 2 have focused mostly on their potential cost. When a student leaves a district school for a charter, the district pays tuition equal to the amount it would otherwise pay to educate that student. The state then reimburses 100 percent of tuition payments for the first year a child attends a charter, and 25 percent for the next six years. Unfortunately, the state legislature has underfunded these measures, and owes cities like Boston tens of millions of dollars. While this dereliction represents a serious problem, it does not obviate the need for more charters in the cities affected by the cap. If voters pass Question 2, as we hope, the legislature must ensure that tuition reimbursements are funded in full.
This underfunding underscores a sad reality of the education debate in Massachusetts and around the country. Despite claims on all sides, education policy does not lend itself to silver bullets. That Question 2 is even on the ballot is a testament to the legislature’s inability to deal with this particular issue, to say nothing of more fundamental concerns like equitable school funding and teacher compensation.
Perhaps most importantly, district schools and state education policy makers need to begin learning from the successes that charters have had. Our support for Question 2 is grounded in the belief that the 32,000 students on charters waitlists should not have to wait to access great schools with proven records. But a system that leaves this many students wanting better options is a system that needs more wholesale reform. We urge Massachusetts voters to approve Question 2, and then to keep the pressure on lawmakers for faster action to improve all of Massachusetts’ public schools.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Early in the third presidential debate on October 20, Secretary Hillary Clinton defended late-term abortion. “Late-term” usually refers to an abortion 20 weeks or later into a pregnancy; the youngest known surviving pre-mature child, Amillia Taylor, was born at just under 22 weeks. As part of her defense, Clinton mentioned the heartbreaking situations that result in women deciding to terminate their pregnancies. In the days following the debate, publications like the Huffington Post and the New York Times corroborated this narrative, printing pertinent anecdotes from women across the country. The stories follow a similar trajectory: A woman and her partner are preparing to have their baby when something goes tragically awry, guaranteeing that the child will be unable to survive birth, sometimes even jeopardizing the life of the mother. The couple then makes the difficult decision to abort this beloved child, rather than go through a risky and painful process that will only result in the child’s ultimate death.
Such episodes are unambiguously heart wrenching. Any conversation about late-term abortion must remember these women and their situations, lest laws be passed that are callous to their circumstances. But, wittingly or not, these tragedies are being exploited—forced to fit an intellectually dishonest political narrative that disregards the lives of thousands of children who could survive outside the womb.
It’s not difficult to craft a ban on late-term abortion that includes exceptions for threats to the life of the mother or fatal anomalies in the child. Of course, the exact details of such exceptions would have to be debated through the normal legislative process—that’s the case with any policy deliberation. But there’s no way to justify a categorical opposition to late-term abortion bans just because cases exist where exceptions may be appropriate.
In truth, purely elective late-term abortions are common, while fetal anomalies are tragic outliers. A 2013 study published by the pro-choice Guttmacher Institute found that fetal anomaly was not one of the primary drivers of late-term abortion. Rather, late-term abortions are usually of entirely healthy pregnancies where the woman was either unable to receive an earlier abortion (often due to a failure to recognize the pregnancy or a logistical delay) or changed her mind about keeping the child (often after a falling out with a spouse or partner). While that particular study did not give exact percentages for each motivation, a 1988 study from the same institute revealed that fetal anomaly played a role in only two percent of late-term abortions.
According to the aforementioned 2013 study, there are approximately 15,000 annual late-term abortions in the United States. For comparison’s sake, there were 10,945 gun-related homicides in America in 2014. Unless the percentage of late-term abortions due to fetal anomalies has increased by more than tenfold in the past thirty years, we are left with an unsettling reality: The abortion of a perfectly healthy child over 20 weeks into development is more common than gun homicide. That’s not a few isolated incidences of difficult, heartbreaking choices. That’s a human rights crisis.
America’s continued insistence on perpetuating this crisis is bizarre by both international and domestic standards. Across the developed world—including highly progressive countries such as Germany, Norway, and Sweden—abortions are generally banned with few exceptions somewhere between 12 and 18 weeks. And only nine percent of Americans believe abortion should be available during the entire pregnancy. In 2013, when Congress considered a 20-week ban that did not include exceptions for fetal anomaly, Americans supported the bill 59 to 30 percent. There is a national consensus to bring America’s late-term abortion laws in line with the rest of the developed world. Such a law would not even require messy constitutional questions, since bans on late-term abortion are explicitly permitted in the Supreme Court cases Roe v. Wade and Planned Parenthood v. Casey.
If Secretary Clinton and others wish to continue to support late-term abortion under any circumstance, that is their right. But such advocates must be prepared to articulate why the rest of the world and the vast majority of Americans are wrong, and why we should tolerate the massive number of elective late-term abortions that occur within our borders. Instead of such an explanation, both Secretary Clinton and the media continue to misrepresent the state of late-term abortion to the American people, either because they are ignorant of the facts, or because they are afraid of how the American people would respond to them. And that is unacceptable.

John S. Acton ’17 is a government concentrator living in Eliot House. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Female birth control has been available for many years now, beginning with the hormonal birth control pill that Margaret Sanger pioneered in the 1950s. Nowadays, birth control comes in a variety of forms, including implants, patches, shots, and intrauterine devices to name only a few. More than 99 percent of sexually experienced women between the ages of 15 and 44 in the United States have used at least one contraceptive method, and the majority of current contraceptive users rely on hormonal methods.
Hormonal male birth control, on the other hand, is not yet available. There is no pill that men can take every day in order to prevent an unwanted pregnancy. Women are still expected to assume sole responsibility for not getting pregnant. This expectation, unfortunately, is nothing new. Single mothers are stigmatized whereas the men who left them are not; teenage girls are chided for “getting themselves pregnant” as though impregnation is something that you can do to yourself; a heterosexual couple engaging in risky sex may end up with an unwanted pregnancy, but only the woman will be shamed and potentially even forced to surrender control of her body for nine months in accordance to restrictive abortion laws.
Thankfully, scientists have recently begun developing a male birth control shot. It is nearly 95 percent effective at preventing pregnancy, and it was heralded as a breakthrough for science and for gender equality. Women have long borne the sole burden for preventing pregnancy; now, with this study, men could assume a greater share of the responsibility.
However, the study on male birth control has been cut short. Apparently, several men in the study reported negative side effects, such as mood swings, an altered libido, and acne. As a result, following the recommendation of an external safety review committee, the hormone injections were terminated early. Even though less than five percent of the men in the study reported these negative side effects and 75 percent of them said that they would be willing to try it again, the researchers determined that the “potential risks of this hormonal combination for male contraception” may possibly “outweigh the potential benefits.”
Mood swings, an altered libido, and acne: These are only some of the many side effects that millions of women have put up with for decades. Approximately 12 million women in the United States are on the hormonal birth control pill, and women who are on the pill are 23 to 34 percent more likely to experience depression and take antidepressants. Adolescent girls in particular are more likely to experience depression when they take oral contraceptives.
Birth control pills also often cause users to experience weight gain, acne, decreased libido, breast pain, yeast infections, headaches, nausea, and even more serious side effects such as blurred vision, chest pain, and blood clots. Other forms of birth control may lead to additional side effects on top of the hormone-induced ones. For example, the NuvaRing can lead to vaginal tissue irritation and painful menstruation, and the intrauterine device (IUD) can lead to ovarian cysts, heavy or prolonged menstrual bleeding, and even sepsis and uterus perforation.
And these are side effects that women have been experiencing since the 1950s and 1960s. When hormonal birth control was first tested on poor Puerto Rican women, a whopping 17 percent of women experienced serious side effects such as nausea and vomiting, and three women even died over the course of the study. Nevertheless, researchers approved the pill for the general population. The male researchers "believed that many of the  complaints were psychosomatic," and felt that problems such as nausea "were minor compared to the...benefits of the drug."
Even to this day, doctors continue to describe the side effects of female birth control as “not serious.” And yet, the exact same side effects of male birth control were considered serious enough to merit ending a scientific study early. Women who experience severe depression as a result of their birth control are encouraged by doctors to “not be alarmed” and “not be deterred from taking the pill.” But the men who experienced depression as a result of their birth control found their fears and discomfort validated and were encouraged to stop using birth control.
Why are women expected to endure for decades side effects that men are not even expected to endure for the course of a 3-year long scientific study? The standards by which we measure male and female discomfort are different, and always have been. Male pain is consistently rated as more important or urgent than female pain. Female pain is often perceived as constructed or exaggerated; as a result, women are usually treated less aggressively in the healthcare system. Men wait an average of 49 minutes for receiving treatment for acute abdominal pain, but women wait an average of 65 for the same thing.
Women’s experiences are consistently invalidated, disbelieved, or dismissed—from their complaints of pain in hospitals, to their allegations of rape and domestic abuse, to their grievances about negative side effects from birth control. Side effects from birth control are real, uncomfortable, and often serious—it is only unfortunate that it took a group of men to complain for researchers to start looking into ways to reduce these side effects.
The birth control pill has played an instrumental role in women’s liberation. But it’s time for us to demand something better. It’s time for women to be treated with the same respect and dignity that men are afforded, and for women’s experiences to be validated and believed the same way men’s are. If time, research, and funding are going to be devoted to minimizing the side effects of male contraceptives, then equal amounts of time and resources need to be dedicated to reducing the side effects of female contraceptives. That would be a small step, but a consequential one nevertheless, toward gender parity.

Nian Hu, ’18, a Crimson editorial executive, is a government concentrator living in Mather House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
When Sruthi Palaniappan ’20 arrived at her hotel in Philadelphia, Pa., last July, she stood in line next to CNN host Wolf Blitzer. That was just the start of her whirlwind weekend as a delegate for Hillary Clinton at the 2016 Democratic National Convention.
Born and raised in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Palaniappan has “always had a passion for service activities,” she says. In high school, she served on the executive committee of the State of Iowa Youth Advisory Council; this summer, she ramped up her participation in the political process as the local precinct captain for Clinton’s Iowa caucus campaign.
“I was #WithHer… pretty early on,” Palaniappan says. “But I made sure I did my research because I think that’s pretty important.” She weighed policy proposals and read up on nuances in the candidates’ plans to make her decision.
As a precinct captain, Palaniappan canvassed, organized activists, and mobilized voters. “Some of it actually involved driving people who wouldn’t have gone otherwise to caucus,” she explains. She felt her work had paid off when Clinton won narrowly in Iowa, which plays a crucial role in the primary season as the first state to cast votes.
The process to become a delegate is lengthy. After passing muster at the precinct and county levels, at which she had to give speeches to further her candidacy, Palaniappan was one of three people selected at the district level to be a delegate at the national convention. 
At the convention, Palaniappan saw a number of high-profile speakers like Bernie Sanders, Cory Booker, Julián Castro, and Joaquín Castro, but found Clinton’s speech the most moving. “While I had seen Secretary Clinton speak at rallies before, it was a unique moment to watch her officially address the DNC and the country as the Democratic nominee for president,” Palaniappan says.
Although her district’s delegates came from different backgrounds, Palaniappan says that they “found unity in [their] core values as Democrats.” How did it feel when Palaniappan finally cast her vote for Clinton in the roll call? “Empowering,” she grins.
Sections
The preamble to the constitution of the Harvard Undergraduate Council is nothing if not sincere. “We, the undergraduates of Harvard College, are an important part of the University community, and are therefore entitled to an active role in deciding its policies and priorities,” it begins. Each week, the intricate bureaucracy of committee chairs, presidents, secretaries, and representatives of the Undergraduate Council convenes to fulfill that role.
Though it is difficult to imagine Harvard College lacking a student government, the UC has only been in place since 1982, which is relatively recent compared to peer institutions. “We’re probably the only university that I can think of that has no student government,” student Kenneth R. Moya ’82 told The Crimson that year.
It wasn’t that Harvard students were uninvolved in the minutiae of college legislation. Rather, student involvement was largely fragmented until the early 1980s. Until College Dean John B. Fox ’59 helped create the UC, students worked in tandem with faculty members on three main governing committees: The Committee on Undergraduate Education, the Committee on House Life, and the Committee on Student Services. Within all these groups, student involvement was often difficult to coordinate.
“There was a real interest in having student input into educational issues, into social House life issues, into service areas, and the like. Up until that point, there was no group that really deliberated all of these things,” Molecular and Cellular Biology professor John E. Dowling, a key player in the creation of the modern UC, says.
Dowling, who chaired the exploratory Committee to Review College Governance, sought to improve communication between faculty, students, and administrators over campus issues. A 1981 report of the so-called “Dowling Committee” discussed the “need for improved mechanisms to insure [sic] a strong student voice in decision-making processes within the College, especially those that deal with student life.”
The new Undergraduate Council was structured after the existing Faculty Council. It aimed to consolidate the scattered organizations that had characterized Harvard student government late into its history. In its first months, though, it was criticized by both students and faculty.
Some lamented the lack of reserved representation for minority students. Harvard’s aspiring political wonks griped that the UC’s constitution was narrowly ratified. One Crimson article notes “an unfortunate scheduling problem by which the seventeen members of the Communications and Finance Committee were required to be in two places at once.” The infant UC was under attack.
Perhaps most striking were allegations that the UC actually reduced meaningful student involvement in on-campus politics. Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 observes that UC elections don’t always stir up the pot. “Not all elections have had robust attention,” he says. “I think democracy is a good model, but I admit that voter turnout has sometimes not been particularly strong.”
Joke campaigns on the UC were run long before tomato basil ravioli soup. Dowling mentions that in the UC’s earlier days, students often ran for office on ridiculous platforms. “A benign dictatorship may have been the most effective way to govern at that point,” he jokes.
How does the modern UC live up to its chaotic past? For one, Dingman and Dowling believe that the students who have run for office in the past few years have taken the position much more seriously than their predecessors.
“If you want student governance to have credibility, I think it is important that the Council is made up of people who have landed in those spots because of students’ choices,” Dingman says. “I think it has been a tremendous source of help.”
Sections
As of Sept. 1, 2015, there were 17 candidates running to be the Republican nominee for President of the United States. With election day rapidly approaching, FM has decided to take a look back at the candidates. Take our quiz and find out with whom you most identify.
When you’re at a party, you...
a) Observe everyone acting like children.
b) Get made fun of for how you dress until you decide to leave.
c) Are only there because your friend is the host.
d) Chat everyone up about the turtle figurines you carry in your pocket.
e) Leave immediately because it’s a crowded shit show.
Your drink of choice is:
a) Tepid water.
b) Whatever the guys are drinking.
c) The entire keg; big boys don’t share.
d) A Martini of course!
e) Shots—over before you even know it .
When someone confronts you, you react by:
a) Responding in a level-headed manner.
b) Flashing your pearly whites .
c) Yelling incoherently until you’re blue in the face.
d) Mumbling something about bullying at them in hushed tones.
e) Running away.
If you were an animal you would be: 
a) A goldfish.
b) A hawk.
c) A pitbull.
d) A kitty-cat.
e) A possum—playing dead.
Your slogan on the campaign trail and in the bedroom is:
a) For Us.
b) New Possibilities. Real Leadership.
c) Telling It Like It IS
d) Jeb Can Fix It!
e) I didn’t get that far…
This Halloween, you’re dressing as: 
a) A ghost.
b) Hillary Clinton.
c) A retired Mr. Mom.
d) Bob the Builder.
e) I’m too scared to go out on Halloween.
How might your political rival describe you?
a) “Good for Mexico!”
b) “If you talk to her for more than 10 minutes straight, you develop a massive headache.”
c) “No more Oreos!”
d) “At the bottom of the barrel.”
e) “Should be forced to take an IQ test.”
If you got mostly….
A’s - John Kasich. You like to be in the middle of every argument and avoid conflict.
B’s - Carly Fiorina. No one really knows anything about you, except the fact that you’re the only other woman in the race, and that one of the nominees has criticized your appearance.
C’s - Chris Christie. The only reason you’re still around is because you’re a major buttkiss.
D’s - Jeb Bush! You are not your mother’s favorite son… Please Clap.
E’s - Rick Perry. You’re in and out before the game even begins.
Bonus! - If you refused to answer any of these questions for fear of losing: You got Donald Trump!
Sections
It’s Election Night—the ultimate culmination of democratic power and civic engagement (for the Electoral College, that is). It will be a night of excitement—the 45th President of the United States is being selected! It will be a night of apprehension—will Trump allow a peaceful transition of power if he loses? It will be a night of decisions—should you move to Canada, or Jamaica? Here at FM, we’ve decided to prepare some drink recipes to calm your nerves and make buying those plane tickets a little easier.
Monica Lewhiskey
The presidential choice.
3 shots of Fireball1 pint Angry Orchard Crisp Apple Hard Cider
Good Hombres
This recipe is intentionally long. Every ingredient is different, but crucial to the drink. Get it?
2 oz. vodka1 oz. pineapple juice1 oz. cranberry juiceSplash of lemon-lime sodaSplash of lime juiceSugar for rimmingLime wedge for garnish
The Donald
By the time you down this drink, your hair will fall out.
2 oz. vodka.5 oz. Goldschlager gold-leaf cinnamon schnappsOrange wheelTop with cotton candy
Hillaritas
Want to celebrate the election results, or drink until you don’t remember them, in style? Drink Hillaritas, delete your emails, and appoint those corporation billionaires to cabinet positions!
2 oz. tequila1 oz. lime juice1 oz. CointreauIceLime slice
Sections
It may be hard to picture Hillary Rodham Clinton having a tea party.
Leading the Democratic party, sure. Navigating a tense dinner party with foreign dignitaries as Secretary of State, absolutely. Maybe even taking a twirl at her own inaugural party. But a tea party?
Nancy Gertner, an old friend and Yale Law School classmate of the Democratic presidential nominee, says she spent many nights chatting over steaming cups of tea in Rodham’s small apartment in Watertown, Mass., in 1973, as the clock ticked toward dawn. Gertner and Rodham—fresh out of law school—were both working in the area, Rodham in nearby Cambridge.
“Let me set the stage,” Gertner says. “Hillary and I are both workaholics, and we would have tea at midnight or at 11 o’clock when her day was done and so was mine, and we would talk about our dreams.”
Gertner, a faculty member at Harvard Law School, says Rodham was far from sure what those dreams were. According to Gertner, Rodham’s temporary living arrangements (she was subletting her apartment) reflected her “transiency.”
Rodham faced a dilemma: Should she settle in Massachusetts or join boyfriend Bill in Arkansas, where he hoped to one day launch a campaign for governor? Should she make the move to bolster his career—or stay and focus on her own?
She had come to Cambridge to work for the Children’s Defense Fund, a nonprofit organization dedicated to child advocacy and research. Rodham’s first assignment, to produce a report explaining why nearly two million American children were failing to attend school, demanded almost all her time and attention.
But intense was just how Rodham liked it.
She was a “crazy maniac,” Gertner remembers, so devoted to her work that she had no time for regular, sit-down meals.
“[Rodham was] enormously idealistic, enormously committed,” Gertner says. “I don’t think I can convey the extraordinary sense of idealism that many of us, that she and I felt at the time. It was not just the excitement of embarking on a career… it was embarking on a career at a time when there seemed to be major social change.” 
Gertner says she and Rodham were “children of the second wave” of feminism; Betty Friedan published “The Feminine Mystique” in 1963, just 10 years before both began their professional lives. The two friends fantasized “not only about the house and home” but about their careers. “Those were new dreams,” Gertner recalls.
“The discussion about work and career was like no discussion she or I had ever had with our parents or our mothers,” Gertner says. “My mother was a stay-at-home mom and her mother was… as well. The richness of our conversations was sort of parallel to our sense of womanhood at that time.”
Despite their lofty career goals and Ivy League credentials, Gertner and Rodham could not resist a little gossip. Mixed in with weighty discussions of politics and law were the sorts of exchanges you might hear in any woman’s college dorm room at 2 a.m. As Gertner recalls, the duo often sat­­ on Rodham’s floor, evoking the intimacy of a child’s play date.
“I remember sitting on her floor, drinking tea, and talking about the usual things that women of our age talk about, which is men,” Gertner says. “I would talk about whoever my boyfriend was at the time, I don’t even remember, [and] we would talk about Bill.”
Rodham was undecided about her career path, but Bill already knew what he wanted to do—and he wasn’t shy about admitting it.
Gertner remembers once traveling with Rodham to a bar in San Francisco to meet Bill for drinks. When the two couldn’t find him, Rodham went to check with the bouncer. (“This was pre-cell phone,” Gertner notes.) She returned confident that Bill was in the building. Gertner—ever the cautious lawyer—wanted to know how Rodham could be sure.
“She said, ‘I just talked to the bouncer. He said he spent an hour talking to someone who will one day be president of the United States,’” Gertner says with a laugh. “So Bill was there.”
The bouncer was right, but it’s possible that he spoke to two, not one, future presidents that night.
This was one topic Gertner and Rodham never broached—not once in all their late-night, tea-fueled talks.
“I can’t say at all that she envisioned, that she talked about running for office,” Gertner recalls. “That was so far from the universe of things that a young woman could even imagine in 1973.”
Sections
The pantsuit: A classic garment that pairs well with sensible haircuts, loafers, and a thumb-worn Blackberry.
While no one powerful woman can claim sole responsibility for the pantsuit’s recent renaissance, certain luminaries have paved the way for its current dominance. Still, questions remain.
Where can pantsuits be worn? What colors work best? How does one pull off such high caliber fashion? In order to get the 411 on this revived phenomenon, let us turn to the experts: namely, Hillary Clinton and University President Drew G. Faust. And because any conversation pertaining to two powerful women requires a careful, exhaustive, and competitive analysis of their wardrobe, FM has decided to pit them against each other to determine which woman’s attire reigns supreme.
We begin with Madame Secretary. The presiding pantsuit princess, Clinton has graced the covers of such high fashion publications as Newsweek (RIP), Time Magazine, and The Wall Street Journal. Our girl Hillz offers a tried and true take on the pantsuit that works with every color on the visible light spectrum. Her campaign announcement ensemble was a royal blue symbol of liberalism, while her red-hot pantsuit at the first Presidential debate presaged her fiery performance. Though Hill’s pantsuit game is undeniably formidable, it sometimes comes off as trying too hard. Like booking Katy Perry for rallies or learning to “dab” on Ellen, her pantsuits can smack of a grandparent-ly attempt to remain “hip.”
While Faust first rose to prominence with her Pulitzer-prize finalist account of death in the American Civil War, pantsuit devotees maintain that her sartorial contributions outshine her academic ones. Though pomp and circumstance often force Harvard’s 28th president into the drab black robes of academia, Faust’s shrewd, colorful blazer selections would shock some of her Puritan predecessors. While both Faust and Clinton are prodigious fundraisers, Faust’s familiarity with the 18-24 age demographic may, on the surface, give her a slight edge in this fashion face-off.
Often standing behind a lectern, Faust relies largely on her blazer choice. Traditionally made of a sleek material, Faust’s twill-textured blazers are a winking homage to the tweed-blazered professor. Habitually coupled with a power accessory and her signature gold-plated bi-focals, Faust’s unexpected departure from traditional cotton-poly blends is successful, due to both sheer confidence and strategic accessory choice.
Hill’s LBP—“little blue pantsuit,” for those not in the know—is undeniably strong.  A classic symbol of liberalism, this dazzling number is a staple of every “nasty” woman’s closet. When she kicked off her campaign the LBP was her outfit of choice and signalled many more monochromatic outfits to come. Indeed, the monochrome pantsuit is something of a calling card for the Democratic nominee. The all-white number she chose for her performance in the third Presidential Debate exuded the cool confidence of a starship commander. Unlike Faust’s ensemble, Clinton’s draws its strength from an unabashed commitment to a single hue.
The competition was undeniably close, and the women’s varying pantsuit aesthetics make a head to head comparison challenging. That being said, the hypnotic pull of a monochromatic pantsuit ultimately swayed the vote. It would seem unjust to present this award to anyone other than self-professed “pantsuit aficionado” Hillary Clinton.
Sections
“Friends, Romans, countrymen, we come to bury Goldwater, not to praise him.”
Those were the words of Harvard Law professor Mark DeWolfe Howe ’28 as he stood in front of a crowd of protesters in Boston Common on the cold and windy afternoon of Oct. 31, 1964. His proclamation mirrored the sentiments of many students on campus, where Republican presidential nominee Barry M. Goldwater was drawing little favor among the undergraduates.
The 1964 election revealed deep-seated tensions in both the country and Republican Party. Moderates and ultra-conservatives clashed over Goldwater’s stances. The Arizona senator’s divisive candidacy, complete with accusations of bigotry, political infighting, and widespread opposition among mainstream Republicans, contains many parallels to this year’s GOP standard bearer.
From Goldwater to Trump
On the night of Nov. 3, 1964, results from the presidential election came in from across the country. Democratic incumbent Lyndon B. Johnson trounced his Republican opponent in one of the largest landslides in presidential history, winning 61 percent of the popular vote and garnering 486 electoral college votes. Johnson’s victory kept the Democratic Party in the White House. 
But the 1964 presidential election was atypical from its beginning. With the assassination of President John F. Kennedy ’40 in August of 1963, the nation was still in mourning. Political leaders decided that formal campaigning would not begin from either party until the beginning of the primary season in January.
As the presidential election began to ramp up, the public’s attention was focused on the escalation of the Vietnam War. Americans also remained divided on bitter issues of civil rights and the threat of communism.
From the beginning, Goldwater advanced a hardline conservative stance on these issues. Goldwater’s campaign was dogged by accusations of bigotry; he opposed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and earned endorsements from KKK members. Goldwater seemed like an extremist to both liberals and moderate Republicans.
While Goldwater’s rhetoric has been compared to Trump’s, the two candidates came from very different backgrounds. Goldwater was a career politician who had previously served two terms as a U.S. senator, while Trump has never held political office. Further, Goldwater backed a consistent political ideology for much of his career, centered around an opposition to big government and New Deal legislation.
Still, just as many Republicans were concerned that Goldwater would affect down-ticket races, Congressional seats, and the future viability of the party, so too do Republicans  share those concerns about Trump’s role today.
A ‘Left-Leaning’ Campus
In 1964, straw polls conducted on campus by The Crimson showed that Goldwater had little support from undergraduates leading up to the election, with only 16 percent of the campus favoring his candidacy. His opponent Johnson, meanwhile, received 86 percent of campus votes, the largest margin in the poll’s history.
In an email to The Crimson, Eric A. Von Salzen ’65, the president of the Harvard Young Republican Club at the time of the election, characterized Harvard of 1964 as “a left-leaning campus, both among students and faculty.”
Although the majority of Harvard opposed Goldwater, political discussions on campus were usually peaceful. “As I recall it, most students and faculty tolerated these differences of opinion,” Von Salzen wrote. “I don’t recall any ‘McCarthyism’ on either side.”
Harvard Republicans campaigned for Goldwater that year, some through national conservative and Republican groups, and others with local GOP organizations. Though Von Salzen supported Nelson A. Rockefeller during the primaries, he came around in favor of Goldwater after the Arizona senator secured the nomination.
“[We] worked with local Republican organizations on get-out-the-vote efforts for all Republican candidates, including Goldwater,” he wrote. “I don’t think anyone thought that Goldwater could carry Massachusetts!”
However, Republicans on campus were divided on whether to support Goldwater, who had become a polarizing candidate by the time of his nomination. Some moderate members of the club even proposed that the club refuse to officially endorse him.
“I felt that the Harvard Young Republicans should make it official that we supported the nominee,” Von Salzen wrote. “And so I called a meeting of the membership for that purpose.”
The meeting was tense. In the weeks leading up to the vote, the club’s executive committee failed to endorse Goldwater, threatening to further divide the conservative and moderate factions of HYRC. At the meeting, these groups clashed repeatedly over the question of the club’s endorsement.
“This issue has gone too far. I ask you why should we endorse the national ticket when our club has been shattered by it—our membership in disarray,” Robert L. Beal ’63 said in a meeting, which was covered by The Crimson.
The discussion was so loud that club members eventually had to close the windows of Harvard Hall to avoid bothering passersby. Eventually, though, the Harvard Young Republican Club voted to endorse Goldwater, 67-35.
HYRC and its successor, the Harvard Republican Club, have supported the party’s nominee every year until this one.
In August, the club announced that it would not support the GOP presidential nominee, Donald J. Trump—the first time in the club’s 128-year history.
“This fall,” the club wrote in a Facebook post, “we will instead focus our efforts on reclaiming the Republican Party from those who have done it conable harm, campaigning for candidates who will uphold the conservative principles that have defined the Republican Party for generations.”
A CROOK AND A KOOK
Concerns of the time were captured in a 1964 Crimson op-ed by Michael A. Lerner ’65, which asked: “Is the GOP Dying?”
“It is easy to scoff at the idea that, as result of a single election, one of our national parties may be dying,” Lerner argued. “Yet it will be difficult for the moderate Republicans to run again with a label which, if Goldwater forces do continue to speak for the G.O.P., will associate them with a philosophy unpalatable to their liberal constituents.”
Looking back, Von Salzen had a more charitable view of the situation. In his view, Goldwater’s candidacy was a factor in the broad geographic and demographic shifts occurring in partisan politics at the time.
“It’s true that Goldwater was a divisive figure in the Republican Party in 1964,” he wrote. “But that was because the nature of our two-party system was changing, and for the Republican Party Goldwater was an agent of change.” 
Still, certain voters found both Johnson and Goldwater equally unappealing. Their complaints bear a striking similarity to negative perceptions of Hillary Clinton and her Republican opponent.
Lerner’s op-ed cites one such voter’s opinion: “They have given me the choice between a crook and a kook. I guess I’ll vote for the crook.”
Sections
“Any last words?” The jackal-headed demon hissed. A man in a dirty cloth robe kneeled at his feet. His shock of black hair was matted and caked with sand, and a thin line of blood ran freely into his eyes from a cut on his forehead. The demon held a bladed staff at the ready.
“Er,” the man stalled for time. He glanced around him at the bodies of his fallen companions, scattered amongst the desert camp. “You shouldn’t kill me because…” His eyes suddenly lit up with the spark on an idea. “We have an army!”
“An army?” The demon cackled. “Where?”
The wind whistled audibly over the dunes. A canvas tent flapped and snapped. Empty sand stretched as far as the eye could see. The man’s face fell. “That’s fair,” he admitted. The demon drew his blade back, and plunged it into the man’s chest.
“I get it, shut up guys,” Zak muttered, rubbing his chest sympathetically where his character had been struck. We were huddled around a small card table in our school’s black box theater, laughing hysterically at Zak’s attempt to bluff his way out of death.
Paul wiped a mirthful tear from his eye. “Where the fuck would we have had an army? Jesus,” he chuckled. Zak turned slightly red and smiled sheepishly. He was used to being the target of a good-natured ribbing. The laughter at the table died down, the smiles slowly replaced with frowns. “Now what, though?” Paul asked. “We’re all dead.”
I frowned too. I was the Dungeon Master, who made the adventure and played the non-player characters (from monsters to friends) and the environment. Normally I rolled behind a screen of some kind, so that I would be free to adjust fate so as to make the night dangerous and exciting, but not deadly.
That night, however, I had no such screen, and my rolls had left the party out of commision. “Well you’re not dead, dead,” I explained. “You’re just unconscious. You can try to save yourself each round now. If you roll below a 10, you get a strike. Three and you’re dead.” Spirits fell. “But if you roll a 20 you recover, and can get back up,” I offer. Spirits rose. “Of course the demon is probably going to start executing you one by one.” Spirits fell again.
Paul stretched across the table and grabbed a 20-sided die (referred to as a d20). “No problem,” he said, the die bouncing around inside his palm. “I’ve got this guys.” He threw the die across the table and it clattered to a halt. We all leaned in.
Across the camp from the demon, the priest blinked the sand from his eyes.
Paul’s own eyes rapidly skimmed his character sheet. “I’m pretty much all out of good spells though,” he mused. Sarah added, from the other end of the table, that we had barely scratched the demon. “Alright, alright,” he said, scooping the die back up. “I’ll hit him with Piercing Light.”
We leaned back in. He cast the die and it spun lazily on one axis for several second before settling on a result. Another 20. Paul fist-pumped. “Critical hit! That’s max damage. How does 12 work for you?” All eyes turned to me. I looked down at my notes. The demon had 14 health left. Still…
The demon kicked the man’s body off of his blade, and swung it back up for another strike. This one would finish the job, he thought. These humans had been a nuisance, but he would soon be able to return to his more pressing business. The blade arced high, and then jolted to a stop. He looked down to find a shaft of blazing light burning through his stomach. The demon turned, staggering, to see the priest, with his arm outstretched and a triumphant smirk on his face. The demon gasped for breath and collapsed.
The table cheered. Paul was quickly smothered in high fives and hugs. I glanced at my watch. “That’s all I’ve got guys. Party’s starting soon.” We packed up our bags and made to leave the theater. I looked at them a little nervously. “Was that fun? Should I make more?”
“Yes!” They cheered back. I smiled.
The six of us had been friends for some time, but this night cemented it. Most of us had never played a role-playing game before, but for the next two years we would meet almost every weekend to play together. In the summers we would camp out at empty houses for days on end (our parents having retreated to the Cape), role-playing and sleeping at incredibly odd hours.
Even as we’ve aged, and our entertainment tastes have turned more towards the carousing end of the spectrum, we find time to get together and play for a few hours. Last winter, amidst the “Star Wars” frenzy, I led an adventure that cast my friends as mercenaries on the outer rim of the galaxy, and we huddled around my dining room table, just as we did so many times back in high school.
I’ve gotten more feedback on my creativity and my writing from my role-playing friends over the years than from all of my teachers combined. They criticize and pick on plot inconsistencies, on boring characters and uncompelling story lines. They tell me what’s funny, what’s exciting, and what they want to hear more about.
I wonder now, how that 0.25 percent chance of rolling two 20’s in a row affected the course of our friendship. If they had died, would they have never wanted to play again? Would we have spent as much time together, become as close as we did, without this excuse to waste our weekends away together?
All relationships are somewhat determined by fate, but I find the literal example quite amusing.
Sections
A few days before I left for college, I walked barefoot along a stone bridge, watching Town Creek spill into a waterfall below me. The water’s surface curved like silk between the stones, then broke into fat, white droplets that battered the rock walls. The limestone was shaped by its history, pockmarked where it had dissolved over centuries. The air was warm and blue.
I have gotten better at appreciating these moments. My summer was an exercise in looking, in seeing parts of Alabama, my home state, that I had never noticed before. There was a sudden urgency to my physical location.
***
During the Civil War, my ancestors lived in Winston County,  Ala., an area too poor to support the plantations that covered the antebellum South. These people refused to fight for the Confederacy, and Winston County seceded from Alabama in defiance. The Free State of Winston weathered years of siege while its property and farmland burned away.
My great-great-great grandma, who lived through the war, recounted this story to my grandma, and my grandma told it to me. Their stories are a direct connection to the past, embodied in living memory and oral tradition.
We have other stories, too. My pawpaw grew turnip greens because he could feed their leaves to hungry families. My grandfather could barely read when he finished high school, but he managed to put all three of his children through college.
I applied to Harvard because I wanted to escape from the South. But as I stood over the waterfall this August, I realized that I will never be able to leave.
There is something powerful about family stories. They invite themselves into our identities because family stories are our stories, regardless of who lived them. These stories unite us with our past and ground us in a place. We grow to embody the stories we tell ourselves.
My story is an Alabama story. I grew up with its names on my tongue, whispers of something untouchable: Sipsey, Black Warrior, Little River. I love how physical Alabama is, carved with rolling hills, canyons, and a deep blue sky. It is a slow, quiet, and beautiful place.
***
In the parking lot a few hundred feet from the falls, there are several trucks with large Confederate flags billowing from homemade posts, tailgates decorated with pro-Trump stickers. This is also part of Alabama’s story—an inescapable history of slavery, segregation, and racism which reaches out and corrupts the present. On Nov. 8, Alabama will  most likely cast its votes for Donald Trump. How, in a place with so much beauty and diversity, is this possible?
I was caught in this conflict all throughout high school. It is easy to project societal problems onto certain people. It is easy to look out into the parking lot and be angry at the deliberate, casual displays of ignorance and hatred. It is easy for me to give up on the people I live with, to revel in my own righteous fury. Alabama is a loaded word, a symbol of our country’s backwater tendencies.
But that story is too simple. I loved my childhood of catching snakes in the creek, eating good food, and living slowly. I love the waterfalls, the limestone caves, and the forests. I love my stories, which show a place of kindness, courage, and sacrifice. With all the noise of living, it can be hard for me to see past the loaded word—Alabama. In a few days, most Alabama residents will likely vote for Donald Trump. This is disheartening. But it is not the whole story.
Sections
Three weeks before the presidential election, the basement of Boylston Hall is filled with John Oliver’s voice, blaring, “Make Donald Drumpf Again.”
Senior lecturer and former editor of the New York Times Jill E. Abramson ’76 is spending the afternoon discussing the intersection of satire and elections with her “Politics and Journalism” class. Most of the session is punctuated with bouts of laughter as the group watches ‘Saturday Night Live’ parodies of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump. Today is an unusual class, which is fitting for an unusual election.
“I don’t want you to think [we] just watch SNL clips in my classes,” Abramson says, laughing. “I don’t want students to think that my class is a pushover.”
But Abramson’s use of sketch comedy as a teaching tool is just one of the ways that Harvard professors are approaching an election season characterized by the bizarre, especially as it pertains to Trump. The candidate’s bombastic style and penchant for attracting controversy has contributed to a presidential election that many faculty members find both fascinating and frustrating.
“This election is so different, so unusual, from anything I’ve seen before,” Abramson says. “When I watch the presidential debates or see quotes from the candidates, other elections over the past 30 years just seem quaint.” 
Indeed, in their teaching, thinking, and writing, Harvard professors are seeking to understand Trump, who is a political phenomenon.
Their published work on the topic ranges from Government professor Danielle S. Allen’s series of Trump-focused op-eds for The Washington Post to University professor Stephen J. Greenblatt’s recent piece in the New York Times, which presented an extended metaphor comparing Trump to the Shakespearean villain Richard III.
Across disciplines, Harvard faculty are studying Trump’s sudden rise, popularity, and style in the unique contexts of their respective fields.
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary  Clinton—whose resume includes First Lady, U.S. Senator, and Secretary of State—is often seen as more representative of the traditional mindset of the political establishment. Trump’s background as a businessman, rather than a politician, has energized a frustrated segment of the American electorate, many  professors say.
“His recognition of a constituency that other people weren’t seeing gave him a strong starting point,” says Allen, the director of the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics and a professor in at the Graduate School of Education.
She views Trump’s early and continued involvement in the “birther movement,” which falsely asserts that President Barack Obama is not a natural-born U.S. citizen, as a significant advantage to him electorally.
Following his support of the “birther constituency,” Allen says Trump has been able to garner support from groups unhappy with the current political system, such as rural voters.
“The dominant policy paradigms are much more oriented towards urban experience than to rural experience, and have been insufficiently attentive to the impacts of  economic change on the working class,” Allen says. “So there’s another constituency... that doesn’t feel aligned with either of the major parties and is therefore available... Trump found a way of connecting to that constituency.”
In a similar vein, Dr. Yascha Mounk, a lecturer in the Government Department whose academic work focuses on the theory of liberal democracy, sees Trump supporters as engaging in a kind of provincial rebellion. 
“If you think of liberal democracy in a quite minimalist way of translating popular views into popular policies... I think Trump is a democrat—though he might be dangerous to democracy—but he does really speak for a [certain group of] people,” Mounk says. “There are people who feel far away from the metropolises, the places that matter culturally, where things are decided, where the power lies.”
Brett Flehinger, a lecturer in the History Department who teaches “American Populisms: Thomas Jefferson to the Tea Party + Trump,” says that Trump’s appeal to this alienated voting population harkens back to historical instances of demagoguery in broad populist movements.
“There are a lot of aspects of Trump we’ve seen before,” he says. “A constant focus of populism [is] this fear that ‘the people’ are going to be dispossessed by the elite, an elite that wields economic and political power.
That sense of corruption, that sense of dispossession, that sense that elections—or systems—can be rigged against you... that sense that there are outsiders and insiders, all of that is there.”
In Trump—who has made his “outsider” status a main focal point of his campaign—voters have found a champion of their anti-establishment movement. Flehinger sees anti-establishmentism as analogous to populist movements in the 19th century.
“That figure of the people, that rises from the people and represents them, is pretty notable,” Flehinger says. 
In addition to Trump’s populist appeal, many professors believe Trump’s stances on these issues attract voters who feel left behind due to globalization.
“All through the history of the stability of liberal democracy, we’ve seen basically the standards of living rise from one generation to the next, and that’s no longer the case,” Mounk says. “From 1935 to 1960, the standard of living doubles, from 1960 to 1985 it doubles, from 1985 [to the present] it’s basically flat… It’s not necessarily people who are badly off who are voting for Trump, but I think economic insecurity has a lot to do with it.”
Trump has called for an overhaul of international trade agreements like the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), which he has called “failures,” and a weakening of economic ties between America and other countries, specifically China and Mexico.
“He’s managed to construct a narrative which suggests that a combination of trade and immigration are responsible for the erosion of manufacturing jobs in the United States,” professor Robert Z. Lawrence, who specializes in international trade and investment at the Kennedy School of Government says. “This plays particularly well in certain parts of the midwest, which happen to be swing states, and among middle aged, typically white and less well educated, men.”
However, Lawrence believes these voters’ worries will not be ameliorated by the trade policies Trump suggests.
“In contrast to what Trump says, most economic studies say that NAFTA had only a small impact on the U.S. economy,” he says. “The aggregate evidence isn’t consistent with the story that NAFTA caused a crisis and the studies suggest that the trade volumes with Mexico are not very significant anyway.”’
On immigration, too, Trump finds support with a nativist “America first” philosophy.  Some Harvard faculty members believe this stems from Americans’ concerns with domestic security, a fear of displacement by immigrants from Latin America and the Middle East, and a nostalgia among the electorate for a perceived period of prosperity, reflected in Trump’s slogan,  “Make America Great Again!”
“Fortress America is always a more appealing narrative than the more complicated notion of risky globalization,” Juliette N. Kayyem, a lecturer in public policy at the Kennedy School and a national security advisor for Clinton, says. Kayyem cites the recent terrorist attacks in Paris, Brussels, San Bernadino, and Orlando as events Trump should’ve emphasized in his campiagn. “And if New York, New Jersey had been successful, the narrative was there for him,” she says.
Nonetheless, several professors note that Trump’s isolationist rhetoric on immigration still has significant appeal.
“His vision is a vision of, let’s face it, a white man’s democracy, in which white men had jobs, they received pride and dignity in their work, there was not very much immigration, you looked around you and it was a segregated world,” John Stauffer, a professor of English and African American Studies, explains. “Racism is socially unacceptable, but [he says], ‘Make America Great Again,’ [and] it’s a tacit way of saying, ‘let’s return both economically to a time in which there were far greater restrictions [on] immigration and whites had jobs.’”
Linda J. Bilmes, a senior lecturer in Public Policy at the Kennedy School, also stresses the significance of Trump’s call for a return to the past.  “I think it’s a vision that is grounded in nostalgia—a nostalgia for a world that was simpler, where trade was not global, where technology had not eroded the U.S. manufacturing base, where the population was more homogenous… which I think does explain some of the appeal.” 
Timothy P. McCarthy, a lecturer on History and Literature and a program director at the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, sees Trump’s status as a wealthy businessman, though not directly related to immigration, as part of the explanation of his constituents’ fascination with a bygone era of growth. He speculates that Americans who have fallen on tough economic times view Trump as a representation of prosperity. “For people who understand in real economic terms that the American Dream is at best an aspiration if not a fiction, I think Donald Trump represents that last gasp or glimpse of the American Dream that they’ve always wanted to believe in,” he says.
In spreading his nostalgic message, Trump has managed to attract an unprecedented amount of media attention—often without paying for advertising. A number of Harvard faculty members attribute this phenomenon to Trump’s demagogic persona and widespread fame.
“It matters that he is a TV celebrity and that celebrity is a new source of power,” Kayyem says. “[Celebrity status] has always been a source of power, but it has gained greater traction now because of social media and he was able to tap into that celebrity power in a very significant way,”
Abramson believes Trump’s high name recognition and background in television has both saturated his exposure and prepared him for the bombastic campaign he has run over the past 18 months. “In many ways, the ‘Celebrity Apprentice’ was a perfect training ground for him,” she says. “Trump is clickbait, and he’s a ratings bonanza for broadcast media.”
Trump’s ability to connect with the electorate goes beyond his fame or his knack for entertaining, Abramson says.
Over the course of his campaign, he has employed a rhetorical style that taps into Americans’ feelings of alienation, insecurity, fear, and nostalgia in much the same way that his policy proposals do, many professors note.
“Regardless of whether or not you have anything to do with his politics—or even know what they are—Donald Trump is a showman, and his energy creates a charisma that is hard to look away from,” McCarthy says. “When you combine that with the fact that his way of communicating is also rooted in an ‘us versus them’ binary view of the world—‘disaster’ or ‘greatness’ everybody is either a ‘winner’ or a ‘loser,’ etc.—it simplifies complex things for people who are really looking for a simpler worldview.” 
McCarthy compares Trump’s rhetorical style to Ronald Reagan’s, and describes his ability to break down complex ideas into digestible messages as a unique strength.
“Great communicators... can take nuance and sophistication and complexity and make them readily accessible and crystal-clear for audiences. I think Trump does that for his electorate in a way that resonates, though he often crosses the line into manipulation,” he says.
Harvard professors have no doubt that—win or lose—Trump will have a significant impact on the future of American politics.
“My biggest fear is if Trump [becomes] president, that the US would [become] irrelevant,” Kayyem says. “In other words, not that we would [be] bad or good, but that the world would... bypass the US.”
Mounk expresses concern that, regardless of who is elected president, the future of politics in the United States may be defined by a cleavage that runs contrary to American values.
“There’s these moments where you have political realignment and suddenly the thing that defines what it means to be a Democrat or a Republican changes,” he says. “The main dividing line may no longer be economics… but it may wind up being about race.”
Lawrence believes the rhetoric surrounding trade in this election may shift public opinion towards an anti-trade sentiment.
“[Bernie Sanders and Trump] both promoted a skepticism about trade and I think have raised doubts about its advantages,” he says. “So it is going to be a more difficult environment in which to negotiate trade agreements looking out into the future.”
Allen views Trump’s impact as having much broader implications.
“I think lots of people are talking about this as if, if Trump loses, that’s the end of that sort of Trump phenomenon. To the contrary, Trump has shown a pathway that’s available for political entrepreneurs, other people will try to make use of it,” she says. “He has highlighted some of our hardest cultural, social, and political questions, and, in that regard, I think he has laid a table for what our political struggles will be for the coming decade.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard students excited for the possibility of legalized marijuana in Massachusetts may find it sobering that, if Harvard follows the paths of other universities, the drug will likely remain banned on campus even if Massachusetts Ballot Question 4 passes.
Question 4 would legalize recreational use of marijuana in Massachusetts for people age 21 and older. Four other  states are considering similar measures this election cycle.
Central to the debate over whether Harvard, and any college in Massachusetts, would permit marijuana use on campus is its relationship with the federal government. A private institution, Harvard receives millions of dollars from the federal government each year for research. The receipt of federal funding is contingent upon colleges and universities’ adherence to federal statutes, including the criminalization of marijuana.
Legalizing marijuana on a campus that receives federal funds could potentially jeopardize those funds, according to Harvard Law School professor Charles R. Nesson. Nesson recently lectured at the Harvard Ed Portal in Allston on Question 4.
“The operative question I think is whether this acts as an in terrorem effect,” Nesson said, referring to Harvard’s federal funding as a deterrent to permitting cannabis. “I just can’t imagine Harvard taking any step but the most conservative one: go the slowest, stay the closest to the ground.”
Harvard spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke declined to comment on the status of marijuana on campus should the ballot question pass. She also noted that Harvard does not take positions on any ballot questions. The possession or distribution of marijuana on campus is currently a violation of Harvard’s drug and alcohol policy.
Harvard students intending to vote in Massachusetts overwhelmingly support the ballot measure, according to data from by The Crimson’s election survey, a voluntary questionnaire filled out by more than 2,000 undergraduates. Sixty-seven percent of Mass. voters at Harvard are planning to vote “Yes” on the ballot question, while 16 percent intend to vote “No.” About 17 percent of respondents remain undecided. The Crimson Editorial Board also encouraged readers to vote “Yes” on Question 4 a few weeks ago.
While Harvard has not made any public statements regarding policy changes after the vote, other private colleges in the area, like Boston University, do not intend to alter drug policies in the event of a yes vote.
“We do not anticipate any policy change, no matter the outcome on Question 4,” Colin Riley, executive director of media relations at Boston University, said.
Universities in states like Colorado, where recreational marijuana is legal, have banned the substance on campus despite its legality. At the University of Colorado, Boulder, marijuana is banned on campus, even for students over the legal age of 21.
“In addition, the state constitutional amendment authorizing individuals over the age of 21 to recreationally use marijuana (‘Amendment 64’) does not change this prohibition or authorize a student to use marijuana,” the UC Boulder student handbook reads. “Federal law, including the Drug Free Schools Act, continues to prohibit marijuana. Thus marijuana use, even if in compliance with Amendment 64, is prohibited on campus.”
While the Question 4 has not generated as much publicity or controversy as the charter school-centered Question 2, recent opposition from the Catholic Archdiocese of Boston—in the form of a $850,000 donation to the opposition campaign—has brought the legalization of marijuana to the forefront of election discussion in Massachusetts.
The measure is another step in a near decade-long process of loosening restrictions on marijuana in the Bay State. Massachusetts decriminalized marijuana under one ounce in 2008 and legalized marijuana for medical purposes in 2012, both by ballot measure. More recently, the City of Cambridge amended its medical marijuana ordinances to allow a local marijuana dispensary on Mass. Ave. Should Question 4 pass, Massachusetts would become the fourth state to legalize recreational marijuana.
—Staff writer Joshua J. Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A federal appeals court upheld last week Harvard Law School’s decision to reprimand a student for plagiarism, affirming a lower court ruling against the plaintiff, Megon J. Walker, who sued Harvard in 2012.
Walker, a 2009 Law School graduate, sued the University in 2012, arguing that the Law School had committed defamation and a breach of contract when it left a permanent mark of plagiarism on her transcript. Specifically, her suit charged that she did not plagiarize a submission to the Law School’s student-run “Journal of Law and Technology” because her work was a draft and not intended as a final submission. The Law School Administrative Board’s decision to leave a disciplinary mark on her transcript, she argued in the suit, stymied her career and job prospects.
When Massachusetts district court judge Rya W. Zobel ’53 ruled against Walker in 2015, Walker appealed the decision. Her appeal focused her claims, again contending that the Law School’s disciplinary action breached the terms of the student handbook and defamed her.
In its decision last Monday, the First Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the previous ruling, refuting Walker’s argument that the draft was exempt from the Law School’s plagiarism policy. The court ruled that the draft did constitute a submission under the Law School’s policy.
“Walker has not presented facts a student could have relied upon to form a reasonable expectation that the plagiarism policy had the meaning she is asserting,”  the circuit court wrote in its opinion.
John J.E. Markham II, Walker’s attorney, said that while his client was disappointed by the outcome, she was pleased that the circuit court had accepted some of her claims.
“She notes with some satisfaction that the First Circuit court acknowledged that she believed that she could change the draft that she had handled over to the editorial board and that she was not trying to pass off her draft as final,” Markham said. “Unfortunately, Harvard employed a very technical definition of plagiarism, which the court found to be any delivery of a piece of work, regardless of any intent to clean it up later.”
Markham added that he and Walker would be reviewing further available legal options.
In her lawsuit, Walker named the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body, the former Law School Dean of Students Ellen Cosgrove, and Lloyd Weinreb, who was then the chair of the Law School’s Administrative Board. She initially included Bradley Hamburger and Lindsay Kitzinger, the editors-in-chief of the Journal of Law and Technology to which the work was originally submitted.  Walker later dismissed her complaint against the two students before the district court ruling.
Daryl J. Lapp, who represented the University in the lawsuit, Cosgrove, Weinreb, and Kitzinger did not respond to requests for comment. Hamburger declined to comment for the story.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the first time, graduate student union organizers and University administrators sat side-by-side in a question and answer-style information session on Wednesday to discuss student concerns regarding the upcoming union election.
About 20 students attended the forum at the Law School, hosted by the Board of Student Advisers and the Student Government. University attorney Elizabeth Seaman from the Office of the General Counsel, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Dean for Administration and Finance Allen Aloise, and Law School Dean for Academic and Faculty Affairs Catherine Claypoole sat on one side of the table, with two graduate student union organizers at the other end.
“I’m really looking forward to this election. We’ve worked very hard to tell everyone that we can about it, and encourage everyone to vote, and we’re all looking forward to the result and moving forward from there,” Ph.D. student and union organizer Jonathon Booth said.
Aloise expressed concerns about unionization, citing his opinion that there is a more “efficient” way to improve student life than forming a collective bargaining unit.
“I think I share the passion that my co-panelists up here have about supporting students, advocating for students,” Aloise said. “We may disagree about the most efficient and the best way forward with that. It’s not clear to me that a labor framework or United Auto Workers is the most direct way of achieving our shared goals.”
Aloise also expressed other concerns, namely the broadness of the worker category in the bargaining unit, in which undergraduate students as well as graduate students across schools and departments are included.
“The embrace of such a broad bargaining unit would be something pretty unprecedented on campus at Harvard,” Aloise said.
But union organizer and Ph.D. student Abhinav Reddy said despite the very different positions students in the bargaining unit have—whether a graduate student or an undergraduate—they are all a part of a “shared community of interest.”
“The titles may be different, the departments may be different but at the end of the day, we’re students who are doing teaching and research work for the University, and we’re being compensated for that work,” Reddy said, adding that a contract could be tailored to meet the needs of the entire bargaining unit.
Booth said he believes a union is the best way to give students a voice in the process, and to improve working conditions across the University.
Another potential issue administrators discussed was the payment of union dues. Aloise expressed doubt that improved benefits would offset the cost of dues.
“There will [be] dues paid by students and the question is: what’s the benefit on the other end?” Aloise asked. “Will the benefits students otherwise wouldn’t have achieved offset that investment?”
Booth clarified that dues would not be collected until after a contract is created. The United Auto Workers requires a base 1.44 percent rate of union members’ pay, which can be increased if student workers in the union vote to do so.
“That doesn’t start tomorrow,” Booth said, referring to collecting dues. “It doesn’t start after the election; it only starts after a contract is approved and ratified.”
After the event, union organizer and Ph.D. student Cristina V. Groeger ’08 said she does not believe the administration is a neutral party in these discussions.
“I appreciated kind of hearing both sides, but I think the administration presents itself as wanting to encourage an open dialogue when other actions it has taken have shown they are very much opposed to the unionization effort,” Groeger said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Students and local residents flooded into the Harvard Art Museums’ Menschel Hall on Tuesday to learn about the theme of mourning in Colombian artist Doris Salcedo’s work.
Curator of Modern and Contemporary Art Mary Schneider Enriquez moderated the conversation between Salcedo and Professor of Aesthetics and General Theory of Value Elaine Scarry to celebrate the opening of Salcedo’s special exhibition titled Doris Salcedo: The Materiality of Mourning.
The theme of mourning that pervades Salcedo’s artwork often stems from incidents of political violence. For example, Salcedo lowered 280 chairs over the sides of Colombia’s Palace of Justice in 2002 to commemorate the seventeenth anniversary of the siege of the Palace by guerrillas and the government’s bloody counterattack. Each chair represented a life lost during the siege, and this public installation is a trademark of Salcedo’s work that seeks to give voice to victims of political violence.
“My solitary work as an artist is also a communal act where everything comes together,” Salcedo said.
Scarry said that, in Salcedo’s art, there is an “enduring sense of the person or people lost” which gives people “a space for us to mourn.”
Salcedo said she uses empathy when she creates art to express mourning. Salcedo’s famous A Flor de Piel, in which she sewed thousands of preserved rose petals together into a shroud laid on the floor, was made in honor of a torture victim.
“When I was thinking about the experience of the victim of torture for whom I made this piece, I was completely lost. When you face torture and horror, when you look at it and think of it very closely, then you become as silent as the victim himself,” Salcedo said.
When asked about the impact of her work, Salcedo said she is unsure of how people will perceive it.
“Whatever the public, [what] somebody will do or won’t do with the work is entirely up to the person,” Salcedo said. “I can only make it in the most loving manner and then it’s out of my hands.”
Professor of Religion and Latina/o Studies Mayra R. Rivera said she sees the intersection of art, political violence, and religion as a powerful tool to engage in a discussion about the Latino experience and that she plans to incorporate Salcedo’s work into her class next semester.
“The thematic of mourning and absence that is at the center of a lot of what intellectuals wrestle with,” Rivera said. “How do we engage the histories of our past, histories that include political violence and also colonization and slavery and indigenous communities? And how those become important in what Latino scholars argue as knowledge?”
Salcedo’s special exhibition will be on view Nov. 4 through Apr. 9 on the third floor of the Harvard Art Museums.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the first part of the Tanner Lectures on Human Values on Wednesday, University of Pennsylvania Law and Sociology Professor Dorothy E. Roberts rooted recent police violence against unarmed black people in a history of racial discrimination based on perceived biological differences.
The Tanner Lectures, which are delivered at several universities around the country, cover social and intellectual topics pertaining to the human condition—two lectures will be delivered at Harvard this year. University President Drew G. Faust and Harvard Law School Dean Martha Minow introduced the lecture on Wednesday.
Much of Roberts’ research focuses on social justice and bioethics, particularly about black women and reproductive rights. In her talk, she discussed the history of race as a perceived biological category and the arguments used to justify enslaving black people.
“With this system of biosocial thought, scientists kept white people happy,” Roberts said, referring to 19th and 20th century ideas about intelligence, eugenics, and sterilization.
Roberts argued that racial inequality is the result of social and political circumstances and not innate characteristics or traits. American society needs to recognize the role of environmental factors in creating inequality, she said.
“We need a more radical rethinking of the relationship between society, biology, and justice,” Roberts said.
History of Science and African American Studies Professor Evelynn M. Hammonds, former dean of Harvard College, spoke after Roberts’ address. Hammonds praised the “stimulating and rich” speech and discussed the “deep sedimentation of race as biology.”
Hammonds said that, like Roberts, she is “haunted” by the view of black people as “biological and social threats,” which she said is especially evident in present-day interactions with police officers.
She argued that race should be seen as an “ever-changing lens,” or a “transfer point between biology and society.”
Faust briefly introduced the Tanner Lectures at the beginning of the event, calling it “an event both welcome and welcoming.”
Dean of Harvard Law School Martha L. Minow highlighted Roberts’ multi-platform achievements, which include speaking at the National Institutes of Health, delivering a TED Talk, and writing online blogs.
“She understands that for change to happen, more and more mediums have to be used,” Minow said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The School of Engineering and Applied Sciences is projected to see increased numbers of undergraduate concentrators when sophomores declare their fields of study on Nov. 17, continuing a trend of fast growth since 2007.
According to Paul Karoff, assistant dean of communications for SEAS, the projected increase reflects a nationwide growth in science and technology fields. The School has grown from 291 concentrators in the 2007-2008 academic year to 892 concentrators in the 2015-2016 academic year. “What we’re seeing at SEAS and at Harvard is completely consistent with the experience we’ve had in higher education in general,” Karoff said. “More and more students are finding their way to [science] fields.”Karoff attributes increases in SEAS partially to large investments in the school from hedge fund magnate John A. Paulson and former Microsoft CEO Steven A. Ballmer ’77.
The projected increase in SEAS concentrators comes during a time of expansion for the School. By the fall of 2020, more than two thirds of departments are expected to move to a new SEAS campus in Allston.
Karoff said the increased numbers of SEAS concentrators have created pressure for teaching space.
“We’re having to be creative and repurpose spaces that hadn’t been intended as teaching space,” Karoff said. “For example, we’re using the basement level of Northwest as a flipped classroom.”
While the number of SEAS students has increased dramatically, the percentage of women and underrepresented minorities in the school has remained constant. Women currently constitute 32.2 percent of the total number of SEAS students, black students make up 5.2 percent of the undergraduate class, and Hispanic students make up 8.4 percent of the undergraduate class.
Karoff said SEAS’ inability to recruit students directly into the School due to the College-wide admissions process contributes to the current lack of diversity. Nevertheless, he emphasized the school’s commitment to inclusivity.
“We recognize that there are steps we can take to work to make our disciplines and our school as welcoming an environment as possible,” Karoff said, referring to women and underrepresented minority students.
SEAS faculty, in collaboration with groups such as Harvard Women in Computer Science, are facilitating programs to increase diversity within the School. According to Computer Science professor James H. Waldo, a committee of computer science faculty working closely with WiCS has gathered data on various aspects of minority student experience within the concentration.
“Right now, we have collected data that shows that, at least on the gender side, many of the women concentrators find the faculty less approachable than male concentrators [do],” he said.
The concentration has programs in place that encourage students to invite professors to coffee chats, and match prospective freshman concentrators of underrepresented backgrounds with a CS faculty advisor.
“The faculty takes these issues very, very seriously. We’re trying to initiate programs that will improve diversity but are also measurable,” Waldo said.
The percentage of female and underrepresented minority concentrators varies across SEAS units. Pooja Chandrashekar ’19, a member of WiCS and a biomedical engineering concentrator, said there is significant representation of both women and students of color in biomedical engineering classes.
“I’ve never felt like one of the only women or people of color,” she said. “There are definitely some upper level CS courses with very few women in the class, but I do know that SEAS is putting in a lot of money and effort into improving diversity.”
—Staff writer Jessica Kim can be reached at jessica.kim@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Narayan T. Sundararajan can be reached at narayan.sundararajan@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Twelve Harvard professors joined more than 300 other prominent American economists in signing a letter advising U.S. citizens not to vote for Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump.
Economics professor Oliver Hart, who won the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences earlier this fall, was among the eight Nobel laureates who signed the letter. The Wall Street Journal first reported the letter Tuesday.
“This is a rather uniquely disturbing situation we are in right now, and I think as an economist, and also as a Nobel Prize winner, I signed it because I felt compelled to sign it,” Hart said.
Hart said he believes Trump lacks any coherent, “well thought-out” economic plan for the country, and that the Republican nominee’s checkered business background—specifically, his frequent declarations of bankruptcy–made him unfit to serve as president. A Trump administration, Hart added, would be “dangerous” for the country.
The professors from Harvard who signed the letter spanned the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ Economics Department, the Kennedy School, and the Business School.
The letter used strong language to condemn Trump’s rhetoric and positions on topics like immigration and the trade deficit.
“[Trump] misinforms the electorate, degrades trust in public institutions with conspiracy theories, and promotes willful delusion over engagement with reality,” the economists wrote. “If elected, he poses a unique danger to the functioning of democratic and economic institutions, and to the prosperity of the country.”
Many of the Harvard professors who signed the letter framed their decision about strongly opposing Trump rather than supporting Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.
Kennedy School professor Jeffrey A. Frankel, a signatory of the letter, said a Trump presidency could endanger the economy, referencing remarks the Republican nominee made about refinancing U.S. debt.
“He has used language that, if he were President, would cause the credit markets to doubt the credit-worthiness of the U.S.,” Frankel said. “It’s amazingly reckless to intentionally call into doubt the full faith and credit of the United States.”
Benjamin Golub, an assistant economics professor, said signing the letter was a “very small thing” to do, but seemed an easy decision.
“I think the number of people who would be persuaded by 370 professional economists who otherwise are considering voting for Trump is pretty small,” Golub said. “But I thought that, given this commitment I had made to myself that I would do my very best if there was a risk of Trump getting elected… obviously I should do it.”
The number of signatories, currently around 370, could continue to grow until Election Day on Nov. 8. The letter’s organizers announced Wednesday evening in an email sent from an anonymous address they would keep accepting signatures until the election due to “popular demand.”
After being informed the letter remained open, Economics Department chair David I. Laibson ’88 said he planned to sign, and more generally said he was glad to see economists communicating their insights to the public.
“If they’d asked me [initially], I certainly would have signed, and I imagine thousands of other economists would have as well,” Laibson added.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Twenty Nobel laureates in the field of economics, including two Harvard professors, have signed a letter endorsing Democratic nominee Hillary R. Clinton for the presidency. The letter, first reported by the Wall Street Journal, was published online Monday.
Harvard signatories included economics professors Oliver Hart, who recently won the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on contract theory, and Eric Maskin, who jointly won the Nobel in 2007 for his development of a mechanism design theory.
Both Hart and Maskin said they signed the letter because they felt some “responsibility” to do so as Nobel laureates.
“Four weeks ago, nobody paid any attention to me,” Hart said, referring to his Nobel Prize notification in October. “Now suddenly people are going to listen. I feel like I have some responsibility to say something when the situation is this serious.”
The letter praised Clinton’s record of public service and proposed policies while condemning Republican presidential candidate Donald J. Trump’s lack of experience and “incoherent economic agenda.”
“We have decided to sign this letter jointly to express our shared judgments that Hillary Clinton is eminently qualified to serves as President, and Donald Trump is unfit for office,” the signatories wrote. “In this election, the choice is clear.”
Though he does not agree with all of Clinton’s policies, Hart said he believes she will make a good president because she is a “serious person” who is likely to examine the evidence and listen to her advisers. He said he thought that, unlike Trump, Clinton can control her emotions and think critically.
Maskin, too, said he believes Clinton would make a “fine president” if elected. He added that Trump’s “dreadfulness” as a candidate made the choice, and his decision to sign the letter, straightforward.
According to Maskin, economists across the country share his sentiments. He said this widespread support for one party’s presidential candidate is unprecedented in his experience.
“This is the first time I haven’t run into a single professional economist, or at least a serious one, who supports the Republican nominee,” he said. “Not a single one. That’s never happened before.”
Stanford emeritus professor of finance William F. Sharpe, a signatory of the letter and recipient of the 1990 Nobel Prize, said the election marked a personal break with precedent.
“In general I would not take a position publicly in a presidential election,” he said. “But this is a case where the opposition is so egregious that it’s kind of an easy call.”
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Eight years ago, as a historic election captivated the nation, then-presidential hopeful and Harvard Law School alumnus Barack Obama called on a number of Law School faculty members to advise him on his road to the White House.
After Obama was elected on Nov. 4, 2008, he again looked to Law School professors when building his administration.
Between 2008 and 2016, at least six professors left the Law School after Obama appointed them to administrative or judicial positions. Cass Sunstein left the school to head the White House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Jody Freeman to be Obama’s Counselor of Energy and Climate Change, Laurence H. Tribe—Obama’s former professor—became the Senior Counselor for Access to Justice, and Daniel Meltzer served as Principal Deputy Council.
Former Law School Dean Elena Kagan left for the Supreme Court in 2009, and professor David J. Barron '89 for the First Circuit Court of Appeals in 2014.
In one way or another, Harvard Law professors helped shape Obama’s legacy. But the relationship between the Law School and the next president has yet to be defined.
A trove of emails from Clinton’s campaign chairman John Podesta, leaked by Wikileaks in October, show that a few Law professors have caught the campaign’s attention. And Clinton’s campaign has contacted at least one about serving in her administration if she wins next Tuesday. There is no indication that Trump’s campaign has contacted any Law professors.
“I think law is about policy choices so by definition we are always involved in policy choices,” Law professor Christine A. Desan said, referring to her fellow faculty members.
For nearly 200 years, presidents have drawn on Harvard Law School professors to fill posts in their administrations. The trend is part of a reciprocal relationship between the School and the federal government: Law professors’ scholarship drives policy and judicial rulings, and the school benefits from professors’ experiences in Washington when they return to Harvard.
QUIET ON CLINTON
In 2008, prominent faculty—including current Law School Dean Martha L. Minow—were clamoring to help Obama get elected and later support his administration’s goals.
But fewer Law School faculty members are actively and openly advising either candidate in this election—a noticeable shift from previous elections, said Law Professor and former U.S. Solicitor General Charles Fried.
“I don’t know this time around whether there’s anyone on the faculty who is an adviser to either of the candidates. And I think I would know if there were.” Fried, who has taught at the school since 1961, said.
“I’m not sure I know why,” he added. “It may be that Hillary Clinton has a much tighter circle of advisers and experts and so on.”
Fried does not know any Trump supporters on the faculty—unsurprising, given that 98 percent of campaign contributions by Law School faculty between 2011 and the third quarter of 2014 went to Democratic campaigns.
“I suppose it would be accurate to describe the Law School’s faculty as leaning, by and large, although by no means universally, in a ‘liberal’ direction,” Tribe wrote in an email.
Faculty departures, then, are more likely to result from a Clinton victory.
Podesta’s leaked emails indicate that some Harvard Law professors are on the Clinton campaign’s radar. The emails often refer to op-eds written by or referencing Law School faculty, including several articles by Sunstein, who several Law School professors identified as someone a Clinton administration could approach. Sunstein wrote in an email that he is “not doing any interviews on any topics until well into 2017” because of his wife Samantha Power’s position as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations under Obama.
And the Clinton campaign has proposed at least two Law School professors’ names more concretely as potential nominees.
Law Professor and former member of Obama’s Presidential Advisory Committee on HIV/AIDS Robert Greenwald said he received a call from someone in the Democratic nominee’s campaign—whose identity Greenwald declined to disclose—asking if he would be interested in a position in Clinton’s administration, should she be elected. Greenwald told the staffer he was not interested in a position that would require him to leave the Law School, but that he would consider advising Clinton in a less intensive capacity.
Additionally, in an email addressed to Podesta, Jake Sullivan, the top foreign policy adviser to Clinton’s campaign, listed Freeman as a candidate to advise Clinton on climate and energy.
Freeman declined to comment for this article. Several other professors also declined to comment on whether Clinton’s campaign has approached them.
Clinton’s campaign did not respond to requests for comment.
A RECIPROCAL RELATIONSHIP
If any Law professors depart from the school for Washington after the election, they will join a long list of predecessors who held government posts—a tradition that dates to Joseph Story, who became a Harvard Law professor in 1827 while serving as a United States Supreme Court Justice.
“It’s a long tradition at the Law School, and I think it’s a really healthy and good one,” Barron, a former Crimson president, said. “It’s a great feature of Harvard Law School that is has so many faculty that are engaged in public service and the actual practice of law, in particular serving in legal positions in the government.”
The Law School uniquely prepares its faculty for such roles in policymaking, Greenwald said, as he found during his time under Obama.
“In many ways my work at Harvard has really helped to inform the agenda often of the Access to Care Committee and the work of the President’s Advisory Council, so there was certainly synergy between the two that certainly made it a lot easier for me than it would have been for other people,” Greenwald said.
Shared interest forges a mutually beneficial relationship between the Law School and presidential administrations that leads each to seek out the other.
“People within the government who are working on particular areas become knowledgeable about scholars or practitioners whose work is relevant,” Desan said. “On the other side, people who are practitioners or scholars keep an eye on what initiatives government officials are considering and get in touch with them, contact them, and see if there’s some overlap [and if] it would be useful to communicate or useful to work together.”
While the Law School-to-Washington pipeline is well-established, faculty often keep their aspirations quiet while at the Law School, which makes conjectures about potential presidential appointments difficult.
Barron recalled few conversations among his former Law School colleagues about political or judicial aspirations.
“I don’t recall it being a general topic of discussion at the school,” Barron said.
“Who knows what kinds of ambitions people nurture in their hearts,” Fried said. “Do some people angle for this? Some people do.”
Some professors actively seek out appointments. In a 2008 email with line subject line “my desire to help,” obtained via Wikileaks, Tribe wrote to Valerie Jarrett, one of Obama’s top advisers, asking for a position.
“Among other things, I’d be honored to serve as Barack's White House Counsel or even to take on a role requiring Senate confirmation, such as Solicitor General or Assistant Attorney General,” he wrote in the email to Jarrett.
If these positions were already filled, Tribe wrote, the President could create a role concerning constitutional governance. Tribe offered to fill such a role.
Obama did not appoint Tribe to any of the positions he proposed, but instead offered him a role as the first Senior Counselor for Access to Justice.
“The positions I described didn’t end up fitting the bureaucratic landscape,” Tribe wrote in an email to The Crimson earlier this week.
Desan, who specializes in monetary law, said she would consider working on monetary policy in the Treasury Department or the Federal Reserve under the next administration.
“I will keep an eye on what policy initiatives people are taking in the administration,” she said.
TEMPORARY GAPS
When professors depart the Law School for government, they leave positions to fill and questions about whether they will return.
University policy stipulates that faculty may take a two-year hiatus to serve in government positions. If their absence exceeds two years, they must resign their tenured posts at Harvard.
Tribe said faculty members are often reluctant to relinquish these positions.
“Because very few are willing to give up what amount to lifetime posts, their departure normally creates at most a temporary gap,” he wrote.
To fill this gap, the Law School typically asks existing faculty to pick up courses their colleagues taught before taking up their government posts, Law School spokesperson Michelle B. Deakin wrote in an email.
For those who choose to resign their posts, some—like Barron—continue to teach as visiting professors.
And even when professors are away for more than two years, according to Fried, the Law School often reappoints them. Fried was reappointed twice after departing from the University for more than two years to serve in Ronald Reagan’s administration and later to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts.
“I think there’s generally a presumption that they’ll take you back,” Fried said.
Deakin declined to “publicly discuss internal decisions about the teaching program in past years.”
The impact of losing professors has changed over time as the faculty has grown. Fried, who arrived at the school at the start of John F. Kennedy’s presidency in the 1960s, remembers a sizable portion of what was then a very small faculty leaving for the new administration—a mass departure that caused a noticeable ideological shift at the School.
In the ensuing decades, as the size of the faculty increased substantially, losing a few professors after each election no longer has an obvious impact on the overall atmosphere of the School, several faculty members said.
Time away in government can be an asset to the Law school if these professors return. Faculty members said they found that their experiences in Washington have influenced their work at Harvard.
“Your experience does inform your intellectual agenda, your writing agenda, and your teaching agenda for sure. It would be strange if it didn’t,” said Fried, who began teaching courses on federal courts and constitutional law after returning from being Solicitor General.
Professors say students often find it appealing to have faculty members who have worked in presidential administrations.
“It adds a dimension to what the Law School can offer its students,” Barron said. “The net trade is only positive.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

There is new energy around this year’s men’s basketball team.
Last season, the team’s quest for a sixth straight Ivy League crown hit a wall before the campaign had even started, as an ACL injury ended the season of point guard Siyani Chambers and proved too much for an already inexperienced Crimson squad to overcome. Although Harvard had its tournament hopes dashed before Valentine’s Day, the team managed to knock off Princeton and Penn in the regular season’s final weekend to finish 6-8, good for fourth in the Ancient Eight.
Now, with Chambers running the show once more for a core group of returners led by senior forward Zena Edosomwan and sophomore shooting guard Corey Johnson, the focus shifts to a program that already has undergone a number of sea changes—the arrival of the most historic recruiting class in program history, the multi-million dollar upgrade to its arena, and the adoption of a conference postseason tournament.
Amaker’s teams are known for being some of the stingiest in the nation on the defensive end and for gaining offense through its bigs. Integrating new pieces and establishing chemistry early on will be keys for this year’s team.
“We have a lot of moving pieces with our team, and now we’re trying to settle in and figure it out,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “That may take a while. It might be a long while before things get settled, but that’s the fun part—the tinkering, the moving, the finding out who’s going to give us what.”
While a significant portion of the team lacks big-game experience—or college experience in general—the 2016-2017 roster could go down as the one of the most talented of the Tommy Amaker era. It boasts six recruits who were rated as top 150 players in their high school classes and returns two All-Ivy selections in Chambers and Edosomwan. Depth should not be an issue this season, as seven players on this year’s roster averaged at least eight minutes a game last year, while Chambers and up to five freshmen figure to compete for playing time.
Amaker traditionally utilizes an eight- or nine-man rotation and is a big proponent of easing his freshmen into the college game. This year could be a different story with all of the weapons the 10th-year head coach has in his arsenal. Playing time this season will largely be dictated by which players fit in best with Harvard’s core group of Chambers, Johnson, and Edosomwan.
Sophomore Tommy McCarthy and freshman Bryce Aiken will compete for minutes as Chambers’ backup. McCarthy started 25 games last season, putting up numbers similar to those that Chambers put up during his junior campaign.
“They did a great job last year,” Chambers said of last year’s team. “I just try to add my voice. They’re doing a great job. I just try to fit in. I’m still trying to work on coming back, a lot of new faces that I haven’t seen or played with before, not just the freshmen but also the sophomores, so I’m just trying to fit in where I can.”
Both McCarthy and Aiken could see time on the wing, Harvard’s biggest question mark offensively entering the season. Johnson figures to be a key for the Crimson at the two-spot, and co-captain Corbin Miller will likely see significant minutes as the team’s sixth man and three-point specialist. However, the sharpshooting duo rarely played together last season due to their similar skill sets and struggles on the defensive end.
Freshman Seth Towns could be the X-factor on the wing. He’s long (6’7”) and a natural scorer. The Columbus, Ohio native seems like an ideal fit to play alongside either Johnson or Miller, while junior Andre Chatfield figures to see limited minutes as a defensive specialist.
Sophomore Weisner Perez was used as an undersized four last season, but could see time on the wing this year due to the logjam in the frontcourt. Regardless the offense will run through Edosomwan; who is playing alongside the Ivy League’s double-double leader from a year ago remains to be seen.
Junior Chris Egi has the most experience of Harvard’s other big men, but his skill set as a back-to-the-basket big could limit the amount of time he is on the floor with Edosomwan. Freshmen Robert Baker and Chris Lewis each bring intriguing attributes to the Harvard backline. Baker is long and lanky, has a polished midrange game, and possesses jump-out-of-the-gym athleticism. Lewis, on the other hand, is more of a power guy, who figures to use his size and upper body strength to become an elite rebounder and shot blocker in the Ivy League.
“I’m getting such a variety of big men that I play alongside and against that I can’t wait to continue to understand how they play and grow their games,” Edosomwan said. “It’s been really good. It’s something I didn’t have last year, so it’s something that I think will help me grow regardless.”
This year’s team will be longer and more athletic than in past years but still figures to pride itself on suffocating defense and playing an inside-out game through its big men on the offensive end.
The 2016-2017 campaign gets off to a unique start on Nov. 11. The Crimson will take on Stanford in the second annual Pac-12 China Game in Shanghai. While the game is historic for both programs, it is also a major opportunity for this year’s Harvard team to establish itself on an international stage against a major conference opponent.
Harvard’s nonconference schedule does not feature a team like Virginia or Kansas like it has the past two seasons. But the Crimson does have dates with New England foes and other mid-major opponents.
Harvard went 4-5 last season against the teams it squares off against in this year’s non-conference slate. Patrick Steeves ’16 returns to Cambridge for the Crimson’s clash with George Washington on Nov. 29. Harvard will also make trips to Vermont, the favorite in the America East, and Houston, a darkhorse pick to win the American.
Come January, this year’s Ivy League will go through Princeton. The Tigers were picked first (seven votes ahead of the Crimson) in the Ivy League preseason media poll and return 98.9 percent of their minutes and 99.3 percent of their offensive production from a season ago. Led by senior All-Ivy forwards Henry Caruso, Spencer Weisz, and Steven Cook, Princeton is looking to make its first NCAA tournament appearance since 2011.
Unlike last season, in which the Ivy’s top four teams had their travel partners fall in the bottom half of the league standings, the Penn-Princeton matchup this year looms large. This competition harkens back to early days, when the programs claimed every Ancient Eight title from 1963 to 2007. In 2016-2017, the Quakers are led by a strong sophomore class and have a bevy of talented guards. Steve Donahue’s squad was picked fourth in the preseason poll.
The big wild card in the league is Yale. The Elis took home the Ivy League crown last season and defeated Baylor in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. Yale returns Makai Mason, the conference’s best player, but lost All-Ivy forwards Justin Sears and Brandon Sherrod. Several sophomores and juniors who saw time coming off the bench last season will look to plug in the holes left by the duo. Overshadowed by the hype of Harvard’s 2016 recruiting class are Jordan Bruner and Miye Oni. Bruner was rated a three-star recruit in his own right coming out of South Carolina, while Oni is a long wing and dynamic scorer.
Dartmouth and Cornell, respectively tabbed sixth and seventh in the preseason poll, both have new coaches but return players who gave Harvard fits last season. The Big Green has Ivy League Rookie of the Year Evan Boudreaux back, while the Big Red will be led by the high-volume-shooting backcourt of Robert Hatter and Matt Morgan, both of whom could compete for the conference’s scoring title.
After finishing third in the conference and winning the CollegeInsider.com Tournament last season, Columbia will be in rebuilding mode following the graduation of its best senior class in program history and coach Kyle Smith’s decision to take the head job at San Francisco. Meanwhile Brown returns a core group of seniors and hopes to get out of the conference’s basement in Mike Martin’s fifth season at the helm.
“A lot of us as coaches have been saying this, but I think over the last ten years we’ve seen how incredibly strong and challenging and difficult our league has been from top to bottom,” Amaker said. “I’m not sure it’s gotten the kind of attention and recognition outside of our league outside of the last few years, but we’re known that internally. Our league is going to be difficult.”
—Staff writer Stephen Gleason can be reached at stephen.gleason@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It sounds like a broken record as each girl steps up to the arc. Swoosh, and then the sound of 13 girls cheering. Swoosh, and another round of raucous cheers.
The Harvard women’s basketball team may have lost its three best players to graduation, but this year’s squad is looking to make history, not excuses.
“Every year it seems as though we lose big seniors,” said captain Taylor Finley, “but we have some really strong freshmen, and with our upperclassmen being able to gain some experience, I’m really excited. People won’t have the ‘scouts out’ on us, which can be an advantage.”
Replacing graduated seniors AnnMarie Healy, Kit Metoyer, and Shilpa Tummala, the team’s three leaders in points scored and minutes played last season, will not be an easy task. But the addition of three talented freshmen and a highly touted transfer should help this group of motivated, tight-knit girls make an imprint on the Ivy League. Winning the Ancient Eight is on the minds of everyone associated with the program.
“I think it’s safe to say that we’re ready for a championship,” said captain and forward Destiny Nunley. “We work hard everyday, which feels so good walking off the court in practice.”
Returning to the team are sophomore guards Nani Redford, Madeline Raster, and Sydney Skinner, the team’s leaders in games started after the three aforementioned graduates. Last year the three made up the primary backcourt rotation for head coach Kathy Delaney-Smith, and they return with plenty of Ivy League experience.
In their rookie campaign, the players were dynamic but plagued by turnovers; with a year under their belts, finding consistency is a question of when, not if.
“Any coach will tell you that the difference between freshmen and sophomores is apples and oranges,” Delaney-Smith said, “Our sophomore class, just a year older, a year wiser, can actually see the post. They can make the correct decision.”
Finley and Nunley will return to the frontcourt along with a couple of newcomers. Transfer Taylor Rooks, who came from Stanford after her freshman year but had to sit last season out due to eligibility rules, will convert to the four spot after playing guard in her first collegiate season. She was the 18th-ranked recruit in the Class of 2014. Her outside range and agility will help stretch bigger defenders, something Delaney-Smith was able to do with Tummala in the second half of her career.
“[The transition] has been pretty seamless,” Rooks said. “The coaching staff has been great, and the team is awesome. The environment is very fun and competitive; that made the transition very smooth and easy, and I’m very excited to play this year.”
Joining them are freshmen forwards Maria Guramare and Jeannie Boehm. Guramare, a French native, played with the U15 and U16 national teams of her home country. Boehm is one of the top prospects in the country and is just the second McDonald’s All-American in program history. One of the purest centers in the league, she will command attention from defenders every second she’s on the court. Replacing Healy’s production from the paint will be difficult, but this team might have the talent and depth to do it.
“We’re looking to improve Destiny’s turnaround jumper, similar to AnnMarie’s,” Delaney-Smith said. “Jeannie is a power player with an incredible hook shot. Maria from France is a big power, and the league isn’t ready. She’s young but learns so quickly that she might be ready to do some damage for us this year. We’re not looking to get [AnnMarie’s] numbers from any one player this year.”
All players will be needed throughout the season, both in and out of conference, if the team wishes to obtain the coveted Ivy League Championship that has eluded Harvard since 2008. An important component of the Crimson’s goal will be success against their out-of-conference opponents. Last year the Crimson went 5-9 in out-of-conference play.
“Getting some good wins in the first half of the season is important,” Finley said. “ We’ve kind of let that go in the past and waited until Ivy League season.”
Victories over opponents like Maine, Minnesota, and Temple could be season-defining moments for the unproven squad. At the Fordham Holiday Tournament, Harvard will have the opportunity to enter Ivy League play on the rise—and have the momentum to compete for the Ancient Eight crown.
Princeton and Dartmouth have both given the Crimson trouble in recent history, and despite Cornell’s freshman-heavy squad, the team was voted to finish in fourth place—one spot below Harvard. So the Big Red will definitely be a team to watch this season.
All roads to the throne seem to go through Philadelphia as the Penn Quakers are coming off a visit to the NCAA Basketball Tournament last season, as well as being unanimously selected to defend their title.
The Crimson is aware of Penn’s potential for this season but feels that it is ready and prepared for the challenge.
“We think we’ll be in the race, definitely,” Delaney-Smith said. “Because of Penn’s system and Penn’s height—their system and their height sets everyone back on their heels. Our job is to be able to have a system where we sustain [good shooting]. I know we can do it. It’s just a matter of the mental game and the relentless persistence in working hard and not worrying about getting your shot blocked. We have the three-point ability and the inside threat to play anyone.”
Despite losing three key seniors, then, Harvard is ready to return to battle—and ready to do whatever it takes to be on top at the end of the season.
“We have a lot of good players on the team,” Rooks said. “Everyone can play multiple positions. I’m willing to do whatever is necessary for me to do on the court. At the end of the day, I want to get the championship and wear that ring.”
—Stuart Johnson and Manav Khandelwal can be reached at stuart.johnson@thecrimson.com and manav.khandelwal@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Alex Kerfoot.”
The name did not leave Jimmy Vesey’s mouth easily, but it left deliberately. Despite struggling to stave off tears, Harvard’s star forward was not going to forget his center of the last three years on his way out the door.
“I definitely got most of the publicity over the last two years,” continued Vesey, sitting at the podium following the Crimson’s elimination from the NCAA tournament. “And they always kept their mouth shut.”
“They” of course referred to not only Kerfoot, but Kyle Criscuolo. However, Criscuolo sat beside Vesey, knowing, likewise, that his time was up. Kerfoot, on the other hand, had another chapter remaining.
During the 2015-2016 season, Kerfoot—healthy for an entire season for the first time at Harvard—logged a career-high 34 points. And his contributions were certainly felt, as Harvard did not win a regular season game in which the New Jersey Devils prospect did not earn a point.
Yet, when you play with wingers as talented as Vesey and Criscuolo, your job is to distribute. Thirty of Kerfoot’s 34 points came via assists, explaining exactly why Vesey dominated more headlines than the junior from West Vancouver.
Things are different now. With Vesey and Criscuolo gone, a year of feeding now gives way to a year of leading. That is, Kerfoot is one of two new co-captains set to march the Crimson into a new era.
That means no more lurking in the shadows. No more “keeping his mouth shut.” In the blink of an eye, Kerfoot has become the figurehead for Harvard men’s hockey.
“I think playing with guys like Jimmy and Crisco, he didn’t get as much attention as he might’ve deserved,” said Lewis Zerter-Gossage, one of two sophomore wingers who will join Kerfoot on the first line. “But within the team, we all kind of knew exactly how good he was.”
A fourth-liner last year, Zerter-Gossage said he’s excited to work with Kerfoot, who quickly caught his attention when Zerter-Gossage was here on a recruiting trip a few years ago.
“It was maybe one of his first games playing as a freshman, and I was really impressed with how he played,” Zerter-Gossage said. “I think it’s pretty cool that now I get the opportunity to play next to him.”
Zerter-Gossage will assume the spot on Kerfoot’s right, while sophomore Ryan Donato will take the left. Donato and Kerfoot played on the same line once before when Vesey was sidelined for a game in February. That night, the then-rookie lit the lamp three times—once off a feed from Kerfoot. Therefore, it’s no surprise that the captain has plenty of faith in the guys around him.
“I think we’ve still got a lot of skill on that line,” Kerfoot said. “They can both shoot the puck, so I’m just going to try to use my speed, get open, and get them the puck in good areas. I think we can have a lot of success together.”
Those words realistically could have been taken from any of Kerfoot’s four years here. But they should not surprise anyone; after all, the co-captain has experienced his greatest successes when embracing a pass-first mentality.
Yet, while Kerfoot is a passer by trade, he does want to bring a new element to his game.
“I want to kind of make a concerted effort to take pucks to the net more and get more shots just to add another dynamic to my game,” Kerfoot said. “[That way] guys can’t just back off me and be expecting a pass.”
This falls right in line with a league-wide prediction that this is Kerfoot’s year. Expecting the co-captain to change his game entirely would be foolish, but so would expecting the preseason first team all-ECAC center not to surpass his four-goal total of last year.
Kerfoot emphasized he’s not looking to make a change because of his new surrounding cast; he’d want to make the effort no matter what. But tweaking his game now makes more sense than ever. When something isn’t broke, you don’t fix it. And the old line was firing on all cylinders, providing little reason to make adaptations.
But now that the line’s a work in progress, what better time to try something new? Kerfoot has already established himself as one of Harvard’s top players, but after ranking ninth on the Crimson in shots last season, throwing more pucks at the net could be what elevates his game to another level.
“I definitely think he’s got stuff to show,” said Colton Kerfoot, Alex’s brother who is now a freshman on the team. “He’s had a pretty great couple last few years, so hopefully he can have another big one, and hopefully he can lead us down the stretch.”
That’s a message the rest of the Crimson would certainly agree with. It’s just too bad the praise had to come from the younger brother.
“I was sick of him before he got here,” Alex joked. “I’m definitely sick of him now.”
—Staff writer Jake Meagher can be reached at jake.meagher@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MeagherTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

Top 10—in its roughly 100 years of history, top 10 are two words that have rarely been associated with the Harvard men’s basketball team. In fact before the 2011 season, the Crimson was a team that hadn’t made the NCAA Tournament since 1946—an ordeal that saw the Crimson eliminated by Ohio State in the first round.
Somehow though, come Thursday evening when the team tips off against MIT, seven Harvard freshmen—who comprise the 10th-best recruiting class in the nation—will all be wearing Crimson.
To many it may come as a surprise, but to anyone paying attention to Harvard coach Tommy Amaker over the past few seasons, this year’s freshman class is only an extension of the success he’s brought to the program. When asked about his touted freshman class, however, Amaker is quick to point out that his program is more than a simple ranking or even seven of the best freshmen in the nation.
“I think they’re talented and bring a lot of youthful enthusiasm and exuberance, but I think the key to our team will be the leadership of our veterans and certainly the growth and development of our veterans as we go along,” Amaker said. “The upperclassmen, as always, I’ve been able to count on.”
There’s little doubt that Amaker will look to his most seasoned players—namely co-captain Siyani Chambers and classmate Zena Edosomwan—to lead a program composed mostly of underclassmen. In the mix among the rookies are four forwards and three guards.
While it remains to be seen how Harvard’s seven freshmen will fit into Amaker’s lineup, the amount of talent in this year’s class along with the return of senior guard Siyani Chambers was enough to warrant a vote for the Crimson in the Associated Press’ preseason rankings.
Following the departure of forwards Agunwa Okolie ‘16 and Evan Cummins ‘16, the biggest question regarding the freshman class lies largely at the forward position. While junior Chris Egi could potentially start alongside Edosomwan in the frontcourt, there could be a serious case made for one of the freshman forwards to be in the rotation as well. reshman Chris Lewis and classmate Robert Baker, Jr. will push Egi to be the starter at the four spot.

When he committed to Harvard late last fall, Lewis—ranked 44th in his class by ESPN at the time—was the highest-ranked player to commit to the Crimson. Throughout high school and on display at the annual Crimson Madness event, Lewis has been a strong presence in the post, a position that the Crimson has typically looked to for depth  despite Edosomwan’s breakout junior season.
For  a squad that’s been historically guard heavy, the recent increase in height is one that has been well-received
“I went from the second tallest guy last year to the fifth now, I’m a little shorty,” Edosomwan said. “It’s nice for me when I’m getting my shot blocked, seriously I’m getting my shot blocked. I’m not finishing as well so these are things that I’m having to learn and how I can score against different size. You have Robert Baker, sitting under me with just super long arms and then Chris Lewis’ strength and his shot blocking ability.”
Along with Baker and Lewis are forwards Henry Welsh and Seth Towns. With Welsh and Baker both measuring up at 6’10’’, there will be no shortage of height on the court for the foreseeable future in Lavietes. With a bit more of a perimeter shot, Towns could also find a spot in the rotation as a small forward or a stretch four alongside Edosomwan in the frontcourt.

While the questions surrounding the team’s forwards remain unanswered, one thing is certain: Siyani Chambers will be anchoring the Crimson at the point guard position. While sophomore Tommy McCarthy showed flashes of success in last year’s underwhelming season, there exists the possibility that the Crimson also have a worthy successor to Chambers in freshman Bryce Aiken. The four-star recruit out of New Jersey came to Harvard despite offers from some major programs including Oklahoma, Miami, and Illinois. In limited minutes this offseason, he has shown that he’s more than capable of running the floor when needed.
Also in the mix at the guard spot are freshman Christian Juzang and Justin Bassey. While the two will likely be competing for minutes behind Chambers, McCarthy, and Aiken, both bring talent typically absent from the Crimson in recent years. With sophomore Corey Johnson and captain Corbin Miller likely taking up most minutes at the two spot, minutes among the team’s new guards will be thin, but given the amount of experience they bring, Amaker finds himself with a great problem when it comes to talent.

While only time will tell what the limit on Amaker’s highly touted freshman class will be, he isn’t one to forget they’re freshman at Harvard after all. As someone who pitches Harvard as a 40-year decision to prospective recruits, he’s well aware of the fact there’s a big learning curve associated with stepping foot on campus for the first time.
“I’m really, really knocked back with how they’re handling everything,” Amaker said. “Not that I didn’t expect that, but I’m just very pleased with how they’re handling it. We always talk about our young kids and our freshman having a willingness to fit in and show us that they really want to work hard—they’ve done that as best or better than any freshman group we’ve brought in this far.”
—Staff writer Troy Boccelli can be reached at troy.boccelli@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Gone are the days of the one-man show at the Bright-Landry Hockey Center. That exhibit has been relocated to a destination where all such spectacles thrive—Broadway. Or, if we want to be more precise, a few blocks further south at Madison Square Garden.
But fear not Cambridge, for the Bright lights are not to be extinguished just yet. A new act is in town, and it’s ranked No. 12 in the nation. But if this show wants quality reviews, it’s going to take the full ensemble.
All right, enough metaphor. But hey, it’s not like the storylines surrounding the Harvard men’s hockey team are anything new. Hobey Baker winner Jimmy Vesey ’16—the face of the program for the last two seasons—is now a member of the New York Rangers. Not to mention, two-year captain Kyle Criscuolo—the leader of the program over that same stretch—has departed as well.
Those two alone combined for 39 percent of the Crimson’s goals in their final two seasons. And their stat lines to the tune of 92 goals and 92 assists over two years are not easy to reproduce.
Harvard knows that. Coach Ted Donato ’91 knows that. But the skipper also knows that he has a large cast ready to take on the challenge as a unit.
“It’s not hard for us as a coaching staff to convince our team that no one guy is going to try to replace what we had go out the door,” Donato said. “As far as who steps in, I think we have to do it a little bit more across the board. We’re going to have to not really look to a player or a line, but more of a team game. And I think that we’re capable of doing it.”
The Crimson rides into the 2016-2017 campaign boasting two dynamic forward lines—ones Donato said he hopes to be able to call “1 and 1A.” Co-captain Alexander Kerfoot, the last man standing from last year’s first line, will be joined atop the depth chart by a pair of sophomore wingers—Ryan Donato and Lewis Zerter-Gossage.
Ryan Donato, who notched a hat trick last season in his one appearance on the top line, logged 13 goals and eight assists as a rookie. The Boston Bruins prospect knows he has big skates to fill, but he says he’ll be trying to emulate Vesey and Criscuolo, “perfect hockey players” in his mind.
“[I want to] be more of a leader,” Ryan Donato said. “I’m in a more important role than I was last year, and I think they expect me to do more things than I did last year as well. I just want to do what I can do, control what I can control, and help the team whatever way I can.”
While Ryan Donato always looked like a lock for a promotion, Zerter-Gossage was far from a shoe-in considering that the Montreal native spent most of his time on the fourth line last year. But the line came together in captain’s practices, and Ted Donato soon saw something click.
Next in line is a trio of senior roommates, Sean Malone, Tyler Moy, and Luke Esposito. The three forwards have played on a line together in the past, but not for long stretches of time. But given their chemistry, the three amigos were eager to try and make the combination work.
Up against Arizona State, it certainly did. Albeit against weak competition, the trio exploded for 15 points in Harvard’s first two regular season contests last weekend.
“We had high expectations for ourselves coming in, and I think we may have exceeded them,” Esposito said. “So now the expectations are higher.”
Nonetheless, while Harvard’s offensive potential draws the headlines, the Crimson has also quietly stocked up on blue-line talent this offseason. Freshmen John Marino and Adam Fox—draft picks of the Edmonton Oilers and Calgary Flames, respectively—are expected to contribute right out of the gate.
Thus far, Marino has been playing alongside perhaps the Crimson’s best returning D-man, 6’7” Wiley Sherman, who is fully healthy after suffering a season-ending arm injury last postseason. And Fox—who Donato likened to Patrick McNally ’15, Harvard’s last true offensive defenseman—has already logged three assists and become a core piece of the power play.
“These guys with great offensive abilities and great decision-making and great instincts, sometimes I feel they’re born as much as they are developed,” Ted Donato said. “I think a guy like Adam Fox… really sees the second and third layers of offense.”
In the back, junior goaltender Merrick Madsen is set to mind the Crimson net once again. Madsen had a breakout year last season, producing an 18-7-3 record, a 2.00 goals against average, and a .931 save percentage—eighth best in the country.
Meanwhile, sophomore Michael Lackey, who battled Madsen for the starting job last season, will be unavailable at least for the first few months of the season with an undisclosed injury. Donato says Lackey had some work done this offseason and the team will re-evaluate where he stands “closer to the New Year.”
With all these pieces, Harvard was predicted to finish third in both ECAC preseason polls—right where the Crimson wound up at the end of the regular season a year ago. Furthermore, Kerfoot says the team has “really high expectations.”
“We obviously lost some key guys… but the last two years, we made it to the final of the ECAC championship and made it to the NCAA tournament,” Kerfoot said. “We want to build off that and take another step this year.”
—Staff writer Jake Meagher can be reached at jake.meagher@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MeagherTHC.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Replacing graduated seniors is never an easy task. Filling the shoes of AnnMarie Healy ’16, a first team All-Ivy selection and the leading scorer for last year’s Harvard women’s basketball team, is even tougher.
Freshman forward Jeannie Boehm understands the enormity of the task ahead of her. But she is more than ready for the challenge.
“I think there definitely is a lot of pressure that I felt going in,” Boehm said. “Soon after I got here, I realized that I really do have to prove myself day in and day out. I think that, a month and half into school now, I’m just working on improving myself in all aspects.”
There’s good reason to believe that Boehm can thrive in her new surroundings. After finishing her high school career with 1,872 points, 1,169 rebounds and 254 assists while shooting 57.1 percent from the floor, Boehm was named a McDonald’s All American this past spring. She becomes the Crimson’s second, and the Ivy League’s third, All-American basketball recruit. If Boehm plays all four years with Harvard, she will be the first All-American to spend her entire career in the Ancient Eight.
The five-star recruit, ranked No. 41 overall in ESPN’s HoopGurlz Rankings, was a highly sought-after prospect in high school. Thus, many were surprised when she decided to commit to the Crimson—in fact, she was the only top 50 recruit ever to commit to an Ivy League program.
So why did she choose Harvard?
“I definitely get that question a lot,” Boehm said. “I would say the biggest reason is that I fit in really well with the team and the coaching staff. And I think another big thing obviously is the academic part. I felt as though I fit in with both the school and the program.”
Boehm’s appearance in the All-American game, in which she logged four points, four rebounds, and two blocks in 14 minutes, was only the beginning of her busy summer. After the game, she went off to practice with the United States U-18 national team in preparation for the FIBA Americas Championship in Valdivia, Chile. The tournament, in which the team took gold, was Boehm’s first exposure to a level of talent beyond what she faced in high school.
“She’s an incredible person and really, really good to coach”, Harvard coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said. “We understand the pressure she’s under, but she doubles that. Right now, that’s what an All-American freshman would do. We talked about that when she was at USA basketball—she felt that kind of pressure. We’re working towards relieving her of that kind of pressure.”
Excellence in athletics is a common thread in Boehm’s family. A native of Winnetka, Ill., Boehm grew up with five brothers, the shortest of whom was 6’5”. Boehm’s oldest brothers, twins Jack and Peter, pitched at Bucknell and played basketball at Harvard, respectively.  Boehm’s third eldest brother, Connor, who graduated this past May, was a four-year starting forward for the Dartmouth men’s basketball team. Michael, now in his junior year, rowed for one year for Bucknell. The youngest sibling, Spencer, is a high school sophomore playing varsity basketball at Boehm’s alma mater, New Trier High School.
“My brothers definitely didn’t take me seriously basketball-wise for a long time; they now recently have started to,” Boehm said. “I think a big part of what I got from growing up in a household like that is the toughness. It wasn’t easy being the only girl with five athletic boys.”
She hopes that such toughness will help her transition to the college game. Despite the pressure she faces externally and internally, Boehm is incredibly excited for her first season with the Crimson, as she knows what she needs to work on to reach the next level.
“The defense at at the college level is so much different,” Boehm said. “That’s something I’ve been working really hard at, really trying to find my way around the congested double teams in the middle. I definitely want to play a big role defensively. That’s something I’ve been working on.”
With practices starting in earnest over the past few weeks, coaches have noticed that Boehm, traditionally a power player, has been trying to expand her game and stretch the floor, something she hadn’t done in high school. At 6’3”, Boehm has the height to take on bigger forwards and the agility to stretch the defense out of shape. That versatility makes Boehm quite the asset for her team.
“I’m quick, so if we get the ball, I may beat Jeannie down the floor and post up. And she plays the four,” said captain and forward Destiny Nunley. “In the half-court set, it may be different… It’s not like ‘Jeannie is a five.’ she’s a great passer and jack of all trades.”
Boehm’s desire to improve hasn’t gone unnoticed by her teammates and coaches, who note the challenges in transitioning from high school to college.
“There is a transition from the high school game to the college game,” Delaney-Smith said. “She’s already grown in a month’s time. It’s scary how good she’s going to be.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Sept. 2nd, 2015, the trajectory of the 2015-2016 Harvard basketball season changed.
“Rising senior and returning captain Siyani Chambers will take a voluntary leave of absence from the college for the 2015-2016 academic year, after sustaining a torn ACL to his left knee while working out over the summer,” read a statement from the Harvard Athletic Department.
The Crimson was already concerned with replacing starters Wesley Saunders ’15 and Ivy League Defensive Player of the Year Steve Moundou-Missi ’15. Now, all of a sudden, the team was losing its top returning scorer and former Ivy Rookie of the Year.
With the loss of Chambers and senior point guard Matt Fraschilla (who also suffered an ACL tear early in the season against Providence), freshman guard Tommy McCarthy was thrust into the starting role, with shooting guard Corbin Miller forced to fill in at the point behind the rookie McCarthy.
Although McCarthy eventually found his rhythm, Chambers’ absence was felt on and off the court.
Certainly the loss was exacerbated by a lack of depth at the position, but Chambers would have been difficult to replace in any circumstance. During his first three years with the Crimson, the Minnesota native earned three All-Ivy League nods, was a finalist on the 2014 Bob Cousy Award Watch List, and vaulted into sixth in Harvard history with 446 career assists.
The 6’0’’ guard has averaged 11.1 points per game since arriving in Cambridge, with his best season coming in 2012-2013: He notched 12.4 points per contest in that one. But aside from scoring, Chambers consistently has been the first- or second-best player in the league in assists per game.
Aside from being a major factor on the court, Chambers is a major locker room presence for the team. Initially voted a captain for his junior season, Chambers was reelected to the captainship alongside Miller for his senior season despite being away from the team in 2015-2016.
“Just being able to play with him and having him yell at you when he’s on the court is a lot better than having him yell at you when he’s off the court,” Miller said.
But Chambers had praise for the way the team responded to his absence last season. Although he was on campus for a portion of last year with a babysitting job, Chambers has to learn to play with a lot of new faces. While all of the other returning players have the already serious adjustment of learning the playing styles of seven new freshmen, Chambers has never played with the freshmen or sophomore class—which make up 13 of the 20 roster spots on this year’s young squad.
“I was playing with guys like Wesley and Steve and Kenyatta and even Corbin to an extent and Zena,” Chambers said. “We’ve built chemistry…. [I’m] just trying to get an open dialogue, because the more you know about your teammates the easier it is to instinctively act on the court.”
With the large roster, the point guard position is deeper than it has been in recent memory for Harvard. While the Crimson returns Chambers, Fraschilla, and McCarthy, many anticipate that freshman four-star recruit Bryce Aiken could be first off the bench to replace Chambers.
But with Amaker’s reluctance to give freshmen significant minutes and Chambers’ history of success, one can expect that Chambers will certainly get the majority of the minutes at the point.
“He is our undisputed leader,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “It was evident what we missed from him when he was not here due to that unfortunate knee injury. Now we have him back, and we feel the difference.”
Though Chambers has been recognized for his ability to be a playmaker on offense, his defensive performance will be key this Ivy League season as the top competitors in the Ancient Eight return strong backcourts that will put pressure on the Crimson. Ivy favorite Princeton returns sophomore Devin Cannady, who averaged just over 11 points per game and shot over 45 percent from behind the arc. Chambers’ toughest assignment, however, will be Yale’s Makai Mason who led the Bulldogs past Baylor in last season’s NCAA Tournament.
Performance against these teams will be especially important given the introduction of an Ivy League playoff tournament in which the top four finishers will compete for the league’s guaranteed spot in the NCAA Tournament. Harvard was selected to finish second in the Ancient Eight preseason media poll, with Princeton taking the top spot and Yale and Penn rounding out the top four.
With the new competition inspired by the Ivy League tournament and the youth of the Crimson team, Amaker has placed significant responsibility on Chambers and the rest of the seniors.
“If they take the reins of the season, of the season, of the program, I like the chances of us having a very successful season,” Amaker said.
—Staff writer Theresa C. Hebert can be reached theresa.hebert@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard women’s hockey team doesn’t believe in rebuilding years. After graduating five seniors last year and recruiting six new freshmen to the ice in Cambridge, the team is prepared to prove wrong those who view the 2016-2017 season as one solely for growth.
From the way this season has panned out thus far, it seems that the critics may be right. After starting the season on a positive note with a 5-1 win against Dartmouth on Oct. 23, the Crimson (1-2, 1-2 ECAC) dropped the following two games on the road to No. 8/8 Clarkson and No. 7/8 St. Lawrence, both by a score of 4-0.
“It was great we won our first game against Dartmouth,” co-captain Briana Mastel said. “That was huge—getting the first win is always important. Then the next weekend we dropped both games, but I think that’s better to get done earlier in the year to expose our weaknesses. That isn’t a bad thing.”
Harvard is up against a wall of expectancy this season, with 2016-2017 being the first campaign in the last three in which there hasn’t been an Olympian on the squad. Moreover, this season marks the first year without a handful of now-alumni who were influential in the team’s success during previous seasons. Miye D’Oench ‘16, who ranks 15th in program history in points with 122 and 14th in goals with 64, left a clear hole in the Crimson’s offense.
On the defensive side of the puck, Harvard must establish a new force in goal, as Emerance Maschmeyer ’16 graduated. She owned the overall program record for careers saves with 2,538.
What the team has lost in veteran talent, it made up for in youth. The newly minted class of 2020 brought in defensemen Ali Peper and Kyra Colbert, forwards Kat Hughes and Val Turgeon, and goalies Beth Larcom and Emily Yue.
“[Getting young players] is the beauty of being in this program,” head coach Katey Stone said. “You want to have kids in the program that are awesome while they’re here, and you hope that the great habits and discipline become contagious with the younger players. They carry the torch further, so again transition is everywhere.”
With the new mix of players, Mastel and fellow co-captain Sydney Daniels have made efforts to integrated new with old both on and off the ice.
“My hat is off to those guys,” Stone said. “They’ve done a tremendous job and so has the senior class. They’ve shared the load and the responsibility of having a young team forward and so far it’s been fantastic.”
After finishing fifth in the ECAC at the end of last season and falling to Colgate in three games during the ECAC quarterfinals, the Crimson came into the 2016-2017 slate without a national ranking for the first time in the past three seasons. Currently Harvard stands tied for sixth in the ECAC with Rensselaer and Cornell.
Despite the lack of formulated expectations for the team, the players still expect to make a splash in the upcoming season and do not see the predictions as indicative of how the season will pan out.
“I actually think [being unranked] puts us in a better spot because we have an underdog mentality,” Mastel said. “It’s almost better to not have expectations from other people. That way we can just work on ourselves—working on getting better everyday and taking care of things we can control.”
This mentality has climbed up to the coaching staff as well, with the realization that the team needs to play in order to prove itself.
“I think the main thing is to prove people wrong.,” Stone said. “Yes, we have a young team, but that doesn’t mean that we can’t be successful. Like any other season that I’ve been here, your goal is to put yourself in a position to win a national championship. You do that by trying to get better every day, and you do that by making the commitment.”
This season, the offense will be spearheaded by a combination of Daniels, Turgeon, and junior forward Haley Mullins. At this point in the season, senior goaltenders Brianna Laing and Molly Tissenbaum are both in contention for the starting spot between the posts. On her career, Laing has started 22 games and has a .886 win percentage, while Tissenbaum has started four games and has a .625 win percentage.
“No matter the expectation, every game we are setting out to win,” Daniels said. “We aren’t going to settle for anything less. We’re working hard, focusing on ourselves and the little things. We’ll get there.”
—Staff writer Ariel Smolik-Valles can be reached at ariel.valles@thecrimson.com
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Athlete turnover is fairly mundane in collegiate athletics. Every year coaches have to deal with graduating players—whether seniors, transfers, or early professional entries—and install new athletes in their places. Sometimes veterans get their first shot in the starting lineup; sometimes rookies make their debut at the college level.
Rarely, however, do coaches have to replace arguably the best player in program history at a certain position.
In the 2016-2017 season, that’s exactly what Harvard women’s hockey coach Katey Stone has to do—deal with the graduation of netminder and former co-captain Emerance Maschmeyer ‘16.
The Bruderheim, Alberta native, who is currently playing for the CWHL’s Calgary Inferno, graduated with a program record 2,583 saves and was constantly considered one of the best goalkeepers in the nation. In particular Maschmeyer has shone at the international level, constantly featuring for her native Canada as a college student, including time as the starting netminder at the IIHF World Championships.
Even so, Stone doesn’t express much worry about having to deal with the departure of Maschmeyer, not to mention all the other players from last year’s graduating class.
“That happens,” Stone said. “That’s the beauty of being in this program. We want to have those kids in our program; it’s awesome when they’re here. Their great habits and discipline become contagious with the young players, and they carry the torch further. Transition is everywhere, and, with it, so is opportunity.”
With Maschmeyer gone, Harvard will look towards a pair of senior goalkeepers in between the pipes. Brianna Laing and Molly Tissenbaum, who shared time backing Maschmeyer over the past few seasons. The two have battled for the starting spot this year, starting at least one game each as Stone experiments with different rotations.
Thus far the two players have posted similar numbers, with Laing allowing five goals in two starts and Tissenbaum allowing four in her lone start. Both goalies let in four scores this past weekend at No. 8/8 Clarkson and No. 6/7 St. Lawrence, demonstrating that they have plenty of work to do in order to fill Maschmeyer’s shoes.
Despite any pressure to perform immediately, both Tissenbaum and Laing will continue to use their battle for the starting position to push each other and get better as the season progresses.
“Our approach has always been to work to make each other better.” Tissenbaum said. “Whether it was Maschmeyer and Brianna or the four of us this year, our approach has always been to battle in practice and make each other better. It’s really out of our hands at that point.”
In addition to protecting the Crimson net, Tissenbaum and Laing will also have to step up in terms of mentoring as the team welcomes two rookie goalies to the squad. Freshmen Emily Yue and Beth Larcom likely will not see much playing time this year as Laing and Tissenbaum continue their battle. But the duo figures large in the future of the team.
With no other goalies on the squad, Tissenbaum and Laing will have to pass on their knowledge and experience to Yue and Larcom, making this season all the more vital.
In their three years with the Crimson, Laing and Tissenbaum have seen action in 38 games combined, with 26 of those being starts. This year will likely be the lone season the pair will get extensive playing time and experience, which will be key as the seniors prepare the new generation of goalies for the future.
The two freshman goalies have had plenty of success in their pre-collegiate careers–Yue led her club team to silver and bronze medals at USA Nationals, while Larcom was part of the U18 USA Team that won gold at the IIHF World Championships. But a year of learning will go a long way in preparing the rookies for the rigors of college hockey.
Tissenbaum and Laing believe that they have built a good relationship with the freshmen thus far and are hopeful that the younger players will be ready to shoulder key burdens for the team in later years.
“It’s been fun.” Tissenbaum said. “It’s been kind of cool having the younger kids to teach them how to do what we do and be part of the Harvard hockey program.”
While there is a level of uncertainty at the goalkeeper position that hasn’t existed over the past few seasons, both Tissenbaum and Laing will be counted on to provide some stability and facilitate the transition in their last year donning the Crimson uniform.
Though the task might be daunting, Laing insists that the role remains the same regardless of who is between the sticks.
“At the end of the day, our job is just to stop the puck.” Laing said. “That’s our focus, to stop the puck, one shot a time.”
—Staff writer Julio Fierro can be reached at julio.fierro@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
­Over the course of my time on the football beat, I’ve learned a few things. First, the Crimson Sports Board is pretty cheap. As in, they don’t even pay for dinner on long road trips. Oh, and they made us take a 2:30 a.m. bus to get to the Princeton game. I’m not bitter or anything. But a five person car for six people?
Second, Harvard is absolutely the worst college in New England. As a writer for the football beat, I’m allowed to go to all the football games. Not only do we get press passes for Harvard games, we also get to go to every away game. I’m talking games an hour away like Brown and seven-hour drive games like Penn.
As terrible as it is to give away my whole Saturday to watch Harvard football, the one benefit is I’ve gotten to see college campuses I would have otherwise never seen. It’s been eye-opening to say the least.
Most importantly, I’ve learned that Harvard has objectively the ugliest campus in the Ivy League (and the Northeast). Princeton has beautiful buildings covered in ivy, open spaces, and possibly the nicest press box in the area. Dartmouth’s football stadium is backdropped by a lush mountain covered in colorful New England foliage. Holy Cross’ campus is covered in hills, green grass, and trees. Harvard, on the other hand, apparently decided to throw together the least attractive buildings in the worst, most cluttered way possible. It’s cramped and aesthetically unappealing.
But it’s not just the campus that makes Harvard so awful. It’s the utter lack of school spirit. We go to one of the best colleges in the world, and Lord knows we all brag about it back home. But no one ever goes to sporting events. At every other school I’ve been to, the stands have been packed. The parking lots smell of hotdogs and beer from the tailgates, and the students are decked out in school regalia.
College is supposed to be a place where you work hard during the week only to lose your mind at the games on Saturdays. My friends at FSU, Alabama, Florida, and Auburn have Snapchat stories filled to the brim with tailgates, football games, and the school-wide parties after each and every home game.
Conversely, my Harvard friends’ Snapchat stories are of Widener, Lamont, or the dining halls as they do work all day Saturday. Even the other Ivy League schools have tailgates at every football game.
Regardless, the Crimson have another home game this week. It’ll be cold, there will be approximately 50 students in the stand (including the 40-man band), and I’ll be far, far away at the University of Georgia actually having a good time. We’re smack-dab in the middle of Ivy League play, and Columbia comes to town to take on Harvard. On to predictions!
COLUMBIA AT HARVARD
Harvard is coming into the game as, surprise, surprise, the top ranked team in the Ivy League. Columbia is second-to-last. I mean, I guess we can wait to see what happens?
But Harvard is currently ranked third in the Ancient Eight in defense while Columbia is ranked last offensively. The Lions are averaging 13 points per game on offense. Even Georgetown was able to put up 17 against Harvard. Oh, and by the way, Columbia lost to Georgetown.
Yeah, Harvard has looked pretty subpar the last few games. The team lost to Holy Cross, barely slipped by Princeton, and, if it wasn’t for a tackle on a blocked extra point by sophomore quarterback Cam Tripp and a dropped touchdown by a Dartmouth freshman, would’ve lost to the Big Green. But Harvard is good, and Columbia is bad.
On a completely unrelated note, why don’t we start Cam Tripp this weekend? #TrippuptheLions
Pick: Harvard 28, Columbia 10
PENN AT PRINCETON
Wow, Penn is so good this season. Yeah, they started off the season slow with two losses, but geez have they picked up the pace. They’re tied atop the Ivy League with Harvard, and they don’t seem like they’ll be content just getting a share of the trophy this season. But to do that, they’ll need to be the League’s best scoring offense and second best scoring defense. The big game might be in a week against the Crimson, but they need to win this one for it to mean anything. As if Ivy League football means anything anyway.
Princeton is hungry, too. A win against Penn this weekend would almost guarantee a three-way tie in the Ivy League when if the Quakers beat Harvard in a few weeks. Princeton stomped on up-and-comer Cornell last weekend, 56-7, which is the most points any Ivy League team has scored this season. After Penn, the Tigers have Yale and Dartmouth. This is the only one left that matters.
Anyway, I really hope Penn wins. Championships should be won, not tied.
Pick: Penn 31, Princeton 23
YALE AT BROWN
Honestly, I just hate Yale.
Pick: Brown 35, Yale 28
DARTMOUTH AT CORNELL
Dartmouth just can’t catch a break, can they? They lost to Columbia and Harvard by two points, Yale by one score, and Penn by two scores. They could’ve been so good. Just like me and my ex-girlfriend. If she wasn’t crazy. Or imaginary.
For their sake, I hope they catch a break. They were supposed to be right up there with Harvard and Penn. Cornell has shown flashes of being great, but they lost all that mojo with the 56-7 loss last weekend.
Pick: Dartmouth 24, Cornell 17
—Staff writer Gant Player can be reached at wplayer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
­Entering its penultimate regular season matchup with a three-point lead in the Ivy League table, the Harvard men’s soccer team (10-3-2, 4-0-1 Ivy) has the opportunity to clinch its first Ancient Eight title since 2009 with a win at Jordan Field on Saturday against visiting Columbia (11-3-1, 3-1-1). A result would give Harvard its 14th Ivy League title and 17th bid to the NCAA College Cup Tournament.
Last weekend, junior midfielder Sam Brown fired home a 25-yard laser to give Harvard a 1-0 victory against Ivy stalwart Dartmouth (6-4-5, 3-1-1 Ivy) and sole possession of first place in the table. Harvard is undefeated since falling to the Cal Bears on Sep. 18. The Crimson recorded four shutouts and outscored its opponents 21-8 en route to an 8-0-1 record in that span.
“As a senior winning the Ivy League title would mean everything,” said senior center-back Alex Leondis. “Coming in second the past three years leaves the worst feeling in you as a competitor, and finally capturing a ring would be an unforgettable moment; for all the work we have put in as a program over the course of four years. A ring is what I’ve wanted my whole career and I’m happy we put ourselves in a position to compete for one again this year.”
In his fourth season at the helm, Harvard coach Pieter Lehrer is seeking his first Ivy title and birth to the NCAA tournament. The UCLA alum has been plagued by “seconditis,” finishing runner-up in each of his three prior campaigns through the Ivy League.
“From day one my freshman year to now,” said senior center-back Dan Smith, “our mantra has been ‘focus on the process of what makes you great.’ We’re staying true to that this week, as we always do, by only thinking about how we prepare as well as possible for Saturday.”
Senior forward Jake Freeman has seven goals and five assists, leading Harvard with 19 points ahead of junior midfielder Christian Sady and freshman midfielder Matthew Glass with 11 points apiece. On the other side of the ball, Columbia’s junior forward Arthur Bosua has carried the Lions’ offense with three goals and three assists, while freshman forward John Denis and junior defender Alex Bangerl have both netted three goals on the season.
“It is obviously extremely critical to stay focused,” said senior forward Jake Freeman.  “We talk every week as a team and remind ourselves that we need to concentrate on our preparation and stay consistent on doing the things that make us successful. The magnitude of the game doesn’t change that and we are just preparing like it’s any other game where our focus is to come out, take care of the things we can control and battle for 90 minutes.”
Harvard is riding a three-game win streak against the Lions, and lead the overall series 38-23-5. To clinch the Ivy League championship on senior day would be a fitting farewell for the five Crimson veterans—co-captains Andrew Wheeler-Omiunu and Mark Ashby, Dan Smith, Alex Leondis, Jake Freeman, and Pieter Zenner.
“Winning the Ivy League title in my last year here as a senior would mean the world to me. Obviously coming so close the last few years, our senior class is that much hungrier for it. At the same time, I truly want this for every guy in our locker room.” Freeman said. “To see the commitment and attention to detail we have put in this year result in an Ivy League championship would be special.”
If the Crimson were to draw Columbia on Saturday, Harvard would need a combined four points in its final two games to secure the title, essentially making the Nov. 12 game against Penn (5-5-5, 3-2-0) a must win contest on the horizon.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Losses, especially against Ivy League rivals, are hardly ever motivating. But coming off a close five-set loss against conference-leading Princeton last weekend, Harvard will be hungry to win against two other Ancient Eight opponents on the road trip of the season.
The Crimson (6-13, 4-6 Ivy) pressed hard against the Tigers (16-3, 10-0) in the group’s last matchup, pushing out to a 6-5 fifth set lead before ultimately losing, 15-10. Princeton came in with 26 straight set wins in Ivy League play and a 13-match win streak overall.
All-in-all, Harvard hopes that the strong performance will translate to the contests coming up this weekend, which are against less successful opponents.
“I think [the loss] will definitely fuel us because we know we could have beaten Princeton, even though they are the top team in the league right now,” said junior outside hitter Paige Kebe. “It just shows that if we can hang with the top team in the league, we can hang with anyone and definitely beat anyone in the league.”
The Crimson will travel to Ithaca to face Cornell (10-10, 4-6) Friday evening, looking to avenge a heartbreaking five-set loss earlier in the season. On Oct. 15, Harvard held a commanding 10-2 lead in the fifth set, but could not hold on, losing  by a 15-12 score to the Big Red.
“Obviously, they are two wins that we need to get and they are pretty do-able,” Kebe said. “It’s always tough to be on the road, but it’s been nice to be home for a while so we’ve had a little bit of time to recharge our batteries and try to get refocused.”
Although out of contention for a conference title due to early season losses, the Crimson can still gain a couple of positions in the standings before the season’s end with strong performances. The showdown against Cornell will be its first opportunity to do so.
On paper, a victory should be attainable for Harvard. Both teams are evenly matched and have identical conference records. But the result will likely come from much more than just the numbers in the statistics book. The Crimson will have its last game against Big Red in the back of its mind and must play a complete game, both physically and mentally while on the court.
“I think that we have some really talented players,” said sophomore middle blocker Christina Cornelius. “What we really need to do is focus on the mental aspect and then put the mental and physical aspects together so that we can play a complete game.”
Failure to execute in key situations led to Harvard’s defeat the first time around. But having gone through that experience, the same defeat may also be the key spark to a victory on Friday on the road.
“After the game, we really stepped up the intensity and focus in practice,” Cornelius said. “We tried to treat all the drills we did as close to game situations as possible.”
The Crimson women will need the preparation as they deal with an unnerving crowd on Cornell’s senior night as well as the reigning Ivy League Player of the Week in Carla Sganderlla, who recorded two consecutive double-doubles in last weekend’s games.
The Crimson will have a quick turnaround following its first matchup, travelling downstate to take on Columbia (11-9, 6-4) on Saturday in an attempt to complete a season sweep against the Lions.
Harvard’s win against the Lions, which currently sit third in the Ivy League, has been its sole victory against a league opponent with a better record. Despite an otherwise disappointing Ivy League performance thus far this season, the Crimson handily won that matchup in three sets, 25-20, 25-22, 25-11.
The Columbia game directly contrasts Harvard’s game against Cornell. The Crimson won the first two, highly contested sets. Then in the third set, the Lions raced out to a 5-2 lead. But rather than sit with its lead, Harvard went on a 23-6 run to cap off the victory.
A fighting mentality is key for prolonged success against Columbia, in addition to the remaining portion of the conference schedule.
“Our overall goal is just to win out and finish our last four games strong,” Kebe said. “We have had injuries and all sorts of issues going on this year, but we are just really trying to overcome that and focus on winning out.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Dear guys who for some reason are still wearing salmon shorts and sandals: it’s nearly winter. Temperatures are dropping, and the weather is progressively getting bleaker and bleaker, so get ready to start using that second pair of leggings.
For those uninitiated, here’s what to expect this winter:
Your wardrobe will shrinkDuring the warm weather we had a closet overflowing with shorts and tanks. Now, we're just trying to stuff a couple flannels and a winter coat into our closet. Winter clothes take up more space, and therefore we can't have as many clothes packed in our wardrobe... so say "bye" to literally 80 percent of your clothes. But who cares about looking cute, right? All anyone is going to see is your parka anyway.
You will become a homebodyWhen it was warm, you’d often start studying in our rooms, trek over to Lamont to get some fresh air, then head to the Law School Library because you’ve failed to get any work done. Now that temperatures are near freezing, you’ll attempt to avoid the cold at all costs. That means trying to finish your pset while listening to your roommate studying out loud for her Chinese midterm.
Your iced coffee days are overEverywhere else, you can pretty much make a good argument to drink iced coffee all year round. Unfortunately once it gets cold in Cambridge, it's nearly impossible to even imagine walking around with a cold drink. Especially because it’s likely your coffee will freeze anyway.
The MAC will be packedWhile the really experienced runners will probably still be jogging outside, most of us who swore that we were addicted to River Runs are probably going to take our fitness indoors (assuming of course we don’t drop off entirely). That being said, you’re going to have to find odd times to use that treadmill. Maybe 9pm on a Saturday?
You'll desperately wait for (and then regret) snowNow that it is getting cold, everybody is looking forward to the first snow. The first snow will make us feel as if this frigid weather is worth it because of its beauty and the instas we’ll take. But as soon as that snow turns to crusty brown ice, we'll be bitter every other time it starts to precipitate.
