News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Four new recipients of the Shorenstein Fellowship will join Bob Schieffer—current fellow and former CBS Evening News anchor—at the The Harvard Kennedy School’s Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy.
The four new fellows, who will stay during the spring semester, are Johanna Dunaway, an associate professor of communication at Texas A&M University; Joanna Jolly, BBC’s South Asia editor and a feature reporter; Dan Kennedy, an associate professor of journalism at Northeastern University; and Marilyn Thompson, a deputy editor at Politico. Schieffer will stay in his fellowship through the 2016 election season.
The new fellows—announced Tuesday—are recipients of the Joan Shorenstein Fellowship, an application-based award granted to visiting scholars, journalists, and policymakers each semester. The Kennedy School also invites Walter Shorenstein Fellows, like Schieffer, to work on campus for varying lengths of time.
During his fellowship, Kennedy said he plans to continue researching and writing his book about the future of journalism and financial strategies for newspapers. He said he is focusing on “the rise of a new type of wealthy newspaper owner, and how they might reinvent their papers and thus possibly come up with lessons that other newspapers might be able to follow.”
Kennedy said he will specifically analyze Jeff Bezos, the CEO of Amazon and the owner of the Washington Post, John Henry, the owner of the Boston Globe and the Boston Red Sox, and Aaron Kushner, former owner of the Orange County Register.
Prior to taking up a position at Politico, Thompson worked as a reporter for the Washington Post and New York Times. As a fellow, she said she will focus on studying fundraising for the current presidential election.
“My intention is to research and write about money and the flow of a huge amount of cash into the 2016 presidential race,” Thompson said.
Jolly, meanwhile, has previously covered issues of sexual violence, including rape in India and the murder of aboriginal women in Canada. She said she will continue to focus on these issues and how media coverage affects government policy.
Jolly said the fellowship is “an amazing opportunity and privilege, and coming from England as well it’s very glamorous.”
Dunaway said she will study the “changing media landscape,” and in particular how innovations relate to Latinos and “future Latino political attitudes, turnout, and voting behavior.”
—Staff writer Nathaniel J. Hiatt can be reached at hiatt@college.harvard.edu. Follow him on Twitter @nathaniel_hiatt.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Unless you’ve managed to nail down an internship during the fall recruiting season (lucky you!), the month of January is unfortunately not just a time to catch up on Netflix and sleep. It also signifies the start of a desperate stretch of cover letter-writing, phone-calling, and resume-sending, as you attempt to market yourself for the real world and, hopefully, a real job. Luckily, Flyby is here to help, with its very own fill-it-in guide to writing a cover letter:
Dear (consulting/finance/tech employer),
I am a (freshman/sophomore/junior/senior/gap year student) at Harvard University studying (something VERY applicable to your firm). Ever since I was a (newborn/elementary school student/unemployed millennial) I have dreamed of being able to work in (consulting/finance/tech) - indeed, (consulting/finance/tech) reflects my interest in (making money/living a corporate lifestyle/working at a brand-name firm/all of the above). I would be extremely grateful for the opportunity to use my (Microsoft Word/LinkedIn/Facebook/”Verbal Communication”) skills at your company this summer.
In my time at Harvard, I have developed strong (CS50-level coding/procrastinating in Lamont/Seattle’s Best coffee-drinking) skills that would prepare me for the (coffee-making/emailing/spreadsheet-editing) work I’d do at your company. Indeed, the company’s work aligns with my current studies in (economics/CS/government), and my previous work experience in (New York/Silicon Valley/Boston). Last summer, when I was working at (a startup/my mom’s company/my dad’s company/a research lab at Harvard), I developed meaningful work experience and honed a genuine interest in studying (financial markets/big corporate firms/big corporate tech firms).
At Harvard, I am (frequently on Facebook/lamenting my lack of sleep/complaining about the General Education program/attending networking events), which would prepare me for the work expected of interns at your firm. I am the (director/president/leader) of (HCCG/HFAC/VFG/any other acronym). In this position, I am responsible for (leading/directing/creating/driving) the team towards success. I have a strong (leadership/synergy/mentorship/any buzzword on your company’s website) ethic and am very (stressed/Type-A/tired). My (Google calendar/iCal/iPhone schedule) is meticulously (color-coded/scheduled/frequently ignored).
I have worked in small, startup environments before and am comfortable taking my own initiative. In high school, I (actually pursued my passions/was the president of at least five clubs/had drive and motivation I no longer possess), and founded my own organization that worked to (support literacy in a poor neighborhood close to my home/support literacy in a third-world country/support computer literacy among the elderly). I am really excited by the opportunities that your firm provides and believe I will be able to make a meaningful contribution this summer.
Thank you for your time and consideration,
