News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Joseph Gordon-Levitt, a Golden Globe-nominated and Emmy-winning actor known for roles in many blockbuster films, was named the recipient of Harvard’s Hasty Pudding Theatricals 2016 Man of the Year award early Thursday.
Gordon-Levitt is best known for his roles in productions including “50/50,” “Inception,” “(500) Days of Summer,” and “The Dark Knight Rises.” Most recently, he has been tapped to star in “Snowden” as the lead role Edward Snowden, a former CIA contractor who fled to Russia after publicly leaking confidential documents. 
Gordon-Levitt will be honored with a celebratory roast on February 5, when Hasty Pudding Theatricals, a Harvard-based musical comedy troupe, will present him with the historic “Pudding Pot.” The Man of the Year festivities will take place in Farkas Hall, the site of Hasty Pudding’s annual performance. A separate public event will precede the ceremony at 3:45pm.
The annual Man and Woman of the Year awards celebrate performers who have contributed significantly to the entertainment world. In a press release, members of the Hasty Pudding Theatricals expressed their excitement in honoring Gordon-Levitt, whom they lauded as a talented actor and entrepreneur.
“No emoji can express how excited we are about having Joseph Gordon-Levitt as our 50th Man of the Year,” said Robert T. Fitzpatrick ’16, president of the Hasty Pudding Theatricals in the release.
Gordon-Levitt is the founder and director of HitRECord, an online forum for open production where users upload and remix other records, and receive a share of the profits if their projects are purchased. Since its naissance, the company has grown to publish books, albums, and screen work featured at major film festivals.
Gordon-Levitt debuted his feature film directorial career in 2013 with “Don Jon,” a romantic comedy film that he both wrote and acted in. Television fans also know him for his role in NBC’s award-winning TV series, “3rd Rock from the Sun.” After six seasons on the show, Gordon-Levitt took a hiatus in 2000 from acting to attend Columbia University, where he studied history, literature, and French poetry before dropping out.
“Perusing the impressive list of past Hasty Pudding Men Of The Year, I'm simultaneously struck with intense delusions of grandeur and mild waves of humility,” Gordon-Levitt said in the press release.
Past recipients of the award include Clint Eastwood, Tom Cruise, Robert de Niro, Harrison Ford, Bruce Willis, Justin R. Timberlake, James Franco, Neil Patrick Harris and Chris Pratt.
Hasty Pudding Theatricals will also present the 2016 Woman of the Year award to “Scandal” star Kerry Washington on January 28.
—Staff writer Menaka V. Narayanan can be reached at menaka.narayanan@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @mnarayanan97.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
If you thought last year’s whopping 108 inches of snow was bad, then you might not want to check your weather app this weekend. Just as students arrive back on campus for the new semester (can we really call it the Spring semester if it doesn’t break 60 degrees until the last week?), it seems that Harvard is forced to prepare itself for another wintery assault...maybe.
Major media outlets and concerned moms on Facebook seem to be “Burnin’ Up” about Winter Storm Jonas, the meteorological monster that is tearing through the East Coast, leaving chaos and destruction in its wake. Except that, according to The Weather Channel, no more than twelve to twenty inches of snow are expected in any area. Plus, Boston’s weather icon doesn’t even have a snowflake.
So if you’re returning to school from the mid-Atlantic region or even some areas further south, yes, you may have something to worry about. But don’t expect a snow day to start off your shopping week. We here in Boston have dealt with a lot worse.
So, if you’re stuck in an airport and have to ride the storm out? Make sure you’ve stocked up on movies in your Netflix queue. It’s the last time you’re going to be able to enjoy them guilt-free for a while.
In the meantime, those of us back in Cambridge can sleep easy with the knowledge that even if Winter Storm Jonas does come our way, at least C’est Bon will stay open to comfort us.
Sections
Last week, a slate of alumni running under the name “Free Harvard, Fair Harvard” for the Harvard University Board of Overseers  announced their intention to lobby for a critical change in Harvard’s tuition practices. They intend to use Harvard’s massive endowment to make Harvard College free for all students attending.
Just think about what that would mean: each student would have an extra $60,659 to spend however their heart desires. Imagine how decked out your dorm would look with all that extra cash, how many Cafe Americanos that amounts to in Greenhouse Cafe, or, most importantly, how often you’d Uber to your class in Northwest Labs now that money is no longer an issue. While we applaud this slate for their plan, we here at Flyby think that there are plenty of other things at Harvard on top of tuition that need to be made free. After all, with an endowment like ours why stop at tuition? Here’s what we think:
Laundry
Freshman undergraduate council representatives have been lobbying for this one for years. At a university known for “rolling in dough,” there’s no reason why laundry should cost anything, let alone $3 per load. Columbia boasts a robust free-laundry program, and there’s a chance Harvard might send some students flocking to the Big Apple solely for that perk.
Coffee during exam periods
I would have thought this was a given. Stressed college students plus exam period means a campus full of students pulling all-nighters, and there’s no better way to show students that you care than showering them with cups of steaming hot, free coffee in such times of desperation.
Sleds and Snow dogs
Winter is coming, and there’s no denying it. With a major winter storm expected to hit the Northeast this weekend, it is only a matter of time before Harvard students are buried in snow. But, given Boston’s immunity to snow days, wouldn’t it be helpful for everyone if Harvard spent just a little bit of that massive endowment on a fleet of snow dogs to make the trek to class through the tundra just a bit easier? Plus, take a second to imagine the selfies that the tourists will be taking with Harvard students speeding past on sleds. Finally putting those selfie sticks to good use.
Mankiw’s Econ Textbook
It’s been said before: Professor Mankiw’s Principles of Economics book, while totally rad and chocked full of ice-cream metaphors and more than enough graphs, simply costs to much. For the savvy shopper, it's possible to snag the textbook for about a $100 online, but if you buy it from the Harvard Coop it could run you upwards of $300. With about 700 students enrolled in the course this year, Mankiw is banking in some serious royalties. Do us all a favor, Harvard, and subsidize the cost of the textbook. We’ll even calculate how much of a per-unit subsidy is needed for you.
Netflix and Hulu Plus
When we first learned that HBO Go was one of the free perks of being a Harvard student, we were sold. That is until we realized that the only time we open the HBO GO app is when Game of Thrones is releasing content. Given that Game of Thrones has a pretty long time between the release of new episodes, HBO GO is a poor choice in streaming service for college students who demand a steady flow of mindless television. Netflix, Hulu Plus, and Philo would be the perfect trio to satisfy all of the diverse bingeing needs of Harvard’s student population. Unfortunately, there might be a corresponding downturn in grade point averages, especially given how difficult the winter time makes the trek to classes.
Harvard, don’t get us wrong, free tuition is still very much in favor. Just perhaps consider throwing in a few of these while you're at it.
