News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After Jaden Smith’s sabbatical from Twitter in May 2015, I think it is time we realize that we cannot  lie to ourselves any longer: If you do not secretly love and hoard Jaden Smith’s tweets, you must not have read any yet. They may not “make any sense at all” and they may “be a trend of like, 2014, let them go” but there is no denying that Jaden’s tweets are things of a certain undefinable appeal. The only real defense his Twitter account needs is a transcript and enough time to read it.
Sure, his account is riddled with spelling errors, overuse of capitalization, and self-aggrandizing plugs, and yes, he retweets more than is strictly societally acceptable. But with gems like “If I Had A Nickel For Every Time I’ve Cried In The Back Of An Uber, I Would Have Another Pair Of Yeezy’s,” “You Can Discover Everything You Need To Know About Everything By Looking At Your Hands,” and the eternal “How Can Mirrors Be Real If Our Eyes Aren’t Real,” we must look past superficial judgements of fame and lingual standardization and into the future. As Jaden himself puts it: “I Don’t Want You Guys To Think Because I Was Born In America That I Speak And Abide By English Grammar. I Speak Jaden, Indefinitely.”
His entire account is a goldmine of unrelated and confounding declarations. A surprising portion focuses on trees, and another sector revolves around our need to look inwards for self-value. He perfectly captured the peculiar feeling we all have when seeing Owen Wilson anywhere, including films. Plus, there’s always his iconic birthday tweet, ominous self-addressing prophecy, and heartfelt lobbying against Instagram. There is not really a downside here. If nothing else, all we should take from this is that his tweets are largely benevolent and entirely entertaining. Jaden has invented the perfect harmless guilty pleasure. Basically, if you aren’t shame-reading his tweets while trying to avoid that one response paper, you should be.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Nothing’s changed, America. In many ways, you’re still the melting pot that you were before, the place where cultures and peoples of the world come together. You still have that banner of red, white, and blue, accompanied by a stirring anthem drawn from the early light of your own dawn.
Except everything’s changed. Everything that matters, at least—what’s on the inside.
You have never been perfect. Racism, sexism, and so on all played, and still do, terrible and unforgettable roles in the American experience. There are dark chapters in your history that can never—and should never—be erased and forgotten.
A vision, nevertheless, always remained at your heart. Even in the darkest times, progress continued toward a better, more inclusive, and more beautiful America. Despite festering sores, you continued to push forward toward the ideals at your core, the founding belief in equality and faith in universal opportunity.
Never before, with so much progress achieved and with the globe so connected, has that progress and vision been assailed and repudiated so loudly and by so many. Never before have core principles been so openly assaulted and the shadowy corners of American identity so enthusiastically embraced: rejection over acceptance, alienation over toleration, and insularity over empathy. What kind of melting pot do we face now?
Once, in that constant, fundamental vision, the fire burning beneath you was drawn from the torch of Lady Liberty herself—not the copper one towering above Liberty Island but the one in America’s founding vision. It was a flame that nurtured and cultivated, like the lonely campfire that promised salvation to a lost traveler and around which a bustling settlement would eventually form. That fire radiated with hope and warmth; it would greet new arrivals to this land for centuries, even before a majestic statue took up watch on New York Harbor.
Now, the fire burns with ardent passion, often ardent hatred. It is not the flame that nourishes but the one that destroys; it is not the benign fire that cleanses the field in preparation for the next wave of crops, but the one that sets the entire farm alight. It is the fire that blazes in hearts and now across cities. Rather than caress with warmth or inspire optimism in a brighter day to come, this fire, left unchecked, turns its victims to ash. The torch has fallen from the Lady’s hand.
Once, each ingredient in the melting pot was appreciated for its uniqueness while becoming part of the whole. Every new person and culture provided a unique flair and taste all their own, the individuality accentuated by the mixing rather than diminished or erased. The existing blend adapted to accommodate the new arrival, and in return that arrival did the same. All the while, in each individual and distinct eddy of the pot the ingredients melded together in ever-slightly-different ways, resulting in a mosaic stew with an identity all its own.
Now, brought to a furious boil, the contents of the melting pot start to fade into the steam; whether they vanish or simply assimilate makes no difference. The charming variance and uniqueness disappears into blandness and uniformity, and that’s called progress. What is one person, or even one culture, to do against the implacable tide? Either conform or be boiled away into nothingness, cast aside into the air.
Once, the spoon that stirred the pot was gentle and careful. Its considerate movements would send out soft waves, allowing the individual ingredients to form their own interactions and influences. It kept a careful, watchful eye on everything but rarely did more than encourage what already existed within to seep through and come together.
Now, the spoon often stirs more vigorously and forcefully than ever before. Rather than allowing connections to form naturally, the spoon pursues a certain design. Instead of developing perceptions based on personal experiences, people enter with preconceived notions that irrevocably color their approaches.
Once, we were content to call each other American, and that was enough to bind us inextricably together. Now the questions are different: gender, religion, politics, ethnicity, and so on. Where once similarity was enough, we now search for every possibility of difference to divide into us and they, and it’s tearing us—you, America—apart.
It’s time to remember: we’re red, white, and blue, not or. Let’s keep it that way.

Darwin Yang '19, a Crimson editorial writer, lives in Leverett House. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After two years of stagnation, Harvard’s hand will be forced to release six years of admissions data in response to an anti-affirmative action lawsuit. The organization Students for Fair Admissions claims that affirmative action illegally discriminates against Asian-Americans by setting a percentage quota. U.S. District Judge Allison D. Burroughs has decided that more “comprehensive data” than the basic yearly demographics released by Harvard will be necessary for investigating these claims.
While we strongly disagree with the objective of this lawsuit, we believe that claims of discrimination against Asian-Americans do justify greater scrutiny of Harvard’s admissions process. Despite the unfortunate and unnecessary context in which it is taking place, the release of additional data is a step towards transparency and a better understanding of this highly selective—and, alas, sometimes equally mysterious—process.
Affirmative action is crucial for diversity on campus. African-Americans and Hispanic students live with many socioeconomic challenges that depress their access to education, including the chronic underfunding of schools with students of color at every poverty level, or the psychological traumas that result from fearing or experiencing discrimination. An inability to accept the importance of race in a society that is far from race-blind will feed this cycle of deprivation.
Nevertheless, the benefits of affirmative action do not justify fully ignoring claims about Asian-American admissions. Crucially, affirmative action ought not to be framed as a zero-sum game where the admission of an African-American or Hispanic student constitutes the replacement of more qualified Asian-American student. This wrongheaded narrative ignores, among other considerations, the fact that legacy students and others are also granted preference in the admissions process.
Rather than pitting minorities against each other, the greater scrutiny that Harvard is undergoing should shed light on the mechanics of admissions for the sake of transparency. For instance, one study found that Asian-Americans require 140 more SAT points than white peers to gain entry to private colleges. While statistics like this one may very well be benign, it deserves more attention to counter claims of discrimination.
This lawsuit is a chance for Harvard to reexamine its ambiguous criteria for “well-roundedness” and potentially refine the way it thinks about affirmative action. The current policy may fail to take into account significant variations within race—grouping dozens of countries and cultures into a generalized whole, or overlooking patterns of socioeconomic privilege among individuals. As Harvard further scrutinizes its admissions policies, we hope that it will find nuances to reconsider.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It is a universally accepted truth that a student in possession of no riches must be in want of financial aid. That is, if they want to go to college.
Indubitably, Harvard is one of the pioneers of eliminating this worry for those promising students who do not have promising bank statements. In surveying the class of 2019, The Crimson found that about 56 percent of freshman respondents reported receiving financial aid from Harvard. Moreover, with the Harvard Financial Aid Initiative, if your family earns less than $65,000 per year, your parents pay nothing for you to attend Harvard.
Harvard’s generosity when it comes to financial aid is indeed a blessing for many of us. However, this does not imply that the process, too, of receiving financial aid is free of difficulties. And receiving aid gets even more complicated if you are an international student.
It all seems very straightforward in the first financial aid letter. There is no mention of taxes. Your aid will cover not only your tuition but also incidental expenses. The cherry on top is the plethora of student jobs available for you to choose from. No worrying about student loans or putting financial pressure on your parents. This utopia, however, has some glitches, with taxes being most disruptive.
As an international student, the financial aid package, at least for me, is comprised of two parts: a taxable portion and another, non-taxable part. The amount of tax that must be paid has to do with the tax treaties that your country has with the U.S. For me, this amounts to roughly 14 percent per $10,000. I discovered all of this one spring, when my term-bill showed a deficit of $400 instead of the positive balance I expected. Upon closer investigation, I found a $1500 deduction labeled ‘tax’.
“Wait, what? But that’s my travel money! How do I go home?” I thought. Not only did I receive no money for books or travel this semester, but I ended up having to pay an extra $400. Being unaware of the obscure tax treaty between my country and America, and receiving no prior information from Harvard’s Financial Aid Office about how my aid would be affected, I was caught off guard. This completely thwarted my plans and dealing with the situation contributed greatly to a stressful few weeks. I was putting in more hours at work and constantly thinking about what I would do for the summer. I’d never foreseen any of this, since it was never explicitly mentioned.
We’re given little tax advice, even during FIP, the pre-orientation program specifically designed to give internationals a smooth integration into American college life. We never receive a comprehensive breakdown of our scholarship, so we have no idea what money will be taxed. Even though there is mention of ‘looking out for taxes later in the year’, I wish there had been more follow up afterwards that dealt with the matter in depth. And despite receiving no communication throughout the semester, I received an email asking us to pay up to $1,500 at the end of the semester, much too late to budget such a sum into my spending plan.
Discussing financial circumstances isn’t the best subject for small talk. You don’t break the ice with the details of your finances. Some are uncomfortable in conversations like those, and that’s completely fine. However, this means that more students will inevitably end up tackling situations and mishaps like mine on their own.
While Harvard’s commitment to fighting financial restraints is commendable, there are still improvements to be made in the Financial Aid Initiative. I strongly recommend that the financial aid office focus on developing a more exhaustive system of briefing students, especially international freshmen, about their respective packages. A proper orientation plan should be devised that zooms in on the nuts and bolts of how financial aid works. It would certainly help if consulting services were concentrated in one place, rather than split between the International Office and the Financial Aid Office as they currently are.
Further, Financial aid officers should be well versed in the cases of the students assigned to them, even if that includes being aware of what tax treaties each international student’s country has with the U.S. More importantly, the office should consider each international student’s tax commitments in their respective home country while deliberating on their financial needs.
If Harvard’s pledge to obliterate students’ financial worries is to be achieved, it is imperative that we work towards a more comprehensive, clear financial aid system.

Zuneera Shah, ’19 lives in Eliot House. Her column appears on alternate Wednesdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Bundled against the record-breaking cold, a group of students gathered in Harvard Yard for an unconventional class project in March of 2015. They recited poetry and prose, and placed “sacred bundles,” small burlap bags filled with ephemera, on trees. Turning more than a few heads, the students, members of “Spanish 126: Performing Latinidad”, placed a cardboard cut-out of Jennifer Lopez across from the iconic John Harvard statue.
“That is my favorite class to teach at Harvard,” Lorgia H. García Peña, who designed the course, says. For García Peña, the project—a culmination of weeks of studying global Latino identity—was a way of both engaging students and reclaiming the Yard.
“Students were sort of able to own that space, and claim it for themselves, and with artistic interventions make other students at Harvard aware of their presence,” García Peña says. “I think that’s an important part of learning for everyone—not just for Latino students, but for everyone.”
García Peña is a professor of Latino studies, one of the first ever to be hired at Harvard—a role that she describes as both a responsibility and an opportunity for innovation. García Peña and the courses she teach represent the University’s gradual move towards greater Latino studies representation after years of student- and professor-driven activism.
She also brings a unique perspective—drawing from her Dominican heritage, García Peña champions a version of Latino studies which examines intersectionality and diaspora communities. Hoping to move away from more traditional methods, García Peña’s courses explore “intersections of race and immigration at the global level,” she says.
And for García Peña, those intersections have never been more relevant. Her curriculum is influenced by factors including what she calls the current “climate of racism in the world;” her classes this semester will inevitably shift to accommodate a world that includes global immigration crises and the Trump campaign.
“Your generation, more so than mine, is very interested in ‘How is it that what I’m learning in college will help me to make this a better world?’” García Peña says. “I think there’s a lot that’s pressing for your generation.”
García Peña hasn’t shied away from these questions in her own career. Before becoming a professor at Harvard, García Peña taught at the University of Georgia. In 2003, when Georgia’s board of regents passed a ban on undocumented college students, García Peña—herself a first-generation college student with undocumented family members—took matters into her own hands.
“Seeing the pain that my students were experiencing... We decided to create a separate space,”  she says. Along with a handful of professors intent on protesting the ban, García Peña co-founded Freedom University, a “modern-day freedom school” aimed at giving a space and voice to students affected by the ban. Now in its fifth year, the program is continuing to expand.
Back at Harvard, students file into Sever Hall for the second session of "Performing Latinidad" this semester. Walking among the rows in the mostly-full lecture hall, García Peña transitions effortlessly between describing her own Dominican heritage and childhood in New Jersey, and issues taking place on a global and historic scale. It’s just the beginning, but García Peña has lofty goals for the semester.
“What I’m hoping is that people can reflect critically about where we are as a  world, as a society and as humans,” García Peña says of the weeks and work ahead. “How do we look at this intersectionally, how do we look at this transnationally? Because that is how we’re thinking as humans.”
Sections
Shuffling into the seminar room and grabbing a sandwich from a picked-over tray, a man makes his way to an open seat. On his shirt, there’s an “evolutionary progress of man”-type graphic. The design is familiar: It starts with a monkey followed by a stooping ape-like thing followed by a kind of hunched over Neanderthalish guy and then finally a man walking upright.
This shirt’s graphic adds another step in the progression, though. Just after the upright man comes the double-helixed logo of the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, where Robert J. Wood is a “core faculty member.”
The man in the shirt is not Robert Wood, just one of the members of Wood’s lab group checking in to a weekly progress meeting. His shirt, though, is not too far away from the center of Wood’s work: designing and exploring the next stage of “life” on earth. The next stage of life on earth, as it turns out, consists of biologically inspired robots like the Robobee, a Defense Department-funded project at the center of Wood’s career. While today’s meeting doesn’t focus on the Robobee per se, the projects the lab members are working on could end up being applied to the robots someday. Wood watches the presentations in a stoic Captain Kirk-ish way, interjecting only occasionally and always with a specific question.
Though the picture accompanying Wood’s online bio looks ripped from an L.L. Bean catalogue, in person he gives off more of a Zuckerberg air: shorts, t-shirt, and zip-up hoodie. There’s a sort of symmetry in that: Wood has referred to Robotics as “the next Internet,” the next thing that will fundamentally and irreversibly change the way humans live their lives. Wood also repeats many of the aphorisms typical of Silicon Valley entrepreneurs: He describes the ever-arching motivation for his work as the desire to design and build completely novel creations.
And few could deny that Wood has built things that didn’t exist before. The Robobees are tiny flying robots that can interact “socially” like bees or other insects do; Wood helped build the program essentially from scratch.
Ultimately, the Robobees could be able to conduct surveillance, go on search and rescue missions, and, yes, pollinate flowers. The real crux of the Robobees project, though, is the “social” part of the social insect designation.
“Well you have one [bee], that’s great, but now if you have 1,000, how are they goingto interact and work together effectively?” Wood asks.
If you find the idea of 1,000 tiny robots acting in a coordinated frenzy a little off-put- ting, you aren’t the only one. In 2014, The Church of Stop Shopping, a group of self-styled “wild anti-consumerist gospel shouters and Earth loving urban activists,” protested the project, describing it as “Blade Runner crossed with Hell.” Wood says he was on sabbatical when the protest occurred, but found stories of the spectacle amusing nonetheless.
Despite The Church of Stop Shopping’s portrayal of the Robobees researchers as just so many Monsanto shills, Wood says the team thinks about the social implications of their work a fair amount. While he doesn’t find the typical concerns about technological unemployment to be “particularly valid arguments,” he says the team often thinks about the privacy and surveillance implications of a small, agile robot.
Indeed, the social implications, the potential real world impact, are what appeals to Wood about his work. “It’s not an abstract existence... It’s really getting your hands dirty and building things that didn’t exist before," Wood said.
Sections
I meet Ali S. Asani ’77, a professor of Indo-Muslim
and Islamic Religion and Cultures, on Labor
Day. The Barker Center is technically closed, and
as the sole occupants of the building, we climb
the three flights of stairs in unusual silence.
“Water or tea?” he asks me as soon as we enter
his office, as if I am a familiar guest in his home.
I pause before answering—struggling to
reclaim control of my eyes, which have latched
onto Asani’s desk. Where tomes of reading may
typically sit, atop Asani’s desk lies instead a
sea of papers. Like a game of Jenga, it appears
as though any paper added to the bunch may
push them all over the edge. I am almost scared
of moving, should my physical actions disrupt
the equilibrium that exists in Barker Center
305. And yet, I sit, eager to delve into the mind
behind that mound of curiosity and exploration.
Asani first came to Harvard in 1973 from
Kenya, which at the time, he says, “was racially
divided, marked by difference.” He faced a series
of challenges to his identity: from classmates
who questioned his African and Asian identities
because of his skin color, or who prodded
him about whether lions roamed around in
his hometown of Nairobi, to faculty who held
Sunni-centric views of Islam and “looked at
anyone who was not [Sunni] as heretics.” Asani
describes that “behind a lot of the questioning,
there was a huge knowledge gap: People just
didn’t know they were making assumptions.”
The current educational system has failed to
provide young people with the tools to engage
with difference, especially about religion and
culture, Asani believes. “Religion is this phenomenon
that is complexly constructed... People’s
ideas of religion are really shaped by the
context. So the political, economic, social, and
artistic play a huge role in how religion is interpreted.”
Asani describes two major signs of what
he calls “religious illiteracy”: the idea that religions
are monolithic and static, and the idea that
people’s actions are primarily motivated by religion.
Asani views religious and cultural literacy
as essential to the project of democracy. In our
e-mail exchange following the interview, he
reminds me of a quotation from Thomas Jefferson:
“If a nation expects that it can be ignorant
and free, in a state of civilization, it expects what
never was and never will be.”
Asani has dedicated himself to the mission
of combatting illiteracy. He teaches two Gen-Ed
courses focusing on what he calls the “Silent
Islam,” how most Muslims around the world
experience their faith day-to-day, which stands
in contrast to the “Loud Islam,” which is often
co-opted by politicians for social and political
means. Asani extends his teachings to an international
body through his HarvardX course,
“Islam through its Scriptures,” which boasts an
enrollment of over 18,000 students from over
170 countries.
Outside of his own classroom, Asani was
involved in the Islamic Cultural Studies Initiative
for five years, which worked with teachers
in different disciplines in Kenya, Pakistan, and
Texas, to empower their students to think critically
about religion and how it is presented.
Today, Asani is a part of a working group with
the Ministry of Education in Ontario, Canada
that is addressing how schools teach students to
think about a pluralistic society.
As our interview comes to an end, Asani tells
me a story from his childhood. “When I was
eight or nine years old, growing up in Kenya with
all this diversity, where race and class determined
your future, I asked my father: “Why did
God create us different?” He responded with a
verse from the Quran, which he paraphrased
as saying, “We (meaning God) have created you
male and female, and into nations and tribes, so
that you may know one another, so that you may
learn from one another.”
Asani describes the impact that this incident
and Quranic verse have had on him. “People
think diversity is a problem. I actually think that
diversity is not a problem, it is an opportunity
for us to embrace and get to know one another,
get to know fellow human beings. Diversity is
not meant to create walls, it is meant actually to
create bridges.”
As I descend the stairs of the Barker Center,
replaying Asani’s rich set of stories, one line
rings over and over: “You label jars, you don’t
label human beings.”
Sections
Nancy F. Cott sits upright at a wooden
table in her Robinson Hall office. Her
space is tidy. Her tone is cordial, a few
degrees shy of warmth. Her manner
breathes “academic” and “moderate” and
“tenured professor in the Harvard History
Department.”
There’s more than one way to fight
the patriarchy. Cott is one of the country’s
leading gender historians, and she’s
spent the last half-century researching,
documenting, and testifying against gender-based
injustice.
In the beginning, that meant delving
into women’s studies. “I got very passionate
about women’s history because I was
inspired by and motivated by the women’s
movement, and by the idea of teaching
about women’s lives to women in particular,”
Cott recalls.
Her passion was timely—Cott graduated
college in 1967, just two years
before Cornell University, her alma mater,
launched the first women’s studies class
in the United States. Her first book, “Roots
of Bitterness: Documents of the Social
History of American Women,” was published
in 1972. Before long, she was one of
the giants of the field.
Then the field changed. “As people
started looking at gender, gender structures,
and gender formation more generally,
my teaching moved to encompass
both men and women and how gender
affected their lives,” Cott says. She wrote
“Public Vows: A History of Marriage and
the Nation,” published in 2000, in part to
address what she perceived as a lack of
scholarship on the the topic.
That research was what drew her to
the fight for same-sex marriage. “It was
very important, as it turned out, to counter
the opponents maintaining that marriage
was one thing, that it had always been the
same thing, that it had stood outside of
time,” Cott says.
As legal battles over marriage equality
swept across the country, Cott followed,
organizing historians and testifying in
expert historical defense of same-sex
marriage. “That was the last 15 years,” she
says.
Then, in June 2015, the Supreme Court
ruled in favor of marriage equality. “It
was rewarding in many ways, the feeling
that here’s scholarly stuff that’s making a
difference in the present,” Cott reflects.
“That’s tremendously rewarding for a historian.
It was tiresome, after a while, and
time consuming.” When asked if she considers
her job done, she exhales and nods
sharply. “I think it’s done.”
So, what now? What do you do, when
abrupt victory ends a battle you’ve been
fighting for 15 years?
You pick some new battles, apparently.
Cott is currently involved in multiple historian’s
briefs, including one related to
abortion restrictions in Texas.
“The ostensible justification in the
state was that this was protecting women’s
health,” Cott says. “So we wrote a
very powerful brief on this issue, looking
at [structures] which put women in a subordinate
place to protect them, and how
protection is usually a veil for male privilege.”
In the classroom, as in the courtroom,
Cott has moved on. She’s begun researching
a book related to the sexual revolution
of the 1920s, and she’s teaching History
1462: “History of Sexuality in the Modern
West.”
“I went where it seemed to me the new
and exciting work was,” she says. “I had
been in the field of studying gender for a
long time. I wanted to pursue new interests.”
She relates the shift with calm, rattling
off directions of future research like idle
curiosities, as if they’re not built on years
of her own trailblazing and persistent
hard work.
“My career is long, because it’s almost
at the end,” she says.We nod like we believe her.
Sections
Whether he’s working with divorcing
spouses or warring states, Daniel L. Shapiro,
Director of the Harvard International
Negotiation Program and Associate Professor in Psychology at Harvard Medical School, takes the same
approach to solving conflicts.
First, Shapiro tries to get the disputing
parties to understand each other’s perspective.
Then, he asks them to put aside their
differences.
For someone who has spent his career
immersed in conflict, Shapiro is remarkably
upbeat. Even when discussing violent international
feuds, he speaks animatedly, smiling
and waving his hands.
Shapiro traces his interest in negotiation
back to his teenage years. In high school, he
traveled through then-Communist Eastern
and Central Europe to visit an international
student from Hungary who had stayed with
his family. That trip sparked his interest in
the region, and when the Iron Curtain fell,
Shapiro became interested in finding ways
to ease the region’s transition to democracy.
Shapiro attended Johns Hopkins University,
where he worked with the Soros Foundation
to build a curriculum that aimed to
teach youth in the former Soviet bloc the
skills to solve disputes in an open society.
Shapiro has since traveled around the
world working to resolve identity-based
conflicts, from ethnic wars in Yugoslavia
to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Working
with the World Economic Forum, Shapiro
brought together a group of Israeli, Palestinian,
and other international political,
business, and religious leaders together to
discuss common concerns.
Shapiro believes that disputing parties
often fail to find common ground due to the
“tribes effect”: our overpowering allegiance
to the groups to which we belong.
“The moment [the tribes effect] sinks
in, it’s sticky,” Shapiro says. “It can stick for
days if your roommate drives you crazy. It
can stick for generations as warring groups
rival for political power.”
So how do we move past the gridlock?
The first step is empathy. “How do you
step into the other side’s shoes and deeply
understand their fears, their concerns,
their dreams, their passions?” Shapiro asks.
“Once you understand that, conflict takes
on a whole different shape. You’re no longer
an animalistic enemy, you’re a human being,
and I can work with a human being.”
Shapiro says that negotiating conflict is a
matter of developing tools to deal effectively
with the many deep divisions affecting society—divisions
between people of different
ethnicities, divisions between police forces
and the communities they serve, and divisions
between different political parties.
It is a daunting number of divisions
indeed.
Shapiro hopes to help bridge such divisions—right
here at Harvard.
Recently, Shapiro
helped organize an undergraduate club
where students can learn about strategies
to solve international conflicts and develop
their own ability to resolve personal disputes.
He also teaches a popular class on
conflict resolution, Global Health and
Health Policy 60: “Negotiation and Conflict
Management: From the Interpersonal to
the International.” Two hundred and forty
students applied for 40 spots in the class
during shopping week.
Although a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict remains out of reach for
the time being, Shapiro is undaunted. He
continues to tackle the conflicts that divide
our society, from roommates’ arguments to
international disputes.Correction: September 15, 2016A previous version of this article incorrectly stated Daniel L. Shapiro's title. 
Sections
Glenda R. Carpio hasn’t always
been teaching in wood-paneled
halls at Harvard. She got her
start in one of the country’s more
economically depressed areas,
Compton, as part of the Teach for
America program, shortly after
her graduation from Vassar College.
“What struck me most was
that I was meeting kids that were
eighth graders that couldn’t read,”
Carpio, a professor of English and
African American studies, says. “It
really made me think: How can I
be a half an hour’s drive from Hollywood
and meet kids that live
here in such a different reality?”
This experience ignited her
curiosity in the history of disparity
in American culture. Rather than
exhausting her, the intense Teach
for America program inspired her
to pursue her curiosity in a different
way, a path that led her to a
tenured position at Harvard.
Carpio’s tenure attracted media
attention in part because of her
background. At 12, she came to
America as a Guatemalan immigrant
without knowing a word of
English. Carpio saw the coverage
of her own narrative as an instance
of what she views as a misplaced
focus when telling immigrant
stories. In her current work on
immigrant literature, she is more
interested in when “America fails
the person or when the person
can’t cope with the difficulties of
becoming someone else,” than the
celebration of assimilation.
“I think people prefer to read
about stories where there is
struggle but then the trouble is
overcome,” Carpio said. “For me,
I don’t think that’s a very interesting
plot. People talk about the
immigrant experience or the black
community. Those phrases mean
nothing if you really put pressure
on them because there’s so many
varieties of experiences.”
Carpio’s academic work has
focused heavily on the concept
of comedy. Carpio appreciates
its ability to allow authors to be
playful with form and to confront
very real ideas and feelings in an
approachable way.
Her most recent publication,
“Laughing Fit to Kill,” is centered
around African-American humor.
“It was born out of how hard it
is for Americans to talk about
race and to talk about the legacy
of slavery,” explains Carpio. “The
point of the book is how you can
use humor to laugh at the ideologies
that support slavery.” It
touches on 19th-century comedy,
but mostly focuses on contemporary
performers, such as Richard
Pryor and Dave Chappelle.
Carpio splits her time between
Harvard and Venice, where her
husband lives. She first visited
Venice when she was 15, and ended
up being somewhat “adopted” by
her foster family, returning frequently
ever since.
“Thinking about America from
afar feels painful sometimes,” she
says, remembering hearing about
the shooting of Trayvon Martin
while on sabbatical. “But it also
gives me a kind of distance from
which I can see the States, and
think about America, and think
about displacement in a different
way.”
Sections
“It’s like current events for archaeologists!”
Matthew J. Liebmann, associate
professor of the social sciences, exclaims.
He’s referring to the 1700s.
Compared to many other archaeologists’
work investigating thousands of
years into the past, Liebmann’s focus on
the archaeology of early Native American
encounters with Europeans is practically
breaking news.
Liebmann found his way to Native
American archaeology through “serendipity
and happy accidents.” As an undeclared
student at Boston College, Liebmann got
involved in an archaeology dig through a
randomly assigned adviser, and something
sparked.
When he still wasn’t sure of future
aspirations upon graduating, Liebmann
signed up for a volunteer teaching program
in South Dakota. He soon realized he
could combine his interest in archaeology
with the interest in Native American culture
he discovered there. Liebmann took
this combination to graduate school at
the University of Pennsylvania, and hasn’t
stopped learning since.
“The history of relationships between
Native Americans and archaeologists has
not been a good one for the past 100 years,”
says Liebmann. “So I’m one of the number
of scholars today who are trying to build
bridges between the two communities.”
This is what makes Liebmann’s work
so unique. He’s challenging the norm
and bringing the dialogue back to Native
Americans themselves, as opposed to a
typical European-focused study of history.
Liebmann has worked intimately with the
Jemez Pueblo tribe of New Mexico for
almost 20 years, researching alongside
people he describes as “tribal collaborators.”
By working directly with a tribe, Liebmann
tries to move closer to an authentic
view of the first meetings between Europeans
and Native Americans.
“What we know about this comes from
the few documents left behind by white
male explorers that were written for other
white male European explorers,” Liebmann
says.
These warped and, often, inaccurate
reports of the incidents are frustrating
for scholars like Liebmann, who aim to
understand the Native American perspective.

“I’m trying to take the lead on research
questions from what [Native Americans’]
interests and needs are, what they need to
know about their past for their own contemporary
issues and situations,” he says.
Liebmann circles back to this point
again and again: It is his tribal collaborators
who inspire, push, and lead his
research.
If he wasn’t already busy enough writing
a book, traveling between Boston and
New Mexico, and spending time with
his family, Liebmann also finds time to
pass on knowledge to Harvard students.
Teaching The Fundamentals of Archaeological
Methods & Reasoning in the fall
and American History Before Columbus
in the spring, Liebmann still believes “the
best way to learn is to teach.”
Liebmann’s enthusiasm is evident. His
face lights up when he talks about teaching.
But would he do anything differently if
he could?
He jokes, “I should have picked the
Caribbean, because then how awesome
would it be to go there to do your research?”
But a second later, Liebmann concedes
that there’s actually little he would
change. With a smile, he lands on a serious
answer: “That just means I’m so lucky I
picked the right job.”
Sections
The first five minutes of my conversation
with Brandon M. Terry ’05 show his deep
interest in connecting with undergraduates:
I’m not the one asking the questions. Before
I can even take out my notepad, Terry is
quizzing me about my summer, my family,
and my background. When I’m finally able to
redirect the conversation towards his life, he
seems almost surprised. “Oh, right.”
Terry has squeezed me in between meetings
with advisees in the African & African
American Studies Department, many
of whom are nervously embarking on their
senior theses. When I ask Terry what he does
when he’s not researching, teaching, advising,
or writing for online news outlets like
the Huffington Post and Dissent, he jokes:
“They work me to death around here!” Judging
by the queue outside his door though,
Terry may not be exaggerating his workload.
After all, Terry is both a brand-new dad and
an assistant professor in both the African &
African American Studies and Social Studies
departments.
Terry credits his childhood and adolescence
with sparking his interest in a career
in race in America. “[For] as long as I can
remember, [race] has been an intellectual
issue of interest for me,” Terry explains.
“Growing up in the Baltimore area, which
may be the best example of embedded racialized
politics, race was something that was
just on the mind. Through interactions with
my community and family about our role in
America.”
It wasn’t until Terry’s freshman year at
Harvard that he discovered his intellectual
interest could become an academic one. “I
met Cornel West, I met Henry Louis Gates,
and they exposed me to African American
studies,” he says. “I saw that there were
brilliant people who devoted their lives to
answering the questions that had vexed me
for a really long time.” By the end of his third
week, Terry had decided to study these questions.
Now teaching at his alma mater just 15
years later—though “it feels longer every
year,” he quips—Terry sees his role as a
responsibility to push students outside of
their comfort zones. “No student walks into
a physics class and tells the professor how
physics works,” Terry laughs, “but in classes
or seminars about African American issues,
many students have preconceived ideas
about race and racial politics.”
He looks up at his packed floor-to-ceiling
bookshelf, rubs his head, and grins. “I like to
press them on those.”
When I ask how Harvard has changed
since his days as a student, Terry pauses
for the first time during our conversation.
“I think a lot of students of color—and this
is likely an ‘Obama effect’—see much fewer
limitations on their life aspirations than students
like me did.”
He leans forward. “Since I’ve graduated,
we’ve had an African American president of
The Crimson, an African American woman
president of The Lampoon, an African American
woman director of the IOP. And when I
was here, those things seemed much more
far-fetched than having an African American
president of the United States.”
Sections
“What are the unspoken rules of how people
live?” asks Laurel T. Ulrich, brandishing the
curved yellow fruit that sits in front of her.
“What is the meaning of a squash?”
The squash is one part of a quotidian
ensemble laid out on the table at the first meeting
of Ulrich’s history seminar titled “This Old
House.” It sits in the company of an axe, a miniature
replica of the John Harvard statue, a
three-footed cooking pot, several ears of corn,
red Solo cups, and a kitschy teapot designed
to resemble a pineapple—relics of everyday
American life, throughout the ages.
Ulrich, a celebrated scholar of early American
history, often grounds her research in the
mundane, examining broad social dynamics
through the lens of everyday life. In her most
famous book, the Pulitzer-winning “Midwife’s
Tale,” Ulrich constructs a coherent vision of
18th century marriage customs, crime rates,
and medical practices from the details of an
ordinary midwife’s diary.
Although much of Ulrich’s scholarship
focuses on New England, her own origins lie
in small-town Idaho. When I ask her about her
upbringing, I make the mistake of locating her
home state in the Midwest, and she is quick to
correct me.
“Iowa is in the Midwest, but Idaho is in the
Rocky Mountains,” she says. “That’s my pet
peeve—and it’s really common.”
When Ulrich was growing up, Sugar City,
Idaho was home to about 990 inhabitants,
unnamed roads, and a few stores. She graduated
high school in a class of 56, made up of
“town kids and farm kids” alike. By the time
Ulrich delivered the valedictory address at the
University of Utah in 1960, she had been married
for nearly two years. When she finished
her doctorate at the University of New Hampshire
in 1980, she and her husband had raised
five children.
Ulrich is a longtime scholar of women’s history
and a self-professed feminist. Now, for the
first time, she is writing and teaching about
the intersection of feminism and another crucial
part of her identity: her Mormon faith. In
her newest book, “A House Full of Females,”
Ulrich examines Mormon plural marriage and
European encounters with other family structures.
Ulrich’s current research echoes some of
her early academic endeavors: In the 1970s,
she and a colleague discovered copies of the
19th-century women’s newspaper Woman’s
Exponent in Widener Library. The newspaper,
written for Mormon women, promoted
women’s suffrage and equal rights. This finding
came at a time when women’s history was
still a budding field.
“There wasn’t any feminism when I was
growing up, the term really came back into
currency in the 1960s and 1970s,” she explains.
“I had the excitement of pioneering women’s
history.”
“Excitement” is perhaps Ulrich’s most distinct
characteristic as a professor. The yellow
squash is meaningful because it is indigenous
to the Americas, she says, eyes widening.
Describing the seminar’s upcoming field trips
to the Harvard Forest and the 18th-century
Artemas Ward house as “absolute serendipity,”
Ulrich can hardly contain her enthusiasm for
old shoes and cellar holes.
“We are going to have so much fun,” Ulrich
promises the class. She jokes that she sounds
like Republican presidential nominee Donald
Trump. “But it’s okay to be enthusiastic if you
have the facts with you.”
Sections
Dr. Shahram Khoshbin’s home is filled
with objects that suggest he is an artist:
a portrait he sketched of his wife and
daughter; a large print of a post-Impressionist
masterpiece; a bookshelf
lined with tomes about art and calligraphy;
an illustrated travel journal.
But Khoshbin’s day jobs tell another
story. Whether he is practicing neurology
at Brigham and Women’s Hospital
and Boston Children’s Hospital,
or serving as an Associate Professor of
Neurology at Harvard Medical School,
he wakes up early each day to pursue a
career in the sciences. He and his wife
Laura, former interim Faculty Deans
of Currier House, co-lead a freshman
seminar called “Medicine, Law, and
Ethics.”
In other words, Khoshbin thinks
with both sides of his brain—a truism
that he, as an award-winning neurologist,
surely understands in greater
depth than most of us ever could.
Khoshbin’s passions for art and science
are complementary rather than
contradictory. “Without something like
[art]…you can’t survive [as a doctor],”
he asserts. “You go to arts, and that’s
where you allow yourself to be able to
look at the drama [of medicine]—both
at the tragedy as well as its beauty.”
As an undergraduate at American
University in Beirut, Khoshbin originally
grappled with his dissimilar
callings. “My dad made the mistake
of telling me... ‘Well, I expect you to
major in pre-med,’” Khoshbin says. “As
soon as I got to college, I majored in
fine arts, as far away as I could.”
Khoshbin still planned to become a
doctor, though, so he enrolled in both
creative and scientific courses at college.
His thesis—about the color theory
behind Vincent van Gogh’s work—put
all his coursework to use. Van Gogh
quickly became a source of personal
fascination for him. “I fell in love with
him almost instantaneously,” Khoshbin
recalls. “I had to study the neuroscience
of vision to understand what he’s
doing with our brain.”
At Johns Hopkins Medical School,
Khoshbin attended a lecture by Dr.
Norman Geschwind ’46, who labeled
Fyodor Dostoyevsky’s literary productivity
a symptom of epilepsy. After the
talk, Khoshbin mentioned van Gogh’s
comparable pattern of artistic output
to Geschwind. “Oh, he had epilepsy,”
the latter replied. “And his medical
records are available.”
Intrigued, Khoshbin set off for Marseille,
France, where he met the neurologist
who owned those records. At
the suggestion of Geschwind, Khoshbin
moved to Boston, where he deepened
his research into van Gogh’s
condition by working with epileptic
patients. Each year, he gives a lecture
about van Gogh’s disease to the Harvard
College Program for Research in
Science and Engineering.
Khoshbin brings that same interdisciplinary
spirit into his classrooms. At
Harvard Medical School, for example,
he and Dr. Joel Katz head “Training
the Eye,” in which they teach students
to apply methods of artistic analysis
to patient diagnosis. He and his wife
contextualize medicine and law within
questions of ethics in their freshman
seminar.
Khoshbin’s many pursuits—the
right-brained along with the left-brained—still
energize him all these
years later. “There is not a day that...
I’m not looking forward to my day,”
Khoshbin says. “I’ve never had the
feeling of, ‘Oh, I’m tired of this.'”
Sections
“How do we do better by children?”
For most of her life—through volunteer work
in high school, classwork during her undergrad
years, and currently as a professor at the Harvard
Graduate School of Education—Nonie K.
Lesaux has been trying to answer that question
in one form or another. Now, she’s embarking
on a new research initiative that will help fill
the knowledge gap in early childhood education.
Lesaux studied psychology, with a focus on
child development, particularly language and
literacy development, looking at specific cases
of children struggling with dyslexia. “If you get
really focused on a lot of those cases and you’re
especially focused on children from diverse cultural
and economic backgrounds,” she explains,
“you start to see a pattern.” She realized that
the students were not only impeded by their
disabilities, but also by their lack of access to
educational opportunities. “I personally worry
a whole lot when there are developmental profiles
that correlate with poverty.”
Lesaux came to realize that what was
needed was a better systems-level approach;
much of her work today involves implementing
her research into policy in order to improve
child education systems. Recently, she notes,
there has been a much greater push “to bridge
science and policy,” especially as the research
methods have become more sophisticated.
Enough data making the case for early education
has accumulated at this point, Lesaux
says, that “there’s really no question that what
we call high-quality preschool makes a difference...
Probably very few people would
disagree with the theory.” This makes for an
exciting time for policy, as there is a great deal
of momentum pushing early education forward.
But despite the enthusiasm for early education,
the “science hasn’t necessarily kept up
with the advocacy,” Lesaux explains. “When
push comes to shove, what we don’t really have
is enough large-scale research to tell us that
these are the absolute key ingredients... to get
to a more nuanced dialogue about what matters
most.”
Therein lies the motivation behind the Harvard
Early Learning Study, a five-year study of
early childhood that Lesaux will co-direct with
Associate Professor Stephanie M. Jones. The
study will track the development of a representative
cohort of three-year-olds across Massachusetts
in order to find what kinds of early
education models work for whom, and under
what settings or conditions. Lesaux hopes this
research will “draw some real lines in the sand
about early ed” and perhaps catalyze other
large-scale population-based studies around
the country, as part of an effort to “bring the
science up to date with today’s kids.”
Lesaux has also spent the past year in a
new role, after Governor Charles D. Baker ’79
appointed her chair of the Massachusetts Board
of Early Education and Care last summer. The
board oversees licensing and regulating childcare
programs, providing financial assistance
for children and families, and supporting the
professional development of educators.
The agency, Lesaux says, is shifting away
from its previous focus on access to and funding
of childcare. “Massachusetts had a very ambitious
and I would say successful campaign for
access to early education for all,” she explains.
“Now, it’s really about quality—we know a little
too much to just keep going with access.”
Lesaux explains the high-stakes nature of
early childhood education and care in the context
of achievement gaps. Reading problems, as
an example, “track way too closely with income
and race here in the U.S.” The thought behind
the early education and care initiative is to help
give a strong start to the most academically vulnerable.
“It’s not a vaccine. It’s not going to necessarily
do the trick over time,” she acknowledges.
“K-12 is still on the hook; those children still
need strong support. But certainly they are in
a better position to take advantage of learning
opportunities down the line if we can start
early.”
Sections
You might be surprised to learn what’s
buried 2,000 feet below ground in Carlsbad
Caverns, New Mexico: billions of
dollars worth of equipment, tools and
clothing, all of it contaminated by plutonium.
This is WIPP, the United States’
first underground nuclear waste dump.
It’s also the subject of “Containment,”
the most recent documentary by History
of Science and Physics professor Peter L.
Galison ’77.
“Containment” is a documentary with
the tone of a science fiction film. It warns
its viewers about the dangers of nuclear
waste that will remain toxic for at least
10,000 more years.
“At one level, [‘Containment’] is sort of
technical,” Galison says, “but at another
level it’s really an inquiry into our responsibility
into the future and how we think
about time.”
Perhaps it’s no surprise that Galison
gravitated towards the intersection of
science, philosophy, and art. His great
grandfather was an electrical engineer
with a basement laboratory Galison
describes as resembling “Dr. Frankenstein’s,
with giant double throw switches
and bottles of mercury, and sparks.”
Other family members were artists: His
father was a sculptor who worked with
abstract wood forms, and his brother is a
jazz musician.
Following suit, Galison spent his
high school years helping out in his
great grandfather’s lab and making
short movies on his Super 8 camera. He
attended Harvard as an undergraduate,
studied History of Science, and took
video courses on the side.
For much of his career, Galison saw his
interests in film and science as separate.
After college, he completed doctorate
degrees in History of Science and Physics
at Harvard. It was while teaching at Stanford
that Galison saw the film “The Day
After Trinity,” and began to connect his
two passions.
“[John Else] made a film that was
about J. Robert Oppenheimer and the
building of the atomic bomb… but it
was really about about the morality, the
psychology, the dynamics of [Oppenheimer’s]
decision,” he says. “I was really
intrigued at the idea that you could have a
film about science that wasn’t just a race,
a triumph, or a popularization.”
Since then, Galison has made three
documentaries on topics ranging from
the building of the hydrogen bomb to
national security and secrecy; his fourth
major film, about the philosophy of black
holes, is in the works. He’s just as prolific
in his writing: “Building, Crashing,
Thinking,” his seventh book, will explore
how our ideas about the self shape technology,
and how technology shapes our
sense of self in turn.
Galison’s teaching, like his many projects,
focuses on the historical, philosophical,
and ethical implications of science.
One of Galison’s favorite classes to teach
is Science and the Physical Universe 17:
‘The Einstein Revolution,’ a course that
uses Einstein as an entry point to discuss
the changing role of physics in society.
A Gen-Ed, the course attracts a diverse
group of students, from humanities to
engineering concentrators, and freshmen
to seniors.
In addition to his academic work, Galison
is also a five-time marathon runner
and licensed pilot. He gave up flying eight
years ago to focus on his other work.
After admitting this, Galison pauses.
“But I don’t know, I look at airplanes in
the sky sometimes and think, I’d like to be
there,” he says.
With two kids, a full teaching load, an
ambitious lineup of writing and film projects,
and more surely to come, this hobby
may have to remain on hold a bit longer.
Still, if Galison wants to be back in the
sky, it’s a pretty safe bet he’ll get there.
Sections
The two sides of Mark D. Jordan’s office in
the Divinity School tell different stories.
The left is comfortably cerebral, lined with
neatly organized bookshelves full of books by
Thomas Aquinas and Michel Foucault. The
right side is a colorful surprise—Day of the
Dead skeletons cavort alongside a neon-colored
painting of Christ in a field of marigolds.
It couldn’t be a better home for Jordan.
As a scholar in both Christian theology and
studies of women, gender, and sexuality, he’s
forged his career from such contrasts.
Growing up as a child in Ajijic, Mexico, he
remembers leaving his parents’ community
of expatriate artists to attend Day of the Dead
festivities in local villages. Ever since then,
he’s been fascinated by the polarity between
his traditional Christian upbringing and education
and what he describes as a “religion
of the body”—an understanding drawn from
both these early memories and his own realization
of his sexual identity.
“My formal education was very much
within the textual traditions,” he recalls.
“[But] I was trying to figure out: How did
these textual traditions, that have dominated
Western civilization, go together with my
embodied experience?”
In the process, he’s become a leading
expert on Christian sexuality and sexual
ethics, and has written on topics from sexual
abuse within the Catholic clergy to religious
same-sex unions. Harvard students, though,
likely know him best from his gen-ed course
Ethical Reasoning 42: Sexual Ethics as Ethical
Reasoning, which boasted more than 120
enrolled students when it debuted in spring
2016.
Jordan isn’t finished refining Sexual
Ethics, which he describes as his “dream
course.” In fact, he hopes to one day write a
book about his experience teaching it. He’s
been satisfied, however, by its ability to provide
a platform for productive discussion
between students. And he’s also been struck
by its function as “a sort of microcosm, or
mirror, of our problems of talking about sexuality
and sexual ethics generally.”
While Jordan is fully aware of the national
debate on sexual assault in college campuses—thanks,
in part, to his experience as
a member of Harvard’s recent Title IX committee—he
also cautions against confining
the broader topic of sexual ethics to issues of
sexual violence.
“What’s really behind Title IX,” he says,
“is this larger question of [how] you build a
human community in which you reduce, to
the bare minimum, sexual violence. In which
you get people to treat issues of sexuality and
gender respectfully.”
When he isn’t teaching, Jordan is hard at
work helping to create such a community. As
resident faculty fellow in Pforzheimer House,
he and his partner regularly invite students
to their home for food and conversation.
“These visits originally started out as mainly
for queer-identified students in the Quad,” he
says. “But now it’s sort of anyone who wants
to come.”
And maybe that’s his greatest talent
among many—the ability to unite two sides of
a room.
Sections
Dr. Beth A. Altringer spent her Labor Day
weekend helping run a public library—at the
Burning Man festival in the middle of Nevada’s
Black Rock Desert. “I love the creativity
of it,” she explains.
Altringer spends most of her time fostering
and supporting creativity. She teaches
two courses in conjunction with the College
and the Graduate School of Design, focused
on creating products that are not only desirable
for a mass market, but also designed for
an optimal emotional experience.
“Designers need to be educated with a
lot of what we know from social and organizational
psychology. Not just designers, but
also engineers,” she says. “Their ideas don’t
necessarily speak for themselves. A good
idea doesn’t necessarily negotiate for itself.”
Per her suggestion, I meet with Altringer
on a balmy afternoon in the Leverett House
courtyard. She plays with a fallen leaf as she
explains a bit about her background.
“I wanted to be an architect since I was
eight years old and I used to, actually, as a
kid, make little blueprints that my parents
still have,” she says.
Altringer eventually decided to broaden
her interests by double majoring in psychology
and economics in college. She then furthered
her education by studying around the
world, in the Czech Republic, Chile, Spain,
and South Africa.
Through these travels, she honed what
she believes are the qualities of an effective
designer.
“In order to be a really good designer
at the global level you can’t separate these
two things: If you just create your product
and don’t engage with the complexity of
interpersonal challenges, then your product
doesn’t go anywhere,” she says.
Altringer’s spring class, Design Survivor:
Experiential Lessons in Designing for Desirability,
involves weekly team challenges to
create a “holistic product experience.” She
changes the assignments each year, making
them relevant to current design dilemmas.
“We’re learning together—it gets us away
from this very instructor-centric model
where I have all the answers and I’m waiting
for them to catch up, in a way. So, there’s this
mutual discovery that I like to have in the
classroom,” Altringer explains.
Altringer pulls out her laptop and shows
me pictures from one challenge: creating
3D-printed headphones and accompanying
music for anxiety reduction. Student projects
included a cloud-shaped, rainbow set
and a pair that could only be worn laying
down.
While she has her computer out, she
shows me some of her ventures outside the
classroom.
“I try to walk the walk that I’m encouraging
students to walk,” she says. Though
Altringer describes herself as a “shy” person,
“I like to be in the action,” she tells me.
Altringer’s current projects include turning
her class into an interactive website
and working with a robotics company. “For
fun,” she is developing a software for flavor
optimization, or helping people understand
what tastes they like and dislike and why.
“Even though the stuff I do is very diverse,
it’s all kind of the same stuff, I’m very interested
in the emotional design of things and
often the interactivity,” she says as she shows
me the site. “So even this, it’s about how I
want to get at the essence of what does an
avocado taste like, and I’m interested in the
interactivity of an avocado combined with
something else.”
As varied as it may be, Altringer is excited
about her work within and outside of Harvard.
“In 2007, I applied for something and
there’s this paragraph where I said what I
hoped would be my career in the future, and
it was continuing to work with companies
and turning that into new curriculum for
students,” she tells me. “It’s kind of exactly
what I do today.”
Sections
From the looks of his humble, unadorned office
at Mass General Hospital, you might never
guess what Professor Robert J. Waldinger is up
to: searching for the secrets to living a long and
healthy life.
A psychiatry professor at the Harvard Medical
School, Waldinger is serving as current
director of the Harvard Study of Adult Development,
a longitudinal investigation into what
makes us happy and healthy. The study is older
than Waldinger himself.
In 1938, two studies, independent of one
another, took form: one examining a group of
268 male Harvard undergraduates, the other
analyzing 456 inner-city adolescents. In the
’70s, the two were merged, and the two cohorts
juxtaposed for comparison. Today, Waldinger
studies the more than 2,000 children of the
original participants to consider the effect of
childhood experience on mid-life health and
well-being.
Keeping a study like this going for as long as it
has is no easy feat, Waldinger explains. There’s
the constant struggle of securing funding and
willing researchers, and the need to retain participant
involvement. Most longitudinal studies,
Waldinger explains, have to be ended before the
10-year mark because too many participants
drop out. The maximum acceptable dropout
rate is around 40 percent, while in this study,
only five percent of the Harvard men and 22
percent of the inner-city men have dropped out.
This isn’t just a product of good luck—the
researchers work to maintain relationships
with the participants by sending thank you
notes, holiday cards, and birthday cards, as well
as reminding them of the importance of the
research. “What we try to do is give people a
sense of how rare this is and the gift that they’re
giving to the world to do this,” Waldinger says.
Though the fundamental questions have
remain unaltered throughout the study’s long
history, scientific breakthroughs have changed
the measures and methods drastically. In the
’30s, the shape of the skull was thought to determine
personality and intelligence, so researchers
collected elaborate skull measurements.
Today, researchers instead focus on other categories,
from DNA to the physical effects of loneliness.
So, what has the study found (so far) to be the
keys to happiness? As you might guess, it’s not
fame or money. It is close relationships, and the
kind of “emotional security” that comes from
feeling like you have someone you can count
on. This doesn’t have to be a spouse, Waldinger
clarifies; it could be your friend, sibling, or as
you get older, your child.
Waldinger is quick to acknowledge the limitations
of the study—specifically, the fact that
it has only looked at white males. “We think of
ourselves as studying mechanisms... how this
works for a certain group of white guys at a certain
historical moment, knowing full well that
we can’t claim that it works that way for other
people or other historical periods.” What’s
needed is to test out these findings in other
groups and see where it applies and where it
doesn’t, he explains. “You have to start somewhere,
it’s just a matter of being really humble
and circumspect.”
Going forward, Waldinger hopes to get more
people excited about this work by publicizing it
beyond academic journals. He recently gave a
TED Talk on the study, which, much to his surprise,
received more than 10 million views. “The
fact that it’s gone viral means that people want
to know this stuff even though it’s been there for
people to find,” he says. “We’ve just been putting
it in places where no one would look.”
When he’s not investigating the secret to the
good life or practicing psychiatry, you can find
Waldinger practicing zen meditation. He goes
on four silent retreats a year; this past year, he
went on his longest yet: three weeks of absolute
silence. Most of the time, we are all very much
in our thoughts, Waldinger tells me, and so zen
meditation “involves letting thoughts be but
expanding your awareness to everything nonverbal
and experiential.” His day-to-day life of
psychiatry and research involves thinking all
day long, and so the practice allows him to “pay
more attention to moment to moment experience
and not just be lost in my head.”
Waldinger sees his three roles—psychiatrist,
psychoanalyst, and zen priest—as very
much connected. “They’re all really different
ways of investigating what it means to
be a human being, and what it means to be
alive.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A total of 102 students are running for seats on the Undergraduate Council for the 2016-2017 academic year after the body decided to push back the deadline for declaring candidacy.
After the original Friday deadline, several Houses had fewer students running for seats on the Council than they had available seats. Eliot House, which has three open seats this semester, originally had just two candidates running. Quincy House also had two students declare candidacy by the Friday deadline, and Leverett House had just one.
“[W]e extended the deadline over the weekend for some houses who did not fill their spots,” UC Student Relations Committee Chair Yasmin Z. Sachee ’18 wrote in an email.
After the extended deadline, seven additional students declared their intention to run for a seat on the UC: four students in Eliot House, two in Leverett House, and one in Quincy House. As a result, all 42 open seats on the Council are expected to be filled after this week’s election.
Still, races in Adams, Cabot, Dudley, Kirkland, Leverett, Lowell, Mather, and Quincy House are not competitive.
The voting period began Monday, and will conclude Friday at 12 p.m. Winners will be announced by Friday evening.
—Staff writer Brian P. Yu can be reached at brian.yu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @brianyu28.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University labor representatives and graduate student union organizers did not create a formal neutrality agreement during their first official meeting on Sept. 9, according to union spokesperson and Ph.D. student Jack M. Nicoludis.
The meeting took place as the union effort continues moving toward an election in which Harvard’s student employees will vote for or against establishing a union at the University.
Director of Harvard’s Office of Labor and Employee Relations Paul R. Curran wrote in an email that the University “did not outright reject” a neutrality agreement, which would bar Harvard affiliates from interfering with union efforts. Curran added that the University hopes to “continue these discussions, not through the media, but directly with the HGSU-UAW.”
Curran invited the student organizers to the table in light of the National Labor Relations Board’s recent ruling recognizing student assistants at private universities as employees with collective bargaining rights.
The University intended to open a channel for communication with union organizers and discuss next steps, according to Graduate School of Arts and Sciences dean for administration and finance Allen Aloise, who attended the meeting. Two United Auto Workers representatives—part of an organized partnership established last fall in the movement to unionize students—were also present.
“We had an open and full discussion of the issues related to unionization. This is the beginning of a process we aim to continue in a productive way,” Curran wrote in the statement provided by GSAS director of communications Ann Hall.
But according to Nicoludis, administrators did not fulfill the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Auto Worker’s request for a formal neutrality agreement similar to the one New York University graduate students crafted during their election process.
In NYU’s historic compromise with graduate student organizers in 2013, the university agreed to refrain from influencing the election vote or campaigning against unionization.
“The administration denied our request, in line with the anti-union rhetoric they have been distributing to both faculty and students that spreads misinformation about academic unions,” Nicoludis wrote in an email.
In a new push for signatures, organizers re-posted their neutrality petition to the HGSU-UAW Facebook page on Sept. 13, calling on the administration to “cease its manipulative anti-union efforts, especially when those efforts masquerade as the neutral presentation of information.” According to Nicoludis, the petition has been circulating “for a while now.”
Over the summer, the Office of the Provost uploaded a “frequently asked questions” page online about graduate student unionization, which organizers point to as an example of what they characterize as the administration’s anti-union rhetoric. But administrators maintain that their goal in publishing the list was to help students make an informed decision when they vote whether or not to authorize the HGSU-UAW as their union.
Union organizers see the list not as an informative tool, but as part of a campaign to influence student opinion. In an annotated version of the FAQ sheet posted on the HGSU-UAW website, dozens of organizers commented on the language used in the list. Organizers also highlighted phrases in some of the answers that they say are designed to “inject” uncertainty into the minds of those who will vote in an election.
Administrators previously said they published the document after some students requested additional information about the unionization effort.
—Staff writer Leah S. Yared can be reached at leah.yared@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Leah_Yared.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
John A. Paulson, the largest donor in the University’s history and the namesake of the School of Engineering Applied Sciences, wants to make America great again.
The hedge-fund billionaire and Business School graduate who made much of his fortune during the 2008 financial crisis serves as an economic adviser for Republican presidential candidate Donald J. Trump.
A number of other Harvard alumni join Paulson on the committee of economic advisers: among them  Wilbur L.  Ross, a billionaire investor and Business School graduate, Peter K. Navarro, an economics professor with a Harvard Ph.D., and Anthony Scaramucci, a prominent financier and Law School graduate.
Paulson donated $400 million to the SEAS in 2015, marking the largest single gift Harvard has ever received and renaming the school. The year before, Harvard retitled the School of Public Health after Gerald L. Chan donated $350 million to endow the school.
Paulson joined the campaign in August and has helped Trump fundraise in New York. On Thursday, he will speak at an event at the Economic Club of New York alongside Trump, the featured guest.
Trump was not Paulson’s only choice for a Republican presidential candidate; he also donated to political action committees associated with Wisconsin Governor Scott K. Walker and former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, according to OpenSecrets.org, a website that compiles political donation records.
Unlike Paulson, some prominent conservatives at Harvard, including the Harvard Republican Club and economics professor N. Gregory Mankiw, have declined to endorse Trump.
And according to multiple surveys and polls, most faculty and students at Harvard lean Democratic. Ninety-one percent of faculty, instructors, and researchers who made political contributions to then-presidential candidates in 2015 donated to Hillary R. Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee. Meanwhile, four percent of seniors surveyed in the Class of 2016 indicated support for the Republican candidate, and six percent of surveyed members of the Class of 2020 said they support Trump.
Some major donors to the largely liberal University  have also supported conservatives in this election cycle. Kenneth C. Griffin ’89, for example, who donated $150 million to the College’s financial aid office in 2014, has also given to a number of Republican candidates and conservative causes. He gave more than $5 million to Florida Senator Marco Rubio’s PAC in 2015 and 2016. Darlene Jordan, a Kennedy School graduate who also serves on Trump’s economic advising team, directs the nonprofit Gerald R. Jordan Foundation; she and her husband Gerald R. Jordan ’61 have donated  millions of dollars to Harvard.
Griffin and Paulson did not respond to requests for comment.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
—Staff writer Daphne C. Thompson can be reached at daphne.thompson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @daphnectho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s flagship computer science course is expanding its real estate.
Computer Science 50: “Introduction to Computer Science I,” the College’s extremely popular and notoriously carnival-like introductory computer science course, will use part of the fourth floor of the Harvard Student Agencies building to hold additional office hours during the fall semester.
In addition to the course’s typical nighttime office hours, which draw hundreds of students—and occasional complaints of disruption—to Widener Library and Northwest Labs, HSA will host near round-the-clock tutoring during weekdays and weekends.
The space-sharing arrangement is currently just for this fall, according to HSA president Stephen W. Xi ’17, but if this trial goes well there is the potential the arrangement may continue. Xi declined to comment on the specific nature of the deal.
The move by CS50, the College’s second-largest course this semester with 636 enrolled undergraduates, to expand into the HSA building at 67 Mount Auburn St. was motivated by a desire to increase the availability of tutoring during the day, without the constraint of dining hall and library schedules.
“Among our goals for this fall was to provide students in CS50 with all the more opportunities for one-on-one help, particularly between classes,” course instructor David J. Malan ’99 wrote in an email. “We reached out to HSA… and happily the stars aligned.”
From the perspective of Xi, allowing CS50 to use HSA’s building was a logical way for the student-run business to fill an open space and further collaborate with Malan, who has been an HSA board member since this February.
“Naturally the space opened up and it just made sense because it was a central location, students can stop by in between classes, and it was a natural fit,” Xi said.
Former CS50 student Tomislav F. Fran Zabcic-Matic ’19 recalled attending crowded office hours in Annenberg Hall, and said “there were far too many students per [teaching fellow].”
“People have their hands raised for ages and ages and nothing really happens sometimes. Unless a TF notices you, tough luck,” Fran Zabcic-Matic said. He added the success of the expansion would depend on increasing the availability of TF assistance to students.
Ted N. Zhu ’19, who took CS50 last year and is now a course assistant for the class, described the weekday office hours as “too crowded,” and said the expansion “really alleviates the pressure on those major office hours, because [students] can come by HSA instead of coming in crying in Widener.”
The change is already being greeted positively by some students. Amy E. Morrisett ’19, currently enrolled in the course, said the office hours held in HSA will be “convenient” and that she will feel less uncomfortable seeking help.
“I generally feel uncomfortable going to office hours for any class because I feel like I’m bothering someone,” Morrisett said. “But because they’re happening at so many different times, I won’t feel awkward about getting help.”
—Staff writer Christina N. Neckermann can be reached at christina.neckermann@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Madeleine A. Granovetter can be reached at maddy.granovetter@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At least 86 individuals have signed a Hasty Pudding Theatricals alunni petition advocating an end to the group’s tradition of an all-male cast, according to email correspondence obtained by The Crimson.
The list of signatures was presented to the undergraduate and graduate boards of the Hasty Pudding Theatricals, according to an email sent by former Theatricals cast Vice President Ethan D. Hardy ’14, who declined to comment for this story.
In his email on Sept. 9 detailing the progress of the petition, Hardy wrote that he “demanded a clear plan be laid out to address this issue in a way that includes our perspectives, to show that they are not letting this fall by the wayside as they did this past year. It is still unclear what proceeding days and weeks will bring, though a call has been scheduled.”
Theatricals undergraduate president Guan-Yue Chen ’17 declined to comment on the petition.
In an email circulated on Aug. 22 over an alumni list soliciting signatures for the petition, Hardy wrote that the campaign was motivated by a desire to prove support for ending the single-gender nature of the cast.
“While many of us have privately discussed that we would indeed be in favor of ending the all-male casting tradition of HPT,” Hardy wrote in the email, “I've heard rumors that the grad board is skeptical of this and I think they are under the assumption that most of us do not want to see this happen.”
Following last year’s auditions, then-Theatricals President Robert T. Fitzpatrick ’16 issued a statement noting the composition of the troupe’s cast has been a “topic of serious conversation” since the spring of 2015.
In Hardy’s follow-up email from September, he noted that over the course of “a little over a week,” a total of 86 signatures had been collected on the publicly accessible Google Form petition at the time of the message.
Erica Sunkin, a spokesperson for HPT, referred Crimson inquiries about the petition to a statement posted online noting the Hasty Pudding Theatricals’ decision to remain all-male “is an artistic decision.”
The petition comes at a time of controversy over the Hasty Pudding Theatricals’s historically all-male cast, and more generally during a time of increased scrutiny for single-gender organizations at Harvard.
Over a dozen women auditioned for the Pudding cast this past weekend. None received a callback to audition a second time. In addition to the women that auditioned this past weekend, 17 undergraduate women auditioned last year in a similar protest that saw no females called back. Their auditions garnered attention from several large media outlets, including the Boston Globe and CBS.
Reed S. Silverman ’15, a former member of the Theatricals cast, confirmed discussions about ending the group’s single-gender status took place during his time at the Theatricals. He added a number of private internal town halls focused on the issue as well.
“There were certain individuals that supported each side of the issue in terms of the cast going co-ed or not going co-ed,” Silverman said, “but I think it seemed to me generally that things were open-minded, if not majority positive, in favor of eventually moving in the co-ed direction.”
This movement towards going co-ed comes at a time when Harvard administrators are heavily scrutinizing single-gender organizations at Harvard, both recognized and unrecognized. In May, University President Drew G. Faust and Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana announced an unprecedented policy that would penalize members of single-gender unrecognized social organizations, starting with the Class of 2021.
Before the sanctions were announced, two of the College’s historically all-male final clubs—the Spee and the Fox—invited women to participate in their punch processes and accepted them to their clubs. While the Spee has since initiated women, the Fox reversed its decision in a graduate vote in August.
—Staff writer Ignacio Sabate can be reached at ignacio.sabate@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ignacio_sabate.
—Staff writer Derek G. Xiao can be reached at derek.xiao@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @derekgxiao.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Interest in the Harvard Republican Club this fall is—in the language of the GOP standard bearer they declined to endorse—“yuge.”
One hundred-thirty to 150 new students attended the club’s introductory meeting last week, according to club president Declan P. Garvey ’17. In comparison, Garvey said that there were about 30 students who showed up a similar introductory meeting last year.
The Harvard Republicans announced just over a month ago that it would not be supporting Republican presidential nominee Donald J. Trump, a decision that garnered widespread attention from large media outlets ranging from The Washington Post to CNN.
Garvey said the club’s firm renunciation of Trump’s polarizing rhetoric may have helped attract new members.
“[The increase in interest] was kind of the opposite of what we expected with Trump getting the nomination,” Garvey said. “We were worried because he is so polarizing. It’s already hard enough to be Republican or conservative on campus, even more so when it’s tied to something like that at the national level.”
Kiera O’Brien ’20, a new member of the Harvard Republican Club, agreed with Garvey’s assessment. She cited the club’s decision as a motivating factor for her interest, an opinion she says is common among her peers.
“There is a small proportion [of new members] that are Trump supporters. But definitely the majority is not,” she said.
This year, according to The Crimson’s annual survey of the freshman class, nearly half of surveyed students identifying as “strong Republicans” said they viewed Trump unfavorably, though a majority of this group said they would vote for him if the vote were held today. Of respondents who identified themselves as a “not a very strong Republican,” 24 percent said they would vote for Trump.
The Harvard College Democrats also report an election cycle attendance bump, though not to the extent of the Republican counterparts. According to Susan X. Wang ’17, the club’s president, attendance at its introductory meeting last week was up to 70 compers, as compared to the usual 30 or 40.
“We’re trying to capitalize on [the timing],” Wang said. “So even after the election, people can stay involved. There are still important things that need to be done.”
Both clubs anticipate campaigning for their respective party’s candidates in the coming weeks, especially for tight races closer to campus. The Republicans will focus more on down-ballot races this year following their rejection of Trump. They plan on hosting a phone bank and leading a canvassing trip to New Hampshire in support of Republican senator Kelly Ayotte, according to Garvey.
Wang also said that the Democrats similarly plan on hosting a phone bank for Sen. Ayotte’s challenger in the senatorial race, New Hampshire governor Maggie Hassan.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Interest in the Harvard Republican Club this fall is—in the language of the GOP standard bearer they declined to endorse—“yuge.”
130 to 150 new students attended the club’s introductory meeting last week, according to club president Declan P. Garvey ’17. In comparison, Garvey said that there were about 30 students who showed up a similar introductory meeting last year.
The Harvard Republicans announced just over a month ago that it would not be supporting Republican presidential nominee Donald J. Trump, a decision that garnered widespread attention from large media outlets ranging from The Washington Post to CNN.
Garvey said the club’s firm renunciation of Trump’s polarizing rhetoric may have helped attract new members.
“[The increase in interest] was kind of the opposite of what we expected with Trump getting the nomination,” Garvey said. “We were worried because he is so polarizing. It’s already hard enough to be Republican or conservative on campus, even more so when it’s tied to something like that at the national level.”
Kiera O’Brien ’20, a new member of the Harvard Republican Club, agreed with Garvey’s assessment. She cited the club’s decision as a motivating factor for her interest, an opinion she says is common among her peers.
“There is a small proportion [of new members] that are Trump supporters. But definitely the majority is not,” she said.
This year, according to The Crimson’s annual survey of the freshman class, nearly half of surveyed students identifying as “strong Republicans” said they viewed Trump unfavorably, though a majority of this group said they would vote for him if the vote were held today. Of respondents who identified themselves as a “not a very strong Republican,” 24 percent said they would vote for Trump.
The Harvard College Democrats also report an election cycle attendance bump, though not to the extent of the Republican counterparts. According to Susan X. Wang ’17, the club’s president, attendance at its introductory meeting last week was up to 70 compers, as compared to the usual 30 or 40.
“We’re trying to capitalize on [the timing],” Wang said. “So even after the election, people can stay involved. There are still important things that need to be done.”
Both clubs anticipate campaigning for their respective party’s candidates in the coming weeks, especially for tight races closer to campus. The Republicans will focus more on down-ballot races this year following their rejection of Trump. They plan on hosting a phone bank and leading a canvassing trip to New Hampshire in support of Republican senator Kelly Ayotte, according to Garvey.
Wang also said that the Democrats similarly plan on hosting a phone bank for Sen. Ayotte’s challenger in the senatorial race, New Hampshire governor Maggie Hassan.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The revelation that industry-funded research at Harvard in the 1960s downplayed the deleterious effects of sugar has put Harvard in a bitter position in the news.
The New York Times reported Monday that three Harvard scientists in the 1960s accepted roughly $50,000, in today’s terms, from the sugar industry to publish a review that minimized the relationship between consuming too much sugar and being diagnosed with heart disease. Documents uncovered by researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, implicate a trade association then known as the Sugar Research Foundation, and the 1960s Harvard researchers, all deceased, the Times reported.
Other media outlets, including the Boston Globe, the Huffington Post, and Bloomberg.com, quickly picked up the Times’s story.
Walter C. Willett, the current chair of the Harvard School of Public Health’s Nutrition Department, said that flaws in research and publication standards plagued the 1960s case. He added that the episode further brought to light the dangers of industry funding.
“The dangers of industry funding are much clearer now,” Willett said. “Industry can basically distort the body of literature.” One of the implicated researchers from the 1960s was chair of Harvard’s Nutrition Department, according to the Times.
Willett said he sees the issue with the sugar research—published in 1967—as two-fold: problematic funding models and inadequate disclosure of industry-researcher ties. Industries can create bias by funding small, weak studies, downplaying the better, publicly funded research, Willett said.
“The funding part is… much more complex, because it’s not a totally black-and-white situation,”  he said. “That’s really an important societal issue. If we really want minimally-biased scientific research, we really need more public funding for research, and that’s declining.” Recent budget cuts by Congress have led to dips in public funding for research at Harvard.
“Especially in today’s environments there’s been a reduction, a big decrease, in public research support,” Willett said. “So that puts many researchers in a difficult position.”
Willett also said the standards of publication that allowed the 1967 review to run in the reputable New England Journal of Medicine would not pass muster today. “There were no standards, really, at one point of time,” he said, adding, that since the article was a review of published studies, rather than a study in its own right, “that makes it even more sensitive.”
“Things have changed a lot both for institutions, like the School of Public Health, but also for the journals, [who are the] gatekeepers for disclosure,” Willett said.
In terms of the 1967 review’s findings, though, while the UCSF paper and subsequent media coverage seem to imply that either high sugar intake or too much fat predicated heart disease, the picture is far more complex, Willett said.
“This recent paper tried to portray it as one or the other, one-dimensional thinking for not a one-dimensional problem,” he said.
Willett said that the 1967 report’s evaluation of polyunsaturated dietary fat was “right on target,” although that report did not discuss trans fat, which scientists now know also contributes to cardiovascular disease. And the sugar-versus-fat debate—started in the 1960s and implied by the UCSF findings—seemed to imply that one or the other was the culprit, he added.
“Both sides were on the right track in the 1960’s publication, and it is clear that the causes of cardiovascular disease, and most major health problems, are multi-dimensional,” Willett added in an email.
—Staff writer Melissa C. Rodman can be reached at melissa.rodman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @melissa_rodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Scores of blazer-clad undergraduate men trickled into the ballroom of the Sheraton Commander hotel Tuesday evening for the all-male A.D. Club’s first ever “open punch” event.
Despite some apparent mix-ups in the invitation process, the event, which allowed a wider selection of men the chance to vie for entry into the 180-year-old final club than were permitted to do so in years past, went off largely without a hitch.
Standing in small groups around undergraduate and graduate members of the A.D.—identifiable by their bull-festooned black neckties—prospective members made small talk and sipped soft drinks for the better part of an hour. Dimming lights indicated the end of a given shift, at which point the punches made way for a new group of men. In all, the A.D. hosted punches in three separate hour-long sessions, with the entire event running from 7 to 11 in the evening.
More than 20 punches leaving the event declined to comment for this story. A.D. Graduate President Kenneth G. Bartels '73 also declined request for comment.
Traditionally, punch—the weeks-long process each fall by which students attempt to join social groups like the A.D.—has been limited only to those who were invited. Following a University-wide report on sexual assault that condemned final clubs and Greek organizations, Bartels announced in March the club’s decision to open the punch process to all male sophomores.
One invitee notably absent from Tuesday’s proceedings was Cory Ransom ’19, a woman who received an emailed invitation and subsequent confirmation from the club, which apparently did not notice that her gender would disqualify her from membership. Despite a tongue-in-cheek Facebook event which suggested she would attend Tuesday’s event, Ransom decided not to go after the A.D.’s undergraduate leadership emailed her an apology.
“The invitation was extended to sophomore men, and we regret the inconvenience this has caused you,” the A.D. wrote in the apology, which Ransom shared with The Crimson. “Respectfully, we beg your pardon.”
The A.D. is not alone in changing its recruitment practices. Last spring, the all-male Porcellian Club decided to open its punch process, as did the traditionally all-female—soon to be gender neutral—Sablière society this fall. On Tuesday, the all-male Owl Club became the most recent final club to announce its plans for an open punch.
Although Owl Club leaders declined to comment on their motivations, the three other clubs hosting open punches cited last year’s intense administrative pressure as one motivation behind the decision. In May, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana announced a new policy sanctioning members of single-gender social organizations. Starting with the Class of 2021, members of those groups will not be eligible for leadership positions in College-recognized clubs or administrative endorsement for postgraduate fellowships like the Rhodes and Marshall.
Still, despite the unique nature of this year’s punch, one A.D. member chatting with punches suggested that little had fundamentally changed.
“Much as The Crimson might like to call this historic, it’s really just fun,” he said.
–Staff writer Jonathan G. Adler can be reached at jonathan.adler@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JonathanGAdler.
—Staff writer C. Ramsey Fahs can be reached at ramsey.fahs@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ramseyfahs.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the first time since 2002, someone with a name other than Tom Brady started at quarterback for the New England Patriots.  Though technically not a rookie, Jimmy Garoppolo made his first career NFL start on Sunday in primetime.
Coming into the game, national expectations were low for Garoppolo. Jimmy G’s preseason performance was less than stellar, and while Tom Brady wasn’t physically present, the anger of his suspension loomed large in New England.
Long story short, Garoppolo exceeded expectations and led the Patriots to a win over a preseason potential Super Bowl contender in the Arizona Cardinals. His performance certainly did not wow anyone, but he was calm, collected, and performed better than each of his AFC East counterparts—including one Crimson alum in Ryan Fitzpatrick ’05.
But in New England, fans weren’t quite as surprised with the Patriots performance as national commentators were. Even with personnel changes on all parts of the field, one important position has held constant—Bill Belichick.
It was a typical Belichick game plan, shifting the playbook to adjust to Garoppolo’s strengths rather than taking the Brady-style and forcing Garoppolo in the mix.
But nowhere was Belichick’s influence on Garoppolo clearer than in his postgame interviews. Much like the infamously vague coach, Garoppolo gave minimal insight into his personal performance and spewed lines so Patriot-like that without hearing the words come out of Jimmy’s mouth, you wouldn’t know whether it was Belichick himself who crafted the language.
On WEEI, the Boston-area sports radio channel, he spouted that he was “just going out there trying to do [his] job”—a line so famous in the New England football dictionary that the team even sells official memorabilia that says “Do Your Job.”
So what does all this have to do with Harvard basketball?
Tommy Amaker is the Crimson’s Bill Belichick. Not just that they both hold the same title as the “Head Coach,” but that Amaker has the coaching style and a leadership ability that transcends individual players on his teams.
During the 2015-2016 season, the Crimson was missing its “quarterback” in point guard Siyani Chambers, who suffered a torn ACL during summer training and withdrew for the academic year in order to preserve his athletic eligibility. With the graduation of leading scorer Wesley Saunders ’15 and the injury to Chambers, the Crimson dropped to fourth in the Ivy preseason poll just months after nearly defeating North Carolina in the NCAA Championship Tournament.
Yes, the Crimson finished the season exactly as predicted, at fourth. But in the process, Harvard battled against Kansas (losing by single digits), defeated BYU and Auburn in the Diamondhead Classic, pushed Oklahoma to the wire, and defeated Ivy contender Princeton—something only eventual Ancient Eight winner Yale had done in league play.
But Amaker’s Belichick-ian style is most evident in the language he uses that is copied by his players—and potential recruits. Most notably is his consistent discussion of the Harvard brand and the Ivy brand. He talks about the fact that they are representing Harvard the university, not just Harvard the basketball team. This comes up most often in discussion of the recruiting process. He touts that coming to Harvard is not just a four-year decision, but a forty-year decision.
“This [Harvard] brand is a powerful one, and when we get a chance to present this to the right kids, it’s something that can make a lot of sense,” Amaker said in a post-season press conference last spring.
Just as Garoppolo has repeated Belichick’s mantras, so too have potential Harvard recruits have caught the Amaker bug. No other recruit has caused greater commotion, however, than top-five class of 2017 prospect: Wendell Carter Jr. of Atlanta, GA, who has made Harvard one of his final eight possible schools.
“I’m not just throwing Harvard on there to look good—I’m actually interested,” Carter Jr. told USA Today High School Sports. “”If I go to Harvard, and my basketball career doesn’t go as planned, I can pretty much do anything else I want.
And Carter Jr. isn’t the only one who is intrigued by Amaker’s pitch. Carter Jr.’s mother, Kylia Carter, has said to Fox Sports to “Just wait and see because I really think…Harvard has a better shot than people think. I think Harvard has a better shot than they even think.”
Carter Jr. is scheduled to visit Cambridge on his first official visit on Sept. 17th. Fellow top-five recruit Mohammed Bamba, who Carter Jr. has previously discussed teaming up with in college, visited Harvard unofficially on Sept. 6th.
These high profile visits come in the wake of Amaker scoring the No. 12 recruiting class in the country according to ESPN, with four of the seven rookies ranked among the top-100 prospects.
But college basketball players come and go. If Carter Jr. joins the Crimson, he may come and go even faster than most if he elects to join the NBA before he graduates. While players get only four years at most, as long as Amaker is at the helm, expect his messages and mantras o continue to woo recruits. Maybe next time people won’t be so surprised.
—Staff writer Theresa C. Hebert can be reached at theresa.hebert@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Despite solid play from junior outside hitter Paige Kebe, the Crimson continues to skid after dropping last night’s match to UNH by a score of three sets to none, Harvard (1-6) suffered sixth-consecutive loss this season.
Following a 3-0 sweep of Siena to start the month, the Crimson returned empty handed from its west coast road trip at the Baden Invitational, and its return to the east coast for did not change its recent luck.
“It’s still preseason…but it definitely has left a bad taste in our mouths,” co-captain Corie Bain said. “We have to come out in practice tomorrow and take care of business in order to prepare for the Ivy League.
After a quick 6-1 start to the third set, the Wildcats (5-6) saw some resistance from the Crimson. Seeing its lead get trimmed to three points, UNH called a time out to slow Harvard’s run and regain composure.
The Crimson cut the lead to two points before the Wildcats rattled off the next seven behind senior outside hitter Sara Carlson’s serve en route to a lopsided third set victory, ending the match in emphatic order.
“The end was just a continuation of our poor performance throughout the game,” Bain said. “The end was just the icing on the cake.”
UNH senior middle blocker and reigning 2015 America East Conference Co-Player of the Year, Demi Muses. Displaying consistency in her play, Muses led both teams with 17 kills and a .500 hitting percentage.
Kebe’s team-leading eight kills were not able to match the attacking force of UNH’s front row, as the Crimson fell to the Wildcats for the first time since 2013.
Harvard relied on Bain’s serve to create an early lead in the first set but then fell victim to multiple UNH scoring bursts. The visitors soon found themselves playing catch-up for the remainder of the set.
The Wildcats carried that momentum right into the second set, where they flew out of the gates to a 5-0 lead behind setter Keelin Severtson. Along with ripping two aces during her run, Severtson connected with Muses on two attacks.
Despite numerous substitutions and time outs in an effort to repossess momentum, Harvard was unable to climb back within striking distance. UNH never let its foot off the pedal, converting 17 kills and six aces in set two alone.
Harvard’s performance further withered as the night went on, and the group finished each subsequent game with less points than the last and never led in sets two and three. The service game in last night’s match was a noticeable Wildcat advantage, with nine aces trumping the Crimson’s three.
On the Harvard side, the team has grown to expect sizable contributions from some of its young rising stars, and last night was no exception. Solid defensive play from freshman libero Isabelle Tashima and a crucial net-front presence thanks to fellow freshman and middle blocker Maclaine Fields were bright spots in the straight-set loss. Tashima finished Tuesday’s match with a team-leading 12 digs and pitched in four assists; meanwhile, Fields contributed seven kills with a sound .312 hitting percentage.
“[The freshmen] have done a great job embracing their role,” Bain remarked. “When everyone steps on the court, we’re all equals…. It’s important that we all feel comfortable enough playing together.”
Tuesday night marks the fifth time a match has ended in a sweep of the Crimson out of its seven game slate thus far through the season.
“New Hampshire is not a team we should lose to,” Kebe said. “Especially not in three [sets].”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
