News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I love the way Nina Simone scowls. What if you cried so much your smile looked like the sun? She sings in “Blues for Mama” that “ain’t nobody perfect 'cause ain't nobody free” and I don’t have to be in love, but I, too, have equated freedom to perfection, have used it as a crutch. Still don’t have the balance right. Kanye popped up in Thanksgiving conversation because he canceled his 21 shows and got hospitalized for acting up. The consensus was that he was immature, but I can’t deny the prettiness of his imperfections, which is his cage. You don’t get poetry like “Slightly scratch your Corolla/Okay I smashed your Corolla” by being a nice guy. I’m not trying to be nice either. I’m just trying to be perfect.
Director Bernardo Bertolucci stated in a 2013 interview that resurfaced last Saturday that a scene depicting rape in his acclaimed 1972 film “The Last Tango in Paris” was not consensual. He was attempting to get actress Maria Schneider’s “reaction as a girl, not as an actress,” which sounds a lot like artistic bullshit, so after, in framing his guilt, he said, “to obtain something, I think that you have to be completely free.” During the film’s premiere, critic Pauline Kael described it as “the most liberating movie ever made,” and though the words “free” or “liberation” may have been nonchalant choices, they still remain political, read holy and coveted to my modern and problematized sensibilities.
I know how fragile and fleeting feelings of liberation can be, but I also know that what you escape defines who you are and feelings can be changed with new music, new weather, new boys. But in the end, we’re all stuck with our demons no matter what kind of rich, color, pretty, young, and dumb we get to be. If you’re living a good life how long and bad are you going to suffer for your ten minutes to feel fresh again? Though “The Last Tango in Paris” might represent some old-school, outdated misogyny, it asks a good question about the bounds of our freedom, due to the incongruousness of their reactions. Bertolucci and Kael still went home upset by the things they had been upset about, and Schneider went home with something different. As Bertolucci and Kael used the words “free” and “liberation” to describe the situation’s product and Schneider used the word “rape.”
A defining moment of my semester was attending Cornel West’s lecture in early October, where a white man, during the question and answer session, asked West if he, as a black person, would have preferred if slavery had not existed. West’s answer was inconclusive, because history is unchangeable and without it our culture would not have the context it has now but instead another one, equally compelling and equally American. It was a polarizing question among my friends who had also attended the lecture, as we questioned the asker’s intentionality, who in the direct and rehearsed manner in which he asked the question may have wanted to hear about the glorious productions of struggle without having experienced the aftermath himself. But I had wanted to know the answer too, and my philosophizing was not as conclusively inconclusive as West’s, perhaps also due to the privilege of my race, my position as a consumer. I was thinking about James Baldwin’s framework when listening to jazz, which is to listen to what’s not there, which is when Kanye raps “we ain’t married but tonight I need some consummation” I’m going to hear the weight of the week. Is there ever a point where the products of your definition outlast the thing that defined you, where the moments you’ve felt free after trying so hard to feel free outmatch the thing that enslaved you? It’s unfair to compare those two periods because of their cross-generational nature, because one is dependent on the other. It’s wrong to think of oppression’s narrative in a separable versus sequential framework, but I digress, since even on a personal rather than collective level, this is always the trade-off, suffering—internally or externally imposed—versus art, versus joy.
But let’s talk about freedom, because freedom, despite its holiness, is not always right or perfect or beautiful. The way that freedom in our country can never mean liberation, because my will runs directly against your will. The powerful, dangerous, and inevitable decision to mobilize an emotional attachment to freedom, to equate freedom to ecstasy and perfection and art and visceral excitement, when it should have been simply the dull right to negotiate. So what is freedom? Is it the joyous loss of control of the visceral or the cool complete command of the body? Is it the right to exist unoffended or the right to exist inoffensively, the impulse to make noise or the desire for quiet? Freedom, economically and justly, should have been the right to compromise, and its reality should have been to be both comfortable and uncomfortable at the same time, but the poets ask a good question, which is, is that all, to live a mediocre life with a mediocre amount of happiness for a little bit of peace?
The negotiating process for the perfect medium of collective, comfortably uncomfortable freedom is painful, but it must exist. And in some ways, liberal identity politics and the election of Trump, articles on loving yourself and the discrimination still present in society, safe-spaces and political parties, are all a large portion of this negotiation process, an exchange of information between two parties. Because being free is a little more than being perfect. It’s the cost to take to defend it.

Christina M. Qiu, ’19 lives in Mather House. Her column appears on alternate Mondays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last week, the Office of Alcohol and Other Drug Services announced that their annual National Alcohol Screen Day event, at which students evaluated their drinking habits with a health professional and received a free Camelbak water bottle, will no longer take place. Citing the event's expense and its failure to reach high-risk individuals, the office has decided to discontinue this annual tradition.
Notwithstanding the pressures that have resulted in its cancellation, the NASD event had widely beneficial effects on the student body. It helped ensure that students feel comfortable disclosing their drinking behaviors to individuals who can provide help. Furthermore, by virtue of its broad popularity and status as a tradition of sorts, incoming students felt comfortable speaking candidly about their drinking habits, which is critical for the creation of a responsible drinking culture on campus.
The event also helped to acquaint students with the confidential services available at Harvard. While the university offers a multitude of health-related services, many students either do not know they exist or feel that the resources may be inaccessible. National Alcohol Screening Day not only gave both the AODS and the Drugs and Alcohol Peer Advisors visibility, but also reassured participants that these services were trustworthy as confidential resources for them to contact in other situations as well.
Without the sort of visibility that the event and water bottles marked with the DAPA logo provided, there are few other ways of ensuring that freshmen are aware that DAPA can provide them with help. Given the high number of instances of binge-drinking that occur in the Yard, it is incredibly important that DAPA and AODS be seen as reliable resources, so that underclassmen can receive appropriate preventive education before they have a dangerous encounter with alcohol.
To this end, we hope that the AODS will invest in a replacement event in the upcoming years. Whether it involves a Camelbak, some other brand of water bottle, or some other incentive, it is important that the success of this event be replicated. Equipping students with the physical resources to practice safe-drinking is an endeavor that cannot be abandoned with the cancellation of this event.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It was striking this past week to read Athletic Director Bob Scalise’s statement that the objective of the men’s cross country team’s spreadsheets was “not to denigrate or objectify particular women.” Striking, because I know first hand the ways in which my teammates and I were undeniably denigrated and objectified. I was shown the 2014 spreadsheet by a male teammate two years ago over lunch in Annenberg. Though the specific content of the comments about me was—and remains—shocking, the existence of the spreadsheet itself was not on that day; the women’s team knew of the existence and nature of the annual document. “Leaks” like the one I experienced had happened before.
But it is not the content of the spreadsheet that has bothered me most since it emerged last month into the campus consciousness and reemerged into my own. Instead, I’ve been bothered by how unbothered I was upon encountering that content my freshman fall.
I am a PAF now, and I can’t help but now to think about what  my response would be if one of the freshmen I work with came to me reporting the same comments that I had received. It’s an easy and obvious answer: I would wait in the sitting area of the Title IX office until their conversation with a coordinator was complete; I would continue to follow through with him or her to address the circumstances that so disrespected them.
And yet, when I was the one disrespected, I had no response. It’s not just that I read the comments and did not take meaningful action to improve the facts of their existence (though that is true), but more—I read them, and did not object, vocally or internally, to the fact of my own objectification. Quite the contrary: As a first semester freshman, I was happy that the comments about me were “positive.” I did not question the overall existence of the comments, and certainly did not think them wrong.
How do I feel about the document as a junior? Sorry, mostly, to myself and to my teammates and friends. Sorry that it took the revelation of the men’s soccer team’s sexually denigrating scouting reports to bring to light the practices of objectification on the men’s cross country team. Sorry that I didn’t speak up, when I knew about those practices two years ago. Sorry that during my time in our locker room, I did not initiate or contribute to talk about how screwed up this all was—both the spreadsheets themselves and our acceptance of them. Sorry that some guys thought this was acceptable to do to us, and that I did too.
I am glad to see and hear about the directed and explicit efforts being made to shift the culture of the men’s cross country team. I will caution though that the men’s and women’s cross country teams are quite integrated. They practice at the same time, travel together for the same competitions. It is unlikely that an aspect of culture is isolated to only one of the teams.
And so I wonder what efforts have been made to change the culture of the women’s team, away from one where it is normal—and maybe even expected—to accept the objectification and denigration of its members. The women’s cross country team should be an organization that strengthens not just the legs and lungs of its members, but also their senses of self respect and entitlement to fair treatment. But in my experience, this was not the case. I and a few other women saw what was written about us; other members of the women’s team knew that commentary was being made about them and immortalized in a document. Perhaps there are men or women who spoke out without my knowledge, but, generally, the view of this literal locker room talk as acceptable was shared between both teams. I certainly did not say anything, nor did the other women who were shown the document at the same time as me. I hope that, if confronted with the same circumstances as I was, the women currently on the team would respond dramatically differently, and speak up, loudly. I hope that substantive cultural changes have occurred since my departure from the team and that, if not, this conversation can help catalyze them.
I was amongst those quite distressed by last month’s election result, in no small part because the implicit referendum of citing locker room talk as a legitimate excuse for mistreatment of women seemed to pass. The consensus I heard around me, and the coping strategy I myself came to, is to counter disillusionment in widespread aspects of culture by focusing on what you can do, to improve the beliefs around you, and in you.
I cannot turn back the clock two years and burst through the doors of Annenberg to accost my teammates and me, all huddled over our male teammate’s phone looking through the spreadsheet. I cannot plead with the group, eyes locked on my freshman self, to tell a captain or a coach or an Athletic Department official, to  do something; to feel anything besides being glad that the comments were “positive”; to at least just get pissed off.
But I can help to describe this particular problem more completely. I can ask that it be acknowledged and addressed as a problem more complex than something isolated to the men’s soccer or cross-country teams, or even to other men’s sports teams, organizations, or clubs. I can challenge teams and groups of women to re-appropriate “locker room talk” to mean discussion amongst themselves about how to change the circumstances that disrespect or belittle or impede them.
Should ever I find myself allegorically back in that seat in Annenberg, I can and will ask myself to  not run from it, and to face it head on.

Lizzy Y. Thomas ’18 is a Human Developmental and Regenerative Biology concentrator living in Currier House. She was a member of the Harvard women’s cross-country and track and field teams from 2014 to 2016.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Early each Wednesday morning, while the majority of Cambridge is still sound asleep, dozens of spandex-clad and energetic adults from around the Boston area converge on the Harvard Stadium. The first group arrives at 5:30 a.m., followed by another larger wave of people at 6:30 a.m. They mingle, hug, and prepare for a morning workout of steps, sweat, and spirit with the November Project.
The November Project is a fitness movement that organizes early morning workouts each Monday, Wednesday, and Friday year-round. Mondays switch locations, Wednesdays are stairs at the Harvard Stadium, and Fridays are hill repeats on Brookline’s Summit Avenue.
On Wednesday mornings, marathon trainers, graduate students, and fitness novices alike run stairs at the Harvard Stadium, a workout that has been part of the November Project since its founding five years ago.
The November Project began—in November of 2011, as the name suggests—out of a casual pact between two former Northeastern rowers who found it increasingly challenging to stay motivated and healthy in the cold Boston winters. They promised to train together, first for a month.
Little did they know their workout routine would ultimately evolve into a global fitness experience with thousands of people meeting three times per week organized into “tribes” in 32 cities across the United States and around the world.
THE TRIBE IS BORN
In the fall of 2011, Bojan Mandaric approached his friend and former teammate Brogan Graham for help staying in shape through the cold winter months. Graham accepted the challenge and the two agreed to create a regular fitness routine.
“We mapped out the whole week, then mapped out the whole month. We created a Google doc where we were tracking all our improvements and he named the Google doc ‘November Project’ because it was just supposed to be one month,” Mandaric said. “We ran through it. It was fantastic.”
By the end of the November, Mandaric and Graham to extend the fitness routine into the end of the year.
As their workouts continued, the two decided to set a goal of running a five mile-race in February. Graham showed up to the race with two shirts spray painted “November Project” across the chests, the origin of what has now become the group’s “grassroots gear” that many members wear to workouts. But at that point, “November Project” had not expanded beyond the two friends, much less to what some humorously call an international fitness cult.
Mandaric described himself and Graham as “tall, gangly, massive 200-pound-plus dudes” who attracted quite a bit of attention at the road race. When asked what the November Project on the shirts meant, Mandaric said they fooled people into believing fabricated stories.
“‘Oh you know, it’s an exclusive 6 foot 4 plus modeling agency, it’s a cult,’ just making up the craziest stupidest things,” Mandaric said.
After that race, Mandaric and Graham decided to expand their workout routines to include others. Just like at their days at the boathouse, they found that exercising with others provided competition, camaraderie, and closer relationships.
The two started putting out casual announcements of their workouts, tweeting that the “November Project” was meeting at 6:30 on Wednesday mornings at the Harvard Stadium. Mandaric said, to his and Graham's surprise, one morning someone took their offer and showed up.
“Every week, more and more people kept showing up,” said Mandaric, and before long, the Boston “tribe” had grown quite large.
November Project has since expanded its Boston presence and reached around the world. Mandaric now jokes about how the November Project has grown so much people do not even recognize him at workouts.
“It’s awesome, cause I don’t want this to be about me, I don’t want this to be about Brogan, the whole thing is about community,” Mandaric said. “Realizing that was super profound and humbling and also very exciting.”
MORNINGS AT THE STADIUM
From the start, the Harvard Stadium has been integral to the November Project.
“The steps here at Harvard Stadium are relentless. They’re always hard, we say it all the time,” Christopher R. Payne, Boston November Project co-leader, said. “It never gets easy, you just get faster.”
The November Project leaders begin every stadium workout at the base of section 37 of the Harvard Stadium with a warmup to energize the group, often with some profanity-laden words of encouragement, hugs to strangers, and bounces up and down in unison. Then the warmup draws to a close and a line begins to form, ready to bound up the steps.
The workout has been described as brutal, relentless, and for a select few, therapeutic. Starting in section 37, participants climb the 31 rows of seats. When participants reach the top, they touch the wall and head down the set of smaller steps sandwiched between sections 36 and 37. At the bottom, the climbers turn around and stare at the faded red and white 36 at the top of the next section. They repeat 36 more times. Within the next 30 minutes or so, participants will have conquered thousands of steps.
“There’s just something about doing a full tour in this building that is the most satisfying thing ever,” Payne said. “There’s definitely something magical about this place, and maybe it’s just that we’re here, and that all my friends are here.”
Brianna K. Beswick ’13, a former tutor in Mather House, got Mather students involved with the November Project. She said she enjoyed how the stadium workouts gave her a sense of accomplishment.
“Anytime you go, you always feel like you did something good for yourself and you really achieved something by 7 in the morning,” she said. “I was hooked on going and doing it with other people.”
CAMARADERIE IN EXERCISE
While the opportunities for intensive exercise initially bring many people to the November Project, participants said the camaraderie it fosters keeps them coming back year in and year out.
Joanne L. Koong ’17, a student in Mather House who joined the November Project this fall, said she felt her senior year had been transformed by the people she found there.
“I’m definitely going to miss it when I graduate… I wish more of these communities existed at Harvard and in life,” she said.

Conor Hayden, a Cambridge resident, highlighted the openness and accessibility of the November Project.
“It’s totally free and everybody is welcome. I would recommend it to everybody, it’s just a great way to meet people and just do something ridiculous before work,” he said.
Mandaric said his most memorable morning at the Stadium was the Wednesday after the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing.
“A lot of people came to the workout, some just to put in a workout as any other Wednesday. Some people were just bawling their faces off. They didn’t come to workout, they just came to kinda like share the emotions with someone else, knowing that they were not the only one that was affected,” he said.
“That moment was the time when we said, ‘alright, this is not about us anymore, we can’t really tear it down anymore, because what we created is important to so many people.”
The leaders said they see the interpersonal benefits as even more important than exercise.
“The whole fitness aspect of it, to me, is like an added bonus,” Payne said. “It’s a community first, and then all of a sudden you get fit by accident.”
November Project workouts are free and open to anyone. Mandaric and Graham said they began by designing workouts where the fastest and slowest people would all be able to participate and get tired, but not get too spread out.
“Having that wide range of athletes, your fastest and the slowest are still sharing kinda the same battlefield, but you’re pushing yourself to do the best that you can,” Mandaric said.
Although the November Project has already spread to over 30 cities around the world, the Project’s leaders said they hope to see it expand further.

“If the world were a place where every city had November Project, the world would be a lot better place. I would want to live in that world,” Boston November Project co-leader Emily Saul said. “I’m all for building these kinds of communities within cities that allow people to feel connected and to keep moving throughout the year and to feel like they’re inspired and doing something that feels good in life.”
Graduate student Elaine F. Stranahan lives near Harvard’s Radcliffe Quadrangle, and used to walk just a few minutes to reach a small market store selling fresh produce, meat, and dairy. But ever since her local market, Evergood, closed, she has struggled to access groceries.
“It has really devastated my eating habits,” Stranahan said. “It was really, really remarkable to me that there were two CVS's across the street from Harvard buildings, but no grocery store within walking distance.”
Stranahan is not alone in facing difficulty finding places to buy groceries. Despite the variety of stores in Harvard Square, the surrounding area is largely devoid of grocery stores and supermarkets. The U.S. Department of Agriculture classifies Harvard Square as a half-mile “low-access zone,” given the distance local residents must travel to find groceries.
Finding healthy, fresh produce in Harvard Square is not easy. Graduate and undergraduate students, who live on and off-campus alike, point to comparatively long distances and expensive prices as barriers to accessing food locally.
STUDENT IMPACT
Jade D. Warren ’17 lives off-campus in Harvard Square and said the lack of grocery stores presents an inconvenience to her, especially when compared to students on meal plans. She has to travel to other areas in order to purchase food.
“Everybody that lives in Harvard Square does this and I know that not everybody has cars. It’s one of those things that you just have to live with when you live in Harvard Square,” Warren said.
In the Harvard Square neighborhood, there are dozens of restaurants. But when it comes to locations that sell ingredients and staple foods, there are just two CVSs, the small Broadway Market, and the 24-hour Market in the Square.
Warren’s former apartment was near the Quad, giving her access to grocery stores in Porter Square. But now living in Harvard Square, she said there is little to no access.
Warren also said she prefers cooking with specialty Asian ingredients, requiring her to travel to Central Square or Chinatown because Harvard Square lacks ethnic food markets.
“It’s what I choose to do,” Warren said. “It’s not necessarily the closest option but it’s definitely what I choose to do.”
Stranahan echoed Warren’s qualms about access, but also emphasized the issue of food cost in Cambridge. Prior to arriving at Harvard, Stranahan lived in San Francisco, a city known for its high cost of living. She was surprised to find costs higher in Cambridge.
“I had to dramatically increase the amount of money I allocated per month to food from what I was spending in San Francisco,” Stranahan said. “And I also had to lower my standards, because the quality of food was not as good, both in restaurants and in stores.”
Maya Garcia, a graduate student who lives in Sommerville's Union Square, previously lived near the Quad and said her new residence provides improved her access to food stores.
“I really liked this [apartment] and it certainly was a real motivating factor to go for it that it’s right by a Market Basket,” Garcia said, referring to a local supermarket. “Last year I lived halfway in between Harvard Square and Porter Square and so I really only had access to the Star Market, which is relatively expensive.”
Amy Y. Zhang ’18 also said the difficulty in being able to purchase affordable fresh fruits and vegetables not served in on-campus dining halls is a problem for her.
“There are nights where I’m studying or I’m walking through the Square and I kind of look around at all the different food options and realize that there’s not a lot of healthy things to eat, or you have to spend $6 for a small bowl of grapes at CVS,” Zhang said.
The Dudley Co-op, whose buildings are on Sacramento Street and Mass Ave., has a different situation. Maxine J. McGredy ’17, who is in charge of ordering food for the Co-op, said residents all contribute each month to fund groceries. She uses that budget to order food in bulk through delivery services such as Famous Produce and Instacart.
“We are not on the Harvard meal plan; we buy all our own food,” McGredy said. “We don't actually really go into supermarkets in Cambridge that much.”
DEFINING LOW-ACCESS
The USDA looks at a number of factors to determine whether an area’s lack of food access qualifies it as a “food desert”—an area where reaching grocery stores is more difficult as a result of distance and residents’ economic capacity to purchase healthy food.
Apart from food deserts, where residents face the most extreme barriers to purchasing healthy food, the USDA also lists low-access regions. Generally, a low-access region is an urban area that is not within a mile of the closest grocery store, according to USDA economist Michele “Shelly” Ver Ploeg—who works in the department’s food assistance branch.
A low-income region, as categorized by Ver Ploeg, is an area where 20 percent of the population falls below the poverty line or where the median income is less than 80 percent of the median income of the larger metropolitan area.
Under USDA guidelines, Harvard Square has both low-access and low-income qualifications. Harvard’s campus in Cambridge falls within a half-mile low-access zone, meaning the nearest supermarket is a half-mile away, according to the USDA’s Food Access Research Atlas. Harvard’s Allston campus is not categorized as a low-access zone, though it is as a low-income area.
While local residents did note challenges in accessing food, the USDA classifications may not tell the full story. College towns deviate from the conventional urban model and often skew census statistics given their high number of temporary student residents with no income, according to Ver Ploeg. The campus itself takes up area that could otherwise be used for a grocery store, altering the regional distribution of access to fresh foods.
According to Josephine Wendel, the manager of the Cambridge Public Health Department’s Nutrition Programs, the picture presented by the USDA’s categories for Cambridge does not necessarily represent the actual food access situation. While the USDA emphasizes distance to food and number of low-income residents, she said the more significant issue in Cambridge is the high cost of living.
“Cambridge is an expensive place to live, so even for people who don’t have what’s typically called low-income, it may still be difficult to afford food,” Wendel said.
COMMUNAL RESOURCES
The City of Cambridge works to provide residents with affordable healthy food, Wendel said.
There are a number of city-sponsored programs that either make available free food for local residents or subsidize groceries.
Food for Free is a Cambridge-based nonprofit, partly supported by the City of Cambridge, that donates food to local shelters and residents in need. The director of the organization, Sasha Purpura, said the municipal government and area donors are very supportive of such programs. Furthermore, Purpura said Food for Free receives surplus food donations from grocers, such as Trader Joe’s, and various dining services at schools, including Harvard.
Fresh produce, which can be costly, is a category of food that the organization works particularly hard to provide.
“The reality is, healthy food is expensive,” Purpura said. “Cheap, high-calorie, low-nutrition food tends to be less expensive, so when people have only a few dollars to deal with they have to make a choice of how they're going to spend that, they're going to do something to fill their stomachs, and that tends to be unhealthy food.”
The Margaret Fuller Neighborhood House, also a Cambridge city-supported non-profit located near Kendall Square, runs a food shelter that serves 16,000 people per year, according to its director, Christina Alexis. Alexis said that figure has increased dramatically in recent years.
Between 2015 and 2016, the shelter’s membership grew from around 550 individuals to more than 850. “It's a 55 percent increase in just one year of our volume of people who are utilizing this food pantry,” she said.
Alexis attributed the increase to Cambridge’s high cost of living, and said some stores do not sell products that qualify for federal programs such as Women, Infants, and Children benefits.
The city also funds, through donations and grants, a SNAP Match program. The program matches up to $15 worth of the federally-funded Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits when used at local farmers’ markets, in order to provide shoppers with $30 worth of groceries, Wendel said.
While most Harvard undergraduates are enrolled in the College’s meal plan, for graduate students and College students who are not, access to food continues to be an issue.
“[Graduate students] who live on their own, I would imagine, are in a similar position to me because they don't have a car,” Stranahan said. “It’s not like they can go on these huge trips to their favorite Trader Joe’s and bring stuff home.”
McGredy, who spent last summer living on Harvard’s campus but not in the Co-op, concurred with that sentiment.
“This summer I lived in Harvard and there’s nothing. It’s so hard to find food around here.”
—Staff writer William S. Flanagan can be reached at will.flanagan@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com.
Hidden amid the labyrinthine stacks in the basement of Widener Library, more than a  dozen machines slowly transform books and artifacts into digital files available for download. Librarians stand next to the hulking machines for hours, painstakingly scanning more than 7,000 pages every day. They take care not to damage the delicate binding of the original books.
This process—digitizing library collections—occurs across the Harvard Library System, which includes 79 libraries. The end result: Everything from rare books to pamphlet and map collections to medieval manuscripts, business records, architectural drawings, and photographs can now be found on various websites of the Harvard library, and not just in the stacks.
Since 1998, when the University started the Library Digital Initiative, Harvard Library has gradually made many of its materials available online and libraries across the University have opened  facilities to digitize materials. Last year alone, Widener digitized more than 1.8 million artifacts, a 200,000 increase from 2015 and 600,000 more than 2014, according to Franziska Frey, Harvard Library’s Chief of Staff.
While these efforts have presented new opportunities for scholars to access and preserve sources for posterity, they have also brought their own set of challenges. Even as more people turn to the digital realm for their research, librarians and researchers say the physical archives remain invaluable. But some scholars must seek funding and support outside of Harvard to digitize many sources, a process some say can be complicated.
“If there are stakeholders who want all of the stuff online, Harvard is not really inclined to put its own money to that enterprise. What you want to do is to find money outside of Harvard, and then you’re good to go,” said Stephen Chapman, manager of digital strategy for Collections at the Harvard Law School library.
SCANNING PRIORITIES
With millions of books, artifacts, and sources in Harvard’s system, librarians said they must prioritize some materials over others.
“The volume of work that there is to do exceeds our capacity to do it all at this point. There’s a component of selecting what gets digitized and what doesn’t. That’s a challenge,” said Thomas A. Hyry, lead librarian of Houghton Library.
Donations and grants from outside organizations or individuals can dictate priorities for the digitization of certain materials. If a researcher or scholar already has funding for their digitization project, the probability that the library will digitize the requested materials is much higher.
At Harvard Law School, librarians are digitizing 40 million pages of court decisions after Ravel Law, a startup that posts legal documents online, provided the funding.  The project, called Caselaw Access Project, will make United States case law available on Ravel’s website.
“When people come to us with their passion and their money, they’re much more likely to get their stuff digitized than if someone comes to us with their passion and no money,” Chapman said.
Similarly, outside funding allowed researchers to digitize 5,136 items over the course several years for the Colonial North American Project, one of the Harvard Library’s largest ongoing projects. Eventually librarians hope to digitize all known archival and manuscript material from 17th and 18th Century North America in Harvard Library. The Arcadia Fund, a British organization that “supports charities and scholarly institutions that preserve cultural heritage and the environment,” has provided funding for the project.
At the Schlesinger Library at the Radcliffe Institute of Advanced Study, the National Historical Publications and Records Commissions gave $150,000 to digitize the Blackwell family collection.
‘A HUGE DIFFERENCE’
Once a collection of materials does become digitized, professors and students say they encounter sources they may never have been able to gain access otherwise.
In one research project, University Professor Ann M. Blair said that the 65 sources she needed were so spread out across the world she may not have been access them if they were not digitized and online.
“I just finished this project, which would have been completely unthinkable in the age before digitization,” she said. “But because of digitization, I was able to find all of the books except one online, which I was still able to find online on film.”
Beyond research projects for professors, though, digitized sources can also help students in their studies. For more than 10 years, University Professor Laurel Ulrich has used the digital materials of the Artemas Ward house, a historical house from the 18th century, in her class titled, History 84c: “This Old House: A Social and Environmental History.”
Nathaniel R. F. Bernstein ’17, a student in the course, said the meticulous photos of every item in the house and the ability to search the house’s family records has enabled his research for the course.
“For a lot of archival sources you don’t need to go into the library, you have these great high-quality prints and scans that you look at online,” Bernstein said. “This makes a huge difference in terms of your ability to look at a lot of sources for your historical research in your own time.”
In addition to making it easier to access the sources, some researchers said digitizing sources allows them to analyze and discuss the materials in more sophisticated ways.
Bonnie Burns, the Head of Geospatial Resources at the Harvard Map Collection, said she can perform quantitative analysis of digitized maps.
“I see all of this as a treasure trove of data. We scan these, we go through the process of georeferencing, where you assign real-world coordinates, latitude and longitude to the image,” she said. “Suddenly this piece of paper becomes data.”
For example, Burns pointed to maps of railroad networks in the 19th century. “You can trace out those railroads and do quantitative analysis on them, you can ask what happened to the population of an area after the railroad went through one spot but not another,” Burns said.
Making a digital copy of a source also preserves materials that can sometimes be physically sensitive.
“As a means of preservation, if there is something that is very fragile and falling apart, then we can capture it so that if deteriorates further, we at least know what it looked like in 2016,” Hyry said.
But in order for digitizing resources to matter, librarians said students and professors must be able to find them online.
“We want to know the impact of our work and what we can do to make it easier for students to know that these materials are there,” Frey said.
DIGITIZATION AND BEYOND
Though the advances of digitization have aided researchers in their projects, some say it cannot replace consulting a physical source. But both Ulrich and Bernstein said that accessing the original material remains important despite the prominence of digitized sources.
“I think, to be a serious researcher, and this is probably not always the case for undergraduates, if you’re at Harvard, you don’t want to sit in front of a computer all the time,” Ulrich said. “I really encourage my students to go to archives to look at the physical materials.”
Bernstein said he appreciates the process of physically accessing a source.
“It’s definitely a different experience than walking into an archive, picking something up, and physically touching it, and also having the conversation with the archivist that leads me to other sources,” Bernstein said.
Sometimes, the original artifact includes information not available in the digitized version, according to Blair.
“In one of the books I was using, the metadata—that is, the information describing the book—in the archives had noted that there was a fold-out table in the back. But it wasn’t in the digitized copy of the book,” she said.
For Frey, it’s important students and professors consult both physical and digital sources.
“Human beings are funny. They say, I did this this way before, now I can do it this way, and they replace what they used to do with the new method, instead of combining the best of both methods and learning the most that way,” she said. “And that’s how research should be, a combination of digitization and looking at the original artifacts.”
—Staff writer Archie J.W. Hall can be reached at archie.hall@thecrimson.com. 
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. 

When Zarin I. Rahman ’18 arrived on campus, she already had a comfortable set of friends. But she hadn’t met them at a prep school that regularly sends students to Harvard or at meet-ups in a major metropolitan area.
Instead, Rahman, who hails from Brookings, S.D., had spent time in high school doing research and competing in a nationwide science program that provides an alternative pipeline to Ivy League schools: the Intel Science Talent Search, which will be called the Regeneron Science Talent Search starting in 2017.
Along with 39 other finalists in the Intel competition, Rahman spent a week in Washington, D.C. during her senior year of high school competing with other students, some of whom were on their way to Harvard. Rahman, who studies neurobiology, said the program helped the transition from a state that sends relatively few students to Harvard each year.
“I mean I come from a small high school, a small town, this is a big city, a big school, so I was nervous,” she said.
Rahman’s experience is not atypical. About a quarter of finalists from the past five years attended or are currently attending Harvard College, according to a Crimson analysis. Because of the high number of students who are finalists in the competition and who attend the College, Intel finalists enjoy a head-start socially.
But the benefits do not stop there. In addition to the social connections, Intel finalists also win money that they often put towards tuition, and gain access to an extensive network of alumni.
MONEY MATTERS
Before these students can call themselves Intel finalists, they spend months—and sometimes years—conducting intensive scientific research.
Jonah M. Kallenbach ’17, who in 2013 finished second place in the national competition and won $75,000, started his research project, which tried to predict interactions between disordered proteins, at a summer program he attended after 10th grade.
“I went to this summer research program, called the Research Science Institute, which is over at MIT,” Kallenbach said.  “I was working with a [Principal Investigator] at Harvard Medical School, Gil Alterovitz, and we did this research together, which basically characterized when disordered proteins will interact with other proteins.”
From more than 1,700 applications, the Intel program picks 300 semi-finalists every year. Judges, who hold Ph.D.s in areas of science, prioritize the students’ research, while also considering applicants’ general academic performance. These 300 semi-finalists each win $2,000, and the competition grants their individual schools the same amount of money for STEM education.
From there, judges then select the 40 finalists to compete in a week-long, all-expenses paid trip to Washington, D.C. It is here where most finalists get to know each other before college.
All finalists receive at least $7,500, and the top three finalists last year each received $150,000. All together, the competition distributes more than $1 million every year. The grants, which are considered taxable income, can be used for anything.
Many students at Harvard say they use their monetary prizes to pay their tuition. In addition to the financial incentive, students say their interest in the topic fuels their research.
Some students, like Kelly X. Zhang ’17, draw inspiration from their personal lives. Zhang’s project was inspired by her friend’s father, who passed away from cancer.
“My project was related to cancer imaging. So the main problem that we were seeing is that a lot of times when cancer patients get surgeries, even after surgery, sometimes some cancer cells remain in the body and they spread,” Zhang said. “And so this actually happened to one of my close friend’s dad, and even after he got surgery, he like a couple years later passed away from cancer. And I was kind of wondering… why did that happen?”
Other students say they want to pursue their research to address global problems. When asked to explain his project, Joshua A. Meier ’18, who worked on trying to harness the aging process in order to stop cancer cells, said he sees his project as part of a broader goal.
“It’s just my goal to, you know, try to make the world a better place,” he said.
SOCIAL BENEFITS
Once they arrive in Washington D.C., the finalists spend a week competing with each other for national recognition, meeting with leading scientists, and attending social events.
“We had a lot of free time at the hotel, too,”said Claire B. Burch ’20. “There was only 40 of us, right, so we got to know everyone else like pretty well by the end of the week.”
Once students arrive on campus, the relationships they forge during the program often extend into freshman fall. Kallenbach remembers how much easier it was to get to know classmates thanks to the competition.
“It was nice to have a group of people that I knew,” he said. “It was definitely easier to make the transition, having some familiar faces around campus who I could talk to… I ended up in a lot of classes with people who were at Intel with me, so it was really nice to have people to p-set with and stuff like that.”
Despite the large number of students from Intel at Harvard, the program has no formal relationship with the admissions department, according to Caitlin Sullivan, the director of outreach and equity at the Society for Science and the Public. But she said the program does send out information about the semi-finalists and finalists to colleges across the country.
“We send them an announcement to offices of admissions every year about the semifinalist announcement, which is now called the Top 300 Scholars,” she said. “So there’s no way for us to guarantee every office of admissions in every college in the country sees it or that necessarily that the admissions officers open it, but we do what we can to get that word out.”
This is one of the benefits of the being a finalist in the competition, Sullivan said.
“We have an alumni department. We have two people who work in it; at this point it’s fairly new. We have alumni events across the country, sometimes at universities,” she said. “And then there are some alumni Facebook pages where students can keep in touch with students from their class or also connect with folks who are previous finalists.”
Students at Harvard who participated in the program said the Intel alumni community can be helpful. Meier now works with Feng Zhang, a scientist at the Broad Institute who finished in third place in 2000. Although they weren’t connected directly through Intel STS, Meier believes the shared experience enhances their working relationship.
“The Intel community is very tight. Both within our own year, and then with alumni, as well,” Meier, who finished in fourth place in 2014, said.
CONTINUING WITH THE SCIENCES
Once Intel finalists get to college, it’s up to them whether or not they continue their projects and scientific pursuits. Several students said they stopped working on their projects once they came to campus. For many students, science still remains a priority.
“I am still involved in the sciences. I’m doing research right now with a professor, more on the computer science side of things,” Kallenbach said.
Kallenbach explained why most Intel STS finalists quit pursuing their projects once on campus.
“I think for a lot of people, the projects they were working on at Intel were specific to a lab in their hometown or to a particular person they worked with, who is probably not in Cambridge. So most people that I know, the vast majority, have not continued their projects,” he said.
Hannah K. Larson ’17, whose project involved fusion categories and was published in Journal of Algebra, said she remains interested in mathematical research, though she’s not working on the same exact material.
“The kind of math that I’m doing now is kind of a different area of math. I’m now doing research in algebraic geometry,” she said.
Zhang, who published her project in the Journal of Experimental Secondary Science, said she is still interested in the sciences, but she was interested in pursuing a different aspect than her project.
“I’m in HDRB, which is Human Developmental and Regenerative Biology. So I kept along the biology thing, but I kind of tried like wanted to try a different aspect of it. I’m doing more like research with stem cells and stuff now,” she said.
Larson explained that it’s common for Intel STS students to continue their interest the sciences, even if they forgo their projects.
“The people that I have kept in touch with from my year are concentrating in science or math or like computer science,” she said.
While they may not continue their projects, students say the friendships and scientific interests developed at Intel STS impact their entire college careers.
“Definitely for me, it’s still a group of friendly faces and a group of people who I wouldn’t have necessarily gotten to know through any other means, who I enjoy seeing around campus,” Kallenbach said.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
University President Drew G. Faust is “ramping up” advocacy efforts in Washington, D.C., where she will make the case for protecting undocumented immigrants and safeguarding science research funding after Donald Trump’s unexpected ascension to the presidency.
Faust will travel to Washington early next year to meet with federal lawmakers, moving up a trip previously scheduled for April, she said in an interview last Thursday. In the weeks since the election, Faust has spoken with members of Congress and officials in the Department of Homeland Security on how best to defend undocumented students as she has faced student and faculty demands for the University to designate Harvard a “sanctuary campus.”
Over the course of his campaign, Trump proposed a number of anti-immigrant policies, including building a wall on the country’s southern border and repealing protections for young undocumented people. 
In particular, Faust has met with Illinois Senator Richard J. “Dick” Durbin—a Democrat who helped an undocumented Harvard undergraduate attain deferred action status in 2010—to discuss a bipartisan bill that, if passed, could protect hundreds of thousands of undocumented young people from deportation. The Bridge Act, sponsored by Durbin and Republican Senator Lindsey O. Graham, is an updated version of the DREAM Act, an immigration reform bill that has been stalled in Congress since 2001.
Faust said she has also met with Harvard alumni in the Department of Homeland Security to discuss how changes to Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, commonly known as DACA, could affect undocumented students. Through DACA, young immigrants temporarily receive deferred action from deportation and are eligible to work in the United States. Trump has suggested that he would repeal DACA and aim to deport millions of undocumented immigrants.
Faust has been working with influential alumni in the legal world, including William F. Lee ’72—the Harvard Corporation’s senior fellow—to identify Harvard-educated lawyers who may take on pro bono work helping undocumented students, she said.
One action Faust will not take, though, is declaring Harvard a “sanctuary campus”—a label some campuses have adopted to signal their dedication to helping undocumented students. At a Faculty meeting last week, Faust argued the term offers no concrete protections and may put undocumented students in greater danger.
“I think it kind of puts a bullseye on our students and draws attention to them in a way that is risky, without in any way enhancing the protections that are offered to them, and also may encourage retribution without commensurate gain,” Faust said in the interview, pointing to a bill introduced by a Republican Representative that would crack down on universities serving as “sanctuaries.” Should the bill pass, campuses that refused to comply with lawful requests from federal immigration authorities would lose all federal funding.
At the same time, Harvard will take a number of steps to protect undocumented students that are consistent with most definitions of a “sanctuary campus.” The Harvard University Police Department will not ask about the immigration status of Harvard affiliates or enforce federal immigration laws, HUPD Chief Francis D. Riley wrote in an email in November, and existing University policies forbid law enforcement officials seeking to deport affiliates from entering campus without a warrant.
“It’s not the vague set of undefined promises that I think is implied by the word ‘sanctuary,’” Faust said of the actions she has taken. “I’d like to be very specific about what students can expect.”
Still, some undocumented students said they were disappointed that Faust chose not to use the term, even if they were optimistic about the protections she has offered to them.
At the Faculty meeting, Faust delivered a statement reflecting on the “eruptions of frightening expressions of hatred, bias, and violence” across the country and on campus since the election, and more broadly on the “significant challenges” to Harvard and its values posed by the Trump administration.
Beyond the threats facing undocumented students, Faust also said she is troubled by the President-elect’s proposals to tax sizeable university endowments, a plan that would likely include Harvard. The University’s operations are fueled by an endowment of $35.7 billion, the largest in higher education. In April, responding to a Congressional inquiry, Faust submitted a detailed public document advocating tax exemption for endowments.
Faust also said she is concerned about further cuts to federal research funding, particularly in the area of climate change and the environment. Trump tapped E. Scott Pruitt, the Oklahoma attorney general and climate change denialist, to lead the Environmental Protection Agency last week.
Faust’s remarks to the Faculty were received with sustained applause.
“There are a lot of questions and I thought there were some questions the Faculty might not be aware of that they should,” Faust said in the interview Thursday. “I think the question about endowments, the issues of federal funding for science, how we are thinking about that, I wanted them to be educated citizens and also speak to anxieties.”
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
—Staff writer Daphne C. Thompson can be reached at daphne.thompson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @daphnectho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Recreational marijuana will be legal in Massachusetts starting Dec. 15, although the future of the drug on Harvard’s campus is uncertain as the University remains mum on changes to its drug and alcohol policy.
University spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke declined to comment on whether or not Harvard would alter its drug and alcohol policy, despite the fast-approaching legalization. Steven G. Catalano, the spokesperson for the Harvard University Police Department, did not respond to requests for comment on changes to the policy.
Massachusetts voters legalized recreational marijuana by ballot measure on Nov. 8.
Harvard’s current drug and alcohol policy bans the possession and distribution of marijuana by all students on campus. In addition, smoking is banned in Harvard Yard, many public campus spaces, and in all University buildings.
Director of Harvard University Health Services Paul J. Barreira said he was unaware of any potential changes in the University’s drug and alcohol policy but emphasized that HUHS does not play a role in determining the legality of substances on campus.
“The Health Services won’t have any role in deciding on the [marijuana] policy and the primary reason is that this is a legal issue about what a state has said is ‘legal’ and what the federal government continues to say is ‘illegal’,” Barreira said.
As a private institution, the federal government provides Harvard with millions of dollars each year for research. Given that criminalized marijuana is a federal statute, the Bay State’s legalization of cannabis puts Harvard in the middle of a nationwide debate on state versus federal law.
“What I’m reading is that most universities are feeling that even if they reside in a state where they’ve legalized it, that because they get federal money—substantial amounts of federal money for research—that they’re not going to allow the use of marijuana in public places like houses and dorms,” Barreira said.
Nearby private universities, including Northeastern University, stated before the Nov. 8 vote that campus bans on marijuana would remain in effect on their campus regardless of the referendum outcome.
Once the law takes effect on Thursday, Massachusetts residents 21 and older will be legally allowed to possess marijuana. Individuals will also be able to legally possess up to 12 cannabis plants in their home. According to the law, people can legally sell marijuana paraphernalia starting Thursday, but retail stores cannot sell the drug itself until January 2017.
The drug will be subject to a state sales tax of 6.25 percent as well as a special 3.75 percent excise tax specifically for marijuana. Municipalities have the option to add an additional two-percent tax for a total of 12 percent.
At the final tally, 53.6 percent of Massachusetts voters approved the ballot question, with 46.4 percent in opposition. Cambridge, which voted yes by a significantly larger margin, was 71.3 percent in favor.
The future of legalized marijuana in Massachusetts and nationwide also remains in limbo as President-elect Donald Trump transitions into the White House. The Trump administration has the power to enforce federal laws on marijuana, something President Barack Obama’s administration has effectively left to the states. Such a federal action would likely supersede state legalization efforts.
—Staff writer Kenton Shimozaki contributed to reporting on this story.
—Staff writer Joshua J. Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The City of Cambridge has raised more than $600,000 to help victims of last week’s devastating 10-alarm fire which displaced dozens of individuals and families.
After Saturday’s fire, in which 18 properties were damaged or destroyed and 80 families were affected, the city created the “Mayor’s Fire Relief Fund,” a GoFundMe page to provide aid to the victims. As of Sunday, the fund had accumulated more than $635,000, well-over its established $500,000 goal, with donations from over 8,000 individuals.
In a video posted on Cambridge social media accounts featuring Cambridge Mayor E. Denise Simmons and new City Manager Louis A. DePasquale, the two expressed thanks to the donors and reminded residents that more work must be done.
“Knowing Cambridge the way we both do, there’s no surprise to us that we were able to do this in such a short period of time,” DePasquale said.
“We’re also looking to see if we can identify places for our families to live,” Simmons said.
The fire devastated a portion of East Cambridge during the afternoon and evening hours of Dec. 3. Fire departments from nearby towns were rushed in to control the blaze. No very serious injuries were reported.
“We’ve never had a fire of this scale before,” Cambridge City Councillor Jan Devereux said. “I’m just incredibly proud and grateful that we have such a well trained and professional fire department. It’s an enormous credit to the Fire Chief Gerald Reardon.”
In the days since the fire, the city has been working within its power to locate the dozens of displaced individuals and families, according to Devereux.
“The city had some of its affordable inclusionary units that were vacant or about to be leased, and so they basically suspended that process,” Devereux said. “These [victims] were bumped to the top of the list if they qualified.”
According to a statement released on Friday by Cambridge Director of Communications and Community Relations Lee Gianetti, 14 families moved into permanent housing this week, while five more will receive housing at the end of the week. In addition, 37 households are still in need of permanent housing according to Gianetti’s statement.
Ensuring the families can find housing in Cambridge is essential to the city, according to Devereux.
“We’re making an effort that they can all stay in Cambridge,” Devereux said. “But even keeping them within Cambridge means they are not living near their close knit community.”
The cause of the blaze remains unknown, although the Cambridge Fire Department will continue its analysis of the site, in conjunction with the Cambridge and State Police Departments and the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives in the coming days.
Devereux said she was impressed with the entire city staff in the hours and days after the fire.
“Over the next several weeks I'm sure the city staff will debrief,” Devereux said. “But I don’t see how any city could have responded better than Cambridge did. That isn’t just hype.”
—Staff writer Joshua Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As College seniors attend interviews and weigh job offers this winter and spring, many increasingly find themselves turning to the technology industry, which has created more job opportunities for college graduates in nearly every field of study.
The technology sector is well-known for jobs that require a high level of technical skill and data analysis—skills that have become valuable in a variety of industries—but graduating students are often less aware of non-engineering opportunities that exist in the industry.
Anthony J. Arcieri, director of undergraduate career advising and programming at the Office of Career Services, said students often express interest in the technology sector but are unsure of what type of job opportunities are available in the industry that would draw upon their skillset.
“I do meet with a fair number of students interested in the tech sector and who are fond of technology but don’t have the interest or skill to pursue a technical role,” Arcieri wrote in an email. “I wouldn’t say students with no prior engineering or tech experience avoid the sector, but they may be unsure of what they have to offer or what they would be qualified to do.”
Stephen “Travis” May ’09, CEO and co-founder of LiveRamp,  a startup digital marketing company, said there are many potential benefits that come with working at a tech company, even for students without tech backgrounds.
May, who concentrated in Economics and had limited tech experience before entering the job market, said compared to many other industries where promotions mostly dependent on time and experience in a particular field, promotions in the tech industry are usually based on talent and ability.
“I think one of the interesting things with tech is that in a high-growth environment, there’s meritocracy such that people can quickly, disproportionately accelerate their own success,” he said.
Arcieri said large tech companies such as Google and LinkedIn are known to hire for non-technical roles. Kelsey Saboori, a university recruiter for Microsoft, said Microsoft offers numerous internship programs and entry-level job opportunities for students in non-technical fields.
“We do a lot of HR-type internships, we have a lot of marketing internships, finance,” Saboori said. “I think what people don’t always remember about a tech company is there’s all of those roles that have to support the tech side of things.”
Although large tech companies have a variety of opportunities available for students without technical experience, tech startups are especially interested in fulfilling non-technical roles, according to Arcieri.
“A majority of the employers at our Startup Fair [at Harvard] also are looking to fill non-tech roles, even though most of them are ‘tech companies,’” he wrote.
In fact, LiveRamp offers a “tech entrance rotation and mentorship” program in which candidates with little to no experience in tech can gain the technical skills and experience necessary to enter the industry. Benjamin A. Misch, who received a master’s degree in Regional Studies from Harvard this year, joined LiveRamp’s talent team through the program.
“So, I’m math, history, specialize in Japanese history, and now I do people operation. My day-to-day requires very, very little technical ability and a lot of ability to handle ambiguity, drive projects from start to finish, and provide value in unseen ways,” Misch said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean Michael D. Smith called Faculty criticism about their lack of involvement in crafting a historic social life policy “categorically false,” expressing his most in-depth comments on the contentious sanctions to date.
“If your statement simply is, that, ‘Was there a Faculty committee that put this policy forth?’ No,” Smith said during a phone interview Friday, with FAS spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven also present on the call. “Is there no input from the Faculty in this policy? That is categorically false.”
Announced last May, the College’s policy bars undergraduate members of unrecognized single-gender final clubs and Greek organizations, starting with the Class of 2021, from receiving the Dean of the College’s endorsement for prestigious fellowships, from holding leadership positions in recognized student groups, and from becoming varsity captains.
In response, former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 and 11 other professors crafted a motion opposing the policy. A vote on Lewis’s motion, which states that, “Harvard College shall not discriminate against students on the basis of organizations they join,” was scheduled for last Tuesday’s full FAS meeting. At that meeting, FAS’s docket committee—the Faculty’s highest elected body—recommended postponing the motion indefinitely.
Discussion of the motion ultimately was tabled until the next full FAS meeting in February, leaving some professors confused and uncertain about administrators’ dedication to shared governance on major decisions involving undergraduate life. 
In a wide-ranging interview Wednesday and a subsequent phone conversation Friday, Smith addressed some Faculty concerns, including questions about the shared governance of Harvard, the limited role Faculty had in creating the policy, and the decision not to extend the Tuesday meeting’s discussion.
Smith said Friday that Faculty members have helped shape the policy and pointed  to the University-wide task force on sexual assault prevention, which included several FAS professors. In March, that task force released a report recommending that University President Drew G. Faust create a plan to “[a]ddress the distinctive problems presented by the Final Clubs and other unrecognized single-sex social organizations.”
“That was a Faculty, student, staff committee that looked into at least one aspect of the final clubs and made recommendation to the President to ask the College for what they thought we should go forward on,” Smith said. “So, the blanket statement that says the Faculty have not had any input or decision making on this, I think, is not true.”
Administrators announced the policy at a time when they have increased their efforts to overhaul undergraduate social life, from reinvigorating Harvard's undergraduate Houses to funding parties on campus, in addition to contemplating ways to target excessive drinking and prevent sexual assault. Accordingly, administrators have said they hope to create safer, more inclusive spaces for socializing on campus, although some Faculty members and undergraduates believe administrators have exerted too much control over students’ personal, non-academic, lives.
But on Friday, Smith said refocusing social life in the Houses is not the goal of the sanctions on final clubs and Greek organizations.
“This has nothing to do with House renewal and social life in the Houses,” Smith said Friday, adding that conversations with current students and alumni have revealed a need for a variety of social outlets across the University.
“What the College is trying to move toward is a rich variety of different kinds of social alternatives on campus, for the students,” Smith said. “What worries many of us, is that we have a social life on our campus that is highly influenced by single-sex social organizations.”
Smith did not elaborate Friday on a timetable for the vote on Lewis’s motion—or the Faculty Council’s motion to postpone that vote indefinitely.
“My job is not to tell the Faculty when the discussion ends. The Faculty let us know when they are ready for the vote,” Smith said. “It’s one of the ways we work.”
During and after Tuesday’s meeting, some professors aired their concerns about shared governance, arguing the College policy may limit the will of the Faculty. After Tuesday’s meeting, University Professor Helen H. Vendler said she believed in issuing the policy, administrators infringed on Faculty rights to nominate undergraduates for fellowships.
Smith said he hopes to clear up professors’ confusion about how the policy affects their nomination of undergraduates for prestigious fellowships, including the Rhodes and the Marshall. According to Smith, the policy does not prohibit a Faculty member from writing a nomination letter for an undergraduate who belongs to a final club or Greek organization.
“A Faculty member can propose that, ‘This person, I think, is an outstanding person for the Rhodes, here’s how I understand them,’” Smith said. “They can even write to the Dean of the College and say, ‘Here’s why I think you should be supporting this person, here’s how I see the things that you’re going to write about,’ so that he [Dean of the College] can form his or her future letter. All those things are still allowed underneath the policy, as it’s been described at this point.”
Last month, Smith in an email to voting members of the Faculty released hundreds of undergraduate comments that contain the words “final club,” “fraternity,” or “sorority,” from five year’s worth of senior, freshman, and House life surveys.
According to Smith, there is no time pressure on the vote.
“I think we have a bit of time with respect to the motion, because the policy doesn’t actually take effect until next year, so we still have time to debate these things,” he said.
—Staff writer Melissa C. Rodman can be reached at melissa.rodman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @melissa_rodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.

UPDATED: December 14, 2016 at 3:49 p.m.
If the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Auto Workers wins the vote to form a recognized union, their efforts will be the culmination of more than a year of active organizing with the United Auto Workers.
The UAW is an international union representing workers from jobs in factories, hospitals, and college campuses. It represents more than 35,000 student assistants at universities across the country, UAW Region 9A Director Julie Kushner wrote in an email— “more graduate students than any other union in the country” and about nine percent of its total active membership.
Although the UAW has led the way in student unionization at private universities, with unions established at Columbia and New York University, some people have raised concerns in the past about maintaining transparency and democratic governance within Harvard’s union effort, which joined with the UAW in September 2015.
Eligible teaching and research assistants voted several weeks ago on whether the HGSU-UAW should be authorized as a union. Columbia had its union election days ago and an overwhelming majority voted in favor of unionization. Students at Harvard are still waiting for the count to begin later this month, after officials and organizers finish sifting through nearly 1,000 challenge ballots.
In 2015, the effort that was then known only as the Harvard Graduate Students Union formed an “affiliation committee” designed to study international unions and recommend with which union the group should affiliate. According to the HGSU-UAW website, the committee reached out to UNITE HERE, Service Employees International Union, and American Federation of Teachers, in addition to the UAW.
This was not the first time that Harvard graduate students were in talks with the UAW. According to internal documents obtained by The Crimson, students had communicated with the union about affiliating in the early 2000s, but they did not reach an agreement.
An affiliation committee document from the summer of 2015 listed “issues to discuss with the UAW,” including questions about the resources the UAW would provide and what the governance structure a potential union would take should they chose to affiliate. One question asked who would hold paid organizers accountable, and who would hire and fire them.
After having conversations with the UAW that summer, the group moved forward with plans to affiliate. Members of the affiliation committee as well as student organizers—then called “coordinators”—voted unanimously to “recommend that the members of HGSU vote yes to starting an authorization card drive with the UAW to pursue recognition, collective bargaining, and a contract.”
The affiliation committee document cites legal protection, financial resources, and experience in graduate student organizing as reasons for selecting the UAW.
Comparative Literature Ph.D. student Ania Aizman wrote in an email that she was part of the union’s initial organizing in 2012, and continued her efforts for a few years. Between 2012 and 2014, she estimated “a hundred people were involved as organizers,” and that membership “ballooned” during the summer of 2015.
Before the affiliation vote, Aizman said a newly formed “democracy caucus” within the union effort produced a statement asking to “continue discussions with the UAW.” The document states that its authors support affiliating with the UAW, but wanted to provide a list of “downsides” and solutions to a possible partnership.
“We lose the right to structure our organization horizontally and democratically, as the UAW constitution requires a specific hierarchical leadership structure for all locals,” the document lists as a potential downside.
Union effort organizer and Ph.D. student Sam Klug was involved in conversations about unionization before 2015, but said he got more involved that spring.
“[Organizers] came in with a strong sense that the UAW was the clear choice, and their points, which I agree with, are that the UAW has a great deal of experience in higher education,” Klug said. “They were working already with Columbia; that was pushing the case that led to the NLRB decision.”
Klug said hundreds of students in the HGSU participated in a vote in September 2015. More than 90 percent supported affiliating with the UAW, he said.
“The amount of input we got and the large number of people who participated in making the decision to move forward with the UAW was unusual for a unionization effort at that stage, and I think really a sign of our commitment to democracy and to listening to student workers,” Klug said.
TRANSPARENCY AND HIERARCHY
About a week before the vote, organizers circulated a proposal to organize with the UAW, which made clear that graduate students would remain in control of the union effort.
“We are the union, and we can make it what we want. The UAW staff organizers will provide the necessary support and guidance to help us win,” the document states.
However, some graduate students were concerned that the structure and hierarchy created by affiliating with the UAW would lead to less transparency.
Aizman supports unionization and hopes that the HGSU-UAW will be authorized later this month, but said she left the union effort because of those concerns. Aizman wrote in an email that she helped create a “draft for internal governance,” a proposal for a constitution which outlined a potential structure and decision-making process.
Klug declined to comment on a "draft for internal governance.” But according to Aizman, the draft was ultimately unsuccessful with the union after a series of closed-door meetings.
She also wrote that coordinators created a “provisional set of principles” for organizing as a compromise, but according to Aizman, the union also did not adopt this proposal.
She wrote that if the original proposal had been rejected in a “direct, reasonable process,” or even if there had been open discussion on the provisional compromise, she would have stayed.
“The HGSU-UAW quashed dissent in the name of a unified message, gave up internal governance in the name of efficiency,” Aizman wrote in an email. “But I remain completely supportive of the broader project to unionize.” 
“I really admire the work of graduate students in other universities who made their UAW-organized unions more horizontal and more transparent – so I think it is possible to work with the UAW,” she added.
Klug maintained that transparency is “extremely important to our union.”
“I think what transparency comes from is from listening to the concerns of student workers and trying to address those, and keeping lines of communication open between people across this complicated and diverse campus,” Klug said.
Todd Vachon, the president of the University of Connecticut’s graduate student union, said their union has remained democratic and transparent since affiliating with the UAW, and has benefitted from the UAW’s guidance and resources.
“Honestly, the UAW structure has not really changed our leadership structure much,” Vachon wrote in an email. “The ultimate power still resides with the membership who votes on all decisions at monthly meetings.”
Klug said constitutions are made after unions are formed, and that the HGSU-UAW will draft its own bylaws to govern its operations, and “vote on those as a local.”
“Hopefully once the ballots are counted and our union is recognized, we would create a bylaws committee that would be responsible for drafting up bylaws, which then all members would be able to vote on,” Klug said.
This article has been revised to reflect the following clarification.
CLARIFICATION: December 14, 2016
A previous version of this article indicated that Ania Aizman, a Ph.D. student in Comparative Literature, left the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Auto Workers after the union rejected a “draft for internal governance.” To clarify, she left the union because of the process through which the union effort did not adopt the “draft for internal governance” and a related “provisional set of principles.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sixty percent of Harvard College students reported having sex in a 12-month period, and many of them did so without protection.
According to data from Harvard University Health Services’ survey sent every other year, only 59 percent of students are “mostly” or “always” using a “barrier method” during vaginal sex compared to 44.9 percent for anal sex and 10 percent for oral sex.
“What the data is telling us, from the survey, is that we have a bit of work to do in sexual health,” said Maria Francesconi, director of HUHS Health Promotion and Education.
Sexual health was one of several topics that HUHS surveyed College undergraduates about last March in an anonymous health assessment designed to better understand students’ personal habits and behaviors. HUHS Director Paul J. Barreira said the survey informs how his division thinks about programming in response to current student trends. 
In total, about 45 percent of College students completed the survey, representing the highest participation rate in the survey’s history, according to Barreira.
HUHS administrators said they found students’ sexual health practices to be among the more concerning survey statistics. Overall, the report showed low usage of a barrier method when engaging in sexual acts and infrequent sexually transmitted infection testing among sexually active students.
While participants individually self-reported low rates of safe sex practices, they generally believed that their peers were using barrier methods much more frequently. Respondents believed that 88 percent of peers were “mostly” or “always” using barrier methods for vaginal sex, 60.5 percent for anal sex, and 52 percent for oral sex.
Among the reasons for not using barrier methods, 54 percent of students answered that they thought their sexual activity was low-risk and 32.6 percent responded that “they or their partner don’t like it.”
In addition, even for students who were sexually active in the preceding 12 months, only about 31 percent reported having been tested for sexually transmitted infections during the same period. Francesconi, who oversees much of HUHS’s student health programming, said the Center for Disease Control generally recommends that sexually active individuals be tested for STIs at least once a year and more often for those at high-risk.
While administrators did not expect the statistics regarding student sexual health practices, but did expect another concerning trend—an increase in emotional distress.
Since the administration of the last health survey in 2014, the prevalence of anxiety disorders rose from 8 percent to 13 percent. The increase in anxiety among college students mirrors the national trends found in a recent survey by the Association for University College Counseling Center Directors.
In recent years, students have focused on mental health on the Undergraduate Council. During this year’s Undergraduate Council presidential elections, the four tickets included the issue in their platforms. Students have also called for greater representation of clinicians of color within HUHS Counseling and Mental Health Services.
HUHS administrators have noticed the emphasis students have placed on issues of mental health.
“We didn’t expect the numbers to be so low of consistent use of safe sex practices; I think we’re always paying attention to the emotional mental health issues,” Francesconi said.
Barreira said he thinks it is important for HUHS to look at this data holistically when addressing underlying issues. To him, this means understanding how the combination of behaviors like sleep, stress management, drinking, and physical activity affect student well-being.
He said the data from the health assessment was also shared with student peer education groups in addition to the UHS-College Committee, a group of College administrators, HUHS staff, and students who coordinate activities around student well-being.
“We’re going to always look at the intersection between personal habits and emotional well-being,” Barreira said. “We need to think about it with many student communities. Once this data is there, what is the way to communicate it to people?”
—Staff writer Menaka V. Narayanan contributed reporting to this story.
—Staff writer Kenton K. Shimozaki can be reached at kenton.shimozaki@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @KentonShimozaki.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
