News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This year marks the 50-year anniversary of the popular notion of Asian-Americans as an exceptionally successful bunch. On January 9, 1966, sociology professor William Petersen published the highly influential essay, “Success Story, Japanese-American Style,” in which he proclaimed that Japanese-Americans, rather than being a “problem minority,” had within a short timespan emerged as a “model minority.”
Today, the model minority label is as alive and well as ever, the only difference being that the high praise now extends to every American of Asian descent. By both the political left and right, Asian-Americans are frequently lauded for high educational attainment and household incomes. Implicit in this stereotype is the belief that America would be better off if other ethnic groups tried to emulate those of us who have Asian roots.
Given my Taiwanese origin and Asian-American identity, I should perhaps be flattered by the model minority account and accept it as a compliment. But, in fact, I find it deeply problematic.
By looking at the group as a whole, it is clear that Asian-Americans are actually not the model citizens that we are often portrayed to be. Like any other ethnic group in this country, we do well by some measures and poorly by others, which makes us neither a success story, nor a cause for concern.
Start with income and education. It is well-known that Asian-Americans on average have high incomes, and it is repeatedly pointed out that our median household income exceeds even that of whites. But this statistic does not take into account the basic fact that Asian-Americans live in significantly larger households. Indeed, the Census Bureau reported last year that, in per capita terms, Asian-Americans actually earned less than whites.
The public debate also tends to overlook the reality that Asian-Americans have less wealth than whites and are, at the same time, more likely to live in poverty. Similarly, those who cite the proportion of Asian-Americans that hold college or advanced degrees usually fail to mention that, nonetheless, Asian-Americans 25 years and older are, in fact, less likely than the average American to have graduated from high school.
Looking beyond earnings and schooling, another indicator of well-being is the proportion of people who have health insurance. By this gauge, too, Asian-Americans lag behind whites. There is also a significant gap in homeownership; during the period 2009-2013, the rate was only 58 percent for Asian-Americans, compared with 70 percent for whites.
In addition, vast numbers of Asian-Americans suffer from poor mental health, have low civic engagement, and lack access to social services and the judicial system—which do not seem like attributes that one would want to ascribe to model citizens.
On many counts, the average Asian-American does worse than the typical African-American or Hispanic person. According to some estimates, young Asian-Americans have a higher suicide rate than both African-Americans and Hispanics, and gambling addiction is a much more widespread problem among Asian-Americans than other ethnic groups. Asian-Americans are, on average, less likely to do volunteer work than African-Americans, and less likely to be proficient in English than Hispanics.
Proponents of the term model minority suggest that others should emulate Asian-Americans because there is supposedly something desirable about the group’s typical behavior and life outcomes. So, what would the United States look like if that were true?
America already has an embarrassingly low voter turnout compared with most wealthy countries. Yet if African-Americans would have had the same low voter turnout as Asian-Americans in the 2012 presidential election, five million fewer African-Americans would have cast their ballots. And in a country where we deeply value military service, it is worth noting that if Hispanics had served to the same lesser extent as Asian-Americans, the number of Hispanic veterans would be only about two-thirds of what it is today.
To sum up, if one looks at statistical averages, Asian-Americans as a whole do better than other ethnic groups on some metrics and do worse on others. Overall, many Asian-Americans are college-educated and have high incomes. But a large number have not graduated from high school and live below the poverty line.
Asian-Americans are often commended for starting businesses, creating jobs, and having a low crime rate—which obviously are great contributions. However, at the same time, a worryingly large proportion of Asian-Americans do not vote, volunteer, or serve in the armed forces. If the Asian-American experience teaches us anything at all, perhaps it is merely the fact that there are trade-offs in life.
It is apparent that Asian-Americans are like any other ethnic group in the United States: diverse and hard to generalize, and faced with stereotypes and discrimination. To use William Petersen’s terminology, we are not a “problem minority.” But neither are we a “model minority.”

Simon Hedlin, a student at Harvard Law School and a contributor to The Economist, is originally from Taiwan. Follow him on Twitter @simonhedlin.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Heading into Monday night’s debate, the nation expected very little from two of its opposing characters.
One of these characters, of course, was Donald Trump, in part because his campaign had cultivated such low expectations. Despite having never debated fewer than three opponents at a time—allowing him to go into “a kind of hibernation” whenever the discussion turned toward basic substance—Trump apparently scorned traditional debate preparation, preferring sessions of “spitballing ideas with his team.” MSNBC, in its pre-debate analysis, identified three tasks for each candidate. Hillary Clinton, as the first female candidate ever on such a stage, had to sell her vision for her presidency to an audience of 80 million while maintaining an intimate presentation (no shouting!) and getting “those jokes off” (smile more, sweetheart!). Trump, meanwhile, had to “stop lying,” “show humility,” and “fill in the gaps in his policy proposals.” The gendered implications of such wildly different standards, as noted in the tweet linked above, were hard to miss.
Luckily for Trump, the opposing player also expected to flop was his principal target for his 15-months-and-running campaign: Truth. Like Trump, Truth just isn’t at home in the debate setting. Fact-checking a debate is necessary, but it’s tricky for a moderator to intervene when appropriate. Janet Brown, the executive director of the Commission on Presidential Debates, said the candidates should “fact-check each other,” since the moderator would otherwise have to decide, in real time, what counted as a big enough lie to prompt intervention.
Brown took flak from the left, but it’s a good point: If a moderator interrupted to correct a rounded-up statistic (like a national debt of “20 trillion,” as Trump said six times on Monday) or an optimistic budget projection, we’d rarely hear the politicians.
Further lowering the bar for Truth, one candidate soars past even stereotypical politicians in his disregard for reality. Trump lies with such dazzling abandon that any attempt to hold him to a reasonable standard of accuracy would grind the debate to a halt.
And yet, though Trump failed to meet even his rock-bottom expectations, Truth fared surprisingly well. At the debate’s beginning, moderator Lester Holt established that the debate would take place in the universe described by facts and statistics—where “a record six years of job growth” and rising incomes coexist with “significant” income inequality—rather than in Trump’s near-apocalyptic post-industrial hellscape. This did not stop Trump from gravely intoning that “our jobs are fleeing the country” just a few minutes later, but it did at least challenge Trump’s truth-less portrayal of the state of the nation.
The more memorable shining moment for Truth happened later in the debate. Helpfully, we found a lower limit for moderatorial diligence three weeks ago: Matt Lauer did not follow up with a single question after Trump claimed that he had opposed the war in Iraq before it started, giving rise to the excellent hashtag #laueringthebar. The backlash seemed to have motivated Holt, Lauer’s NBC colleague, to repeat that Trump “had supported the war in Iraq before the invasion,” that he “supported it,” and that “the record shows” that he was not against the war.
Good on you, Lester Holt.
But even if Trump lost a few exchanges to Truth, there were a few where he came out ahead. Obviously, he told a lot of lies (as did Clinton, though not nearly to the same degree). But, more worryingly for supporters of Truth, Trump revealed what might be a winning strategy in his long march on facts: Just call it “Wrong!”
No need for supporting evidence. No need to even believe that the statement in question is wrong. Whenever your opponent says anything to your disadvantage, just rudely interrupt her with a loud “Wrong!” Acceptable alternatives include “It’s lies,” “I did not say that” and “I never said that,” “Ugh,” and my favorite, “Not!” In all, Trump interjected dozens of words or phrases that simply denied what Clinton said immediately before, regardless of her veracity. It was immature, often totally false, and brilliant.
The secret, of course, is that the election will be decided not by who best aligns with Truth but by the votes of human beings with human psychologies. When the brain is presented with contradictory information, it’s put under a much heavier cognitive load than if it’s presented with just one claim at a time. This stress would make debate viewers more likely to use heuristics—like whether they trust Trump or Clinton more, which is bafflingly to Trump’s advantage—rather than “effortful processing,” which might involve logical reasoning or a Google search. Whenever Trump interjected, he significantly weakened the impact of whatever Clinton was saying. However incoherent his thoughts on “cyber,” he was able to hack America’s brain for 90 minutes.
Given the results of the polls immediately after the debate, this tactic didn’t quite work—or it was outweighed by Trump’s other problems, like his increasingly nervous body language or his disastrous responses to questions about his racism and misogyny. But, as with some of Trump’s other strategies, we’re left to wonder whether a candidate with more polish or experience—or in a(n even) less robust political system—could use it to greater effect. It’s possible that Trump, like Roosevelt with radio speeches or Obama with online fundraising, has uncovered an optimal strategy that will shape campaigns for decades: To simply deny the truth at all costs, knowing that ultimately belated fact-checkers won’t change hearts and minds nearly as much as the loudness of your own bluster. If this is the case, I can only pray that our future leaders don’t follow in Trump’s footsteps.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Next year’s freshmen can expect to be briefed on yet another issue that their forbears were not: bike safety in Cambridge. Last week, the Cambridge City Council unanimously passed three resolutions that will eventually lead to the mandatory distribution of bike safety information by both the city and its colleges to new residents and students. Sponsored by Mayor E. Denise Simmons, these initiatives are designed to improve road safety and decrease the risk that cyclers, pedestrians, and drivers suffer death or serious injury in preventable accidents.
The move to require that Cambridge and its colleges educate residents and students about cycling safety is but one of many measures that the city has implemented recently in its commitment to “Vision Zero,” a global movement that aims to end deaths and serious injuries from traffic accidents. Though we cannot yet know how this latest measure on biking will be implemented, the mandates seem to simply require better dissemination of pre-existing laws and traffic safety literature.
Knowing full well that biking in Cambridge can be wildly dangerous, we wholeheartedly  support efforts to make Cambridge a safer city through incorporating specific bike safety information into its Vision Zero plans. To be effective,  however, the city must buttress its new commitment to disseminating bike safety information with more substantive measures, including stricter enforcement of current bike laws, the introduction of more comprehensive bike regulations, and the creation of more bike-friendly roads.
Certainly, better dissemination of the bike safety rules currently on the books can do no harm, but this tactic seems to us a rather circuitous and ineffective one in the overall endeavor to make Cambridge’s streets noticeably safer. Bikers, pedestrians, and drivers alike often break the law knowingly, and more education may not end bad practices that have developed out of habit and convenience. The passive approach to fixing street safety—telling Cantabrigians that they need to remain alert while driving, look both ways before they cross street, and remain in their designated lane when biking—should be only the first component of a more thorough revamping of traffic safety.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections

In the spring of 2005, Cambridge videographer Billie Jo Joy woke up to find an unmarked envelope slipped under her door. The envelope was oversized and eggshell-colored, the kind that usually comes with a “You’ve been served.” But the delivery wasn’t a summons, as far as Joy could tell. The envelope offered little in the way of information. Its only contents were a small golden key inscribed “Copy Me” and a notice: The city of Cambridge had built a new park, right in front of her house.
At the time, Joy says she didn’t find the key as curious as the announcement.
“I’m like, ‘A new park? Where, exactly?’”
Joy, who has blunt bangs and an uncertain smile, lives at a five-way intersection. The doors of her multiplex open onto Huron Ave., Sherman St. and Garden St. We’re chatting on her porch—the closest the house comes to woodland is the potted plant on the steps.
Joy takes the lay of the land. To the right, there’s an old fire station. On the left sit clusters of ivy-covered houses. Dead center, in the middle of the traffic roundabout, stands a flagpole enclosed by a skinny trapezoid of iron fence. Tucked across from the flagpole, there is a tiny stone bench. The fence and the bench are new additions—spring at the intersection had come with construction crews. Joy says she saw them working for weeks, longer than you’d expect for a flagpole.
It took her days to connect the dots: The park in question was this pole. And the fence, and the bench, and the grass in between. At 57 square feet, this patch, formally known as Frank J. Taylor Square, is Cambridge’s smallest public park.
Taylor Square came about through a partnership between the city of Cambridge and the contemporary artist Paul Ramirez Jonas. Ramirez Jonas, whose work often engages the intersections of public and private, envisioned a communal space designed to remind its visitors of their shared ownership. Though the park would belong to everyone, the two gates on each long side of the trapezoid would stay locked. Only a key like Joy’s could grant entrance.
Ramirez Jonas had 5,000 copies of the “Copy Me” key made and mailed to the residents of Cambridge. With their keys, Joy and her neighbors also received a short note with the artist’s directive.
“You now have a key to a space that has always been yours. Copy it and give it away to neighbors, friends, and visitors. Your sharing will keep the park truly open.”
In another part of the note, Ramirez Jonas asks the recipient to accept a key as “the park’s monument.” The key is ultimately unnecessary, though; anyone can lean over the fence and open the gate from the inside.
The park might officially belong to everyone, but it has a special rapport with the Taylor Square fire station. In 2004, the fire station underwent a full gutting—major renovations to the tune of $3.8 million. However, because of the station’s historical landmark status, the façade of the building could not be changed, leaving a surplus of the funds budgeted for “beautification.” According to the current firemen, the City of Cambridge decided to spend the extra on the park instead.
Appropriately, the firemen of Taylor Square share an affection for the little park. I meet most of them on a Thursday, when I accidentally crash the retirement party of fireman Tom Casey. Over chocolate cake and diet soda, an older fireman says, with thick Boston aah’s, that he used to take the weedwacker to the park.
“You know, just to keep the grass looking neat. I don’t think Parks and Rec gets out here much.”
For visitors who missed the initial delivery, the firemen are the keepers of the keys. They hold a fat stack of unmarked envelopes under the main desk, and hand them out to anyone who asks. As he hands me my own set of keys (“Take some for your friends!”), a younger fireman adds, “One time we gave this short little woman her key, and five minutes later, she’s back and getting shorter by the minute. She’s furious. She says, she can’t find the park. I’m like, ‘It’s right there, at the intersection!’ And she says, ‘That’s how you boys spent all that money?’”
As we’re talking, I feel a splash of water on my head. Tom Casey, the retiree, is playing with his goodbye present—a toy fire truck that shoots thin streams of water.
He slaps his buddy on the back and laughs, “That’s how we water the park!”
Sections
I think the optimal blend of human emotion is equal parts excitement and anxiety. Excitement because we need that buzz, that sky’s-the-limit, can-do attitude; anxiety because sometimes we need to establish a no-fly zone.
When I go shopping, I find that optimal blend.
Not all types of shopping, obviously. Food shopping is a chore, with its long lists and parents’ credit cards. Gift shopping is stressful, because I’ll never really know if the giftee appreciates my last-minute purchase. And buying things I need—school supplies, paper towels, heroin—is goal-oriented, which makes it constricting.
No, that rush, that indescribable feeling—or rather, near-indescribable, since it’s the topic of this piece—only springs forth when I’m shopping for one thing: clothes.
For me, shopping is not an activity—it’s an event. Something to be considered, planned, and executed. Much like my shopping role models—the women of “Sex and the City”—I’ve grown too old for games. Forethought and advanced planning are necessary for me to maximize my shopping utility, a concept you can learn in Ec10 for the low-low price of $125.
Through many years of experience, I’ve learned that the ideal time to go shopping is late in the morning on a weekday; cutting school has never presented me with any moral qualms. At that time of day, the Casuals are at work, school, or somewhere else equally unimportant, so I needn’t worry about long lines for the changing room, or some human piece of dumpster trash trying to steal a sweater out of my hands at Banana Republic, or another totally hypothetical, fictitious situation.
On weekday mornings, the only people populating clothing stores are me, the exasperated retailers tired of me sending them to “the back” for various sizes, and hands-on moms who drag piles of clothes to the changing rooms for their lazy children like lionesses bringing home zebra carcasses. With these comrades-in-arms I thrive, and my excitement level peaks. Our mutual love for morning shopping excursions creates a bond, and it’s not a bond that easily breaks.
But then comes the anxiety. Excitement says to try on everything and anything; anxiety says some clothes aren’t for your gender, your size, your sexuality; excitement says those orange pants are fun; anxiety says they’re too gay to avoid judgment; excitement says that shirt is bright and colorful; anxiety says it’s loud, attention-seeking; excitement says just to buy the clothes that fit you; anxiety says to buy one size too small and make it work.
Often, there are limits to the extent that we can control how we feel, but we can always control how we act. I often can’t help staring at the mirror in the changing room for what feels like hours, panicking from buyer’s remorse at the register as I hand over my credit card, or being just the tiniest bit self-conscious when I wear new clothes out in the wild for the first time.
But I try to make sure those feelings don’t change how I act—or rather, what I buy. Instead of suppressing my exclusively-a-first-world-problem shopping anxiety, I, perhaps paradoxically, use it to inspire me. It pushes me to move outside of what my family, the media, or “society” is comfortable with—outside of what I’m comfortable with, onto some sort of edge. An edge that sharpened my claws as I sunk them into that Banana Republic sweater.
So on any given weekday morning, you can find me at the nearest mall, trying on orange pants and bright shirts, despite the little voice in my head. Let the anxiety march on.
Sections
I am sitting outside a skate park at the east end of Lyon, watching a boy on a bike try the same trick for the fourth time. He pedals up the side of a halfpipe and soars into the air, jerking his body around in an attempt at a 180. Like the last three times, he overshoots and skids across the platform.
Suddenly there is a body next to mine.
I keep my eyes fixed on the biker. He stands and shakes out his limbs, obviously gearing up for another run.
The body slides a heavy hand across my back. I flinch and rise to my feet. The body rises too. He has weak posture and an ugly smile. “You and me, baby?” I back away. He edges closer.
The biker pushes off and slides down the halfpipe, muscles tensed for a fifth run, but I have already left and I don’t see how it ends.
***
Granted, I saw it begin. My presence in this park—this country, this job—is the product of an extraordinary quantity of luck and privilege. Should I just be grateful?
***
It is 2 a.m. in Cannes and I am alone on a dark boardwalk. Well—not alone. The street, though quiet, is dotted with men. They sit in groups of three and four, on benches and curbs, drinking from small glass bottles. I hear the soft rustle of voices, the clink of glass, the hollow tap-tap of my pink H&M pumps.
The street stretches beautiful and long, two miles of moonlit eyes.
“Lost, baby?” says a figure coiled around one of the city’s iconic blue benches.
“Let me show you something, baby,” says a body hunched against the concrete seawall.
“Why so sad, baby?” says a shadow.
I walk quickly, pink heels a blur to my eyes, arms folded across my chest though it would be easier to swing them at my sides. I am chased only once (a little later in the evening, a little farther down the pier) but I run and he quits and I am fine.
***
I am fine. Nobody hurt me. I’m coming out of this summer (tired, bitter, afraid) completely unscathed. Should I be talking about this at all?
***
The sun in Provence is bright, and at first I don’t see him at all.
Then—a thin voice. “Hey, bay-bee.”
My first instinct is to laugh, a quick hard burst. What? It’s the voice of a child. I break my own rule and turn my head.
He leans against a lamp post, only barely pubescent, bony wrists tucked into the pockets of his wide-leg carpenter jeans. His forehead is spattered with acne. The flesh above his upper lip is smooth and hairless. For a moment, I feel something that verges on compassion.
But he meets my gaze, watery eyes firm, and I realize suddenly that he means it, he’s harassing me. I cede the plaza.
***
What point am I trying to make here, with my fancy European adventure and my lingering anger and my belated unoriginal epiphany that the world is a scary place? “Stop harassing women,” the cis white woman preaches to the world at large. “It’s wrong.” The world nods in bored assent.
***
Summer is over and I’m back in the U.S., in Chicago. Three friends and I are loitering near Navy Pier. Two of my friends are female; one is male. We’re all a little tired.
A man walks down the street toward us. “Beautiful,” he says, distinctly.
“Thanks,” one of my female friends mumbles, looking away.
The man stops. A beat passes. “Just one?” he says. The silence stretches on, and he steps closer. “Didn’t anybody ever teach you any fucking manners?”
Too shocked to react, I stay quiet. The others do, too. Finally, the man swears and stalks off, leaving us in heavy silence.
I win, I guess.
Sections
Ask Harvard students to describe their high school experiences, and you’ll hear a lot of the same: valedictorian, class president, newspaper editor-in-chief. Less common: national popstar. Fifteen Minutes sat down with musician Ida M. Paul ’20 to chat about her status as a Scandinavian celebrity and her transition to life at Harvard.
Paul’s introduction to music began at an early age. “We had these Finnish lessons in kindergarten,” she says with a laugh, “and you got to skip your Finnish lesson if you were a violinist.” At seven or eight years old, pragmatism turned to passion. After watching the movie-musical “Grease,” Paul fell in love with the idea of performing. A month later, she staged the number “Greased Lightning” with her cousins at her aunt’s wedding. “After that, I was like, ‘This is my thing,’” Paul says. “And ever since, I’ve been doing music.”
Twelve years later, she is a veteran violinist and a trending Finnish singer. She has also picked up the guitar through YouTube tutorials and has even learned a little bit of piano. Paul’s natural musical talent, combined with her affinity for writing, has propelled her into Scandinavian pop stardom.
When we throw around the label “pop star,” however, Paul hesitates. “I consider myself a singer-songwriter and, most of all, an artist. That’s what I would identify as: an artist.”
Either way, the numbers speak for themselves. Paul regularly accrues upwards of 30,000 views on her YouTube videos. At home in Finland, Paul is often stopped on the street by fans who recognize her.
Before coming to Harvard, Paul took a gap year to pursue her passion. While she originally intended to work and make music, time did not allow for both. Paul decided to quit her job to focus on the performances and studio sessions that took up so much time. She did not mind her rigorous schedule, though. “I felt committed to the music in the best way possible, but I didn’t feel the burden of commitment. I was just really intensely focused on it,” she says.
She is now getting ready to release her first full album, co-written with Kalle Lindroth, another songwriter.
Though Paul did consider attending a conservatory program, she chose Harvard out of a belief that a broad range of experiences would prepare her for her future, both musically and personally. “I want to be working with people from all fields, and not even all fields in art—I mean all fields.” Indeed, the people around Paul influence her creative process. She notes, “To get inspiration, to find that spark for a song or something, you need to be meeting people who challenge your views and your lifestyle, too.”
Paul says that making music has taught her that something will always go wrong. She has been able to translate the unpredictability of performance into a larger lesson. “When I learned not to care about things that are out of my control, my life became a lot easier,” she says. “And that’s definitely something that will help me here at college.”
Sections
“Should I have worn jeans for this?” I ask. From the waist up, I am armored in a bee suit and a heavy veil, making my unprotected shorts-and-sandals combo look particularly ridiculous.
“Don’t worry. I have an EpiPen,” Abraham E. Rebollo ’20 replies, only half-jokingly. He carries a smoker full of burlap, a brush, and other tools outside onto the Pfoho rooftop where he keeps his hive, and I follow at a respectful distance.
Rebollo handles his bees with a remarkable gentleness: He removes the top box of the hive and waits for the bees to move out of the way before  raising a frame full of insects and honey. The queen sits in the middle. Although he doesn’t raise his voice, he points her out with obvious enthusiasm. She’s marked with a white dot, and her size is something I can notice, even from across the roof.
He speaks of the bees with the interest of a forensic scientist, a career he aspires to, yet with a remarkable compassion. As Rebollo recalled a time when a bee flew up to his nose and stung him, he was careful to note that the bee only stung him because bees detect CO2, an evolutionary protection mechanism he forgot about as he exhaled sharply.
Rebollo is new to the world of beekeeping, but his interest in the environment goes far back: He was raised Christian, which to Rebollo means he has “a responsibility to take care of the planet.”
This environmentalism drove him to raise his own beehive. “I became interested last year around springtime, mostly out of the fact that bee populations are in decline in the U.S. and across the world,” Rebollo says. “One of the remedies for that is for regular people to take up beekeeping.”
But Rebollo did not just start on a whim. He spent more than a year doing research before he purchased bees and moved them into a hive in his hometown of Henderson, Texas. ­ “You have to know what you’re doing to take care of the bees properly,” he says.
He certainly does knows what he’s doing. Rebollo waited to buy his bees until after he found out about his Harvard admission to ensure the hive could survive in his new college climate—his Russian breed is particularly well-suited to Cambridge winters.
Rebollo’s trip to Cambridge was more difficult than most: Not only did he and his family drive all the way to Massachusetts, they did so with a live beehive in the back, complete with a weekend rest stop in Tennessee to allow the bees a break. Move-in day was equally complicated, as Rebollo had to go to University Health Services after being stung through the earlobe by one of his own: “The bees had been in the hive for over 24 hours,” he said, always careful never to blame the insects, “so they weren’t too happy about that.”
Recently, Rebollo has developed an allergy to his bees, something he found out on move-in day. He had never had a reaction to stings before, but after his face swelled up with hives, his mom and his new proctor convinced him to see a doctor. He’s disappointed, but mostly because he wanted to do his beekeeping without wearing a suit, like the most experienced beekeepers. However, Rebollo concedes, “if I have the risk of going into anaphylaxis the next time I get stung, do I really want to do that?”
His passion is obvious, despite an uncertain future posed by allergies. He tells me about the work he does to care for his hive—when he performs his check-ups, he keeps an eye out for chalkbrood, hive beetles, varroa mites, and the status of his queen. He’s also beginning to prepare for winter, feeding the hive a special sugar syrup so the bees can store it up over the winter.
Rebollo insists that people have nothing to fear from bees. “They want more than anything to just get their honey and their pollen and the nectar that they’ve collected back to the hive,” he says, “so they’ll very rarely sting you in the wild.”
Yellow jackets, on the other hand: “They’ll fuck you up.”
Sections
Critically acclaimed Irish author Emma Donoghue, best known for the novel and subsequent movie “Room,” spoke at Brattle Theater on Friday night. As fans lined the sidewalk outside, Fifteen Minutes sat down with the writer to get to know more about Donoghue and her new book “The Wonder.”
FM: Is there a common theme that runs through all of your works?
ED: No, no. I mean, there are a few things that show up, you know, like threads in the cloth, I suppose. In the books I’ve published since my kids came along 12 years ago, I’ve written quite a lot about motherhood, but before the kids came along, not at all. A lot of my works have lesbian themes, but not all of my books. I would say gender shows up in all of my books, but  they’re not all totally focused on women protagonists. Children show up in a lot of my books. Ireland, history, and I quite often take a historical incident and sort of flesh it out using fiction—again, not always.
FM: What makes “The Wonder” different from your other books?
ED: I’ve never written a full-length historical novel set in Ireland, and I have to say, I so enjoyed this opportunity to get back to my home culture and really delve into its damp roots, you know?
FM: You said in an interview with Scott Simon of NPR that you prefer to set your stories in a myopic or claustrophobic setting. Could you elaborate on that?
ED: Well, the books I enjoy are often written with a huge, kind of epic sweep. I love people like Neal Stephenson, who will be zooming all over Europe, or they’ll be in the near future, and they’ll be describing entire civilizations not yet invented. I love their ambition and their bigness. And yet when I sit down to write, I seem to get very close up and shortsighted and almost slow time down and study it minute by minute... You just need to play to your own strengths as a writer.
FM: How does your LGBTQ+ identity affect your writing, and on the flip side, how do you think your writing affects your relationship with the LGBTQ+ reader?
ED: Oh, interesting. I think it probably helped turn me into a writer... When I was growing up in Dublin, my dad was a professor, and I was good in school, I had no major family problems, I was one of eight children, so it all felt very kind of solid and stable, and there was nothing that made me feel like the other or the outcast or anything. But then at 14, when I realized I was a lesbian, that was the thing for me, that was the little wedge between me and my society, and I think everybody needs a little wedge like that to make them... a slightly more interesting person. But also to make them start questioning things and analyzing things. And it makes them able to empathize with all those who are marginalized or abnormal or outcast. So I’ve written a lot about not just queer people, broadly defined, but I’ve written a lot about freaks and slaves and just anyone who’s far on the outside. So I think it was hugely beneficial; it really woke me up.
As to how it affects my relationship with our community… When I began, I would have expected that community to kind of want to keep me on a leash as a writer, because, as a lesbian reader in the 1980s, I was desperate for positive role models. So again, I would have expected that community to try and restrict what I wrote, but they never have, you know? I have some readers who come up to me and say, “I hope maybe you’ll do more books with lesbian themes,” so they clearly like some of my books more than others, but they are just hugely appreciative of writers having the freedom to write whatever they like. They’re so grateful if you’re not in the closet, basically. They don’t then try to limit what you write about. So I feel very supported by that community.
FM: The little girl in “The Wonder” is thought to be kept alive by a miracle. Do you personally believe in miracles?
ED: No, I’m pretty rational. But on the other hand, I’m fascinated by people who are not rational. I suppose it’s because, when I’m writing my books, I’m drawn to the kind of extreme characters who I probably wouldn’t seek out in my everyday life. The visionaries, the zealots, the obsessives. They just make for very strong story lines, you know? So in this case, I was fascinated by the idea of a girl who’s perfectly intelligent, but she’s been raised in a very fundamentalist religion, and she has absorbed those rules, and she’s taken them to an extreme. So I suppose one thing I was trying to do in the book was to look at whether the most ordinary human emotions—like the wish to protect a child—can take on some of the power of the miraculous, without ever writing a story that is supernatural.
FM: What is one thing you would want a reader to know before diving into “The Wonder”?
ED: Nothing at all. Nothing at all. I’d love to rip the cover off, remove the title, and just press it into somebody’s hands and say, “Read this.” I mean, that’s the irony, that we write our books on the assumption that the reader will know nothing, and we carefully think about exactly when you learn each bit of information. Even the main character’s name—we carefully drop that in. And then we’re obliged to sell our books by putting about half the plot on the book jacket, you know? Paradoxically, we would all prefer the reader to know nothing at all.
FM: In an interview with The Atlantic, you noted Emily Dickinson, more specifically “Wild Nights!— Wild Nights!,” as having great influence on you as a young woman. Why do you think this specific work spoke to you?
ED: Well, I’m trying to remember why that particular one. I mean, I know my mother used to read me or recite to me Emily Dickinson poems when I was really young, so she’s probably the first poet that I became close to. But also, Emily Dickinson’s own story is so odd, and her poetry is so odd. When you put the two together, it’s one of these incredibly distinctive literary characters. And it’s funny, even though I’ve ended up the kind of writer who really [sees writing] as a job, and every book I’ve written has been published... I’m fascinated by Emily Dickinson, who was the opposite. Who wrote so much for herself. And who, when she didn’t get a poem published, just withdrew from the world and didn’t try to publish them at all. So she’s a very mystical kind of writer, where as I’m a very just getting-on-with-it kind of writer. And yet she just absolutely fascinates me, for all of the rich ambiguity she managed to put into her fairly simple seeming lyrics.
Sections


Award-winning novelist Ian McEwan has explored complex issues of morality and science, from quantum physics to the contradictions that arise when religious beliefs stand in the way of a life-saving blood transfusion. His new novel is perhaps his boldest yet. McEwan spoke last week at the Harvard Book Store about Nutshell, a modern interpretation of Hamlet narrated by a sardonic, self-aware fetus. 
Fifteen Minutes: What was your inspiration for “Nutshell”’s unconventional narrator?
Ian McEwan: Well, partly sitting with my daughter-in-law when she was heavily pregnant. I became aware of his [the fetus’s] presence in the room, and it lodged a sort of question mark in my mind. And then I guess I really wanted to connect back to my writer self of 40 years ago when I had a lot of crazy and improbable narrators and take a break from researching. I had the sense that it would be playful and fun and break with the laws of physics and biology.
FM: Had you been actively searching for a topic to write about or did it just come to you?
IM: It just came to me, really. I re-read Shakespeare a lot, so that’s always at the back of my mind. It just began, and once I had the concept, I just had fun with it. It was a pleasure to write.

FM: When did you develop the idea of basing the premise on Hamlet?
IM: Right from the beginning, it was always intertwined. Who is the most eloquent character ever created in literature and English? Hamlet burst upon the world scene in 1600 or 1601. We’ve probably never had a character so clever, so self-doubting, so specifically a person not representing a virtue or a vice like so many were up until that time.
FM: Many of your other works like “Saturday” and “Solar” have required extensive research. How was “Nutshell” different?
IM: It was great not to be talking to experts for once. It was a holiday really. I never had to stir from my desk and could reach into my own thoughts. I enjoy research, and I’ve always made it integral to the process of writing, but this was just a complete departure. I don’t know where it will lead me in the future.
IM: Writing “Saturday,” I shadowed a neurosurgeon for almost two years, whereas writing “Sweet Tooth” about the intelligence world, it was really a matter of a great deal of reading and one or two lunches with ex-spies. I can’t draw any comparison between one [of my works] and another.
FM: Your talk at the Harvard Book Store was with Steven Pinker, whose work lies in cognitive psychology and language development, important aspects of “Nutshell.” Is this field something you are particularly interested in?
IM: Steve Pinker and I have been on stage before a half-dozen times, if not more. It’s not only about language learning, but also just the whole range of cognitive psychology and his reflections on science as a worldview that have impressed me enormously over the years. He seems to be an intellectual for our times. His sense of what science can do is a totality of how we view the world... My fetus narrator has quite a strong scientific worldview, and some might find confidence with Steve.
FM: On the second page of “Nutshell,” the narrator calls itself a “blank slate” that writes upon itself as it grows by the day. “Blank Slate” is the title of one of Pinker’s books.
IM: It’s a little tease in Steve’s direction. “Nutshell” is not a scientific treatise. It has abandoned all the laws of biology. But I am sort of raising my hat in Steve’s direction with that blank slate moment.
FM: Did you ever think about being a fetus?
IM: I have never thought of myself in those terms, simply because we don’t have any memory. Salvador Dali claimed to remember being in the womb. There simply isn’t enough connectivity between neurons to lay down memories.
FM: “Nutshell” is clearly pushing some boundaries, but is there anything that you would never write about?
IM: Yes. Golf. One of the most tedious games I’ve ever witnessed. Maybe taxes. Joking apart, I think all writers should be prepared to address all subjects. The issue is not what the subject is but what we do with it.
FM: Speaking of writers, who are some writers who have influenced you?
IM: At the beginning of my career, I was very influenced by Kafka. He was partly the source for a whole series of unusual narrators. “Nutshell” has an origin in that influence. But over my lifetime, I guess everything influences me, specifically everything I enjoy. Beyond a certain stage, influence becomes less important. Influence is really what happens to a writer in the first years of his or her caree. Then they find their way forward.
FM: You told me earlier that writing “Nutshell” was like going back to the beginning of your career. How so?
IM: It was rejuvenating. Earlier this year, my publisher brought out my first book. I looked at these stories for the first time maybe since reading the proofs, and that was an extraordinary thing. They seemed so remote from me, but at the same time so familiar—a curious sensation. Connecting back with that kind of narrator was a holiday of the senses.
FM: Many of your books have been made into movies. Have you thought about “Nutshell” as a film? Who would play the fetus?
IM: Yes, well I can’t see Tom Hanks playing the fetus somehow. When I finished the novel, I thought “This is safe from any movie adaptations,” but we’ve already had inquiries. I think computer-generated imaging has opened the field so you can do virtually anything.
FM: The fetus thinks a lot about the world he’s being born into—he is very self-aware and has a firm worldview. To what extent are his thoughts your own?
IM: Sometimes they are my own. Sometimes they are just playful fantasies. I just let him go where he wanted, so it is a bit of one and a bit of the other.
FM: What would the fetus think of this world with its current political situation?
IM: I think my fetus would be alarmed at the prospect of a Trump presidency. His vote would probably be cast out of fear of Trump. The fetus tries to find reasons to be cheerful and curious about the world in the 21st century, but one of his main concerns is whether we can scrape through the next 80 odd years without the use of nuclear weapons. On the evidence so far, I don’t see Donald Trump will serve the cause well.
Sections
UPDATED: December 26, 2016 at 3:04 p.m. 
In many ways, Nuriya Saifulina ’20 is just like any other freshman: She plays Bioshock and other video games in her free time. She’s a fan of hair and makeup tips, and particularly enjoys watching NikkieTutorials on YouTube. She chows down on Harvard Square staples such as Felipe’s and Crema.
She’s also one of a small number people from her country to ever attend Harvard College.
Her matriculation to Harvard fulfills a dream years in the making. “I have always known that I wanted to study abroad,” says Saifulina, who finished high school one year early and took a gap year.
After attending a prestigious public high school in Astana, Saifulina finds the culture at Harvard to be markedly easygoing: “It was such a cliquey high school... People here [at Harvard] are more fun, more relaxed, much less competitive,” she notes. “No sabotaging, none of that Legally Blonde kind of stuff.”
Harvard’s schooling system feels as liberating as the social scene does. “[In Kazakhstan], you can’t choose the times of classes, the types of classes… Classes here are so much more diverse and interesting,” Saifulina says. “I was so excited to come to Harvard and actually be excited about studying.”
She plans to concentrate in Economics and is currently taking the famed Ec10. For now, though, she’s not too worried about her academic plans. “I’m a freshman, not yet dead inside,” she quips. “I’m still chilling.”
Television has eased her transition to the United States. Saifulina grew up watching American cartoons, Cartoon Network programming  and ‘SpongeBob,’ on the government-run television channel, which helped ease her culture shock.
A fellow Kazakhstani teenager’s acceptance to Duke University recently made national headlines, but Saifulina notes that her accomplishment did not get the same attention back home. “My family and I, we just kept it to ourselves,” she says. “There were no tears... no screaming.”
Saifulina feels that Kazakhstani students back home sometimes write off her accomplishment as a matter of luck. Does she feel that she has something to prove to those critics? “I’m just going to do whatever I want. That’s how I’m going to prove myself,” she says. “I’ll prove myself by being part of a community, supporting other people, and taking my academics seriously.”
She also has a message for her Harvard classmates about her home country: “People in Kazakhstan actually love ‘Borat!’ They’re not offended by Borat,” she laughs. “They aren’t even salty, in fact. They’re just very proud that their country was featured.”
This article has been updated to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: December 26, 2016
A previous of version of this article, as well as a previous version of a caption for this article, incorrectly indicated that Nuriya Saifulina ’20 was the first student from Kazakhstan to ever attend Harvard College. In fact, several students from Kazakhstan have attended Harvard College. 
Sections
Shankar Ramkellawan ’19 carries his papers with him everywhere, and he’ll show them to you if you ask.
“You just never know when you’ll need them,” he says, unzipping his backpack. “Actually, I needed them just yesterday.”
He slides two pages and a photo ID across the table. The paperwork looks no different from the forms one might fill out at the DMV or doctor’s office, and the ID card looks like a driver’s license but doesn’t bear the name of a state. Below his picture, the card indicates the country where he was born: Guyana.
At first glance, the documents don’t seem like much, but for Ramkellawan and other undocumented immigrants like him, the papers constitute a “social fingerprint.” Through Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (commonly known as DACA), young immigrants become eligible for work authorization, a Social Security number, and most importantly, exemption from deportation. As long as he pays a $500 renewal fee every two years, Ramkellawan can be relatively certain that he will not be deported.
DACA, created through an Obama administration executive order, confers a type of legal status to its recipients, but its effects stretch past the realm of paperwork and bureaucracy. Since the launch of DACA in 2012, young immigrants at Harvard and beyond have become increasingly open about being undocumented.
Although the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid cannot collect data on Harvard’s undocumented population, outgoing Dean of Diversity and Inclusion Emelyn A. dela Peña estimates that there are about 40 undocumented students at the College. Admissions officers do not consider immigration status when making admissions decisions, and undocumented students receive full need-based financial aid as their peers do. In addition, Harvard often funds DACA renewal fees and similar expenses for undocumented students.
One might expect an undocumented student to speak about his immigration status in hushed tones, but Ramkellawan does the opposite—he talks boisterously over the low hum of the dining hall, animates his words with gestures, and brandishes his DACA papers under the bright lights.
“It’s not like anyone will report me and get me deported,” he says with a laugh.
Though he’s confident, Ramkellawan faces persistent uncertainties about his family’s future. He and other DACA beneficiaries at Harvard and across the country are beginning their adult lives in a political climate that is both turbulent and stagnant for undocumented immigrants. DACA, which grants its recipients the freedom to work and drive without fear of deportation, has its limits. The DREAM Act, an immigration reform bill that would provide a path to citizenship for undocumented young people, was introduced in Congress in 2001 and still has not been passed. Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA), a policy that would support mixed-status families by allowing undocumented parents to work, was effectively destroyed by a Supreme Court deadlock in June. What’s more, a contentious presidential election has unearthed virulent anti-immigrant sentiments.
“My parents always told me to never tell anyone” of being undocumented, Ramkellawan says. “I was, and still am, trying to grasp what it really means.”
Growing up in an undocumented family often means growing up fast—many students share memories of filling out forms, translating for parents who don’t speak English, and picking up other adult responsibilities early in life.
When Jin K. Park ’18 was a child, for example, he combed the internet for burn remedies after his father, a restaurant worker, was injured on the job. Because his father’s low-income, undocumented status left him ineligible for most forms of healthcare, Park, the family’s only fluent English speaker, turned to WebMD for solutions. 
A handful of Harvard students come from mixed-status families, meaning that some relatives are undocumented and others are not. Romance Languages and Literature assistant professor Lorgia H. García Peña, whose scholarship focuses on racial identity and migration, grew up with two undocumented brothers and emphasizes that immigration status “impacts a whole family” even if some members have citizenship. Ana C. Andrade ’19, who was born at Cambridge Hospital near Harvard’s campus, belongs to such a family. Though a U.S. citizen, she says her life has been shaped by her parents’ undocumented status.
When Andrade was four months old, her father, an undocumented Brazilian immigrant who had crossed the border, was deported. Though her father eventually returned to the U.S., his legal status remained uncertain. When Andrade was 16 years old, a police officer stopped her father for driving without valid identification. Andrade, a licensed driver, had to pick him up in the middle of the night. Fortunately, the officer let her father go.
Because parents without papers struggle to secure permanent employment, undocumented families often struggle to make ends meet. Ramkellawan’s family lived in a “super moldy” basement for $400 a month before upgrading to a one-bedroom apartment in the Bronx. Paulo J. Pinto ’18, an undocumented student from Portugal who leads student activism group Act on a Dream, recalls that his parents were unable to negotiate with their employers because of their immigration status, leaving them to take jobs that paid “under the table.”
Undocumented status often reconfigures typical family dynamics. Some argue that DACA, which authorizes its recipients to work and drive, has reinforced this effect.
“What we’re seeing now with the DACA beneficiaries is that some of these young people are now taking on a lot of extra work within the family: driving parents to and from work, driving siblings to work, taking on these breadwinner roles,” says Roberto G. Gonzales, a professor at the Graduate School of Education whose work focuses on undocumented status and academic performance.  “[DACA recipients] are working longer hours, more jobs, so they can contribute more to family expenses, paying larger shares of family bills, rent, mortgage, et cetera.”
García Peña offers a more pointed critique of DACA—she considers the policy a disappointment.
“The message DACA sent out and the message President Obama sent was precisely that the immigrant community belongs in the workforce and not in school,” she says. “We need to do a lot better in passing a much more comprehensive reform for people who came here as children who are trying to go to school.”
Equally worrisome is the growing backlog of DACA renewals. Gonzales says that if no comprehensive immigration reform passes, DACA recipients will be “perpetually in limbo,” their fates set by paperwork and processing time.
“They will continue to have to make sure that their applications are in on time, they will continue to face the prospect that their applications will not be processed in a timely manner and therefore they’ll fall out of status,” he explains. “There are about 500 DACA beneficiaries now who have fallen out of status because of a backlog, and they have to leave work for whatever period of time because they don’t have work authorization during that lapse of time.”
When Park filled out his college applications, he typed 10 zeroes where his Social Security number belonged. He hadn’t yet received a Social Security number through DACA. He didn’t fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, or FAFSA, because non-citizens are ineligible for federal aid.
According to Harvard’s Admissions and Financial Aid website, undocumented students are supposed to apply as international students, even if they have spent the majority of their lives in the U.S. Although they do not qualify for federal funding, undocumented and international students alike receive need-based financial aid from the University. Many immigration reform advocates, including García Peña, feel that this policy alienates undocumented applicants.
“That is the biggest hurdle undocumented students face when they are applying to college—being treated as foreigners when they are not,” Garcia Peña says. “International students tend to come from higher class [backgrounds], and tend to have more resources that are not available to undocumented students.”
Harvard accepts all students—including those who apply as international students—on a need-blind basis, offering full need-based financial aid to those who are admitted. Although Harvard’s admissions policy does not affect the amount of financial aid that undocumented students receive, former Act on a Dream chair Anahi D. Mendoza ’15 insists that it sends a discouraging message to undocumented applicants.
“I think Harvard’s really behind,” Mendoza says. “It feels like they’re opening the back door for us.”
Mendoza says that Harvard should “catch up” to Brown University and Tufts University, two peer institutions that have made strides in their inclusion of undocumented applicants. In the spring of 2015, Tufts Dean of Admissions Lee Coffin announced that undocumented students would be included in the college’s domestic applicant pool. For this fall’s application cycle, Brown is following suit.  These policies will make it easier for undocumented students to receive financial aid, as both universities accept international applicants in a process that is not need-blind.
Other members of Act on a Dream lament the lack of information available for undocumented applicants—some say that the Admissions and Financial Aid Office needs to be more explicit in welcoming undocumented high school students to apply. On the College’s website, for example, information for prospective undocumented applicants is buried in an FAQ section. By contrast, the Admissions website offers a plethora of blogs and testimonies for applicants from low-income, multicultural, and first-generation backgrounds. While undocumented students commonly fit into those categories, many feel that their representation is insufficient.
“I think Harvard can be a little more proactive in terms of saying, ‘We accept undocumented students,’” Pinto says. “On the website, it’s kind of unclear.” A statement from Office of Admissions and Financial Aid spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven says that administrators “certainly take all feedback on [the] website into account in making updates and additions.” 
Act on a Dream, which now has an informal partnership with the Admissions and Financial Aid Office, was founded in 2008 as a group for immigration reform advocacy, but has gradually taken on the role of providing resources for undocumented Harvard applicants and students. Because many undocumented students feel that Harvard’s administrative resources are inadequate, Act on a Dream often acts as an informal support network. The club’s website features a 30-page online handbook for high school students, offering advice on scholarship applications, reaching out to financial aid officers at universities, and writing college essays.
“Act on a Dream was created to be an activist organization, not to provide resources, but because we lacked so many resources, that’s kind of what it became,” Mendoza says. Through their partnership with the group, the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid sends a spring welcome letter to admitted students who have disclosed their status. A number of undocumented students, however, feel that Harvard’s support lessens by the time they move into the Yard.
Although Pinto does not have a passport, he spent the summer studying Shakespeare and Keynesian economics in Venice, Italy. Before his summer program began, he went to Portugal to visit family members he hadn’t seen in 15 years. After his classes ended, he left the island city for an impressive tour of Europe.
“I went to Florence, Rome, Milan, Paris, Edinburgh, London, Amsterdam, Barcelona, and Vienna,” he says, counting on his fingers.
All of this was possible because of advance parole, a government-granted document that allows DACA recipients to travel internationally. An application for advance parole, which must be filed several months before leaving the U.S., costs a steep $360. However, undergraduate DACA beneficiaries like Pinto need not be deterred by the fee—through the College’s Beneficiary Aid Program, undocumented students can have their advance parole applications and DACA renewals funded by Harvard.
Despite the University’s financial generosity, some argue that Harvard has a ways to go in its outreach and support for undocumented students. Although the College has attempted to bolster its administrative support, many undocumented students have deemed it inadequate. Moreover, experts and students are calling for additional emotional support for undocumented students, who often struggle with mental health issues.
“Sometimes I feel like they admitted me and then I got here and there isn’t open support about the fact that they admit undocumented students,” Park says. “Can [the administration] say that it’s OK for us to be here? Even though the letter said that we got in, it sometimes doesn’t feel like we’re entirely welcome.”
Two years ago, the Office of Student Life appointed dela Peña to advise undocumented students. On paper, this seemed to be a victory for Harvard’s undocumented students, who had submitted requests for such an administrator. In practice, several students—particularly leaders of Act on a Dream—found the appointment insufficient. Dela Peña, who was also in charge of BGLTQ Student Life and the Women’s Center, seemed to have little time to help undocumented students.
“We tried to get her to have office hours for undocumented students on a weekly basis where people could drop in, but I think she had a lot of other things to do,” says Enrique Ramirez ’17, a board member of Act on a Dream.
Echoing Ramirez, Mendoza says that dela Peña seemed to have a “figurehead” role, although the position was quite new when Mendoza was still a student at Harvard. According to Pinto, several board members of Act on a Dream were unaware of dela Peña’s upcoming departure until they read about it in The Crimson. In October, dela Peña will take a position at Washington University at St. Louis. Although Harvard has not yet hired her replacement, Loc Truong will assume her position as an adviser to undocumented students.
Dela Peña says that she has a philosophy of “taking a backseat” because students understand student needs better than administrators do. “I have actually gotten feedback from students saying, ‘You should just let us decide what we want to do with programs and events, then give us the resources to do that,’” she says.
Gonzales, an expert on immigration and education, emphasizes the necessity for an administrative liaison like dela Peña—someone to help students “cut through red tape.” However, anecdotal evidence and Gonzales’s own research suggest that undocumented young people often need emotional support in addition to bureaucratic assistance.
Starting in 2002, Gonzales conducted a 12-year study of young undocumented adults in Los Angeles, examining the academic and career trajectories of 150 immigrants. The most surprising finding, he says, was the prevalence of mental health challenges among his respondents.
“All of these young people that I talked to described physical and emotional manifestations of stress—chronic headaches, toothaches, trouble getting out of bed in the morning, eating disorders, thoughts of suicide, and attempted suicide,” Gonzales says. “So it became clear that there is a very strong link between their immigration status and their strained wellbeing.”
Ilian A. Meza-Peña ’17 says that several of her undocumented friends deal with clinical depression and anxiety—the “Undocumented Student Starter Pack,” as she calls it. Two mental health counselors at University Health Services, Carmen M. Cruz and L. Carolina Gonzalez, are well-known among undocumented students for their cultural competency and knowledge of immigration issues.
“They’re really good and supportive,” Meza-Peña says. “But they’re only two people.” In response to inquiries about mental health resources for undocumented students, Chief of Counseling and Mental Health Services Barbara Lewis says that  “all counselors at HUHS receive regular training on a variety of topics and competencies,” although each counselor has individual specialties and interests. 
In his research, Gonzales observed many respondents taking classes at public universities and community colleges on a term-by-term basis, taking hiatuses for personal and financial reasons. Even at selective private schools schools like Harvard, however, a similar pattern of “stopping out”—taking a year off with the intention of returning—seems to emerge among undocumented populations.
“For most of the undocumented students… finances are the number one driver for stopping out,” Gonzales says. “Harvard is very generous, but nevertheless, the cost of books, the remainder of tuition sometimes, and other expenses really add up, and students find themselves in a bind financially.”
Mendoza recalls that several of her undocumented friends left Harvard for a year or two before graduating, motivated by both mental health struggles and financial obligations. DACA beneficiaries are especially pressured to get jobs and provide for their families.
“One of the hardest things about being undocumented at Harvard is graduating,” Mendoza says. “Not only are we students at the University—we’re also heads of household and are expected to send money back home for surgeries or food.”
The claim that Harvard doesn’t do enough for its undocumented population may seem incongruous with the institution’s public image—University President Drew G. Faust, for example, has been a vocal proponent of DACA and the DREAM Act.
The DREAM Act was first proposed in the summer of 2001—more than 15 years ago—and has been reintroduced several times since, although it has never passed. Unlike DACA, which targets a similar demographic, the DREAM Act guarantees a path to citizenship. Faust first endorsed the DREAM Act in 2009, but her support was concretized a year later, when she intervened in the case of Eric Balderas ’13.
Balderas, an undocumented immigrant born in Mexico, was detained at the San Antonio airport in 2010 for traveling without acceptable identification. Facing the prospect of deportation, Balderas garnered national attention—the fact that he was a “soft-spoken” Harvard student made for splashy headlines. Pressured by Faust, Illinois Senator Dick Durbin, and other supporters, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) dropped Balderas’s case and granted him deferred action status.
A photo from a 2010 issue of The Crimson immortalizes Faust’s advocacy for young undocumented immigrants: In a red-walled office at the U.S. Capitol, she stands smiling between Balderas and Durbin, thanking the senator for his sponsorship of the DREAM Act.
Four years later, Dario M. Guerrero ’15 similarly made national news. When his mother’s chemotherapy treatments failed, Guerrero brought her back to Mexico, their home country, hoping to prolong her life at holistic medicine centers. About two months before Guerrero planned to leave, he applied for advance parole and waited. Eventually, he says, he just decided to go “with no indication that my parole would be granted anytime soon.”
“My mother, her condition was starting to decline a bit,” Guerrero says. “So, fuck it. Yeah, we left.”
Guerrero’s mother died in August of 2014. Instead of going back to school, however, he remained stranded in Mexico City for two months—USCIS denied his re-entry to the States. Guerrero called Leverett Resident Dean Bilal Malik, who “told [Guerrero] he was going to get in touch with the necessary parties at Harvard and beyond.”
Because Harvard cannot provide legal counsel, Guerrero relied on a nonprofit that connected him to a pro-bono immigration lawyer. As in Balderas’s case, a number of legislators went to bat for Guerrero.
“Harvard was also able to connect me with this senator in Illinois, Dick Durbin, and this Congressman in Boston,” Guerrero recalls. “So the representatives’s offices were coordinating with my lawyer to put pressure on USCIS to grant me humanitarian parole.”
Ultimately, their efforts were successful. Guerrero returned to Harvard and graduated with a degree in Visual and Environmental Studies. Gonzales says that cases like those of Guerrero and Balderas, although high profile, constitute a small fraction of deportation cases. The few immigrants who have connections to university presidents and elected officials often have the most success in avoiding deportation, Gonzales says. “But most people don’t have those relationships, and most people in those situations fall through the cracks,” he says.
As undocumented students look ahead, past the gates of Harvard Yard and beyond this November, the future may seem daunting. As the election draws near, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump continues to spread vitriolic anti-immigrant rhetoric. In Washington, the Supreme Court remains tied on a landmark immigration case, U.S. vs. Texas, leaving undocumented parents vulnerable.
In June 2016, the Supreme Court announced that it had reached a 4-4 tie in U.S. vs. Texas, therefore upholding an appeals court decision to block DAPA. DAPA, like DACA, was created through an Obama administration executive action in 2012. The policy would have allowed undocumented parents of U.S. citizens and lawful residents to get driver’s licenses, work authorization, and Social Security numbers. Like DACA beneficiaries, DAPA recipients would have been shielded from deportation.
When asked about U.S. v. Texas, Andrade recalls the days when she learned how to drive. When Andrade first received her learner’s permit, she was only allowed to drive with her mother, who has a driver’s license.
“I could drive with her, and only her, because she didn’t want my dad to feel bad if my uncles were teaching me how to drive—if they were doing something that he couldn’t do for me,” Andrade recounts. Andrade’s father may have been a recipient of DAPA if the U.S. vs. Texas Supreme Court tie hadn’t blocked it.
Although Andrade will be able to petition for her parents to become U.S. citizens when she turns 21, she realizes that the process will not be easy. Because her father was deported and returned by crossing the border, he is unlikely to gain citizenship, and her mother has been trying to get a Green Card for several years. As a citizen, Andrade feels pressure to find high-paying employment that her parents are unlikely to secure. DAPA, she says, would have taken “a huge weight off [her] shoulders.”
Maribel Nava ’19, a U.S. citizen born to undocumented Mexican parents, was certain that her parents would have qualified for DAPA when it was first announced in 2012. The Supreme Court decision left her disappointed, but she remains hopeful. 
“I knew it was complicated with Scalia and that the worst-case scenario was happening—they’re not going to let Obama appoint a new judge,” she says. “I’m hopeful because it is a presidential election this year, Hillary’s promised to try something different from DAPA that will work within her first 100 days in office.”
Legislation aside, the pressure for undocumented students to provide for their families persists. While dozens of Harvard students compete for international fellowships, many of their undocumented peers are inclined to move somewhere close to home after graduation.
For Park, being away from his parents in New York City is a source of constant worry. “If they get sick, I don’t think they would know what to do,” he explains. “If something happened to them, everything in terms of my life is unplugged—my parents come first.” Park hopes to attend medical school. He is passionate about someday reforming health care policy—particularly because the Affordable Care Act does not serve undocumented immigrants.
For Daishi M. Tanaka ’19, the burden of financial independence is particularly heavy—his parents, immigrants from Japan, left the U.S. this summer. Because they were undocumented, Tanaka’s parents struggled to find stable jobs and were frequently manipulated by employers. Because they were undocumented, it seems unlikely that they will be able to return to the U.S.
“Now my pressure is to support myself as someone living in the U.S. alone,” Tanaka says. Through advance parole, Tanaka was able to visit his parents in Japan, but he is uncertain of when he’ll see them again. “Since I’m financially independent I have to, you know, think about my finances first and see if I can afford to do that.” 
Finding a job as an undocumented Harvard graduate is often an intimidating process—Mendoza, who graduated last year, said that many people reach out to her for advice, nervous to disclose their immigration status to employers.
Guerrero, who can get jobs because of humanitarian parole, is living at home in L.A. because his work authorization was not processed in time—he had accepted a fellowship in D.C. and had to leave after two weeks. With comprehensive legislative reform stalled and graduates from one of the most prestigious universities in the world struggling to find employment, undocumented students commonly feel helpless.
“No matter how much money I have, I can never take my dad on a vacation to, say, Punta Cana because he can’t come back. I can never take my mom to see her father and mother that she hasn’t seen in so long,” Andrade says. “I think that’s really aggravating to be at a place where my opportunities seem so endless when in fact there’s nothing I can do.”
Most members of Harvard’s undocumented community acknowledge that they make up a particularly privileged subset of immigrants. When her father was pulled over by a policeman on her freshman move-in day last year, Andrade learned that the Harvard name alone acts as a kind of security.
“There’s safety with Harvard, without question,” she says. “Just the name.” Her father had only been pulled over twice before. When he handed his Brazilian passport to the officer, Andrade worried that he would again be deported.
“The cop looked at me, looked at the back of the truck with all this Harvard move-in stuff,” she recounts. Tossing the passport back into the car, the policeman told Andrade’s father to get a driver’s license and let them proceed. “I can’t help but imagine how that situation would’ve gone differently if he weren’t moving me into Harvard.”
García Peña, who used to teach at the University of Georgia, started an educational nonprofit called Freedom University when the state banned undocumented students from enrolling in public universities. The simple fact that the state of Massachusetts does not ban undocumented students makes for a major difference between the two states where she has taught.
“One of the things I see my students come struggling with, both my Freedom U grads and some of my students at Harvard, is feeling guilty that they get to do this while other people can’t,” she says. “There’s a sense of responsibility for those who will stay behind.”
At Harvard, it seems that this sense of indebtedness feeds into activism. Mendoza affirms that Act on a Dream is committed to serving undocumented high school students, particularly because of the group’s position as a Harvard organization: “Even though we are undocumented students at Harvard, we are still very privileged.”
Ramirez, who attended a vocational high school where 12 percent of his graduating class went to college, feels fortunate in comparison to many of his peers back home.  “A lot of the narratives we see ourselves having, it’s really contrasting with people at Harvard who are so privileged,” he says.
For some, the simple act of being publicly undocumented—of making an unseen population visible—is, in itself, a kind of activism.
“I am very open, as you can see when I show everyone my papers,” Ramkellawan says, putting them back in his backpack. “I go to Harvard and it is important for me to educate.”
—Staff writer Marella A. Gayla can be reached at marella.gayla@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @marellagayla.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A woman swung a bat in Yankee Stadium 10 feet away from a man shopping for a new furniture set, while another person explored the debris of a disaster site. These demonstrations were a part of “Explore the Emerging Worlds of Augmented and Virtual Reality,” an event sponsored by the Harvard Innovation Lab during the second annual HUBweek.
The public event offered 1,200 registrants the opportunity to hear from industry representatives and try out new virtual and augmented reality technology, according to i-lab managing director Jodi Goldstein. A series of 20-minute long “Deep Dive” discussions touched on applications in a range of disciplines, such as education and surgery.
Virtual reality platforms have become more widespread because they have become cheaper to develop according to event speaker Rus Gant, director of the Harvard Visualization Research and Teaching Laboratory.
“The actual technology has not changed,” he said. “Instead of being 10, 20, or 30 thousand dollars, you can build one of these for 20 or 30 dollars. If you attached [headsets] to video games… you have a business.”
Goldstein said she hoped the event would showcase Harvard’s potential for the virtual reality industry.
“Harvard and Boston are poised to be leaders in this industry,” she said. “Our goal with this event is to bring together people who are interested with thought leaders in the industry to inspire, educate, and to also start collaborations.”
She also said the i-Lab plan to work more with virtual reality technology going forward.
“We’re going to be opening up a lab here at the Harvard Innovation Lab to enable students to use the hardware and software platforms to ideate and create their own projects,” she said. “We want to more fully resource them in this area as we do in other areas as well.”
HUBweek, jointly founded by Harvard, MIT, the Boston Globe, Massachusetts General Hospital, is a week-long series of discussions, lectures, and workshops in collaboration with Harvard staff and faculty on topics ranging from music to medicine to engineering.
Misha Jamy, a masters student in computer science at MIT, said she attended the event for inspiration.
“Virtual reality seems like the next big thing and I want to be in on it,” she said. “The demos are cool, but the talks really inspire me to continue working in this field.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At a time when the College is escalating its involvement in student life, new Dean of Students Katherine G. O’Dair said social programming should largely be the domain of undergraduates—with administrative support.
O’Dair said rather than seeing her office’s role as planning events, she hopes to focus on making the necessary resources available to students and then “get out of the way.”
“I think in general we can’t plan parties for you,” she said in her first interview with The Crimson since assuming the post this summer. “It has to come from the students, and we’re going to provide that support and infrastructure and advising and let students plan those parties.”
O’Dair, now just over a month into her job, worked in similar positions at MIT, Boston College, and Tufts University before coming to Harvard. She took over the position with a broader job description and an altered job title for a post formerly called the Dean of Student Life.
College spokesperson Rachael Dane wrote in an email this summer that “[t]he Dean of Students title was revised to reflect that the role has responsibility for coordinating the work of the numerous offices across the College… In recent years, the term ‘student life’ has been narrowly conflated with ‘student activities’ and defined as ‘extra curricular.’”
Before O’Dair, Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 served as interim Dean of Student Life, temporarily filling the vacancy left by Stephen Lassonde, who stepped down from the post last January.
The College’s involvement in student life has escalated in recent years and come under fire from critics. In particular, many observers have denounced  last spring’s announcement of historic sanctions against undergraduate, unrecognized single gender social organizations.
Former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68, for instance, has criticized Rakesh Khurana, the current College dean and a driving force behind the sanctions, for what he describes as an overreach into students’ personal lives.
Responding to broad criticism that undergraduate social life should not be the purview of administrators, O’Dair said, “My philosophy is generally in agreement with that.”
“My role in student life is to help provide the resources, structures, and to let students experience campus and to be there if there are any challenges or issues,” she said. “Just build it and get out of the way.”
Undergraduate Council Vice President Daniel V. Banks '17, who met with O’Dair in the past month, said she brings fresh ideas.
“We’re happy to have someone who is the Dean of Students... and we couldn’t be more thrilled that that person is Dean O’Dair,” Banks said. “More than any administrator that we’ve worked with in the past, she has shown a devotion to hearing from students.”
—Staff writer Jalin P. Cunningham can be reached at jalin.cunningham@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JalinCunningham.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Members of Harvard’s graduate student unionization effort are for the first time reaching out to undergraduate teaching and research assistants to gauge their interest in joining a potential student union.
Their efforts follow a decision by the National Labor Relations Board last month requiring private universities to consider graduate and undergraduate teaching and research assistants as workers. While graduate students across the country have mobilized to form unions, the ruling opened the door for undergraduate unionization. 
Graduate students involved in the campaign to unionize, called the Harvard Graduate Students Union-United Auto Workers, have taken to undergraduate dining halls to inform students about unionization and get them involved. Kieren S. Kresevic ’19 said he was approached in Adams dining hall and asked if he works as a course assistant.
“The NLRB decision applies to both undergraduate and graduate students, and undergraduates are joining us to determine whether unionization is right for them as well,” Jack M. Nicoludis, a spokesperson for the graduate student union effort, wrote in an email.
The movement to unionize, which The Crimson first reported in 2015, has gained widespread support. Last February, the group announced that a majority of graduate student teaching fellows and research assistants had signed an authorization card in favor of unionization. In order to form a union, the students will need to hold an election, but they have not yet announced a date on which a vote would occur.
Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven wrote in an emailed statement that, at Harvard, it is still unclear “who would be in any bargaining unit.” She did not comment further on the potential for undergraduate unionization.
In an interview Tuesday, University President Drew G. Faust said she opposes undergraduate unionization for the same reason she opposes graduate student unionization: Faust said she believes such efforts would disrupt the academic relationship between students and faculty.
Henry M. Gomory ’17, a research assistant for two sociology professors, said he was aware of the graduate student unionization effort before their outreach efforts. After a graduate student he knew approached him, Gomory said he signed an authorization card.
“The grad student union is trying to be as inclusive as possible, to try to allow the opportunity for anyone who wants to be part of the union to be part of it,” Gomory said, calling the new outreach effort “exploratory.” He added that undergraduate and graduate student union supporters are spreading the word by reaching out to eligible students they know personally.
Several undergraduates said they received emails or were approached about unionization. Sparsh Sah ’19, a teaching assistant for Economics 1010a: “Intermediate Microeconomics” and an inactive Crimson editor, wrote in an email that he was contacted with a request for an in-person conversation, and Filip Bujaroski ’18, a CS50 teaching fellow, wrote that he was also emailed. Cs50 course assistant Athena Kan ’19 wrote that she was both approached and emailed.
Several undergraduate TFs, TAs, and CAs told The Crimson last week that they do not know enough about unionization to comment, or expressed apathy about joining the union effort because of their own satisfactory working conditions. But Gomory, who said he has good working conditions and very accommodating professors, said the issue extends beyond an individual worker.
“Having good working conditions shouldn’t be reliant on having a compassionate professor,” Gomory said. “Even if your situation right now is okay, I know of others for whom it’s not. And the union is about saying we’re going to stand together and ensure that everyone has work conditions that respect them.”
—Andrew M. Duehren and Daphne C. Thompson contributed to the reporting of this story.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Members of the board of the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club, which sponsors and organizes most theatrical events on campus, condemned the Yale Dramatic Association’s initial decision earlier this month to cast a white woman in the role of a black man for the Yale undergraduate group’s fall mainstage performance.
Though the HRDC does not hold an official position on the controversial practice of “colorblind” casting, or casting a role without taking into consideration the actor’s identity, the student theater organization does not engage in the practice, according to Aislinn E. Brophy ’17, HRDC’s president. 
“We definitely would not want what happened at Yale to happen here,” she said.
After campus outcry, the Yale drama association held auditions to recast the show, the Yale Daily News reported. The group's board wrote in a statement on its website that its initial action  was a "missed opportunity for a black actor to take on an exciting and challenging role was felt all the more deeply.”
“We recognize the pain that this situation has caused and that this new decision may come too late for some and may hurt others," the group wrote. “Still, we hope that reopening auditions will give the Yale community another opportunity to bring new and varied voices to the stage.”
Other HRDC board members did not shy away from echoing Brophy’s disapproval of the initial controversial casting decision at Yale, though they emphasized the opinions they expressed were their own, and not that of their organization.
“The way American theater is right now, there is a noticeable lack of opportunities for people of color,” Eliza B. Mantz ’18, an HRDC board member, said. “To take opportunities—the few that they have—away from people of color like that is absolutely unacceptable.”
“The goal of colorblind casting is to be more inclusive, but I think what happened at Yale was a misconstruance of that concept,” Mantz added.
The HRDC, in contrast, informally encourages directors to adopt what the group calls a “color-conscious” casting policy that encourages them to think about the complexities of race and how it can inform theater performances, Brophy said.
She added that this policy—which is not an official stance of HRDC—encourages more diversity within the casts of HRDC’s productions, while colorblind casting could potentially lead to roles intended for actors of color going to white actors, as was the case at Yale.
“You can cast anybody in [a traditionally white role],” Brophy said, saying that by casting a white person in a minority role, “you’re refusing the narrative diversity for the project.”
Mantz said the board is largely on the same page as Brophy in terms of seeking to protect minority roles within HRDC.
Madison E. Deming ’18, another HRDC board member, added that “whatever the community can do to not suppress the voices of marginalized groups, and make sure that everyone is being heard, is what we need to do.”
The Yale controversy aside, this year’s HRDC board has took steps to encourage more diversity in the performing arts at Harvard.
Noting that HRDC faces its own issues with diversity reflective of those in the larger theater world, Brophy said this year’s board is making a conscious and concerted effort to ensure that “the voices of students of all identities [can] be heard and seen on stage.”
For example, she noted that this semester’s Visiting Director’s Project on the Loeb mainstage will be directed by Jacqui Parker, a woman of color.
“We sat down and decided that we really wanted to see a director of color, since we hadn’t had one in recent memory,” Brophy said. “So what our board is doing is not just encouraging diversity on the stage, but backstage as well.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: September 30, 2016, at 2:51 a.m.
Harvard Law School debuted a remodeled Title IX training for new students this fall in response to student criticisms and recommendations from a University-wide task force on sexual assault prevention.
While Deputy Title IX Coordinator and Dean of Students Marcia L. Sells heralded the training as an improvement over previous iterations, she and Law School students said it was still flawed, and emphasized the need for further changes to the programming.
First-years completed a new Law School-specific online training module, and for the first time, attended an in-person session led by the Office of Dispute Resolution and the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response at their orientation in August. Both trainings were mandatory for new students.
Controversy surrounding the Law School’s compliance with Title IX engulfed the school in 2014, when the federal government found the Law School in violation of the federal anti-sex discrimination law.
And over the past year, the University at large has doubled its efforts to prevent sexual assault. Last spring, a University-wide task force released a series of recommendations for overhauling sexual assault prevention efforts and charged individual schools to develop specific implementation plans by the fall. The recommendations called on schools to augment sexual assault education and prevention training, with an emphasis on mandatory annual training for all students, interactive sessions in small groups, and online modules. In line with the task force’s suggestions, the College rolled out a mandatory online training module to all undergraduates earlier this month.
The Law School released its plan to act on some recommendations to the University’s central Title IX office at the beginning of the semester but has not made the plan public. Only first-year students were required to participate in the Law School’s training this year.
According to Sells, conversations about enhancing Title IX training began at the Law School well before the task force report. Last fall, students criticized existing programming as meager and ineffective. In previous years, the Law School’s training consisted only of an online program administered by an outside service.
Students said the old online module was not sufficiently engaging and took issue with scenarios presented that they felt were not applicable to Law students. Students also requested additional in-person programming.
Over the course of last academic year, Sells and fellow Title IX coordinators Catherine Claypoole and Kevin Moody met with student government representatives, members of the Harassment/Assault Law-School Team, and a faculty working group to revise the school’s approach to Title IX education.
Law School Title IX specialist Jeanna Phemmison created the new online module, which incorporated the Law School-specific Title IX procedures implemented in 2015 in a departure from the Harvard-wide framework.
This year’s online orientation sessions asked students to consider sexual harassment scenarios unique to the Law School.
Minjoo Kim, a second-year Law School student who became involved in brainstorming Title IX training reforms after creating the student government’s Health and Wellness Title IX subcommittee, found the process disappointing. With many students and administrators intently focused on activism surrounding race and diversity at the school last year, Kim said she felt Title IX issues were not accorded the attention they deserved. She was the only member of the student government subcommittee, and the faculty working group did not meet as regularly as she had hoped.
“After Reclaim last year, I think, deservedly, Black Lives Matter and racial issues get a lot more interest, but I do feel like Title IX hasn’t been that big here,” Kim said, referring to a student activist group at the Law School. “It was so hard for me to find people who were even interested here.”
But a new group of first-year students has already begun to voice dissatisfaction with the new training. First-year student Devony Schmidt thought both the online and in-person programs focused too heavily on procedure while failing to address rape culture and bystander intervention strategies. Schmidt said she thinks finding the procedure online is straightforward, so orientation should focus on campus sexual climate and prevention strategies.
“We felt it would be much more helpful for these organizations to focus on the reality of rape culture on the Law School campus,” she said. “A lot of us were really disappointed as well that there was no talk at all about what it means to be an active witness.”
Schmidt said a group of students in her 1L section discussed their qualms about Title IX programming after orientation, and at least one student brought these complaints to Sells.
Last May, HALT members issued a series of recommendations to Law School Title IX coordinators advocating for mandatory bystander training for new students. While it was too late to integrate the proposals into this year’s orientation, Sells said administrators would consider implementing bystander intervention training in future years.
Sells emphasized that conversations about how to reform sexual assault education at the Law School are ongoing, and she and the other Title IX coordinators will continue to solicit student input. Administrators are exploring adding small group trainings, programs for second- and third-year Law students, developing peer education, updating the online module, and collaborating more closely with OSAPR, Sells said.
“Some of the changes have been incremental, and I mean that I think in a good way, because we’re thinking about what makes sense and what works,” she said. “I think we can do better.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: September 30, 2016 
A previous version of this article incorrectly indicated that in-person Title IX orientations at the Law School deal with scenarios unique to the school. In fact, only the online modules considered school-specific scenarios. In addition, the article incorrectly stated orientation sessions included hypothetical scenarios in criminal law classrooms. Orientation sessions did not use such scenarios.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard has gone to great lengths to maintain the secrecy of its tenure process in an ongoing federal civil suit filed by a former professor in March 2015, calling upon a top administrator to defend its promotion practices.
In an affidavit dated Aug. 24, 2015, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Michael D. Smith characterized Harvard’s confidential peer review of tenure candidates as “the linchpin of the tenure process.” Smith wrote that the tenure process depends “a very significant way on candid and confidential evaluations.” 
Kimberly S. Theidon, a former Anthropology associate professor at Harvard and the plaintiff in the case, maintains that these confidential documents would help prove her allegations that Harvard discriminated against her when the University denied her tenure in May 2013. Theidon was granted tenure at Tufts University’s Fletcher School of International Affairs in July 2015.
Theidon filed her suit against the University and the Harvard Corporation in March of 2015, alleging that Harvard’s decision to deny her tenure was in part retaliation for her advocacy for sexual assault prevention on campus. In particular, Theidon offered in comments on a Crimson story a defense of an anonymous sexual assault victims quoted.
Theidon’s suit argues that such alleged discrimination would violate the federal anti-sex discrimination law Title IX.
Since filing the suit, Theidon's and Harvard’s lawyers have sparred in court over what materials the University should turn over in the case’s discovery process.
Theidon has twice since June called on the Massachusetts Federal District Court  to compel Harvard to produce documents including parts of University President Drew G. Faust’s personal calendar, administrators’ internal communications about Title IX policies, and all tenure-related correspondence from a Johns Hopkins professor who reviews tenure candidates for Harvard.
The court denied Theidon’s motions both times.
“The Court denies Plaintiff’s Motion for several reasons, any one of which is sufficient on its own,” wrote U.S. District Judge Leo T. Sorokin in his Sept. 16 order denying Theidon’s latest motion. Among other reasons, Sorokin ruled that Theidon’s requests were “substantially overbroad” and “unduly burdensome.”
Although the court denied Theidon access to these particular documents, it mandates that Harvard produce other materials by the end of December in compliance with the federal court’s regular discovery process. 
Theidon declined to comment specifically on the pending litigation but wrote more generally on Tuesday about her reasons for pursuing the lawsuit.
“It is important to oppose discrimination when you see it, and to stand up to harassment whether from a peer or a professor,” Theidon wrote in an email. “I hope my lawsuit will shine a light on misconduct.”
A Harvard spokesperson did not provide comment by press time.
Harvard’s denial of Theidon’s tenure in 2013 came during a time of increased campus dialogue about and advocacy for sexual assault and harassment prevention. In 2014, undergraduates also called for improvement in Harvard’s sexual assault policies.
In spring 2015, Harvard launched a University-wide sexual conduct climate survey in association with 28 other American universities. That September, survey results revealed what Faust called a “deeply disturbing" picture of the sexual climate on campus.
—Staff writer Jonathan G. Adler can be reached at jonathan.adler@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JonathanGAdler.
—Staff writer Melissa C. Rodman can be reached at melissa.rodman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @melissa_rodman.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
From a forum hosted by Michael Sandel to presentations about Boston’s urban design to a party with beer made from water purified from the Charles River, HUBweek is featuring a wide variety of events showcasing Boston-area innovation this week.
HUBweek is a week-long festival that aims to educate Boston residents about new ideas that companies and individuals in the city are developing, cofounder Linda Pizzuti Henry said.
MIT, Harvard, Massachusetts General Hospital, and the Boston Globe sponsored the week of festivities, which take place from Sept. 25 to Oct. 1. HUBweek began last year and then drew more than 46,000 attendees.
“We’re talking about things that matter, we’re talking about things that really interest people. And we are just getting warmed up,” Henry said.
University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 wrote in a statement that the event highlighted opportunities for Harvard to work with the Boston area.
“Harvard’s legacy as a leading research and educational institution means that we are equipped not only to innovate, but to create,” he wrote, through Harvard spokesperson Tania DeLuzuriaga.  “HUBweek at Harvard showcases the ways in which we interact to improve and innovate in the communities we share.”
The Faneuil Forum, a discussion led by government professor Michael J. Sandel, drew large crowds Monday evening. Sandel conducted a seminar with members of the public in Faneuil Hall on Monday and asked them to consider the relationship between money and being a good citizen.
“I think that one of the reasons that democracy doesn’t seem to be going to well these days is that we have slid into a certain impoverished understanding of what democracy is for,” he said. “We’ve come to treat citizenship as a kind of extension of market relations.”
Bernd Huber, a computer science graduate student at Harvard, said Sandel made him think about democracy in a new way.
“[Sandel’s approach] makes you think about things that you haven’t spent time thinking about,” he said.
At another HUBweek event entitled “Diversity in Medicine,” panelists discussed ways to attract healthcare professions from a variety of demographic backgrounds.
Teresa J. Carter, who works at Harvard Medical School’s Office of Diversity and Inclusion and Community Partnership, said she enjoyed the event.
“The panelists were very informative,” she said. “It was good to see a good cross-section [of diversity] in the panelists.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Namibian President Hage G. Geingob discussed the importance of political stability and sketched his plan to spur job growth in an address at the Institute of Politics Wednesday evening.
In a wide-ranging speech that covered topics including industrialization and racial division, Geingob focused on the need to build inclusive and transparent institutions to ensure faith in the country’s relatively young democracy—which was founded in 1990 after gaining independence from South Africa.
For Africa, “days of the coups are over,” Geingob declared near the start of his speech as he sought to reverse perceptions of the African continent as wracked with political turmoil.
He also listed three pillars he said are essential for ensuring both stability and civil liberties in Namibia and neighboring countries: transparent processes, peaceful mechanisms for dispute resolution, and fair institutions. The southwestern African country has had a stable democratic government that was recognized in 2014 with the infrequently awarded Mo Ibrahim Prize.
Geingob has been a leader in Namibia’s government for many years. He has served as president for more than a year and a half, and was previously prime minister from 1990 and 2002, and from 2012 to 2015. As president, Geingob has overseen a period of relatively solid economic growth though the country still is grappling with high unemployment, which was  28.1 percent  in 2014 according to a Namibia Statistics Agency report.
However, the country is taking active steps to spur job creation and ensure equal access to the labor force with the five-year Harambee Plan for Prosperity, Geingob said. The plan incorporates social progress with economic growth, and represents his government’s effort to respond to challenges that include gender inequality.
Prior to the public address, Geingob spoke more specifically about ways his country is combatting gender disparity in its government in a group interview with student media organizations. Speaking about his SWAPO political party’s “zebra policy”—a plan to increase gender equality in parliament by mandating that half of his party’s nominees are male and half are female—he offered an enthusiastic explanation.
“We have been struggling for a long time to see more women in parliament,” he said in the interview, “but we think that it’s a good policy.”
After nominating an equal number of men and women in the 2014 elections, SWAPO won large majorities in both of Namibia’s legislative chambers. Of the entire parliament, over 40 percent of seats were won by women, up from around 25 percent in the previous parliament, he said. Geingob has also appointed women as ministers to various government posts.
The public address was followed by a short question and answer session, in which Geingob fielded questions from a packed John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum. The session grew tense when Geingob was challenged on his country’s policies toward land redistribution.
After the questioner, Fanelesibonge Mashwama ’17, asked whether Geingob would consider a more aggressive land redistribution policy, Geingob responded by cautioning against a government that was overly interventionist especially when it comes to such a racially and politically sensitive issue.
A number of those in the audience had traveled to  Namibia through Harvard Business School’s Namibia Trek. Sijh A. B. Diagne, a Business School student who led the trek in March 2016, said what stood out to him about the address was the positive tone.
“I think [Geingob] did a great job of demystifying some of the stereotypes people have about Africa,” he said, referring to Geingob’s optimism about the state of democracy in his country. “I thought he was a great example of how a country that had been deeply divided given its colonial history was able to find some healing and some peace.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
After a pre-screening of the upcoming film “Deepwater Horizon” in Davis Square, Harvard faculty and other law experts offered insight into the the 2010 oil spill of the same namesake in the Gulf of Mexico and the extensive legal aftermath.
The film was screened in Somerville Theater on Wednesday for those with a Harvard ID and a guest. Panelists included Law School professor Richard J. Lazarus, who chaired President Barack Obama’s Commission on the Deepwater Horizon Gulf Oil Spill.
Originating in an explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil rig operated by the energy company BP, the spill was the worst maritime oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry and sparked a massive response to contain the ecological damage, including a six-month moratorium on deepwater oil drilling in the Gulf.
Panelists described outdated U.S. oil regulations that enabled the spill, their experience investigating the disaster, and reforms they believe Congress and gas companies should implement in the spill’s aftermath.
“This was an unbelievable disaster that shouldn’t have happened,” Lazarus said of the spill. “What happened is that [BP] got complacent. They hadn’t had a disaster in a long time.”
Although panelists offered critiques of oil companies’ policies, the commission itself did not condemn deepwater oil drilling as a whole.
“Yes, [deep water drilling] is risky, but risks can be managed,” Lazarus said. “They’re being managed every day.”
The panel did agree, however, that legislators have not enacted sufficient reforms in the aftermath of the BP incident.
“Congress has done nothing,” Lazarus said, when speaking about reforms to mitigate the possibility of another spill in the future.
The panel also said the movie, which stars Mark Wahlberg, Kate Hudson, and Kurt Russell, depicted the events leading up to and during the oil spill realistically.
“I think it was a very accurate film,” Lazarus said. “The sense [that the movie provided] was exactly what it was like.”
Furthermore, according to Lazarus, BP was not the only oil company whose policies increased risks for a spill.
“Practices on the Deepwater Horizon were absolutely, 100% normal,” he said. “It happened to BP, but it could have happened to any of them.“
Lazarus also said the economic losses in the spill’s aftermath would have been more devastating for a smaller oil company.
“It was very fortunate that this was a company that had the resources to actually combat the disaster,” he said. “A small business would have simply declared bankruptcy and left it up to others to fix the problem.”
According to Lazarus, the spill also alerted the oil industry to the potential perils of unenforced regulations.
“I think [the oil spill] was a real signal to companies that the risks are real,” he said. “The accident cost BP $55 billion dollars.”
The panel also discussed changes in the private sector following the disaster. According to panelists, oil companies have developed new technologies and increased their focus on mitigation procedures after an accident.
Several members of the audience said the event alerted them to the risks of outdated rules.
“I think that the legal lesson is that there is a huge risk here and if you’re not putting the proper regulations in place, if you’re not monitoring what’s happening and what procedures people are using, you’re not managing that risk and you’re putting them in danger,” Gina M. Angiolillo, a Law School student, said.
The pre-screening was sponsored by Lionsgate Entertainment. Both the Commission’s report and the film were dedicated to the 11 men who lost their lives on the Deepwater Horizon rig.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
When University President Drew G. Faust and the investment professionals who oversee Harvard’s endowment seek advice, they sometimes turn to an old friend: David F. Swensen, the Chief Investment Officer at Yale University.
Over the last few years, the Boston fund managers have had a lot to talk about with their New Haven counterparts. In fiscal year 2016, HMC returned negative 2 percent on its portfolio, a loss that, together with other financial flows like the $1.7 billion HMC distributes to fund University operations, combined to an almost $2 billion drop in the endowment’s total value. In a difficult market year that saw many large institutional investors lose money, Yale posted 3.4 percent growth for fiscal year 2016—outpacing Harvard by more than 5 percent. Its endowment size is now $25.4 billion, compared to Harvard's $35.7 billion.
Not that Yale’s superior financial performance is anything new. Since fiscal year 2006, Yale has outpaced Harvard every year except two: fiscal years 2008 and 2010. Yale’s winning streak in financial markets is almost as dominant as Harvard’s on the gridiron.
Now, with a search for its fourth CEO in 10 years underway, Faust and Harvard’s investment leaders are wondering whether Harvard should more closely emulate Yale. At issue in particular is Harvard’s “hybrid” investment model, an idiosyncratic system in which the University employs a robust in-house staff of almost 200 and retains a number of external money managers. Yale, on the other hand, almost exclusively invests through outside funds, like many other university endowments. Fewer than 40 people work for the Yale Investment Office.
“Yale never had the combination internal-external that we had. They didn’t build up an organization like HMC, so that’s a sharp contrast. We look to see what choices they’ve made and how we might learn from them,” Faust said in an interview Tuesday.
HMC executives have done more than just watch Yale's progress from a distance. According to Faust, Jane L. Mendillo, who stepped down as CEO of HMC in 2014, met with Swensen. When Stephen Blyth, who resigned as CEO in July after only 18 months, took charge in 2015, he met with Swensen to discuss endowment investing. And Paul J. Finnegan ’75, the University’s treasurer and a member of the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body, has met with him.
To some, these discussions should make the choice easy. Of the nearly 100 universities with endowments over $1 billion, “Harvard’s the only one that has tried has tried to do a lot of investments internally,” said Charles A. Skorina, who manages a firm that recruits financial executives. “We’ve run a 10 year experiment, so we’ve had 10 years to test their theory. It failed.”
At a time of transition at HMC, the Yale Investment Office has become an example of successful endowment investing and leadership. The next leader of the wealthiest university endowment in the world will have to consider: Should Harvard abandon decades of established investment practices and, in short, start investing like Yale does? Can it afford not to?
‘THEREIN BEGINS THE UNRAVELING’
Harvard’s internal management system has not always been the subject of scrutiny. When Jack R. Meyer served as the CEO of HMC between 1990 and 2005, he led Harvard’s internal management team to more than a decade of explosive growth, nearly tripling the value of the endowment and establishing Harvard as one of the leading institutional investors in the world.
But there was a catch. To support such a staff of internal managers that could so consistently perform well, Harvard had to pay big bucks, amounting to tens of millions of dollars to individual managers who performed well. Some top-performing managers made more than $30 million in a single year. The compensations—competitive with salaries in the hedge fund industry—did not sit well with some at Harvard, and alumni penned a letter to then-University President Lawrence H. Summers decrying the salaries. At the time, even Swensen criticized Harvard’s compensation models as excessive.
“I have long said that the structure of Harvard Management is inherently unstable,” Swensen said in 2006. “You can’t pay managers astronomical amounts of money because it tears at the fabric of [the university].”
Eventually, the mounting pressure on Harvard’s compensation packages—packages that, proponents argued, allowed HMC to remain competitive—became too much. The University placed a “significant” cap on HMC executive salaries in 2004, and Meyer resigned in 2005, taking four top-paid senior managers with him.
Without competitive salaries, Harvard would not be as well equipped to lure top money managers to HMC, a change that some experts said marked the beginning of the end for the internal end of HMC’s hybrid management system.
“The problem actually began with Harvard doing too well, meaning they made too much money and they paid their managers $10, $20, $30 million. At a place as liberal as Harvard is, that made people go crazy, especially the faculty,” said Tim J. Keating ’85, the president of Keating Wealth Management. “Therein begins the unraveling.”
While Yale’s reliance on external managers meant that it pays its internal executives much less in the early 2000s, the university was all the while compensating the external fund managers at a higher rate. For Randolph B. Cohen ’87, a finance professor at Harvard Business School, a shift towards outside managers is more expensive for the University, even if it does obscure some of the details of executive compensation.
“It's probably a lot cheaper to hire top quality people full-time to execute bond-trading or similar strategies for Harvard than it would be to pay those same people to manage that money the same way inside a hedge fund,” he wrote in an email.
Still, HMC has not compensated employees anywhere near the levels reached in the early 2000s—Stephen Blyth made $8.3 million in calendar year 2014—and the performance of its internal managers has increasingly become a subject of scrutiny and concern.
“At some point, it simply won’t make sense to maintain the existing format,” Meyer said in 2004. “There is a point where we would simply move to an external model.”
‘TURMOIL HAS CREATED CHAOS’
From its office high in the Boston Federal Reserve Building, HMC runs a sprawling operation, with more than 200 employees managing an endowment comprised of over 13,000 individual funds. And beyond its headquarters over the Boston Harbor, HMC also farms out a number of its investments to external managers, adding “breadth and depth to HMC’s market perspectives,” according to its website.
The Yale Investment Office, by contrast, employed a leaner crew of 31 in 2015 to run an endowment of comparable size.
Harvard’s “hybrid model” of investment has been the firm’s signature for years. But if interim HMC CEO Robert A. Ettl’s 2016 report is any indication, HMC may be moving towards a model more like the Yale Investment Office’s tightly-run, externally-managed ship. Some other peer institutions, including Stanford and MIT, invest their endowments through external managers and have recently outperformed Harvard.
In June 2016, Ettl wrote in his report last week, HMC reduced the size of its internal public equity team and moved most of the investments to outside managers. Public equities returned a negative 10.2 percent in fiscal year 2016, falling short of its negative 6.1 percent benchmark; the portfolio was one of HMC’s worst-performing.
“That’s one move that says, okay, internal-external we’ll decide on the basis of where we can do the best investing,” Faust said of the public equities transition.
For a number of university investing experts, outsourcing public equities should be just the first step in a long-needed divorce with HMC’s hybrid model and a transition to a system emulating the Yale Investment Office.
Keating, a Leverett House alumnus and donor to the University, said he wants his gifts to have as much impact as possible—and under HMC’s current organization, that is not happening.
“Turmoil has created chaos, which has led to subpar investment returns,” Keating said. “It’s time for Harvard to jettison the hybrid model and move exclusively to the external model.”
One advantage of an externally-managed endowment is the ability to lay off underperforming managers on short notice, according to Roger G. Ibbotson, a hedge fund CIO and finance professor emeritus at the Yale School of Management.
“It’s much easier to fire external managers than it is to fire your internal staff,” Ibbotson said. “There’s a lot of internal politics that’s involved in all of that, so it’s harder to adapt.”
Whether HMC continues to dismantle its in-house fleet, though, will largely be the decision of the fund’s next CEO. Two top candidates reportedly in the running, Columbia’s N.P. Narvekar and Rockefeller University’s Amy C. Falls, both have experience running relatively small internal teams and outsourcing their investments.
“Continuing that path to evaluate external-internal, to evaluate what has led to disappointing performance, that’ll be a challenge for the new leader,” Faust said.
Whoever takes the reins at HMC, Skorina said, will have some difficult decisions to make.
“Are they going to give the new person the authority that they need?” Skorina said. “It’s almost like HMC is a sacred cow. Are they prepared for the CEO to fire 200 people? Do they have the guts for that?”
The possibility of reparative change with a new CEO at HMC, though, comes with a price: With every transition of the fund’s top office comes a shift in strategies, and costs are incurred as that leader sells off old investments and purchases new ones. Harvard is currently searching for its fourth permanent CEO since 2006.
Yale has had the same chief executive since the Reagan administration.
“The fact is that Yale has a rock star,” said Steven N. Kaplan ’81, a professor at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business. “David Swensen is a rock star and he’s super impressive. I think the goal for Harvard is to find someone equivalent.”
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
—Staff writer Daphne C. Thompson can be reached at daphne.thompson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @daphnectho.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
­In my entire life, I have only been to one NFL game despite living smack in the middle of Patriots country.
The Dolphins were visiting New England in January of 2006, and I headed to Gillette Stadium with my dad, uncle, and cousin, eager to finally witness the Patriots’ dominance in person.
We actually almost missed kickoff because eight-year-old me spent a half hour being sick in a McDonald’s parking lot on the way to Foxborough. Interestingly enough, we hadn’t eaten at McDonald’s, so their food wasn’t the culprit.
Up to that point in my life, my football knowledge was exclusively Patriots-based, to the point where I probably didn’t even know Miami had a professional team. Accordingly, my memory of the game is faint.
I really only recalled three things: “Crazy Train” by Ozzy Osbourne blaring through the stadium speakers as the home team ran onto the field, a halfway decent cheeseburger I got from one of the concession stands, and Doug Flutie’s famous drop kick.
Seeing that improbable play in game action proved that you should always expect the unexpected in sports, especially in football.
However, in Week Three of the Ivy League football slate, the unexpected is just that. I’m not going to get to predict any crazy upsets, as it seems as though most teams have been performing and will continue to perform up to their preseason expectations (aside from Penn—more on that debacle later). I’ll try to keep things interesting nonetheless.
BROWN AT URI
I’ll cut right to the chase. This is easily the game of the week.
The claim to the Rhode Island throne is up for grabs. This is for bragging rights. This is for all the marbles.
Ok, maybe not. Rhode Island is the smallest state, and probably one of the least relevant. I hear Newport is nice though.
Coincidentally, Harvard has already played both of these teams. The Crimson demolished URI in hits season opener, winning by 30.
Last week, the Crimson pulled off yet another win over Brown, its sixth in a row against the Bears. Brown did make it interesting this time, as the outcome was in limbo until midway through the fourth quarter.
Side note, the cookies they have in the press box at Brown Stadium are delicious. If URI had to go up against Brown based on press box cookie quality alone, I’d say the outlook would be similar to the Cleveland Browns facing off against a vengeful Tom Brady when he is reinstated from his suspension. Not good.
(Most of my references will center around the Pats if you haven’t picked up on that yet.)
Not only does Brown probably have better cookies, it also has the better football team.
Prediction: Brown 34, URI 21
PENN AT DARTMOUTH
Penn vs Dartmouth. Quakers vs Big Green. Big city, bright lights vs. … trees. Lots of trees.
Penn may have the advantage when it comes to location (we all know how the media favors big-city, East Coast teams), but Dartmouth certainly has the advantage when it comes to momentum.
Penn, after being favored by some to run away with the Ivy League crown, lost its first two contests. Luckily for the Quakers, both losses were against non-conference opponents, but this shaky start does not bode well for the Philadelphians.
Like wide-eyed freshmen embarking on FOP trips before fall semester, Penn will venture into the New Hampshire wilderness this weekend. Unlike these freshmen, Penn will leave having failed to develop any survival skills for life in the Ivy League.
Prediction: Dartmouth 42, Penn 20
PRINCETON AT COLUMBIA
I won’t name names, but one of my co-writers on the beat is sorely mistaken when it comes to Ancient Eight gridiron battles: Any football is good football.
I lied. I have to name names. Gant, that was too much disrespect in my book.
But if there’s one game that I would label a snoozefest, this might be it.
Two middle of the road schools, two middle of the road football teams.
For the fourth straight year, Columbia has started its campaign 0-2. The Lions have only scored 23 points and yielded 30 in their first two contests, paving the way for a game that might only be exciting if you’re one of the punters.
Princeton has been Columbia’s exact opposite offensively and defensively in 2016’s opening weeks. The Tigers have been outscored 73-63 so far, but hold a 1-1 record.
This game could honestly be either a slugfest or a scrappy, low-scoring affair. Instead of settling for a prediction that splits the difference, I’ll be bold. Hot takes only around here.
Prediction: Princeton 13, Columbia 6
Al Bagnoli retires again.
LEHIGH AT YALE
Yale just can’t catch a break.
Not only does it have to pencil in its annual loss to Harvard, Yale also has to deal with a red-hot Lehigh team for its third game.
Lehigh enters this week having dispatched of Penn and Princeton in back-to-back contests by 21 and 14 points, respectively.
Unlike Lehigh, the Bulldogs were just blown out by Colgate and lost to Cornell, losing by a combined 56 points. The future in New Haven is looking bleak indeed.
Prediction: Lehigh 52, Yale 7
CORNELL AT COLGATE
For once, Cornell might not be the most forgettable Ivy League team. The Big Red has jumped out to a 2-0 start, and instead of battling with other Ivy cellar-dwellers, Cornell might find itself nearer to the middle of the pack this year.
However, one roadblock in Cornell’s path is a Colgate team that should have no trouble rolling past the Big Red. The Raiders battled to a 38-31 loss against No. 7 Richmond and had no trouble at all against Yale, showing that Cornell will have to get seriously lucky to pull off a win.
Prediction: Colgate 45, Cornell 28
GEORGETOWN AT HARVARD
The Hoyas eked out a victory against Bagnoli’s boys last week, and they still have not lost a game.
Should Harvard be scared? Nah, probably not. The Crimson shut out Georgetown a year ago and put up 45 points in the process.
I realize that a lot can change in a year, but if we’ve learned one thing about Harvard football during the tenure of coach Tim Murphy, it’s that the Crimson find a way to win year after year, regardless of roster turnover.
The most notable example of Harvard’s remarkable consistency is found at the quarterback position. Senior Joe Viviano continues to impress through two starts, stepping in for the graduated Scott Hosch admirably. Viviano has thrown for three touchdowns and rushed for another three, and he has yet to throw an interception. Take notes, Ryan Fitzpatrick.
Seeing as Georgetown most likely spent more time analyzing the outcome of the first presidential debate than preparing for this week’s game, I picture Harvard not having too much difficulty with the Hoyas Friday night at the Stadium.
Prediction: Harvard 37, Georgetown 24
Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at jackstockless@college.harvard,edu. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard football team does not lose to non-conference opponents. The Crimson has beaten every non-Ivy League team it has faced since dropping its season opener at Holy Cross in 2011. That was long enough ago that not a single member of the current squad was there to suffer defeat.
Following a victory over Brown in last week’s Ivy League opener, the team prepares to square off on Friday night against yet another out-of-conference foe: fellow unbeaten Georgetown. Before besting Brown 32-22 last weekend, the Crimson beat Rhode Island in its home opener.
“We took another important step in a series of steps we have to take to become a really good football team.” said Head Coach Tim Murphy about the Brown game. “Specifically, it was going on the road... and showing we can beat a very solid football team.”
There are a few matchups to consider before Harvard (2-0, 1-0) hosts the Hoyas (3-0) this weekend, specifically the Crimson’s offense clashing with Georgetown’s defense, the era of new quarterbacks, and the dichotomy of new vs. old in tomorrow’s coaching battle.
HARVARD RUSHING ATTACK VS. GEORGETOWN FRONT SEVEN
Through two games this year, the Crimson has averaged 216.5 yards per game on the ground, delegating duties primarily to junior running back Semar Smith and senior quarterback Joe Viviano. What’s more: Of Harvard’s 11 touchdowns during this young season, eight of them have come via the rush, with Smith and Viviano chipping in three a piece.
“I have faith in my [offensive line],” Smith said. “[Viviano] definitely opens up a lot more for us because defenses have to respect the quarterback run.”
The Hoyas, on the other hand, have managed to stymie the opposition’s rushing attack through three contests this season, allowing a 103.7 YPG and only 3.1 yards per carry. Additionally, Georgetown has allowed just two rushing touchdowns on the year.
Much of the Hoyas’ success against opposing rushers can be attributed to senior defensive lineman Hunter Kiselick and sophomore linebacker J’V’on Butler, both standout members of the Georgetown front seven. Kiselick leads all Hoyas in tackles for loss with four, while Butler has recorded a team-high 25 tackles.
Whichever team controls the ground game will likely have advantages in possession, clock management, and playbook flexibility in Friday night’s showdown.
GEORGETOWN SECONDARY VS. HARVARD RECEIVING THREAT
In three contests so far this season, the Hoyas have received substantial contributions from multiple members of the secondary en route to recording 10 pass break-ups, 14 pass deflections, and four interceptions for 89 return-yards. Facilitating Georgetown’s stalwart pass defense are junior safety David Akere and sophomore defensive back Blaise Brown. Akere, a returning starter from 2015, recorded a career-high 13 tackles and forced a fumble in Harvard’s 45-0 rout of the Hoyas last season. Brown, a veteran of nine games as a freshman, is looking to build on his strong start to the year, having already recorded 14 tackles.
Harvard, however, has a two-headed receiving weapon to counter the Georgetown secondary: reigning Ivy League Rookie of the Year Justice Shelton-Mosley and senior halfback Anthony Firkser. Both members of the Crimson air-attack have totaled upwards of 200 yards in just two games thus far, with Firkser contributing two touchdowns as well.
“We watched a lot of [the Georgetown secondary] on film,” Firkser noted. “We saw how they play and what their tendencies are like.”
STARTING QUARTERBACK DUEL
Friday night’s game will showcase two relatively inexperienced seniors under center. Harvard right-hander Joe Viviano had never thrown a collegiate pass until this season, while Hoyas quarterback Tim Barnes has sparse exposure from past seasons, namely five appearances as a junior.
Nevertheless, both players have risen to the occasion this season, leading their respective teams to perfect starts. Viviano, averaging 247.5 yards per game through the air, has connected for three passing touchdowns and boasts a 65.1 percent completion rate. The Crimson field general also has an untainted stat-line with zero interceptions on the year. Compared to Viviano, Barnes has found the end zone twice as many times through the air despite averaging 182.3 passing yards per game and converting only 59.1 percent of his attempts. Opposing defenses have picked off the Hoyas quarterback twice in the process.
JUSTIN HARRELL VS. SEAN AHERN
Crimson captain Sean Ahern prepares to go head-to-head with the Hoyas top receiving threat, junior wideout Justin Harrell. Harvard’s premiere defensive back and reigning All-Ivy League First Team selection has jumped out to a great start, playing the same football that earned him last year’s accolades. Ahern has recorded nine tackles, including two for loss, and forced one fumble already this season. The Cincinnati native is coming off an impressive year on special teams as well in which he ranked first in the Ivy League and 13th in the country with two blocked kicks.
On the other hand, Harrell has been quarterback Tim Barnes’ go-to option through three games this season, tallying 19 receptions for 155 yards. The pride of New Orleans did not see game action last season due to injury but contributed in 10 games the season prior.
“I wouldn’t look too hard at the… one-on-one matchups,” Ahern said. “Our defensive mentality is team defense—assignment football….They have great skill guys at receiver, but at the same time, it’s a team defense”
HEAD COACH SHOWDOWN
Entering his 23rd year at the helm of Harvard football, Crimson head coach Tim Murphy is the all-time winningest coach in program history and ranks second in wins among Ivy League coaches since the League’s inception in 1956. Nine Ivy League titles and three unbeaten seasons – not to mention a 17-5 record in “The Game”—define Murphy’s dominant tenure.
Coach Murphy, a six-time New England Coach of the Year selection, will face a formidable opponent on the other sideline tomorrow night, as his Crimson squares off against Coach Rob Sgarlata’s Hoyas. Sgarlata, a Hoya in his own right (c/o 1994), is relatively new to the head coaching gig compared to Murphy. Despite serving on the Georgetown football staff for 18 seasons, only recently was he named his program’s 31st bench boss in 2014. Motivation and character seem to be Sgarlata’s strong points, and he seems committed to the development of the student-athlete. Over thirty of his players were selected to the Patriot League Academic Honor Roll for the 2014-2015 season.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
