News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As Donald Trump’s campaign spirals downward, with undecided voters and his party elites abandoning him with equal haste, the only person who doesn’t know he’s toast may well be Donald Trump himself.
That, of course, is hyperbole. His die-hard supporters are just as much in denial. In fact, they, not his ever-shrinking inner circle of former pollster Kellyanne Conway and erstwhile Breitbart editor Steve Bannon, are the ones enabling this delusion, roaring their approval as he dismisses the tales of his campaign’s demise as exaggerations by a scurrilous media. How could he possibly be losing Pennsylvania, where 5.7 million people voted in 2012, when he’s packing 8,000-seat venues in Wilkes-Barre with people who can recite his iconic phrases—now dismayingly including “locker room talk”—verbatim? (I’ll be the first to predict a Bob Dylan landslide in 2020, should he choose to accept it!)
And just check out the polls! No, the real polls, not the “crooked” ones that show him far behind Hillary Clinton in swing states and losing his grasp on Republican necessities like Arizona and even Alaska. If you want to really know who won Sunday’s debate, look at the (nonrandom and nonscientific) polls on the websites of Drudge, Time, and Breitbart (which he admitted was, I kid you not, “slightly conservative”).
The great irony is that Trump was once a great believer in actual polling. Trump taught data journalists (and optimists worldwide) a stunning, valuable lesson with his victory in the Republican nomination. Trump tweeted polls gleefully throughout the primary process; he took the lead in early July 2015 and never looked back. But pundits, often criticized as obsessed with the horse race, maintained a gradually waning confidence that he was a Herman Cain-style flash in the pan, even as his lead lasted...and lasted.
Nate Silver, a founding father of data journalism and frequent defender of the poll, wrote an uncharacteristically gut-feeling-based piece last August that defined the genre and possibly shaped the Trump-bearish conventional wisdom. He estimated Trump’s odds of winning the nomination at just two percent.
In defense of Silver, the two percent figure, which he called “absurd specificity,” may actually have been correct: Things with two percent likelihood happen all the time (about one in 50 times!), and Trump’s rise required the spectacular failure of the Republican establishment to unite behind an alternative. I would even argue that something as minor as the “Rubiobot” incident, which happened when Marco Rubio was coalescing establishment support following a strong finish in Iowa, could have given Trump the election, and the betting markets agree.
Silver also wrote a fantastic mea culpa, “How I Acted Like a Pundit and Screwed Up on Donald Trump.” The takeaway is that data journalists didn’t fail to predict Trump because the data was wrong; they failed because they ignored the data. Public opinion polls don’t have a perfect track record in primaries, far from it. But they’re among the only information we have. When confident Trump supporters and panicking liberals cite Trump’s unexpected primary victories as a reason not to count Trump out just yet, they’re missing the point: People underestimated Trump in spite of the polls, not because of them. In fact, Trump actually slightly underperformed his polls, perhaps because his voters typically had voted less in previous elections than other candidates’.
Now that they show Trump trailing by such a margin that a comeback would be unprecedented, the campaign that made tweeting polls cool is offering no shortage of increasingly dubious reasons that the polls don’t matter. Most are easily refuted with a simple question: What about, you know, the very recent past?
The polls are missing Trump’s supposed deluge of new voters? They didn’t miss them in the primaries. They oversample Democrats? Take it up with President Romney. The pollsters are just “crooked” and set on destroying Trump’s candidacy? They missed a big opportunity from January to June!
An international analogue, Brexit, is giving the left sleepless nights, but Donald turns out to be Mr. Brexit in more ways than one. In the final month before the referendum, the polling average showed Leave winning, but consensus failed to catch up.
But my favorite alternative take on the polls belonged to Kellyanne Conway—again, she is a former pollster—who argued that Hillary Clinton’s dismal numbers, just 46 percent in swing states, reveal a troubling lack of excitement for the first female nominee. (Clinton, I imagine, would frustratedly agree.) Anderson Cooper, who was interviewing Conway, observed that 46 percent is better than 37 percent. “One needs not be a pollster to know that,” Conway retorted. Well, exactly.

Trevor J. Levin, ‘19, a Crimson Arts executive, is (probably) a Social Studies concentrator living in Mather House. His column appears on alternate Thursdays. Follow him on Twitter @trevorjlevin. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A few days ago, I watched David Ortiz, the idol of my youth, walk off into the sunset.
The symbolism was not lost on me, either.
As Big Papi concludes his legendary baseball career, my adult career begins. To me, that means my childhood has hung up its spikes as well.
I was born on April 25, 1998. David Ortiz was beginning his first full big league season, then with the Minnesota Twins. On the 25th, his Twins beat the Mariners in Seattle, the city my parents met in. Ortiz got the night off, unlike my mother.
Big Papi came to the Red Sox in 2003, signing a deal with them in January. Meanwhile, I was preparing to begin my rookie season as a shortstop for the local Little League team. He finished the year with 31 home runs and took fifth place in the American League Most Valuable Player vote. I’d like to think I was just as important to the East Montpelier Roadrunners.
2004 brought success for both of us. I flourished in my first grade classroom, perhaps only struggling on the days which were cursed enough to follow nights of Red Sox postseason baseball. Speaking of curses, Ortiz was in the midst of lifting the infamous Curse of the Bambino, which had kept the Red Sox from ending their season victorious for 86 years.
It was that mythic postseason when all the sins of past teams—the decades of pain and strife wrought upon Red Sox Nation—were forgiven. Those games cemented David Ortiz as an icon, revered by Bostonians, New Englanders, and, of course, me. He became famous for hitting walk-off homers, huge hits that won the game and ended it suddenly (and causing the opponents to “walk off” the field).
Over and over, he sent the ball deep into the night, and I was sent to bed.
The years ticked by. As Ortiz continued his journey into the upper echelons of Red Sox lore, I continued mine through the tiers of the Central Vermont baseball system. He won another World Series; I was elected captain of the high school varsity team.
Finally, the end was nigh. In the midst of my senior year of high school, I applied to Harvard. A few weeks later, Big Papi announced that he would retire after one more year. We both would have one final season.
After much deliberation, I decided to attend the nation’s oldest university. That evening, April 27, was Harvard Night at Fenway Park. David Ortiz hit three doubles in celebration.
A few days earlier, on the 25th, I had turned 18, marking the legal end of my childhood. But no great revelation hit me as I woke up that morning. No fundamental change transpired that day to welcome me into adulthood. After all, Big Papi would put on his uniform and lace up his spikes that night, just as he had done for the past 18 years.
Choosing Harvard meant that my baseball career would come to a close. I accepted that with the understanding that my learning would continue. This past spring, in my final season, I helped bring my team into the playoffs for the first time in years, eventually falling short of the championship game. Now, following Monday night’s loss and elimination at the hands of the Cleveland Indians, Big Papi has done just the same.
I arrived in his city just as he was stepping away from its spotlight. I moved into my dorm, started classes, and began to find my independence. On October 2, I headed to Fenway Park with my dad, just as David Ortiz arrived at the clubhouse, ready to play the final regular season game of his career.
40 minutes prior to game time, he took the field. We took our places in the bleachers, 36,787 strong. He was joined by legions of his teammates, my heroes from three championship seasons marching out of my memories and into centerfield. But it was clear that they weren’t only celebrating his sports feats. The speeches and gifts were reminiscent of a graduation ceremony, celebrating both the end of his baseball career and the continuation of his philanthropy, which he will focus on post-retirement. Eventually, the man of the hour took the microphone himself.
Big Papi stood on the infield grass, and with his father by his side, thanked the fans. I stood in the stands, and with my father beside me, thanked him back.
It didn’t matter that there was still a game to be played that night or that he would play one more game at Fenway during the playoffs. This would be the last time I saw him play in person, and for that reason, this was the end. With that acknowledgement in my mind, David Ortiz came to bat for the final time in the regular season. It was the bottom of the 9th inning. The Red Sox were down by one.
In that moment, I realized: this could be his 542nd home run. It would be an unbelievable moment. The ball would disappear deep into the night, much like the 541 that had preceded it. But unlike those few magical weeks in October of 2004, I would not be sent to bed. I’d go back to my dorm, and with my light on far into the night, I’d read textbooks instead of scorecards, write essays on Plato instead of hitting, and contemplate ideas far beyond the basepaths.
He didn’t hit a home run. He hit a weak ground ball, struck so harmlessly that the catcher picked it up almost immediately. Ortiz labored towards first, his perennially sore feet clearly affecting him. He was thrown out easily, and that was that.
For the past 18 years, he had played a child’s game, I had lived a child’s life, and now we were both walking off.
Ethan McCollister ‘20, a Crimson editorial comper, lives in Weld Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the historic Harvard University Dining Services strike continues into a new week, the University has continued making favorable amendments to its original offers to Local 26. In addition to offers of a $250 per week summer stipend and more flexibility in health plan options, Harvard has also proposed increasing its subsidy for low income workers’ premiums from 85 percent to 87 percent. All these concessions come, however, in the form of a package that require the same increase in co-pays that originally caused negotiations to stall. While Harvard has valid economic concerns, we continue to believe that the University is not justified in imposing less affordable health care on HUDS workers.
Nationally, health care costs have been on a constant rise, and as a supplier of health insurance, Harvard is reasonable in wanting to cut costs. With unchanged co-pays, external increases in health care cost would translate into higher costs for the University. With its new plan, the University is trying distribute a portion of these rising costs onto workers. The extent to which this is important is evident from Harvard’s willingness to weigh so many other financial concessions against its health insurance changes.
Unfortunately, these rises in health care costs have to be paid for by someone. Though the burden that the University will face in offering the health insurance plan currently in place is in no way insignificant, passing these costs onto HUDS employees is not fair. As low-income workers living in the already-expensive Boston area, HUDS workers are in an even worse position than the University to bear the burden of rising healthcare costs.
Increases in health care costs cut directly into the income meant for the workers and their families. For low-income workers, this effect will be even more dramatic. These are employees for whom small dollar-value changes in income have dramatic effects on welfare. Furthermore, such increases in the cost of healthcare can have the more sinister effect of discouraging medical treatment. Those who suffer accidents, preventable chronic illnesses, or other health setbacks that can be overcome with treatment may have to make compromises due to higher co-pays, and potentially accrue more severe health issues. Though Harvard’s scheme of co-pay reimbursements mitigates this effect to a degree, we fear that the most prestigious University in the world is setting a poor example for worker equity by pursuing a cost-containment measure that harms its lowest-paid employees.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Harvard’s spring 2016 face-off with the predominantly pediatric and parotidial disease, mumps, spurred quite the media frenzy. 2016 was not the first time this viral infection afflicted the student body. FM hit the archives to learn more about the long and tumultuous duel between Harvard students and the mumps.
The date is May 27, 1907. The saga begins in Ithaca, N.Y., in the midst of preparation for the hotly-anticipated race between the Harvard and Cornell crew teams. Our boys are tired but determined, ready to take on the Big Red Bears when, alas!... Down goes a Harvard rower.
According to a New York Times article from 1907, Mr. Glass, “the strongest man on the crew” team, “has been laid up with mumps and will not row.” Mumps, it appears, trounced Harvard in the opening round.
Returning to the regatta in full force, the 1911 Harvard crew team rolled up to their Red Top, Conn. training camp on June 13, ready to race against Yale. Mumps followed.
This time mumps knocked off freshman coxswain Hay. The New York Times, apparently an avid spectator in the Harvard/mumps rivalry, revealed that Hay had fallen victim to swollen throat glands indicative of mumps and retreated back to Cambridge shortly after the diagnosis. Luckily, though, “none of the other members of the crew show[ed] signs of having contracted the ailment,” and Harvard was able to out-maneuver mumps by calling in backup coxswain Nicholas Roosevelt.
Inspiring rumors of biological warfare tactic deployed by Yale to hinder our noble boat boys, mumps coincidentally tracked the 1927 team to the Thames—and the New York Times was there to record it.
For the quintessential Harvard vs. Yale race on June 6, the freshman crew team “members [were all] affected with the mumps” and were unable to compete until a later date.
In a final Hail Mary, Harvard recruited John F. Enders to play defense. A Yale defect who signed with Harvard to study literature and ended up with a Ph.D. in bacteriology and immunology, Enders  studied mumps and—in collaboration with two other Harvard grads—established the basis for the mumps vaccine. In 1954 Enders was awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine or Physiology. The New England Journal of Medicine also states that Enders told the “Swedish authorities that he would accept the prize only if it could be shared with ‘those who did the work.’”
Harvard’s prospects seems to be improving. Harvard contained the mumps to an estimated 40 reported cases, and was quick on the draw to implement measures like solitary confinement in order to recover ground. Harvard’s strategic plays may have dissuaded mumps from returning for the next few years, but if ever another outbreak occurs, we’ll be looking to the rowers for an explanation...
Sections
It is an hour before dawn, and I am at a monastery. I have just walked into a massive stone room, accented by vaulted ceilings and dark stained-glass windows. An iron partition divides the room in two: On one side, there’s a cluster of laypeople and on the other, some monks, a nun, and a handful of Episcopalians.
I had hoped to observe the morning prayer ceremony at the Society of St. John the Evangelist from a distance, but I do not go unnoticed. One of the brothers, an older man in a long black robe, waves me over.
I am not a monk. Am I allowed to cross the partition? That seems like a big deal. There are, after all, a lot of serious-looking people across the other line. One of the brothers is walking slowly up the aisle, carrying a candle. There is no sense of time across the iron bars—his movements could have taken place 1,000 years ago.
The monk gestures to me again.
I put down my backpack, step over the barrier, and sit next to the monk. The monk stands slowly and hands me an enormous black binder. This sanctuary offers no hiding places. Everyone holds a black binder, and everyone is absolutely still.
The morning service is silent, save for the muffled sounds of traffic whizzing by. Although it neighbors the Kennedy School, the monastery has an ancient, unmoving air about it. One of the monks speaks softly in a clear voice that echoes off the stones of the room. We respond solemnly with words from the rites in the black binder. Well, everyone else does; I open to the wrong page. I attempt to mouth the correct words.
One of the brothers begins to beautifully, hauntingly sing a single note. The other side of the sanctuary chants a verse of the Psalms before resting. The sounds of breath and voice are amplified by the walls; even in the silence, the room is full of sounds. There is a profound sense of awareness among the chanters: They move together; they breathe together; they sing in perfect unison.
Although I never manage to find the right page, the monk who waved me into the service—Brother Jim Woodrum, a white-haired Tennesseean—invites me to come back for lunch later that week. I have no idea what to expect.
When I return to the monastery on Friday, we feast on spectacular blackened salmon, a garden salad with artichokes and pecans, collard greens, and corn on the cob. We eat in silence while a brother reads not the Bible, but a history book about American immigration.
“We believe that silence is the greatest gift we have to offer,” the SSJE website states. It’s a sentiment that Brother David B. Vryhof echoes in our conversation before lunch. He left a successful career as a teacher for deaf students because he “was looking for a life that was based in prayer.”
Although the future of monastic life is uncertain as the monastery enters its 150th year, Vryhof remains rather unconcerned. “There are always going to be people who are drawn to living in this very intentional way,” he says. The 15 brothers take vows of poverty, celibacy and obedience, yet none tell me they feel constrained.
The decline in religious attendance concerns Vryhof more. “I think it’s a response to the ineffectiveness of religious institutions,” he says of the recent movement towards spirituality without religiosity. He adds, “[There are some] religious institutions that have not been sources of life.” To the brothers, the monastic lifestyle is an antidote. Their days feature extended sessions of deep silence and meditation, but there also exists a strong community among them.
Monastic life has evolved with global culture. “The rule had things like a brother should not ride in a car alone with a woman,” Vryhof says of the monastery back in its earlier days. “You were supposed to sit in the hardest chair available.” These days, the monks enjoy softer chairs, warm friendships, and delicious salmon together.
Sections
Anyone whose mental catalogue of 90s pop-nostalgia includes Bruce Coville’s “Magic Shop” series will know how it feels to knock on the bolted door of 115 College Ave. in Somerville, Mass.
For those who missed the bestselling young adult books, Coville’s stories always start with a shop: conspicuously eccentric but somehow hidden in plain sight. The protagonist will stumble in by accident and have cryptic banter with the elderly and offbeat shopkeep. When she tries to return, she’ll find the shop gone, without even a sign that it was ever there.
Tucked between an art deco dental clinic and a Jewish community center, 115 College Ave. strikes that same balance between eye-catching and unassuming. It’s hidden, but it shouldn’t be—the house looks like Gaudí remodeled Candyland. Swirling, jewel-tone murals fill every inch of the stucco A-frame. The façade’s only open surface is a giant stone mask, grimacing in the center like a steam-rolled gargoyle. Above the mask, a modest sign reads “Museum of Modern Renaissance.”
It’s a Tuesday afternoon when the museum’s door swings open for me. Nicholas Shaplyko, one of the founders, ushers me into the foyer, a small room as colorful as the exterior. The place has a universal grandma smell—mothballs, soup, comfort—and a constant soundtrack of trickling water.
Shaplyko is the building’s aesthetic opposite: He’s wearing four layers of brown over the dark grey Merrell’s favored by fifth grade boys. His beard and his Russian accent are thick.
“This is a museum. The Museum of Modern Renaissance. We call it museum because, according to the ancient Greek, word museum means house where the muses live,” Shaplyko tells me.
In other words, it’s not a museum—at least not in the conventional sense. The Museum of Modern Renaissance is a private home. Shaplyko lives here with his wife, Ekaterina Sorokina, although they often arrange visits like mine by private appointment. The couple bought the building back in 2002 from the Freemasons—that secret order of founding-father and Dan Brown fame—who had used it as a temple.
The couple transformed the Mason’s private dwelling (no windows and ceilings so low Shaplyko could barely stand straight) into a 3D kaleidoscope—a house densely painted in a style the pair unironically calls “mythical realism.”
The walls of the foyer are tightly decorated with murals of Roman gods. This room, like every other in the house, follows a theme. Shaplyko calls it “Parade of the Planets.”
“When we had [an] exhibition in Moscow, one lady came to us and asked, ‘Why did you choose these particular planets in here?’ And I said, ‘I don’t know. I just feel like it.’ And she made our horoscope and she said, ‘You know, by the way, you were born when all these planets were lined up in one line, the so-called Parade of Planets.’”
Shaplyko grins widely as he tells me this—he loves this stuff. Talking to Shaplyko and Sorokina, it’s obvious they relish that romantic image of the artist as spontaneous creator: the figure whose work is unplanned, uncalculated but somehow destined. Shaplyko shrugs off all questions of inspiration with answers like:
“I don’t know—because we are creators. We are artists, and so we are just creating our world. So this is our world. And we created it.”

To be fair, 115 College Ave. is no stranger to serendipity. As we walk into the studio—a light-filled space dotted with half-finished paintings and sculptures—Shaplyko tells me that in the museum’s early years, the couple once unbolted the front door to two petite women wrapped in robes.
“It was a knock to the door, and two women just kneeled and kissed the ground and gave us a book,” Shaplyko says.
The book in question was the spiritual best-seller “Autobiography of a Yogi” by guru Paramahansa Yogananda, in which Yogananda details his first class on American soil in 1920.
“It was in this very building,” Sorokina adds as she enters the room. Sorokina is a tiny blonde woman who speaks in thick Slavic syllables. Like Shaplyko, she’s made out in monochrome. Her outfit comprises layers of red form-fitting knits. Yoga, Sorokina explains, made its Western debut in their living room.
Yoga fits easily into the Museum’s governing ethos. “Art is a part of yoga,” Sorokina says, “because with art you are in this process. It’s the same as you make in physical yoga, the asana—it’s mental yoga because you make a connection.” As she speaks, Sorokina carves details into a three-foot sculpture of a veiny wooden phallus.
The Museum’s yogic history is also fueling Sorokina and Shaplyko’s next mission: immortality.
The couple’s idea of eternal life comes in an odd form: National Historical Landmark status. The pair began the application process last March. If their application goes through, Sorokina says they’ll apply to the United States Heritage list and then to the UNESCO World Heritage List.
“That’s our goal. But it takes time, takes effort,” Shaplyko sighs. “But it will be preserved. And we will be proud to be a part of history and culture and civilization. Because we strongly believe that persons should leave a mark after he [has] lived here on the earth.”
Sections
It is noon on a routine Saturday: I wear leopard-print pajamas as I sit atop my polka-dot bedspread. Crinkled-up foil at the foot of my bed serves as the last remnant of the caramel cake I ate for breakfast. Some bells toll beyond my dormitory window.
And on the phone, I chat with Mike Love, the smashingly successful, historically polarizing lead singer of the Beach Boys. Perhaps “routine” is the wrong word—it is not every Saturday that I interview a musical legend, a towering giant of rock-n-roll history. To my delight, he begins to sing the chorus of one of his most iconic hits, a tune that he has crooned thousands of times for crowds far larger than his current audience of one: “I'm pickin’ up good vibrations. She's giving me excitations.”
Love lists “Good Vibrations,” the innovative track for which he penned lyrics, as his favorite song in the Beach Boys’ massive discography. “[I wrote it] as a flowery poem: ‘I love the colorful clothes she wears, and the way the sunlight plays upon her hair,’” Love recalls. “This was 1966, so I was envisioning a girl who was all into peace and love and flower power.”
Love has countless other stories to tell from his illustrious career at the helm of one of America’s most celebrated bands. His new memoir, “Good Vibrations: My Life as a Beach Boy,” published in time for the 50th anniversary of the titular song, allows him to tell those stories on his own terms. “There have been millions of words written about the Beach Boys and the various individuals from time to time over the years, but never anything by me,” he says. “All of my experiences are going to go away with me unless I leave some kind of a legacy, a document—that kind of got me off my procrastination mode, which I am very good at.”
During our conversation, Love responds at length to questions that hundreds of journalists—from bell-bottomed writers in the 1960s to this pajamas-clad college kid in 2016—must have asked him in the past five decades. He speaks thoughtfully about the good periods of Beach Boys history and talks candidly about the bad. That history is ongoing: He hopes to release new music next year, and he is on track to play 160 performances in 2016. “We’re slacking off,” he jokes, for last year’s tally totaled 172.
The brightest parts of the Beach Boys’ saga concern the beauty of the music and the ongoing devotion of the fans. “[Our] music had the newness and energy of the rock genre, which was new to that time,” Love says. He thinks that the group’s distinctive harmonies—such as the exuberant chords in “Be True to Your School,” the soft trills in “God Only Knows,” and the doo-woppy blends in “Kokomo”—gave the band its remarkable staying power. “I think the secret ingredient is harmony,” he says. “We got together because of the love of creating those sounds… as a family harmonizing at Christmas parties or birthday parties.”
The Beach Boys—which Love asserts was the first boy band in history, ahead of the Beatles and the Rolling Stones—offered a love letter to California that helped make the state the paragon of sun-speckled happiness that it remains today. “No one prior to the Beach Boys had ever written a song that sang about surfing, the lifestyle of surfing,” Love says. “If the surf was up and you had an afternoon class, you might miss a class or two.” They idolized their cars and their girls and their waves, and America found itself longing for the same things.
Their sound matured as they did. “As we experienced more life and life experiences, we got into more subjectivity,” Love adds. “For instance, the ‘Pet Sounds’ album… [deals] more with the subjective and the emotional rather than the objective of a car or surfing.”
Love knew he had a hit on his hands during a 1963 performance at a ballroom in Lake Minnetonka, Minn. “We took a break after the second set that we had done, and we walked outside. We could see the cars coming down the road for a mile… and kids literally breaking in to get into the show because it was sold out,” Love reminisces. “I said to one of the guys, ‘This must have been what it was like when Elvis was starting out.’”
The darkest parts of the Beach Boys’ story involve Love’s infamously fractured relationship with Brian Wilson, his troubled cousin-turned-bandmate who many heroize as the brains behind the music. Love theorizes that his blunt condemnation of the Wilson brothers’ drug usage led fans to take Wilson’s side in the Love-versus-Wilson narrative that emerged. “When you’re a family member and somebody has experienced alcoholism or drug addiction, it affects the whole family, and our family was a group,” says Love. “At one time, we had separate planes. We had smoker and nonsmoker planes when we were going off to shows... It was a schism in the group.”
That schism culminated in a 1993 lawsuit in which Love sued Wilson for writing credits that the late Murry Wilson, his uncle and manager, denied him on ditties like “California Girls,” “I Get Around,” and “Help Me Rhonda.” Love uses the memoir to correct a few of the “fallacies and misunderstandings and outright inaccuracies” that surround episodes like that one in Beach Boys lore.
But Love, a fervent practitioner of transcendental meditation since December 1967, insists that he is not the antihero that some folks have made him out to be. “At one time, I went to a six-month meditation course, and I’m living like a monk,” he says. “There’s another aspect of me other than the outspoken, sometimes sharp-tongued person. I’m somewhat introverted and very idealistic and altruistic as well.”
As the call nears its end, Love asks about my last name—“It’s Polish,” I reply, hoping it’s Polish—but his surname is the poetic one. The Beach Boys’ songs are the rhythms of romance and rejuvenation, the soundtracks of sunshine and seashores. They are the tunes that still, after all these years, buoy our spirits and return us to a halcyon version of the 1960s that may have only existed in our record players. And they are the products of love, as well as Love: The singers’ love of the craft and the listeners’ love of the melodies that have sustained a shimmering artistic (if not interpersonal) legacy, propelling half a century of fans to wish they all could be California girls and boys.
Mike Love will sign copies of his memoir at the Harvard Book Store on Thursday, Oct. 13, at 7 p.m.
Sections

From my vantage point in the corner of the room, I watch dozens of people lay eyes upon the Feejee Mermaid for the first time. Each person steps up to the exhibition table, radiating enthusiasm. Each gaze hovers in the air above the mermaid, before realizing that the specimen is only four or five inches tall. First we are confused: Is this really it? Then we are angry: Is this really it? Finally we accept: This is really it.
Nine or 10 inches from forehead to tail, the “mermaid” lies nestled in layers of diaphanous white like a freshly unwrapped present. (Just the gift I’ve always wanted: a brand-new mummified fish monster.) The fish parts are easy to recognize—there’s the mouth, with its needle-like teeth, and the spines that serve as stiff little fingers. The rest, less so. The narrow rib cage is patchy with fluff, and the stick-like arms are fashioned out of papier-mâché. With the jaunty upwards flick of its wrists and its surprised expression, it’s a bizarre, hairy pastiche of The Scream—a little too thrilled to be in that selfie you’re taking.
The Feejee Mermaid is one of the most famous hoax “mermaids” of all time and the pride and joy of the Peabody Museum. It’s appeared everywhere from the American Museum of Natural History to “The X-Files,” but has resided at Harvard ever since 1897. Under the dim museum lights and flashing iPhone cameras, its dusty eye sockets seem to twinkle with excitement and cool professionalism. As Diane Loren says, “She’s seen a lot of the world already.”
Loren is a curator at the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology and uses female pronouns to refer to the Feejee Mermaid, as if she were an in-demand celebrity and Loren her agent. “She’s a favorite among the undergraduates,” she says. “We’re always taking her out of the collections.”
For this precious half hour, though, the mermaid is on public display for the Peabody’s 150th anniversary, alongside a whole host of novelties, from Lewis and Clark’s bear claw necklace to a 90,000-year-old human skull. The museum is humming with toddlers and academics alike, their lapels studded with scarlet tags and their lips smeared with cake. Even Loren expresses surprise at the crowd.
A three-year old attendee, Zadie, plans on being a mermaid doctor for Halloween, and possibly for the rest of her life. I ask her what she had expected: She had thought that the Feejee Mermaid would be “sparkly.” But, she tells me, “she’s still pretty.”
Another curator, Castle McLaughlin, isn’t surprised at the crowd’s mermaid craze. “I saw just the other day a YouTube video claiming to show a real mermaid,” she says. “The myth still lives.”
This particular incarnation of the myth was reportedly created by Japanese fishermen in the early 1800s. Since then, she’s passed through several owners, who tried and failed to make their fortunes exhibiting her around America and Europe. The last, Moses Kimball of the Boston Museum, along with his frenemy, P. T. Barnum (the age’s leading connoisseur of gross hoaxes), finally turned a profit by showcasing her in Barnum’s freak show. It was Kimball’s descendants who donated her to the Peabody in 1897, when the Boston Museum closed due to a fire.
Whether she is the “real” Feejee Mermaid that Kimball and Barnum exhibited, or a hoax of a hoax, is “unclear” according to Loren. Regardless, she’s credited with “spurring the Victorian mermaid craze that led to lots of other people constructing mermaids.” The Peabody’s other mermaid (affectionately dubbed the Merman because of the fuzz decorating his upper lip) is another product of this fad, as are the roughly 15 other specimens in the U.S.
Even if she lacks the creamy complexion and luscious red locks of Disney’s Little Mermaid, even if she fails to illustrate any true biological phenomena, the Feejee Mermaid beautifully exemplifies the history of museums. “From the cabinet of curiosity in the 16th century to the movement to a public museum,” Loren says, “museums speak to both education and entertainment—they were zoos, natural history, oddities… a bit of everything.” As much hybrid, in other words, as the mermaid herself.
She’s more than just a pretty face or an inspiration for Halloween costumes. Loren sees her as one of the Peabody’s star performers, and as “a great way to share the importance of knowledge and creativity, about museums being places of stewardship and engagement with different communities. Our goal of educating the Harvard community is just as important.”
The mermaid will return to the public eye in April for another exhibition at the Peabody. Until then, Loren says, “she’s going back home” for a break.
She deserves it.
Sections
It was always expected that I would attend college. The same could not be said for my relatives before me. As I click my painted nails against my dining hall coffee cup, it is easy to forget that I sit here as a result of the tireless efforts of my parents, grandparents and great-grandparents.
My vova, Great Grandma Linda, supported her family—a sick husband and three young boys—by laboring in a dining hall similar to Mather’s. Her boys were not guaranteed education: They each had one pair of shoes to wear until they wore through them, and threadbare clothes that were held together with careful stitches. Vova did not own a house, and she didn’t have a driver’s license, but she still got her boys where they needed to go.
Vova’s oldest son, my Poppie Rollie, tears up on holidays when he sees us all around the large mahogany table, filled with rich food, giving thanks for what we have. The young Portuguese boy who once shoveled stone in the hot summer sun and earned a scholarship to play football at the University of Rhode Island would never have imagined that his children and grandchildren would lead lives so different than those of his parents. He and his wife, my Nana Marsha, raised four hardworking and appreciative children, including my own mother, and provided each of them with the kind of opportunity they never had.
As a teenager, my mom went to school and sports practice during the week, and caulked windows and painted plaster in  rental properties her parents owned with her siblings on the weekends. The girls grew up with paint and stain under their fingernails, and my uncle could expertly replaster a house and lay new roofing before he could even drive a car.
My dad’s grandparents were immigrants from Ireland, and though I never had the opportunity to meet them, my dad and his brothers speak of Great Grandpa Cronin with more than a flicker of admiration in their eyes. Great Grandma Cronin and Great Grandpa Cronin raised four children on a boxer’s unpredictable paycheck. All four managed to graduate from high school, no small feat for a family whose lineage sprouts from what my dad calls “the ghetto of Ireland.”
Their third oldest child, Poppie Bob was a blue-collar man who worked for Narragansett Electric in wire repair. He would hang from a telephone pole 40 feet in the air, reconnecting live wires with his carefully gloved hands. An average work day lasted from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m., but when power outages or other emergencies struck, he could away with work for weeks at a time. My dad remembers Poppie Rob being so exhausted after work that he would take a 10-minute power nap on the living room carpet to muster up enough energy to play with his children.
My Nana Carole pushed my dad to translate the same dedication her husband had exhibited in manual labor into his school work. My dad balanced two or three jobs while putting himself through college. He moved boxes from one truck to another for UPS in the wee hours of the morning, lugged furniture for a moving company during the day, and bussed glasses as a barback at night. He was often exhausted and frustrated by the heat and intensity of labor in the summer sun, but he persevered and eventually graduated from both college and law school.
I will never have the hands of a dining hall worker, a boxer, or a mover. I have never lacked food, proper clothing, or financial stability. I will never labor under a sweltering summer sun the way my parents and grandparents did. However, while Poppie Bob and Vova have passed on, their sacrifices—along with those of the rest of my family—will serve as a constant reminder to take nothing for granted. When I got into college, my family’s joyful tears reminded me of several important things: I have, fortunately, avoided hard manual labor; my drive and determination need to be persistent; and my family members before me labored endlessly so that I can sit, tapping my empty coffee cup, in a dining hall at Harvard.
Sections
The building at 60 Oxford St. is not one that catches the eye. Harvard tourists will never stop there.
But I did,  to get a glimpse of the future.
Dr. Michael Wehner, a post-doctoral fellow at the Materials Science and Mechanical Engineering Department in the Wyss Institute and one of the investors of the “octobot,” is waiting for me there.  He takes me to a basement laboratory, where he places what looks like a small rubber octopus on the table. There are red and blue lines highlighted inside the octopus. At first glance, one might think it’s a child’s toy.
But it’s no toy. This is the world’s first completely untethered, 100 percent soft robot.
So what does that mean in English?
The octobot is the first robot that has no rigid components—no fuel tank, no mechanized arms, nothing. Those red and blue lines? Tubes through which the robot’s fuel flows. The octobot is powered by hydrogen peroxide, using nothing but simple chemistry.
“The fuel will go through this microfluidic logic module,” Wehner says, pointing to the body of the octobot. “When hydrogen peroxide hits a catalyst” —in this case, platinum—“it decomposes to H20 and 02, so it goes from a small amount of liquid to a large amount of gas.”
Essentially, the pressurized gas flows down either the red or blue lines, but not both. When gas flows in the red tubes, the arms highlighted in red will inflate, and the tentacles highlighted in blue will stay in their original position. Then, when the gas switches to the blue line, the red arms will retract.
It may seem a bit anticlimactic—as Wehner puts it, “I don’t think anyone in the history of the world has wanted a little rubber robot that’s arms moved up and down.”
But Wehner says this is a simple proof of an amazing concept. If Harvard researchers can 3D -print a soft robot for $1.50 in only 18 minutes, soft robotics is definitely going places.
As I view the elegant circuitry of the octobot under a microscope, Wehner tells me about the future of squishy automatons. “This field is moving forward rapidly, surprisingly rapidly,” he says. “I don’t think anything is available on the market yet, but it’s getting surprisingly close.”
As for the future of the octobot, Wehner has some ideas: “Two things we want to work on are more complex gates, so we can move the device forwards [and] backwards, and to add sensors, so if the robot runs into a wall, it knows to turn around.” Wehner says soft robotics may also be used to augment existing rigid robots.
So in 10 years, if you see rubber tentacles serving you a Happy Meal at the McDonald’s drive-thru, don’t be surprised.
Sections
“Hello, hello,” exclaims Aaron L. Fogelson ’19 as he opens the door to the WHRB headquarters. Sporting a multicolored button-down, circular glasses, and a carefully coiffed ’do, Fogelson emanates charm, charisma, and just a little bit of funk.
Reclining in the studio where he records his popular “Dogg House Report,” Fogelson asks if the music coursing through the studio is “sett[ing] the right mood.” His speech is characterized by elongated vowels and comic over-pronunciation, idiosyncrasies which have become the foundation of the radio host’s popularity.
Prior to Harvard, Fogelson had little experience with broadcast journalism. Though he tried to start a podcast in high school, he describes the result as “horrible.” Just over two years later (during which he traveled, couchsurfed, and studied), Fogelson regularly rubs elbows with famous figures from Steve Aoki to Alan Dershowitz through his work for WHRB.
The Dogg House Report essentially consists of Fogelson goofing around with his guests for 30 minutes. Through dog puns, ridiculous games, and segments that combine the two (he challenged Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana to a game of “Woof Admissions”), Fogelson approaches broadcast journalism in a distinctly collegiate style.
Though Fogelson’s first Dogg House interview was in early October of his freshman year, his big break came after interviewing Dean of Freshman Thomas A. Dingman ’67 (or “Tommy Dingman Fresh” as Fogelson refers to him). Fogelson calls that interview “the first product that I had created that was good and unique.”
“What I’m going for is a college version of an interview. I want to get on their level,” Fogelson says. “In the end the point is just to try to understand the person beyond the answer. The purpose is not what they are saying, but how they are interacting. Overall, it’s a guided hangout.”

More recently, Fogelson has left the Dogg House to “hang out” with musicians.
Fogelson conducts these interviews on location. Once, he waited  45 minutes in the pouring rain at Chicago’s Lollapalooza to interview hip-hop artist D.R.A.M.
Fogelson has eaten chicken with the indie rock band Beach Fossils, talked about the Israel-Palestine conflict with DJ Borgore, witnessed singer-songwriter BØRNS eat ice cream off a ring pop, been caked by DJ Steve Aoki and smoked “undisclosed drugs” with D.R.A.M.
Fogelson employs his characteristically eccentric techniques in these off-site interviews, bringing props, food, and his trademark voice to every interview.
“We bring gifts. We make it fun. We have props. I come usually dress[ed] in something weird, and I act like an idiot for the first two minutes to make them more comfortable,” Fogelson explains.
Though Fogelson has interviews scheduled with Rae Sremmurd, Sammy Adams, and many others, he anticipates “slowly quitting or slowing down” soon. Instead of interviews, he hopes to cover musical events in a program modeled on in the vein of NPR’s “Tiny Desk Concert” series.
Sections
On the morning of its grand opening, Mass. Ave.’s Tatte Bakery & Café hosts a buzzy, caffeine-crazed crowd. Glass walls along the winding marble counter protect heaps of pastries—awash in stickily-sweet glazes and festooned with nuts—from the autumn breeze.
The pastry selection displays a unique variation that can make the uninitiated feel hopelessly provincial. It boasts familiar culinary delights reimagined for a worldly (and hungry) epicure. Pinwheel cream cheese danishes nestle against croissants that have been arranged like gravity-defying coiffures from “Hairspray.” Plain, powdered butter cookies reside among their miniature Nutella kin. The arms of cinnamon buns have been garnished with chocolate and molded into the shape of a rose. Fruit is crowded into crisp, rectangular crusts. Chalkboards list the unwieldy monikers of Tatte’s refinements: muesli for breakfast, and Potato and Jerusalem Artichoke Frittata for weekend brunch.
The aesthetic is full transparency, with clinically white walls and a second story whose wooden floor has been spottily weathered to complement the quaint charm of the cavernous space. On the first landing of the staircase, black tiles on the wall spell HARVARD SQUARE. Two women pause on the steps to pose for photos, reminding jaded Cambridge residents that Harvard Square, too, is a special destination.

Despite the industrial efficiency of the staff—a cadre of employees mans the counter, dividing tasks like assembly line workers—the place exudes warmth. Brown-paper packages of flour and sugar that line the shelves behind the counter, evoking a plentifully-stocked kitchen’s promise of messy fun. And as if to qualify the bakery’s homely allure, one bustling employee, just feet away from the cash register, tends to nimbuses of buttery bread in a gaping oven.
The Breakfast Sandwich, the most unassuming selection on the menu, is surprisingly decadent. Within its toasted sourdough confines, eggs-your-way glom easily to a slice of warm cheddar and are buoyed by the punchy saltiness of bacon crisps. As I face away from the second floor windows and tuck into my meal with a glass of soothingly pulpy, albeit watery, orange juice, I hear snatches of a conversation in French and realize that I could be anywhere. With the staircase landing posturing as a subway stop, one can too easily hole up in this waystation to escape the slog of a long week.
The space is self-conscious, modern, with wide aisles and wrought-iron chairs. Sleek black leather booth seats look like they were salvaged from a defunct diner and burnished to efface their origins. A series of 1960s sentimental ballads sends patrons tumbling toward the past. Perhaps Tatte’s coupling of the old and the new can seduce even the most loyal Panera Bread customers. Now new students have a place in quaint old Harvard Square that they can call their own.
Sections
Mid-November. Morale is low. Light snores drift upwards from the first floor of Lamont all the way to my desk which is overlooking the rest of the stress-ridden students. It’s 4 a.m., mind you. The lighting is a buzzing glare trapping me at a wooden table, like a mosquito in amber. My heavy fingers start to slip off the keys as my head bobs, signaling it’s time to unfurl myself and venture home. I shake off the sleep long enough to stand up. A quick zip and unzip of a bag, a defeated goodbye to the kind gatekeeper at the security desk, and I slip outside.
I get a shock of invigorating air, a feeling of relief from the stale smell of the library. In this walk I’ve trekked too many times, I realize I am seasoned to the paced shuffle of daytime duties. the perpetual crossings of Mass. Ave. The cars grow mechanical faces with flashlight eyes, the streets turn into conveyor belts. Buildings lean in over your head and exchange glances with one another.  Or maybe that’s the sleep deprivation.
There are no cars now; the wet road of Mass. Ave. shoots forward like the path of a rocket. Without a break in my pace, I begin to cross to the other side of the street, but then I take a cautious pause halfway through. Now that the bustle is gone, I feel I’m not supposed to be outisde; things are too calm. I savor the street lamps bouncing light off the asphalt, the buildings shut down, the absence of any sense of urgency. The red brick, I notice, looks as tired as I am. It’s not so bad to be up, lingering in the street.
I picture myself taking a seat on the centered white line, without fear of approaching cars. I’d sit there cross-legged, stiff-backed, regally on the dark pitch. my mouth would crack open in a smile and deep cackles would burst out, relentless like black bats flapping  out of the cavern of my mouth. I’d howl wide so as to swallow the lights in the buildings, the iron in the gates, the people asleep in their beds. Chunks of Mass. Ave. would fly up like meteors, the lampposts would topple, signs would be wrenched off the buildings. I would turn into a statue honoring myself in stone. My arms are thrown in concrete victory.
Beep, click. I’ve already swiped my ID into Adams. My footsteps echo through the the dining hall’s quiet grandeur, the rhythm keeping me in time and propelling me forward. I glance to the back corner, and my friend’s face takes me by surprise. I force my feet to change course and sit down. A wry joke, a gentle sigh, an acknowledgment. She’s feeling crazed from lack of sleep too. P-set? Essay. Same. What time? Too soon. We chat about class tomorrow, laugh at our shared misery. The humanity of the interaction reminds me of my own.
The clock reads 20 past four o’clock by the time I make it to my room. I know the constant rush and shuffle awaits me when I wake. But I know there are people to move with me when I have to keep moving. As I sink deeper into my bed, I am filled by the peace in that victory.
Sections
In an upstairs bedroom in her Everett, Mass. home, Jacqueline Medeiros is awake before the sun. It’s 4:30 a.m., and the rest of her house is sleeping, but Medeiros has a full day ahead of her.
Medeiros leaves the house an hour later, her sons Jordan, 11, and Jathan, 6, still fast asleep. She stops at Dunkin Donuts for a medium coffee with extra sugar. By 6 a.m., Medeiros has parked in the Cowperthwaite Street Garage and walked to Leverett House.
It is Oct. 2, Medeiros’s first day back on the job as a Harvard University Dining Services employee. She has spent the last month working with UNITE HERE Local 26, the Boston-based union representing HUDS employees. While Harvard and the union met at the bargaining table to hammer out a new contract in September, Medeiros participated in negotiations on the side of Local 26, which has sought higher wages and the maintenance of its current healthcare plan. Now that she’s back, it’s time to fill yogurt containers.
Medeiros preps for breakfast until 8 a.m., when she gets a 30-minute break. Preparing granola, filling bagged lunch orders, and stacking bowls for cereal are all part of the early HUDS shift, which runs from 6 a.m. to 3 p.m. A later shift runs from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
By 8:30 in the morning, Medeiros is mixing salads. “It feels good,” she says, as she pours a cabbage mixture into a container of iceberg lettuce. “I missed my coworkers.”
Medeiros was one of three University employees who took a month of leave to work with Local 26, which represents employees across various Massachusetts hospitality industries. The union and Harvard have been negotiating since the spring—and it hasn’t gone well. After months of tense back and forth, Local 26 announced in September that HUDS workers intended to strike if a settlement on health benefits and wages did not come to fruition. On Sept. 15, when HUDS employees’ contracts expired, they voted overwhelmingly—591 to 18—to strike if they did not come to an agreement with Harvard soon.
The union kept its word. On Oct. 5, HUDS employees went on strike for the first time in more than 30 years, and for the first time ever during the academic year. Early that morning, the employees gathered by the dozens in the dark near Annenberg Hall. They have not reported to work in the dining halls since.
Despite the decision to strike, Medeiros and many employees are unwaveringly loyal to Harvard.
“I love working for Harvard,” she says. “I’ve been there for so long that we know everybody. It’s like a second home away from our home.”
And thanks, in part, to the efforts of dining service employees like Medeiros, Harvard’s Houses–especially their dining halls–feel like home to many students, too.
Medeiros has worked at Harvard for 25 years. Though the length of her tenure is especially impressive, it’s not uncommon for employees to work long stints at the University, sometimes even for decades. The average HUDS employee works at Harvard for 12 years.
***
So what does 12 years with HUDS look like?
For some HUDS employees, the job is a family affair. “I had just turned 16 the same day that I was hired,” Anabela Pappas, who now works in Cabot and Pforzheimer dining halls, says. Pappas’s father worked in a dish room at Harvard, and she grew up listening to his stories about connecting with students from all over the country. Those stories inspired Pappas to apply.
HUDS managers were reluctant to hire a minor, but Pappas was persistent and managed to land a position. At first, HUDS offered her a menial desk job, but she knew she wanted to work with food. “I never left,” she says, 35 years later. “It’s what I like to do.”
Pappas isn’t the only employee who started working for HUDS at a young age, nor is she the only employee with a parent who HUDS employed. Medeiros’s mother worked for HUDS in Adams House, and helped her daughter get a job with HUDS when she was 18 years old. Medeiros began as a part-time employee, but moved to a six-day position while she was still a teenager.
Twenty-five years later, Medeiros still waxes nostalgic about those early years at HUDS. Working for Harvard then came with unexpected perks—complimentary Red Sox tickets for the family and turkeys on Thanksgiving. Medeiros feels that the University is less generous towards HUDS employees now than it was when she was hired. “It’s not like how it was,” she says.
Medeiros works 40 hours per week in a position reserved for qualified senior employees. She is quick to respond when asked if she would ever consider another job: “I would never leave.” 
Both Medeiros and Pappas believe Harvard is a special place to work because of both the students and fellow HUDS employees. Medeiros met the father of her children when he was working part-time for HUDS. Pappas met her husband, Chris, when they were both working at the Freshman Union (now the Barker Center) in the summer of 1987.
When asked about the story of how he met Bela, Chris lights up. “Are you ready?” he asks, raising his eyebrows and glancing at his wife. “It’s gonna take five minutes.”
Chris first caught a glimpse of his future wife through a porthole window on a swinging door inside the Freshman Union. When he finally got up the courage to ask her on a date two years later, Bela had to tell her strict parents that she was going to a friend’s birthday party rather than out with him.
The couple took a walk on Revere Beach. Twenty-nine years later, Chris still gets giggly when he remembers their first kiss. “She whips me around and plants a big one on me!” he remembers, looking at his wife and laughing.
“No matter how tough the day I’m having, no matter what life throws at me, I know when I’m going home to my wife I’m keeping my eye on the prize,” Chris says. “It’s a good life.” 
Like Medeiros, Chris and Bela Pappas say they would never consider leaving Harvard. Chris did depart for 16 years, in 1998, when he opened his own chain of healthy food restaurants. But he eventually returned because he missed his co-workers and the students. And, he says, he liked that the job gave him union membership.
“There’s a lot of strength we have with the union… it’s a good support system, so the difference between going out is you won’t have that support system—it’s employment at will out there,” he says.
After 16 years away, Chris says it was “time to come back home.”
***
Ed Childs and his shock of white hair stand out in a sea of red t-shirts at a rally on Sept. 30. His sweatshirt reads “Never surrender.” Other attendees, from students to faculty members, are chanting alongside HUDS employees to show their support for a potential strike.
“What do we want?” Childs shouts into the megaphone he is holding.
“Justice!” the crowd responds.
This is not the first time that Childs has seen labor unrest at Harvard. A 40-year HUDS veteran, Childs has been a union leader—acting as a liaison between Local 26 and the University—since he started working at age 24.
Childs says that this union membership is an integral part of HUDS employment, allowing dining hall staff to negotiate with the University and develop strong relationships with students.
HUDS has been connected with the same union since Harvard’s dining service employees first organized in the 1930s. While it has changed names more than once over the last 80 years, Local 26 has represented HUDS since 1937, when it was known as Local 186.
HUDS employees’ contracts come up for re-negotiation every five years, and the process rarely goes smoothly. 
The union wrestled with university officials for the first time in 1939, when according to the Boston Globe, HUDS employees demanded higher wages and the abolition of compulsory insurance premiums, premiums employees are legally mandated to purchase.
The last time HUDS engaged in a full-blown strike was 1983. This one lasted no more than a day, and took place during the summer months, when classes were not in session. The core issue was Harvard’s attempt to contract outside dining service employees.
“Employees felt that we deserved more and we were gonna fight for it, and we did,” Childs, who led rallies and protests in the 1983 strike, says. Following the strike and a sit-in in the Holyoke Center, the University reached a settlement with the union.
HUDS employees also participated in a sit-in in 2001, when a variety of Harvard employees staged the Living Wage Campaign, an effort to secure a university-wide minimum wage $10.25 per hour. During the sit-in, protesters occupied Massachusetts Hall.
The Living Wage Campaign sit-in lasted for three weeks and caught national media attention. Ultimately, protesters achieved their goal: Employees settled new contracts and were granted wages above Cambridge’s living wage level.
This year’s strike is unprecedented, lasting far longer than any HUDS strike in the past—and, for the first time ever, during the academic year.
***
It is two weeks before the strike and Laquiesha Rainey, a cook in Winthrop House, sits at a table in the dining hall where she works, her two-year-old daughter Madison in a stroller by her side. She worries about being able to provide for Madison on her salary, especially during the three months of the summer that she does not work for HUDS.
Though annual salaries vary between HUDS employees based on time worked, the average salary for a HUDS employee is above the living wage standard as determined by the City of Cambridge. Harvard has specified that the average HUDS employee makes $21.89 per hour while working 37.5 hours over 38 weeks, which, according to Local 26 representatives, amounts to $31,193 per year. According to University spokesperson Tania deLuzuriaga, though, the average annual salary for a HUDS employee is closer to $34,000. For Cambridge, the living wage is $15.04 per hour. If HUDS employees were paid this wage and worked for 37.5 hours per week, they would only earn $29,328 under a 12-month employment plan.
Indeed, Harvard pays better than most food services employers in the area. Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a federal organization that aggregates labor data per profession, from May 2015 indicates that the annual mean wage for food preparation and serving-related occupations in the Boston metropolitan area was $27,690.
Still, Local 26 contends that some HUDS employees receive less than the reported average HUDS salary, because the University offers a limited number of positions during the summer and holidays. Strikers have pointed to Harvard’s sizable endowment as evidence that the University could offer its employees more. 
“Hey Harvard, you can’t hide, we can see your greedy side!” and similar chants are popular on picket lines. But Harvard officials contend that the issue isn’t as simple as money in the bank.
“The overwhelming majority of the funds that make up the endowment are restricted to specific programs, departments, or purposes,” deLuzuriaga writes in an email to The Crimson. Endowment funds promised over a period of time or intended for specific purposes are inaccessible for general use.
Striking employees have made three main wage-related demands of Harvard: more opportunities for year-round work, and a baseline $35,000 salary for employees who work year round, and a pay increase over the next five years.
These demands are echoed especially by employees who are not guaranteed summer employment. “They keep addressing our hourly wage and how we get paid more than other universities,” Rainey says, “but they’re not addressing the fact that we don’t get paid for four months out of the year.”
DeLuzuriaga wrote in an email to The Crimson that “Of the approximately 350 HUDS employees who expressed interest in summer employment, 168 were placed.” Summer employment for HUDS workers at Harvard is granted largely based on seniority.
During the negotiations, Harvard offered employees the option of a summer stipend. The University would pay dining staff who are available to work during the summer anywhere between $150 to $250 per week, even if there are no open shifts, depending on that worker’s tenure with the University. Local 26 representatives rejected that offer.
Medeiros is one of the few HUDS employees who qualified for employment in Annenberg, which serves summer school students, this past summer. Anabela Pappas works summers at the Harvard Mail Center, though for less pay than she earns with HUDS.
Rainey, however, has had more difficulty finding employment over the summer. After her first year at HUDS, she worked a few shifts as a cook with a temp agency not associated with Harvard. After her second, she worked with Local 26.
Some employees also point out that their time without work can total up to four or five months. Employees attribute decreases in hours worked to recent cuts in dining hall hours across the University. In the past 15 years, Harvard has lengthened winter and summer breaks, eliminated hot breakfast in the Houses, and closed dining halls over spring break.
Though employees cite these time cuts as grievances, the University maintains that they were necessary. “These decisions were based on the academic needs of our community, and in the context of the overall financial health of the University,” deLuzuriaga writes in an email. 
The amount each of the hundreds of HUDS employees works, measured in both hours per day and days per year, varies greatly. Dining halls across Harvard’s campus all operate on slightly different schedules, and certain positions require more or less work time.
Since the strike began on Oct. 5, HUDS employees have had to forgo normal wages in exchange for the compensation Local 26 offers. For a full day of standing on the picket lines, HUDS employees make just $40 per day.
***
Bela Pappas sits next to her husband in their Somerville, Mass. home, holding a stack of invoices that detail copayments associated with medication for her Type 1 Diabetes. “I can’t even concentrate—like how much is it gonna cost, how much?” she asks.
Bela is anxious about a proposed increase in copays under the new health care Harvard originally offered for 2017.
Under the new plan, copayments would increase for emergency-room visits (from $40 to $100) and hospital inpatient and outpatient services (no copay to $100), while doctor’s office visits would see a smaller increase (from $15 to $20 next year and $25 by 2018). 
Like the Pappases, Rainey is particularly anxious about these changes in her health care costs. Rainey has lupus, a chronic disease that requires regular and expensive visits to specialists. For her, the increased copays under the new healthcare plan proposed by Harvard could present a significant expense.
For those without chronic conditions, the new healthcare plan may not pose added costs.
Harvard’s original health care plan for 2017 created an additional tier for employees earning less than $55,000 per year—a change from the 2016 plan whose lowest tier is those making less than $70,000 annually—in which the University would contribute 87 percent of the premium of the lowest-cost plan.
Under the current plan, members of Local 26 qualify for premiums of $91 per month for individuals and $246 per month for families under the Harvard University Group Health Plan. Under Harvard’s new plan, employees would pay $82 per month for individual coverage and $222 per month for family coverage.
Additionally, during the course of negotiations, Harvard made several other offers to “enhance” their proposal. In their proposal, Harvard would also fund a “flexible savings account” of $80 per year in 2018 and 2019, and $40 in 2020. Harvard also offered a second health care option, in which the University would contribute the “equivalent cost of the Harvard University Group Health Plan enrollment premium” to a health insurance plan offered by Local 26.
Local 26 spokesperson Tiffany Ten Eyck wrote in an email that Harvard’s proposals were “unaffordable” for HUDS employees.
When presenting health plans this year, administrators have noted that the average premium increase for 2017 is projected between 6.5 and 7 percent because of rising medical claims and prescription drug costs. Michael E. Chernew, a professor in the Department of Health Care Policy at Harvard Medical School, points out that, “As healthcare spending goes up, it puts a lot of pressure on everyone who has to pay. The money has to come from somewhere.”
Chernew acknowledges that it will be difficult to find a plan that both the administration and the workers will accept. With health care costs rising across the nation, someone will have to take on this extra burden. Among others, one larger question remains: “Do we think that more money should be spent on the dining hall employees or not?” he asks.
***
Anabela Pappas still remembers the year she was voted “Harvard Hero,” a distinction given by the University and reserved for staff members who go “above and beyond.”
Once, Pappas went out of her way to make sure a football player was well-fed. After realizing that he often missed dinner after late practices, Pappas gave the player the kitchen phone number so that he would call if he was running late. Even if she couldn’t stay after hours, she saved him a plate of food.
Years later, at a 10-year reunion, the student recognized Pappas and pointed her out to his wife. “That’s the girl with the number in the locker room, to call if you want food!” he exclaimed. Pappas’s coworkers looked at her in shock. “You gave him your cell phone number?” they asked. Pappas laughs as she recalls the misunderstanding.
Childs, too, recalls bonds with students that seem inevitable given daily, close interactions. After working in Adams House in the 1970s, Childs recounts special relationships with many students. At the time, Adams House was a refuge for BGLTQ students who often faced harassment on campus.
“The bond was very powerful. It wasn’t just friendship, it was also, ‘We’re gonna protect you,’” he says. When homophobic students targeted BGLTQ students living in Adams House, HUDS employees chased harassers away and donned “We’re All Gay” t-shirts in solidarity.
Childs believes that HUDS employees were able to protect Adams House students because their own jobs were secure, thanks to their union membership.
More recently, students of color have also said that HUDS employees make them feel more welcome at a school whose faculty lacks diversity.
Given such relationships, it’s no surprise that many Harvard students have become more involved in employees’ issues.
At the rally held on Sept. 30 in advance of the strike, Itzel L. Vasquez-Rodriguez ’17, a member of the Student Labor Action Movement (SLAM), explains why she decided to support the strike. “The HUDS employees are not fighting for themselves,” she says. “They’re fighting for their families, they’re fighting for their children, they’re fighting so that they can come to work and serve us, the students.”
At the same rally, Lily M. Velona ’18, another SLAM member, helps to put a Local 26 picket sign on the John Harvard statue. She walks alongside employees, faculty members, and student allies both involved in SLAM and otherwise. Velona joins in on chants and distributes Local 26 buttons to the students and tourists standing nearby.
“Students can put themselves out there with a lot less risk, so I think students have a duty to stand up,” Velona says in a brief pause from her work. “I can’t get fired [from] being a student.”
Students have expressed support in a variety of ways, from holding teach-ins in dining halls to signing a petition to participating in a dine-in at the Yard. Other students, however, are either against or impartial to the strike. Students have reported that noise and commotion surrounding the protests, along with dining hall closures, have been unwelcome changes during midterm period. 
Many students who do support the strike, though, have been vocal and active in their involvement. Camille E. Traslavina ’18, who has participated in SLAM, supports the strike because she believes in Harvard’s potential. “I love Harvard and what I believe that it can be,” she says. “I think right now it’s not living up to the standards that a lot of us hold it to, so we’re asking Harvard to be better.”
***
On Oct. 5, Jacqueline Medeiros is up before the sun again. Her morning drive is the same route and her Dunkin Donuts order the same coffee, but this day is clearly a departure from her normal routine.
On most days, only the 6 a.m.-shift employees arrive so early. Today, almost all HUDS employees are parked outside the Harvard dining halls. They stream through the Yard and down Dewolfe Street, sipping hot coffee as they wait for the sun to rise.
Today, HUDS employees will not fill yogurt containers. They will not prepare granola, stack cereal bowls, or mix salads. Instead, they will gather outside the loading docks of their dining halls, armed with pickets, megaphones, drums, and posters. They are prepared to strike.
At 6 a.m., employees, students, and other rallies begin to march and chant, creating picket lines outside dining hall entrances. Echoes of “Sí, se puede!” and “No justice, no peace!” ring out along the streets of Harvard Square and up to Annenberg Hall. 
“We’re excited!” Medeiros exclaims when we catch her on the Leverett picket line. “We’re feeling good!” She’s a blur of energy, hitting an upside down bucket with a spoon and laughing with the employees she marches with.
As employees protest outside the Leverett dining hall, inside, a very different scene is playing out. “Look,” Medeiros says, pointing to the window. A solitary employee, whom Medeiros identifies as her manager, puts on an apron as he begins to set up breakfast.
“He’s wearing an apron!” Medeiros shrieks, laughing. Both Medeiros and her manager are in very different places than they were just one day before.
Later that day, students in Leverett will eat food, prepared by unfamiliar faces, off of plastic plates. Administration representatives will carefully answer emails and mitigate impact while Local 26 employees restock strike supplies. Everyone will feel the impact of the strike.
“There’s a big connection you can make through food,” Chris Pappas says. During this strike, that connection isn’t lost on anyone.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Though the fate of a Harvard-owned parcel of land located on 90 Antwerp Street in Brighton has been decided—the lot will accommodate a housing development—some Allstonians say the planning process for the proposed apartment building is moving too slowly.
In conjunction with officials from the Boston Planning and Development Authority, Allstonians ultimately chose to use Brookline Machine Site for housing, instead of for parks and open space, a little more than a month ago. The BPDA is the new name for Boston’s urban planning agency.
According to John A. Bruno, interim chair of the Harvard Allston Task Force, the neighborhood, including initial opponents of the housing option, has mostly rallied behind this choice.
“There was a good lively discussion about open space versus housing,” Bruno said. “But I think there were enough people that conceded that housing would be preferable. I know Tim [McHale] was interested in open space but, after lengthy discussion, even he agreed that housing would be more important.”
Bruno, who together with Task Force member Time McHale sits on a selection committee tasked by the BPDA with choosing a developer for Brookline Machine Site, said he thinks the committee will make its final decision by the end of January 2017. The group is currently working to finalize a request for proposal for the site that will likely be distributed to potential developers at the end of November, according to Bruno.
Harvard announced its decision to donate Brookline Machine Site, as the space is commonly known, to the City of Boston in November 2013 as part of its community benefits package for Allston and Brighton. An abandoned warehouse had previously occupied the parcel, which lies about half a mile west of Harvard’s current Allston developments.
Roughly a year ago, Harvard signed a contract with the BPDA to make the land available for a use of the agency’s choosing. The BPDA then consulted task force members, neighborhood representatives, and residents living nearby to determine the future of the 29,700-square foot land parcel.
As planning moves forward, some Allstonians have raised concerns over the allotted ratio of market-rate to affordable units in the new housing development. Locals have previously advocated for a mixture of both, according to Bruno. At a September task force meeting, BPDA senior project manager Gerald Autler said the selection committee will likely allow for up to 24 units in the new building, at least 50 percent of which must be affordable.
Kevin Cleary, a real estate agent for Re/Max in Boston, said 50 is a “high percent.” He said all developments require some portion of affordable housing but that the number usually hovers around 10 percent. Cleary added that requiring such a large proportion of affordable units in the RFP will likely shrink the pool of interested developers for Brookline Machine Site by limiting developers’ ability to make money off the lot.
This decrease in potential developers, Cleary said, may lead to a decrease in the quality of housing built.
“I just think it would serve the neighborhood best to have the BPDA cast the widest net possible for developers to do the best project possible that will fit the neighborhood and just elevate the neighborhood as a whole,” he said.
Cleary also noted that the planning process for Brookline Machine Site is now stretching into its third year, and that the lengthy timeline has begun to try the neighborhood’s patience.
“This whole site has been neglected for years,” he said, “and the rest of the neighborhood, including myself, has had to look at a gravel pit for years. This was supposed to be a community benefit and there has been nothing beneficial about it… That’s the sentiment in the neighborhood, I think.”
Harvard spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke wrote in an emailed statement that “we continue to monitor the progress of discussions regarding the Brookline Machine site, and look forward to the ultimate determination and eventual transfer of the property.”
Allston resident Paul “Chip” Alford said he, too, has heard local grumbling on that score.
“I’ve heard that frustration voiced,” he said. “In general, when neighbors are hanging around the [Task Force] meetings, when they’re not chewing on pepperoni pizza.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Holly M. Dykstra found out about disparities in her funding by comparing paychecks with another teaching fellow. Joseph M. Reilly read about it in a Crimson article.
The “top-up,” a supplement for Ph.D. students in Faculty of Arts and Sciences departments intended to equalize funding, has been a source of confusion for students like Dykstra and Reilly who are pursuing Ph.D. programs offered between the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and other Harvard graduate schools.
Ph.D. students in the social sciences and arts and humanities receive stipends during their first two years, before entering “guaranteed teaching” in their third and fourth years. But funding for graduate students in the third and fourth years while teaching can often amount to less than the first and second years. The top-up was introduced in 2005 to bring Ph.D. funding for teaching students back up to the stipend level.
But Ph.D. students in joint programs housed in other University graduate schools—such as the Kennedy School of Government, the Graduate School of Education, the Divinity School, the School of Public Health, and the School of Design—do not receive this supplemental benefit, despite having a similar guaranteed teaching requirement.
“I feel like there is a lack of transparency about teaching rates and how these sort of interdepartmental arrangements work,” Kennedy School Ph.D. student Lisa Xu said.
For Dykstra, who is also a Ph.D. student in Public Policy at the Kennedy School, the disparity became quickly apparent this fall. As a teaching fellow for a College economics course, Dykstra works with five TFs who are Ph.D. students in FAS departments.
In FAS, students teaching a standard "two-fifths"—meaning two sections for the same course—receive $10,600 per semester. Over the course of the full academic year, paychecks from teaching amount to $6,400 less than the stipend given in the first two years. So graduate students in FAS-based departments receive that remainder, now staggered out in monthly payments as part of GSAS’s new improvements, as their top-up supplement.
Dykstra will receive the same $10,600 this semester for her TF position, but her FAS colleagues will get an additional $3,200 top-up. To make up the difference, Dykstra said she tried to teach a third section in her course. But she said she could not handle the workload and was forced to drop the extra section.
“It’s a clear problem,” Dykstra said. “It’s just a clear inequity that doesn’t make any sense.”

The inequity arises because schools with joint Ph.D. programs are expected to financially support their students, according to GSAS Dean for Administration and Finance Allen Aloise.
Although the individual graduate school must cover the cost of tuition and stipends, all Ph.D. students benefit from GSAS programs and offerings, such as the new Writing Center. But it can be difficult for schools to reach the funding standard set by GSAS.
“As degree programs at other schools have tipped toward Ph.D. programs, these schools went from not providing stipend support and guarantees across the board to providing them. They went from not providing health benefits to providing them,” Aloise added. “And it’s a major undertaking and a major financial commitment.”
For teaching done within a graduate school, Aloise said each school decides its own pay rates. At the Kennedy School, students earn $5,500 per section—slightly more than the FAS rate—but it can be challenging to find two sections in the same class. This leaves students doubling their workload by taking on sections in two different classes.
At the GSE, “junior” teaching fellows earn $4,860 per “slot,” and experienced “senior” TFs earn $5,520. Teaching assistants at the School of Public Health earn $3,400 for a five-credit course. The Divinity School’s director of communications, Gordon Hardy, declined to comment on the school’s pay rates.
Reilly, who is a Ph.D. student at the GSE and TFs a course there, said the payment for these benefits should not rest on the individual graduate schools.
“Education, despite its critical importance in our society, isn’t exactly rolling in the dough all the time,” Reilly said. “It’s just kind of a shame for it to be left up to the schools like that instead of through this central school I felt I was affiliated with.”
Members of the graduate student unionization effort, with which Reilly and Xu are both involved, also brought the top-up issue to light during information sessions the group held earlier this semester.
Similarly, the Graduate Student Council met with Aloise and other GSAS administrators several weeks ago to discuss top-up disparities. Dykstra, who attended that meeting as the Council’s at-large representative for the social sciences, said she left feeling “cautiously optimistic.”
Kennedy School spokesperson Melodie Jackson wrote in an email that students and faculty had raised the top-up issue with the School’s Dean, Douglas W. Elmendorf, who spoke with GSAS Dean Xiao-Li Meng about it. Jackson wrote that Elmendorf is “actively exploring ways to address the problem.”
“It’s a process; it takes time,” Aloise said, calling the top-up conversations an “ongoing dialogue.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: October 19, 2016, at 4:38 p.m.
As Harvard University Dining Services employees head into the second of week of their historic strike, some alumni, who say they think the University is treating its employees unfairly, have pledged to withhold donations from Harvard and contribute directly to the union representing HUDS.
Last week, HUDS employees stopped showing up to work, instead forming picket lines in front of dining halls, as they and their Boston-based union, UNITE HERE Local 26, continued to negotiate with the University. In particular, the two parties have disagreed for months about wages and health benefits for the HUDS employees. The strike has closed some dining halls across campus as the University recruits a mix of temporary employees and available University staffers to fill the labor shortage.
A number of alumni are now circulating a pledge to not donate to the University “until HUDS workers settle a fair contract,” and instead redirect any donations to the Local 26 Hardship Fund. The fund will pay the striking employees $40 a day, according to Local 26 president Brian Lang, though they have yet to actually receive the pledged amount.
“As an alum, I feel that it's my responsibility to hold my alma mater accountable,” said Brianna J. Suslovic ’16. “Alumni have the power to withhold donations to Harvard, and to donate instead to support HUDS workers who are currently striking without pay.”
Nancy Kalow Dektar ’82, who also signed the petition, said she would be diverting her usual donations to Harvard—which has now raised more than $7 billion in its record-breaking fundraising drive—to the HUDS strike fund.
“I would only ask that they negotiate in good faith and come to a good solution quickly,” Dektar said. “I know how inconvenient it is for the undergraduates at a busy time of the year, but I would hope that they would support the dining hall workers who care about them very much.”
In an emailed statement, Harvard spokesperson Tania M. deLuzuriaga wrote that the University has made “good faith attempts” to negotiate with the union, offering proposals “that would ensure that Harvard remains a leader on compensation for dining hall workers on wages, healthcare, retirement, and other benefits when compared to peers throughout the region.”
But Joseph Z. Cortes ’81, in an email to the Class of 1981 Gift Committee, wrote that he was “upset that Harvard seems to be ‘nickel and diming’ its workers, who are firmly in the lower to middle economic class.”
Other alumni, though, see the negotiations as a question of funding trade-offs.
“Sure they can pay employees more,” Paul J. Zofnass ’69, a University donor, wrote in an email. “Just reduce the scholarships, or reduce what you pay for the top academic talent, or slow down the house renovations, or eliminate some of the athletic teams.”
Negotiations between the University and Local 26 have recently stalled, and the strike will likely continue for the rest of the week.
—Staff writer C. Ramsey Fahs contributed reporting.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: October 19, 2016 
A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that the Gift Committee for the Class of 1981 is planning to gather more information about the strike and submit a letter of concern to Harvard. In fact, while some members of the 1981 Gift Committee expressed support for the cause, a separate group of alumni, not committee itself, will decide on possible action.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A little over a month ago, a piece of art from a six-piece installation created by Pforzheimer tutor Omobolaji O. Ogunsola ’10 was stolen from its Moors Hall home where it was on display and is yet to be recovered.
Following the theft, Ogunsola took down the remaining five pieces from the installment. Now Pforzheimer Faculty Deans Anne Harrington John Durant have pledged to purchase the remaining five pieces and hope to ensure their safety by equipping the works with enhanced security, potentially a locked glass case for the art.
The installation is an adaptation of an art piece by entrepreneur Ceata E. Lash portraying a black woman with natural hair. After noticing the art had gone missing, the Pforzheimer Faculty deans sent several pleas over House email lists asking students to return the artwork.
“It was particularly poignant and particularly [dismaying] that it should have vanished,” Harrington said. “We want to make things feel good at home and we want to reaffirm our commitment to displaying a range of diverse art forms that celebrate the diversity of our artists and our community.”
"I cannot imagine why somebody would wish to remove an art work in this way," Durant wrote in an email to Pforzheimer students last month requesting any information about the theft.
Many students praised Ogunsola’s artwork for exhibiting and promoting black culture. Miguel Garcia ’18 commented on the significance of the work from his perspective as a student of color.
“To see such beautiful black art on the wall was just really affirming and comforting to students of color,” Garcia said.
Ogunsola said her installation was intended to be “a celebration of blackness in a space that is traditionally white.”
“The natural hair movement is about self-love,” Ogunsola said. “It is affirming our right to be in this space and belong in this space, and to celebrate our blackness.”
Garcia said students in Pforzheimer respect Ogunsola for the deep relationships she cultivates among her students. “She has been an amazing tutor. She’s a great source of emotional support, career guidance, and she’s just always someone who makes people happy,” said Garcia.
In an effort to show support Ogunsola and to help gather any information that would help recover the work, Garcia created a tumblr page entitled “Bare Wall of Black Art: Space and Race at Harvard.” The page has more than 15 comments reflecting on the role she played in their lives at Harvard.
In the wake of the theft, Ogunsola said  “people have shown a lot of love.”
“My Faculty deans have been really supportive as far as offering to purchase the art and ensure that it is reinstalled securely so that it can’t be stolen,” she said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard’s striking dining hall workers will not compromise on their “core demands,” their union's lead negotiator said, emphasizing “there is no middle ground” when it comes to renegotiating wages and health benefits—the issues that have spurred a months-long contract stalemate.
Since May, Harvard’s dining workers have been bargaining with the University in an effort to hammer out a new contract. Harvard has offered a plan for health benefits that would cut deductibles and increase copayment costs for the union’s employees, which union employees have vehemently fought. Union workers have also demanded year-round work and a “minimum guaranteed salary” of $35,000 for employees willing to work the additional summer months, which Harvard has held out against.
“Either [Harvard’s administrators] shift costs on the workers or they don’t,” lead union negotiator Michael Kramer said in an interview Tuesday. “There is no middle ground.”
Health benefits have emerged as a key sticking point between the University and the union. UNITE HERE Local 26, the Boston-based union representing HUDS workers, has been adamant in its demand that workers should not experience any increases in out-of-pocket healthcare costs.
Harvard has proposed that the union enroll in a health care plan identical to that negotiated by its largest union last winter. That plan eliminated deductibles, increased copayments, and introduced a new premium contribution tier for employees who make $55,000 or less annually; Harvard would contribute 87 percent of the premium for the lowest-cost plan.
Kramer said the addition of a new premium contribution tier was “an acknowledgement of the various levels of income” in the union, but added it was “far too small to offset the point of service costs” that workers might incur under the proposed plan.
When it became clear that Local 26 would not enroll in the proposed coverage, Harvard laid out a series of “enhanced” proposals for health care. It offered to fund a “flexible savings account” for employees that would begin at $80, and decrease as time goes on.
In the event that Local 26 rejected that deal, Harvard also said it would contribute the “equivalent cost of the Harvard University Group Health Plan enrollment premium” to a health care plan the union offers in-house. Local 26 did not accept that offer either.
“What is happening is a complete change in plan design,” Kramer said.
In emails sent to administrative deans and students, University Vice President for Human Resources Marilyn Hausammann wrote that “Harvard deeply values the contributions of its dining services workers and our proposals reflect that fundamental reality.”
But Hausammann called out the union for what she characterized as an unwillingness to engage in a “constructive dialogue.”
“While any labor negotiation inevitably includes challenging issues, the University and its labor unions have always found common ground,” Hausammann wrote.
The union has also rallied to get the University to extend year round work to employees who are interested. Currently, HUDS workers are laid off during Harvard’s recesses and are unable to draw employment because of the University’s status as a non profit institution.
To address this demand, Harvard proposed in September a series of “summer stipends” that would effectively pay HUDS workers between $150 to 250 weekly to be available to work during the summer, regardless of whether they actually work a shift during the week.
Local 26 countered that proposal at the union’s 22nd bargaining session Monday and insisted that Harvard increase the amount to $450 per week. Kramer said the idea of using summer stipends to offset the lack of summer work is a “framework” the union is interested in pursuing.
If Harvard does not agree to raise the amount of those summer stipends to meet union demands, Kramer said the union is likely to return to their original discussion about finding “creative” solutions to providing workers with year-round employment. The union has often invoked Yale’s dining hall workers, who work year-round but shift to other jobs like custodial work during the university’s recesses.
“When you think of what is a peer institution to Harvard, there’s really only one name that comes up—and that’s Yale,” Kramer said in a September interview. “That’s really the only peer institution, and food service workers at Yale have a guarantee of 52 weeks of work per year. They’re in the same situation where they are an academic institution.”
According to Kramer, the union has also proposed the creation of a joint labor management committee in which representatives from Harvard and the union would engage in long-term discussions about contentious contract points like health care and wages.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum panel agreed Wednesday that history will be kind to President Barack Obama, though his legacy is still unfurling.
The event, entitled “Race and Justice in the Age of Obama,”kicked off a two-day conference on Obama’s legacy on race and justice issues. 
The panel’s moderator and assistant professor at the Kennedy School, Leah Wright Rigueur, said it was important that a panel occur right before the election.
“The significance of this moment cannot be overstated. At this critical social and political moment, the Kennedy School has an opportunity and an obligation to use our platform to weigh in on the impact of our nation's first black president,” she said, also emphasizing the need for diverse perspectives.
Dr. Wright said it is important to hold a conversation early on in the examination of Obama’s legacy, despite generally being “squeamish” about assessing presidents’ legacies before they leave office.
“I can also say that there is tremendous value in and tremendous weight in examining Barack Obama’s impact on race and justice, particularly as we consider the future of our nation,” she added.
Avik Roy, president at the Foundation for Research on Equal Opportunity and editor of Forbes Opinion, pointed to a growing income inequality as one shortcoming of the Obama administration, though he expects Obama’s legacy on race to look better with time.
“I think that 20 to 30 years from now, President Obama's legacy is going to look a lot better, even to nonpartisan observers, than it did today on issues of race.”
Obama is someone who has consistently taken the long view and worked towards “turning the ship of state to a place that was more pointed toward justice,” said Paul Monteiro, who has worked with Obama for more than 10 years and now serves as Acting Director of Community Relations Service at U.S. Department of Justice.
Obama will leave a lasting impact on the way America looks at black culture as well, Brittany Packnett, Vice President of National Communities Alliances at Teach for America, stressed.
“There are young people who have only ever known a black President and First Lady, and it’s a cultural representation being sanctioned in a way that has real legitimacy in the American canon,” she said. “It is not just the stuff of black people, but an American treasure.”
Antonio J. Copete, Associate of the Harvard College Observatory, sat in the audience and remarked that the event pushes people to have more honest conversations with each other.
“What I appreciate about it is that it's a conversation that makes us uncomfortable,” he said. “And I think it should, because it’s a difficult topic that people refrain from talking about openly, but everybody knows that it's all around us.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Since Harvard’s dining service workers began their historic strike last week, the University and the union that represents those employees have publicly sparred over proposed health care plans and wage increases. While both parties are far from agreement on those issues, negotiators are making progress on a proposal that until recently has received little attention: the creation of a HUDS-specific diversity task force.
University spokesperson Tania DeLuzuriaga said Harvard administrators have “agreed in principle” to the creation of a diversity committee, first officially proposed in June. Harvard’s latest proposal, which University representatives presented to dining hall workers on Saturday, would create a “Joint Labor Management Committee” within 30 days of contract ratification. The committee—to be composed of equal numbers of HUDS management and union representatives—would discuss HUDS-specific issues relating to diversity and provide input to a recently-created University-wide diversity task force.
Negotiators are still fine-tuning details of the HUDS diversity task force.
“It is much more favorable than previous versions but needs more discussion,” Tiffany Ten Eyck, a spokesperson UNITE HERE Local 26—the Boston-based union representing HUDS—wrote in an email.
While the proposal has been on the table since June, students groups at the Law School have recently advocated to make diversity a more central issue in the negotiations. Last Friday, Harvard Law student groups Reclaim Harvard Law and the Harvard National Lawyers Guild released a statement endorsing the task force proposal.
The groups, which have a history of race-related activism, aim to cast the strike as a racial justice “struggle” and tie it to Reclaim Harvard Law’s own movement. The groups first endorsed the HUDS strike in a statement in September and recently held an event in the Law School’s student lounge, where dining services workers shared personal stories of race-based discrimination. The groups’ statement Friday, published in both English and Spanish on Reclaim Harvard Law’s website, supports creating a task force in order to “remedy severe racial and gender-based inequality.”
“The challenges that HUDS workers are facing are unique in a way that distinguishes them from the challenges that the rest of the community faces in terms of racial justice," said second-year Law student Collin P. Poirot, a member of both Reclaim Harvard Law and the Harvard National Lawyers Guild.
Laqueisha Rainey and William Ridgley, Winthrop House HUDS employees who are both members of the bargaining committee, said workers feel University-wide diversity committees and initiatives cannot adequately address HUDS-specific issues.
“We proposed trying to do a diversity task force for HUDS because quite frankly there isn’t anything here that specifically targets the dining hall workers,” Rainey said.
Rainey, who described prejudice as “very systemic” across dining services at Harvard, recounted stories of female workers she knew being passed over for promotions to cook. And Rainey and Ridgely said they have both witnessed or heard of incidents of managers making derogatory comments to workers.
“The problem we see is that we bring these issues up to local human resources, but it’s never brought to administration. It just dies at that level,” Ridgley said. He hopes the task force will bring attention to problems with diversity in the workplace.
Harvard chief diversity officer and special assistant to the president Lisa Coleman said her office has not received any complaints about the diversity of management by HUDS workers. DeLuzuriaga said demographic data on HUDS workers and managers is not publicly available.
Concerns about bias in hiring and promotion in part prompted workers to propose the task force in negotiations in June, Ten Eyck said.
“It’s about that task force being allowed to look at how everything in contract works, how every hiring decision happens, and being able to interpret whether those decisions are happening fairly,” Ten Eyck said.
Ridgely also expressed concern about HUDS workers’ abilities to provide feedback to the University about diversity and discrimination on the job.
“I’ve worked here for 14 years and no one has ever once walked up to me and said ‘Hey, how do you feel about diversity in the workplace,’” Ridgely said.
Each year, employees across the University take an engagement survey intended to measure employee satisfaction. Coleman, whose office administers the survey, said the survey is available in three languages and the University works to find ways to provide it to workers without computers or who have difficulty completing it during work hours.
The survey does not contain questions directly referencing diversity or diversity trainings, Coleman said.
Instead, the survey asks questions about satisfaction with management and whether workers experienced unequal treatment.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Application data for  hundreds of thousands of people who applied to Harvard College will be given to a group suing Harvard for allegedly discriminating against Asian American applicants, the University told those students in an email Thursday.
Beginning on Oct. 28, Harvard intends to produce “academic, extracurricular, demographic, and other information” from all students who applied to the College between the fall 2009 and spring 2015, omitting the names and Social Security numbers of the applicants. The data will be used in the discovery period of an ongoing lawsuit against Harvard brought by Students for Fair Admissions, an anti-affirmative action group. 
According to the email, SFFA will not be allowed to share the data with anyone other than its attorneys without court approval, nor will it be permitted to try to learn the identity of applicants from the information supplied.
"The privacy of our applicants remains critically important, and we will continue to take all possible actions to ensure it, while also respecting orders by the court,” Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven wrote in a separate email.
Students who do not wish to have their information used in the lawsuit are “are free to contact the court directly” or to hire a lawyer at their own expense, according to a Frequently Asked Questions page linked in the email. In addition, the FAQ page clarified that an eventual ruling “will not affect the decision that was made about [applicants’] admission to Harvard.”
The U.S. District Court for Massachusetts ordered in September that Harvard release “comprehensive data” on the students from those six admissions cycles, though it did not indicate what that data would include. Later that month, Harvard moved to dismiss the case, and the parties have agreed that SFFA will respond to the motion by Nov. 4.
According to the FAQ page, Harvard anticipates “that it will likely be years before the lawsuit is fully resolved.”
SFFA filed the lawsuit against Harvard in 2014, and in recent months the case has progressed slowly during the discovery period as both parties spar over the release of certain information. The lawsuit alleges Harvard’s admission process discriminates against Asian American applicants to maintain implicit racial “quotas.” The case was put on hold while the Supreme Court re-heard a similar anti-affirmative action lawsuit, Fisher vs. the University of Texas at Austin, but picked up again after the Court ruled in favor of race-conscious admissions policies at the university.
In its motion to dismiss the lawsuit, Harvard argued that SFFA “cannot demonstrate that its members control the organization and that it genuinely represents them,” and therefore cannot litigate on their behalf. Harvard has called for the release of details of SFFA membership throughout the discovery process, while SFFA has contended that releasing such information would infringe on the privacy of its members.
Around 30,000 to 40,000 students apply to the College each year.
—Staff writer Daphne C. Thompson can be reached at daphne.thompson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @daphnectho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
­It’s the middle of October and that means two things: the Presidential race is heating up, and Ivy League football is in full swing. The two are a lot more similar than you might think. Both are heated races between an eclectic group of contestants that are vying for a relatively meaningless prize (seriously, how much power does the leader of the free world ACTUALLY have?).
On top of that, in the heat of both races, an unlikely hero wearing red has emerged. From the Presidential race, I’m obviously talking about my boy Kenneth Bone! Out of ashes of the awfulness that was the last debate, we were taken into the BONE ZONE. Nothing better than his red sweater and gnarly mustache. As for the Ivies, I’m looking at you, Cornell. Didn’t think you’d win a game to be honest.
We have the clear front-runners whose names begin with H. There’s the orange one that’s basically from New York (Princeton is practically right in the city!). Then there’s the guy who probably can’t name any foreign leaders because, frankly, they’re just not as good a candidate as the rest. That one is Yale. Cause people who go to Yale aren’t as smart or good-looking or cool as people who go to Harvard.
Will this season end up being as much of a mess as the presidential race? We’ll find out soon enough. But this week, smack-dab in the middle of Ivy  play, we have the last set of non-conference games as well as a few Ivy League matchups. Let’s get into some predictions.
HARVARD AT HOLY CROSS
Just like my girl Hillary is going to obliterate the Donald in Massachusetts, the Crimson is going to come out guns blazing in this matchup after beating Cornell in what might be its toughest matchup of the season.
Holy Cross has already lost to one Ivy League team this season, Dartmouth. I’ll get into Dartmouth’s struggles a little later, but suffice it to say, they aren’t all they’re cracked up to be this season. So Harvard is going to roll through this matchup pretty easily.
Prediction: Harvard 42, Holy Cross 13
YALE AT FORDHAM
Fordham has looked pretty solid this year. They’re 3-2, and one of those losses came to Navy who just beat Houston. They’ve beaten one of the better Ivies in Penn, and they’re coming off a 24 point victory against a conference opponent.
Yale, on the other hand, is 1-3 overall and has only beaten Dartmouth so far. They’ve only scored more than 21 points once, and they’ve given up a combined 118 points to non-conference opponents so far. Oh, by the way, Fordham put up 83 on an opponent this year.
Yale’s non-conference struggles will continue this week.
Prediction: Fordham 49, Yale 17
SACRED HEART AT CORNELL
What a surprise, am I right? Cornell is so good this year! I mean, they lost to Harvard, but so does everyone. Other than that, they’ve rolled straight through their opponents, surprisingly enough. Check out the preview from last week for more info on how bad Cornell has been in the past. They are, however, playing a Sacred Heart team that’s 4-1 on the season. Regardless, I’m cheering for Cornell. Everyone likes a surprise. Like the Oakland Raiders. Or Donald Trump.
Prediction: Cornell 31, Sacred Heart 21
TOWSON AT DARTMOUTH
To be perfectly honest, I’ve never heard of Towson before. Apparently it’s in Maryland. Who cares. They’ve lost all but one this season including a blowout loss to USF in the season opener. At least they’re playing good teams. Dartmouth is 0-2 in the Ivy League and lost to Yale, but they were supposed to be Harvard’s toughest competition this season. To quote Obi Wan Kenobi, “You were the chosen one!” Well I’m choosing you to lose. So hah! Just kidding, Dartmouth has this one.
Prediction: Dartmouth 24, Towson 17
COLUMBIA AT PENN
Big surprise: Columbia is bad at football. They’re 1-3 so far even losing to Georgetown. Penn, on the other hand, will very likely be the Crimson’s biggest game this season. They’re 2-2 but are undefeated in the Ivies and lost to the powerhouses that are Fordham and Lehigh. As upset as I am that I have to go to Philadelphia to watch the game against Harvard, just as much as I believe that it’s ridiculous a football team’s mascot is named after a group of pacifists, I also believe in Penn.
Prediction: Penn 35, Columbia 10
BROWN AT PRINCETON
I don’t know. Princeton is 3-1. They’ll probably win, right?
Prediction: Princeton 42, Brown 17
Staff writer Gant Player can be reached at
wplayer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Growing up, my dad coached practically every sport my sisters and I played. Starting with tee-ball, he coached every season of baseball I played up until 7th grade when I began playing travel ball. He was at the forefront of a movement to get football at the park where I played, and when we finally got a team in 5th grade, he was the head coach of all my teams and continued to coach even after I went to high school. On top of that, he coached my younger sister’s travel softball team that went to the USSSA World Series.
The importance of having a good coach cannot be understated. From the NFL to recreational leagues, coaching trumps athleticism nine times out of ten.
The high school I went to was in a small, suburban community. Our football team was low on numbers and athleticism. And as much as I loved my coach as a person, he lost control of the locker room and coaching staff pretty quickly in my junior and senior seasons. We finished 4-6, 2-8, and the year after I left, 2-8 again.
So finally, after a 14-year stint at Gulf Breeze High School, my old head coach resigned this past winter. Taking his place was my position coach, Bobby Clayton. Possibly the best coach I’ve ever played under, Coach Clayton cares more about the school and the community than just about anyone.
In his inaugural season, the team is currently 6-1 and snapped a nine-year losing streak to our rivals. He connects with his players, and the rest of the coaches respect him and buy into what he’s doing.
As for the NFL, look no further than New England’s own Bill Belichick. Excluding the man some might consider the greatest quarterback of all time in his back pocket (two Super Bowl losses though? C’mon Tommy), he has consistently coached teams made up of exceedingly average players. Guys like Wes Welker, Julian Edelman, and Malcolm Butler, while undersized, thrived under a coach who put them in the right system. Move players—like Welker—out of the system and to a new program, and they fail to live up to their newly formed expectations.
There are certain qualities every great coach possesses, regardless of the sport or the level of competition. Leadership, a drive to win, and an understanding of the talent available are always present. They don’t necessarily need the biggest, fastest, or strongest players, they just need ones who will buy into their system. Harvard football coach Tim Murphy does this just as well as anyone.
Murphy inherited the football team in 1994, a year after they went 3-7 and only won a single Ivy League game. Since then, he has become the winningest coach in Crimson football history with 160 wins. He’s led Harvard to 15 consecutive winning seasons and nine Ivy League titles. He’s only had four losing seasons in his time in Cambridge, all coming within his first five years. Every single four-year player Murphy has recruited has been a part of an Ivy League champion team at some point during his career with the Crimson.
This level of success in Cambridge wasn’t new to Murphy. Before coming to Harvard, the Sprinfield College alum coached the University of Cincinatti to their first winning season in over ten years—evidence of his ability to take a struggling team and turn it around.
But what makes him such a good coach? Harvard doesn’t offer scholarships to players, so the recruiting process can be difficult. Harvard definitely has the draw of strong academics, but the lack of scholarships can make paying for school tough. Also, Boston is cold, and college football isn’t as huge in the Northeast as it is in the South.
But he still somehow recruits some of the most highly touted players in the country. More than 30 Harvard alumni have played in the NFL, and there certainly are players on the current roster with the potential to take their game to the next level.
But the talent of the team isn’t what allows Harvard to win. According to his players, the reason he has become the winningest coach in Harvard’s history is his relationships with the players and coaches. Over his 20 plus years, he’s coached more than 2,000 players. According to some of those athletes, he has a unique, personal relationship with each and every one.
What makes Murphy so great is his understanding of each player’s potential and abilities. Junior safety Tanner Lee told me anecdotally that Murphy once said to him that when he came for his recruiting visit, he was undersized. But, despite that critique, Murphy said he saw something in him. Now Lee has become a star in the Crimson secondary, having racked up 19 tackles and three interceptions through the first four games of the season.
Murphy’s deep caring for the Harvard football team and its players make him one of the best the program has seen. Players as talented as the Harvard roster might be an asset, but having having a head coach like Murphy is a game-changer. At 4-0, the Crimson is on its way to a 10th winning season for its head coach, and potentially, another Ivy Title.
Staff writer Gant Player can be reached at wplayer@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
­At the outset of the 2016 Ivy League football season, few expected Cornell to turn around its program in such a short time frame. Just a year ago, the Big Red finished dead last in the Ancient Eight with a 1-6 record. Cornell was outscored by 118 points in those seven games collectively and also lost all three of its non-conference games.
Those unpropitious statistics are what make the Big Red’s accomplishments this year so impressive. Before they met with Harvard this past Saturday, the Ithacans had won their first three contests. These victories included a convincing 14-point win against Yale and a furious come-from-behind triumph over No. 25 Colgate.
Despite the stunning progress Cornell has made in just one offseason, it was still no match for a Harvard team that seems more and more invincible by the week. The Crimson strolled to its second Ivy win of the season, a 29-13 victory over the Big Red in Cambridge, bolstered by defensive success across the board and an offensive attack centered around the rush.
CORNERING THE MARKET
After a key pass breakup or a timely interception, one may see Harvard’s defensive backs celebrating with each other by putting a fist to their helmets and making a knocking motion.
“We have this thing within the defensive backs called knuckleheads,” junior safety Tanner Lee said. “As freshmen, we came in and we would always make mistakes, and that’s how we got that [nickname] so we just kept it going.”
On the third Big Red drive of the game, sophomore quarterback Dalton Banks spotted senior wide receiver Ben Rogers running a deep slant. Down 7-0, Cornell looked to even the score early, and Banks beat the coverage with a perfectly delivered toss hitting Rogers in the hands. On the play, Lee trailed Rogers by two steps.
Lee more than redeemed himself over the course of the game, coming up with two interceptions to go along with the pick by sophomore linebacker Anthony Camargo on Cornell’s first offensive snap.
The knuckleheads were the main reason Banks was held to only 19 completions on 39 passes. Though there are still moments when mistakes are made leading to gaps in coverage, the group has evolved and improved in its three years in the program.
In spite of allowing a few momentous plays, the Crimson secondary has been an overall strength through four games. Opponents have been held to 18.  3 points per game, and contributions from Lee, captain Sean Ahern, senior safety Kolbi Brown, and senior cornerback Raishaun McGhee, among others, have been a key factor in Harvard’s defensive prowess.
STAYING GROUNDED
It has been noted before that the major difference between the Crimson’s quarterbacks for the past two seasons is athleticism. Last year’s starter, Scott Hosch, was a pocket passer, while senior quarterback Joe Viviano creates plays with both his arm and his legs.
This contest against Cornell marked the first time Viviano found himself opposed by a quarterback who liked running the ball as much as he did.
Banks carried the ball 12 times for 29 yards, and although his 2.4 yards per carry figure was subpar at best, he has shown an affinity for the run early on in his career. In his three starts to begin this season, Banks ran the ball 28 times.
The San Antonio, Texas native is an imposing signal caller, weighing in at 232 pounds, and his ground game is just as imposing. Banks bullies his way through tacklers, often going straight up the middle and absorbing multiple hits on each carry.
On the other end of the spectrum is Viviano. The senior from Berwyn, Pa. tends to juke his way around the defensive line, sprinting along the sidelines and sliding to avoid punishing hits.
Viviano bested the Big Red defense, carrying the ball 16 times for 56 yards, including one rush for 25 yards.
“We put pressure on them, and it forces them to try to make plays with their legs,” Cornell coach David Archer said. “From a defensive perspective [it’s] a real threat when a quarterback can run.”
CAN’T CALL CORNELL’S CARRIES COSTLY
It is safe to say that the Big Red’s rushing attack was a non-factor in its 13 point offensive output. Both Big Red touchdowns were the result of the Banks-Rogers connection in the air.
Cornell only amassed 80 net yards rushing, and Harvard nearly doubled that total with 159.
Despite running the ball more than the Big Red’s primary running threat, sophomore Chris Walker, Banks struggled to make progress downfield. Like Cornell’s ground game in general, most of Banks rushing attempts were stopped short for minimal gains.
“It all starts up front, and the strength of our team probably overall is having a better defensive line,” Harvard coach Tim Murphy said.
Another factor in the Big Red’s failure to produce significant rushing yardage was the Crimson’s lead. In typical fashion, Harvard jumped out to an early lead and decided to hold the ball so as to limit Cornell to fewer drives and scoring opportunities.
“You kind of have to call the game a bit different when you’re down a couple of scores, and you might not run it as much,” Archer said. “But my hat’s off to them for doing a nice job on defense.”
Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at
jack.stockless@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
While Men's Soccer's Jake Freeman took the top in this week's Athlete of the Week rankings, senior Robert Deng of Men's Golf and football junior Semar Smith both led their teams to strong performances this past week.
Robert Deng Men’s Golf
The Harvard men’s golf team defended its title in the Macdonald Cup at Yale this weekend, led by senior Robert Deng, who fired a career-low first round 65 (-5). He followed that round with scores of 71 (+1) and 69 (-1) en route to a 5-under-par finish through 54 holes. The Crimson put down 14 challenging teams, besting Ivy rival Yale in third-place by seven strokes, and fourth-place Princeton by eight.
The Course at Yale certainly suits Deng’s eye, as he followed up his second-place performances in 2014 and 2015 with a fourth-place result this year, finishing five strokes behind Boston College’s Matt Naumec.
After missing the team’s first event at Bethpage in New York, Deng has shown strong leadership throughout the fall season, also posting a T-3 finish at the Quechee Club Collegiate Challenge in late September, where participated as an individual.
Deng led Harvard to an overall even-par finish, four strokes ahead of runner-up Sterling University, who shipped in all the way from Scotland. The Crimson has a two-week layoff before heading to South Carolina for the Camden Collegiate Invitational at Camden Country Club.
Semar Smith Football
Junior Semar Smith led No. 16 Harvard (4-0, 2-0 Ivy League) to a 29-13 win over Cornell (3-1, 1-1) with 71 yards and a trio of touchdowns at Harvard Stadium on Saturday afternoon.
Smith averaged 3.7 yards per carry on 19 attempts. Smith ran for his first touchdown on the last play of the first quarter, rushing four yards to the right side for the score.
With 9:19 left in the third quarter Smith extended Harvard’s lead to 20-7 with an untouched six-yard cutback run up the middle. He added a third touchdown with 7:28 to go in the fourth, an almost identical run to his score earlier in the half.
Smith’s patient style served him well in this game, allowing the play to develop before deciding to cutback. He is averaging 84.8 yards per game and 4.7 yards per carry on the season, and the Coral Springs, Florida has now tallied six touchdowns on the season. The Cornell game was Smith’s second multi-touchdown game—he scored two at Brown. The trusty Junior has 72 touches on the season and no fumbles.
Smith helped extend Harvard’s eleven-game winning streak over Cornell, the longest streak between the two schools since 1890.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
