Sections
Jeffrey R. Toobin ’82 recently visited the Harvard Book Store for a book-signing of his latest book, “American Heiress: The Wild Saga of the Kidnapping, Crimes and Trial of Patty Hearst.” Just before attending the event, Toobin chatted with Fifteen Minutes about the book, his reporting process, and journalism. Toobin is currently a staff writer at the New Yorker and a legal analyst for CNN, the author of six books about topics like the Supreme Court, the O.J Simpson trial, and the Florida election recount of 2000. As a Harvard student, he wrote a sports column for the Crimson titled "Inner Toobin." This interview has been lightly edited for clarity and concision.
Fifteen Minutes: Where did you get the idea to write a book about Patricia Hearst?
Jeff Toobin: It’s the first book I’ve written that is at the border of journalism and history. All my other books had been very clearly works of contemporary events—events that I covered in real time, whether the Supreme Court, or the O.J. Simpson case, or the recount in Florida. These were all events that I covered as they were unfolding, and then wrote a book about them. But Hearst is very different. I was alive, but I was a kid and had no journalistic connection to the story.
I wrote an article for the New Yorker—where I am a staff writer—about a gang in Baltimore that took over a local jail. I got interested in the history of this gang, which was called the Black Guerrilla family. It was founded by George Jackson, who a famous radical prisoner in California in the 70s. I got interested in the prison movement, which was a big part of the counterculture in San Francisco, and in California. After the Attica Riots, the idea that prisoners could be a vanguard of the revolution was an idea that was really out and about. I started looking into that. The Symbionese Liberation Army also came out of the prison, so the root of the story was through the California prison movement.
FM: How’d you go about reporting this story? 
JT: When I started, I didn’t even know how many of the people involved in the events were still alive. Forty years is a long time. I was pleasantly surprised by how many not only were still around, but were willing to talk about it. I think people have a different perspective on talking about events 40 years later, when they are not so wedded to the controversies of the moment. They can be a little more reflective about it. But the real turning point in my reporting was when I found out that Bill Harris—who was one of the very few survivors of the SLA—had assembled this enormous collection of materials about the SLA— about 150 boxes. His plans to sell those materials to a university which had fallen through, so I bought them from him. And I got these150 boxes of materials that had never really been looked at before by a journalist, and that was really the goldmine of research for my book.
FM: Do you think the Patty Hearst story is something that young readers can resonate with? 
JT: The challenge for me is to intrigue readers who have no firsthand memory of the experience. I think college students in particular may find it of interest because it’s about a 19-year-old college student who gets kidnapped, and the mystery at the heart of the story is whether she was coerced into becoming a SLA member or voluntarily joined the SLA. It’s about a historical period, the 70s, but it’s also a mystery story about one woman—what was going on inside her head, and what made her do what she did.
FM: Can you see yourself continuing to write story like "American Heiress" again—something that weds history with journalism? 
JT: I don’t think I could ever write a book that is pure history, in the sense that all the people are dead. I am a working journalist, and what I like to do is interview people... I could see going back to a story like this that is decades in the past, but not scores of years in the past.
FM: Can you walk me through your writing process for a book like this? 
JT: I actually have a very simpleminded approach to writing, to writing books. I can’t write a book and be a New Yorker staff writer, so every time I have written a book, I have taken a leave from the New Yorker… and when I do, I write five pages a day... I am fastidious about keeping up that pace, because the single easiest thing to do on earth is not to write, and I don’t believe that writers work best when they are “waiting for the muse” to inspire them. I believe writers work best when it's a job and they meet deadlines, and approach their work methodically. … The five pages a day, I found, is small enough to be manageable, small enough that I can actually complete it each day, but big enough that it adds up at a reasonable pace—25 pages a week, 100 pages a month.
FM: How does your writing process differ when you’re writing for the new Yorker, versus when you’re writing a book? 
JT: When I’m writing for the New Yorker, I write less—I  don’t have that quota, because my deadlines are different, and the pieces, while they’re long by magazine standards, are not book length. The general process is the same and the general idea is the same, which is that the reporting is as or more important than the writing. I think writers focus too much on the writing process, and not enough on the reporting process. If you have interesting material, you’ll be able to write about it in an interesting way. If you are the greatest stylist in the world, and you have nothing to tell people, it’s irrelevant. So to me, the reporting process, which can be difficult and tedious and time-consuming, is really where the most important work gets done. When someone comes up to you and they talk about something you wrote, they don’t say ‘Wow, that was a great sentence.’ They say, ‘Wow, what I read was amazing.’
FM: Were you always interested in going into journalism? 
JT: No. Both my parents were journalists, and I grew up with them telling me that it was a mercurial and difficult business. My mother, Marlene Sanders, was one of the pioneering women television correspondents. My dad, Jerome Toobin, was one of the founding fathers of public television news. Though they didn't actively discourage me, they also did not encourage me to go into journalism.
So, I always did student journalism. I spent most of my undergraduate career at The Crimson. I was in what was then called South House, now Cabot House.  It seemed horrible. Once I was actually there, it was pretty pleasant, but t was really far away.  The Crimson was my home as an undergraduate, but I thought, ‘Okay my parents are journalists, I’m going to be a lawyer.’ Well, I did go to law school. I clerked for a judge, and then I worked on the Iran Contra Investigation, which was  a big deal at the time, and I decided to write a book about it. That was my first book. I was quite young, and then I became a federal prosecutor in Brooklyn, thinking that the book was a one-off thing.
But then Tina Brown got hired as the editor of the New Yorker, and I had the opportunity to give it a try there. I did, and then within a year of my arrival at the New Yorker the O.J. Simpson case happened, and that changed my life completely. I feel like my genetic destiny kicked in, that I was surrounded by journalism, and I became a journalist.
FM: Do you find a lot of overlap between the legal profession and journalism? 
JT: I would say there is overlap, especially because of the kind of journalism I do. My niche has been writing about law. Law is a broad topic. It can include all sort of things. It can include constitutional law, which I explored when I wrote about the Supreme Court. It can include criminal law, which I explored when I wrote about like Patty Hearst.  I feel like what I can contribute is that I can take legal complexity and translate it into English, and write about it in a way that is comprehensible and interesting.
I think it’s always a good idea to have something that you know a lot about. It doesn’t have to be law. There are journalists who are very good at writing about science, and they have  a grounding in science. I do think, especially today, where general interest journalism is a troubled area, having some specific skill and interest area is probably a good idea.
FM: What do you mean by that? 
Newspapers are in terrible economic trouble. I think people planning their careers should think about where their chosen business is going. I’m not saying you can predict with certainty what will exist, what will thrive, and what won’t, but there are certain trends that are very clear. General interest newspapers, especially mid-sized papers such as the Hartford Courant and the Cincinnati Inquirer, are desperately troubled. The web has also created journalistic opportunities, at outlets such as Bloomberg News, Vice, and the Huffington Post. Still, I think it’s a perilous time for journalism now.
I think the most important thing you can do as a young journalist is to just do a lot of whatever you’re doing. Write a lot, shoot a lot of video, use the web in various ways. One thing that’s clear is that the categories that I grew up with are breaking down. Television journalism, print journalism-- everything is starting to merge together. You have to be able to communicate using words, pictures, video, and audio. I think that’s a big difference from what journalism looked like when I was coming up.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: August 9, 2016 at 3:48 p.m.
With the resignation of its CEO Stephen Blyth in late July, the Harvard Management Company is searching for its fourth chief executive in a decade—a pattern of turnover that some experts say could spell trouble for the firm tasked with managing the world’s largest university endowment.
Blyth leaves HMC after less than two years at the helm of the $37.6 billion endowment management firm. He follows Jane L. Mendillo, who departed six years after inheriting the endowment at the dawn of the global recession, and Mohamed A. El-Erian before her, whose one-and-a-half-year tenure saw strong 23 percent returns.
Blyth’s departure continues a recent trend of shorter stints at the head of HMC: For the first 31 years of its existence, the fund saw just one transition of leadership, when its its founding CEO Walter M. Cabot ’55 stepped down from the position and was replaced by Jack R. Meyer. 
For a firm responsible for maintaining an endowment in perpetuity, turbulence at the top can be perilous, several financial experts say.
“You’ve got people with different strategies, one after another, coming in and undoing the work of their predecessor,” said David L. Yermack ’85, a professor of finance at New York University. “Every time you change managers, there's a certain fixed cost when people sell off old investments and buy the new ones that they are more interested in. It's obvious that stability is one thing that HMC really needs.”
‘IN SOME DISARRAY’
In 2008, as Mendillo settled into her new HMC office in the Boston Federal Reserve Building, the floor opened up beneath the global market and took a significant chunk of the Harvard coffers along with it—about $11 billion in FY 2009, or 27.3 percent of the endowment. Plunged into recovery mode, HMC was forced to sell off billions in private equity holdings while issuing $2.5 billion in bonds and making a bevy of budget cuts across the University.
In the years since the financial crisis, HMC’s returns—once booming under Meyer—have more closely traced the NACUBO national average and consistently trailed peer institutions. While far from the 27 percent plummet at the nadir of the recession, HMC’s modest 5.8 percent returns in FY 2015 returns lagged behind Stanford’s 7 percent an and MIT’s 13.2 percent, drawing the concern of University President Drew G. Faust.
In the same period, the Yale Investments Office—under the constant guidance of Chief Investment Officer David F. Swensen since 1985—announced 11.5 percent returns on an endowment of $25.6 billion in Fiscal Year 2015. Under Swensen, Yale has pursued the riskier strategy of pursuing private equity over traditional investments.
Consistent leadership is one edge that Yale has held over Harvard in recent years, said Roger G. Ibbotson, CIO of the hedge fund Zebra Capital Management.
“I really think Harvard is in some disarray at this point,” said Ibbotson, a professor emeritus of finance at Yale. “Yale’s been very stable. David Swensen’s been there since the late 80s, roughly over 25 years, and he’s been a leader in the industry,” he added.
In contrast to the decades of unchanging leadership at Yale, HMC’s executive revolving door has made for jarring transitions in investment strategy, several experts said.
“When you have a lot of turnover at the head, you lose institutional knowledge,” said Charles A. Skorina, who manages a firm that recruits financial executives. “Each chief investment officer has his own ideas as to how to run an endowment and what investment framework makes sense. So it’s always better to have continuity, and they have their friends down in New Haven to show what the benefits of continuity are.”
Promoted from within HMC after success as its head of public markets, Blyth outlined his own ideas for the firm’s coming years in a letter released along with the FY 2015 results: among them, a turn towards factor-based investment strategy that does away with traditional siloed allocation, and plans to tie manager compensation more to the fund’s overall performance.
“It was addressed to the Harvard community and alumni, but it really was an attempt to draw a line under the past and to set a course for the future,” said William F. Jarvis, the executive director of the Commonfund Institute.
“The sad thing is that soon after he came, he had to take this personal leave, and now he’s gone,” Jarvis added.
'AT WHAT POINT IS IT TOO BIG?'
The question, as Skorina puts it, remains: “How can the Harvard endowment, with access to the best alumni network and best talent in the country, consistently have trouble finding a top person, and consistently have problems performing well?”
In a blog post on his website, Skorina offered one possible culprit in HMC’s “hybrid model” of employing both in-house and external money managers. What Skorina considers more successful management firms, including Yale, rely more heavily on carefully-selected external managers and maintain only a minimal internal staff, he said.
“HMC has been unusual in the endowment world by making greater use of in-house staff to invest directly,” agreed Steven N. Kaplan ’81, at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business. “This worked very well in the days of Jack Meyer when Harvard used even more in-house staff. In the last several years, that strategy appears not to have worked so well.”
In trying to recruit the best money managers to its in-house team, though, HMC must post salaries competitive with leading hedge firms—meaning that top HMC executives can make tenfold or more what the President of the University receives. In 2014 alone, Blyth earned $8.3 million—a $3 million pay cut from the year before—dwarfing Faust’s $1.2 million compensation. Harvard’s top-earning faculty member, Medical School professor Scott G. Kennedy, earned $646,280 in the same period.
“It’s a potential morale issue around the University if the people in the investment office, are on the one hand, maybe making less than they might make out the outside, but on the other hand, making much more than the faculty,” Ibbotson said.
Indeed, controversy over HMC compensation came to a head in 2003 when the University delayed releasing the salaries of its managers, revealed the previous year to be the highest in academia. Incensed, members of the Class of 1969 penned a letter to then-University President Lawrence H. Summers decrying the salaries in light of the financial burdens on current students and recent graduates.
The following year, HMC’s third-highest earner departed—along with 14 members of his team—to form a hedge fund. Meyer followed the next year, taking four senior managers with him.
“It would be nice to drop out of the public spotlight a little bit,” Meyer said at the time. “Everything Harvard does is closely scrutinized.”
While HMC has shifted more towards external money management in recent years, more than a decade later, pressure on top executives to perform has only persisted, said Brad R. Balter, managing partner of the Boston-based advisory firm Balter Capital.
“There’s a lot of politics when you’re involved in a $37 billion endowment. I think working as the head of Harvard’s endowment sounds wonderful, and you picture leaping through Harvard's campus and meeting professors and going to cocktail parties, and it’s not nearly that much fun,” Balter said. “It’s high-profile, so when you’re not doing so well, I can just begin to imagine the amount of donors who are in your face.”
“Your size may actually be what’s triggering your problems,” Balter continued. “You can be proud of a huge endowment, but at what point is it too big? At what point is it causing more trouble than benefits?”
HUMAN CAPITAL
While Harvard’s fundraising apparatus is stronger than ever, collecting at least a record $6.5 billion in its latest capital campaign, some experts say HMC’s days of market-shattering returns may be behind it. Investing an endowment that rivals the GDP of many small countries, HMC’s next chief will face an uphill battle in restoring the firm to its former glory, several financial experts said.
“Nobody has $35 billion worth of good ideas. It’s as simple as that,”  Yermack said. “The bigger you are the, more performance is going to converge to the market average, because you are the average after a while. You are the market.”
In Yermack’s opinion, the best HMC’s executive search committee can hope to do is install a back-to-basics CEO who will minimize costs and diversity the portfolio—not a “celebrity from the hedge fund world.”
Harvard has hired David Barrett Partners, an executive recruitment firm, to to lead the search, and Bloomberg reported that HMC hopes the position to be filled by September. More than a dozen HMC employees declined to or could not be reached for comment regarding the search.
The search committee could comb through three logical pools to find CEO candidates, Jervis said. HMC could promote from within its ranks, look to CIOs of other large university endowments, or seek out Swensen’s proteges who have passed through the Yale Investment Office and disseminated around Wall Street.
Wherever HMC finds its next CEO, Balter said, the search committee will likely look for a long-term leader to steady the embattled firm.
“I think when you’re on your third or fourth person in a relatively short amount of time, no board is going to say ‘Let’s take a risk this time, let’s mix it up,’” Balter said. “They want someone with a Harvard or Stanford on their resume who's managed money for 20 or 25 years and is very well-respected.”
That consistent track record will be crucial, Jarvis said, because unlike a traditional hedge fund, HMC is responsible for protecting the endowment—and the University’s operating budget—forever. This can afford endowment funds a longer-term view than trading firms, he said, but puts pressure on HMC to perform year after year while also planning far into the future.
“Harvard is eternal. And the perspective of the Harvard endowment must also be eternal,” he said.
—Staff writer William C. Skinner contributed reporting.
—Staff writer Daphne C. Thompson can be reached at daphne.thompson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @daphnectho.
CORRECTION: August 9, 2016
A previous version of this article incorrectly identified the type of firm of Balter Capital. In addition, a previous version of this article incorrectly named the Yale Investments Office.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We had one of those fundamentally startling moments here at Flyby this week. We glanced at our calendars are realized that the end of summer—and our happiness, good spirit, and well-proportioned sleep schedules—is nigh. It’s almost as much of a tragedy as the end of the world, that B+ we got on one of finals last semester, and every time Pokemon Go has server issues (which you really think they would have ironed out by now, right?)
Complaining aside: it’s time to start gearing up for the school year. For returning Harvard students, that doesn’t mean much besides tacking on a few hours at your summer job so you’re ready to purchase ridiculously expensive textbooks come September. But for incoming freshmen, it means that it’s time to get into the Harvard mindset.
Luckily for you, Flyby has you covered. Take heed, all ye Freshmen. This is some of the most valuable information you’ll learn all year.
Do not buy your books new—no matter how shiny they look 
The Harvard COOP is notorious for trapping incoming freshmen by showing off the super-shiny, super-cool book selection. But no matter how nice that “Principles of Economics” textbook may look, it’s not worth it’s going price. Surf around on Amazon, Ebay, and Chegg to see if you can find your textbooks used. Also, Harvard has a bunch of different Facebook pages for students looking to purchase used textbooks, so keep an eye out for that.
Never eat a meal alone, if you can help it 
And no, I’m not saying this because I am worried about your social life. Harvard is full of diverse, intelligent, interesting individuals, and the value of an education at the school is learning from your peers as well as your professors. The best way to do that is to engage in mealtime conversations with them. That kid who you spar with over the latest political development might just open your eyes to a side of the world you don’t understand yet—or at least teach you the value of keeping a good poker face.
Go to office hours 
We know Harvard professors can seem daunting because they are literally some of the most intellectual beings on the planet. But at the end of the day, they are educators: they want to see you succeed in your classes. So no matter how tempting that mid afternoon nap may be, head over to your professor’s office instead of back to your dorm.
Be careful about what you Facebook, Instagram, and Snapchat
As an incoming freshman, Harvard seems like the coolest place ever and you will want to post photos of everything. How else are you supposed to let your high school friends know how fancy Harvard is! Our suggestion? Posting a photo of you and your friends overlooking Harry Potter-esque Annenberg Hall or sledding down the steps of Widener during a snowstorm is great, but use some restraint and good judgment. You don’t want to have to explain to your future employer why you appear to be, shall we say, “taking a nap” at Tasty Burger after Freshman Formal.
The weekends are sacred: avoid work 
Too many Harvard students pile in the library on the weekend to tackle the workload they’ve allowed to build up over the course of the week. Instead of sacrificing those sacred weekend hours, we suggest you find some ways to become a very efficient worker during the school week, and spend your weekend turning up as much as possible. You’ll thank us later.
Don’t forget to workout
Who cares about dumbbells when you could be snacking on Taco Bell instead? Years down the line you’ll wish that you had chosen a few more reps in your house gym rather than the extra platter of nachos at Felipe’s. You’re in your prime, kid. Exercise now and you won’t have to worry about a potbelly later.
Read The Harvard Crimson 
This is probably the major key. They (our competitors) don’t want you to read the Crimson, but we guarantee that it is the surefire way to make sure that you are on top of everything “Harvard”: The news, information about where the best food spots are, and the occasional political rant.  (Pro tip: sign up for Harvard Today, all the cool kids are doing it.)
Plus, studies show that reading the Crimson increases your desirability to potential spouses. It’s like pheromones, except you’ll smell like paper and ink instead of whatever earthy scent attracts people to you.
