News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A national BGLTQ support organization charged Harvard with contriving a shortsighted solution to issues of sexual assault and discrimination as it moves to implement a new policy that will punish members of single-gender, unrecognized social groups.
Campus Pride, an organization for BGLTQ college students, released a statement last Wednesday asking the University to reconsider sanctions that will, starting with the Class of 2021, bar members of male and female final clubs, fraternities, and sororities from holding leadership positions in College-recognized clubs and disqualify them from Harvard endorsement for some prestigious fellowships.
“Harvard’s policy will not fix the serious campus problems of sexual assault or discrimination—much less classism and racism,” Shane L. Windmeyer, the executive director of Campus Pride, wrote in a press release. “It will only drive them further underground. Blocking access or restricting rights is never the answer to complex issues.”
Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana—who has over the past year pushed to regulate single-gender organizations, focusing primarily on all-male final clubs—reiterated a sentiment he expressed in May.
“Harvard College is committed to building an inclusive campus community where all students have equal opportunity to live, learn, and thrive and we have the obligation to establish general regulations and standards that shape our Harvard community in a manner that is consistent with our educational philosophy,” he wrote in a statement through Faculty of Arts and Sciences spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven.
In the statement, Campus Pride sided with national greek and fraternal organizations, which sharply condemned Harvard’s sanctions after they were announced in early May. Campus Pride has advocated for BGLTQ inclusion in fraternities and sororities across the country for nearly 20 years, Windmeyer wrote, particularly for transgender people who wish to join organizations that correspond to their gender identity, rather than their assigned biological sex.
“For some trans and LGB young people, there is great value, affirmation and personal growth from being part of a single-gendered brotherhood or sisterhood,” he wrote, emphasizing that the organization supported students’ rights to join groups of their choosing, even as it sympathized with Harvard’s goal of tackling sexual assault and exclusivity.
Harvard’s Office of BGLTQ Student Life deferred comment to the College spokesperson Rachael Dane.
BGLTQ advocate Brianna J. Suslovic ’16 wrote in an email that she thought the organization was operating “from a limited context.”
“Given the clubs' tendency to be disproportionately straight, white, and cisgender male, I do not see how these clubs serve to benefit the majority of Harvard's diverse queer and trans communities, especially for those who identify outside of the gender binary,” she wrote.
Several campus groups strongly criticized the sanctions after they were announced. Members of sororities and female final clubs rallied in Harvard Yard, and fraternities and male final clubs—though not as outwardly vocal—are beginning to consult lawyers to tackle the sanctions. While none have pledged legal action yet, at least one fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Pi, has approached legal counsel.
And in  late May, 12 faculty members drafted a motion to oppose Harvard’s position, resolving that “Harvard College shall not discriminate against students on the basis of organizations they join.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Though there is still over a month left before school starts, if you’re anything like us here at Flyby, you’re probably nearing the end of your summer budget. For all of you trying to make the most of every penny, Flyby has found nine free (probably the best word in the English language) summer activities around Harvard Square that won’t break your bank.
Start a pickup game at the Cambridge Common 
Now that the Cambridge Common has reopened, you and your friends can finally start that pickup league you’ve been talking about. Whether it’s ultimate frisbee, soccer, or Spikeball, get your friends to the new and improved green space just down Garden Street.
Play ping pong at the Science Center Plaza
With plenty of ping pong tables, balls, and paddles on hand, the Plaza could be the location of some epic ping pong showdowns between you and your friends. If that’s not your thing, an oversized chess board is also set up nearby.
Listen to street performers in the Square
Although not all performers in Harvard Square draw large crowds, their talent (and bravery) should not go unappreciated. Regardless who you come across, be nice—you might be listening to the next Tracy Chapman.
Visit the Harvard Art Museum
Make use of free admission for Harvard students to get your fill of culture this summer. Right now, exhibits feature everything from Australian indigenous art to Chinese prehistoric pottery, all housed in the renovated museum building just outside the Yard.
Picnic along the Charles River (and look out for Pokemon) 
Grab some food from your favorite takeout restaurant—or go the cheaper route and bring something homemade—and settle in on the grass next to the River. Be sure to avoid the geese—unless they’re Pidgeottos in disguise.
Enjoy a Harvard garden just across the river
Enclosed in the Class of 1959 Chapel on the Harvard Business School campus, this garden is home to ferns, liriope, arboricola, and an artificial waterfall. If nature isn’t really your thing, you can always stop by to appreciate the cylindrical architecture of the chapel designed by Moshe Safdie.
Take advantage of the Cambridge Public Library 
There are branches of the Cambridge Public Library all around the city, but the main location is less than a ten minute walk from Harvard Yard. There you can find a massive collection of DVDs available for rental, fun summer reading books, or just an air conditioned place to chill for a while.
Wander around the Harvard Natural History Museum
We know the Natural History Museum might not seem like the first place you’d choose to visit during break, but summer is a good time to take advantage of free admission for students and enjoy everything from the Great Mammal Hall to the rocks and minerals exhibit.
Mooch off free samples from Pinkberry
Despite the ethical gray area, it’s a healthier alternative to ice cream and kinder to your wallet. With employees handing out samples right outside the door to the store, you can almost convince yourself that this activity is encouraged.
