Sections
With the Democratic National Convention set to officially kick off today, we here at Flyby are gearing up for it in the best way that we know: by piecing together a drinking game to help us through the roughest patches of the four day event. Amidst email scandals and more email scandals, this convention might not be something we want to experience sober.
Take a drink when…
An aging Democrat makes a pop culture reference.
Bonus: If it’s a Pokemon Go reference, take a shot for every Pidgey or Rattata in your immediate vicinity.
Tim Kaine switches effortlessly between English and Spanish in a speech.
Bonus: Finish your drink if he—or Clinton—calls anyone “amigos.”
The cameras pan to Bernie Sanders when someone else is speaking.
Bonus: If he mentions "political revolution," followed by vigorous fist pumping, take a shot.
Barack or Michelle Obama do something cool.
Bonus: If Michelle throws shade at Melania Trump for apparently lifting parts of her 2008 speech, take a shot.
Joe Biden does something embarrassing.
Bonus: If he tells a dad joke, take a shot.
Hillary Clinton contradicts something she has previously said.
Bonus: If someone calls her out on it, take a shot for every indignant glare she gives them.
The #NeverClinton folks start a chant on the floor.
Bonus: If Bernie breaks into an evil grin and dives into crowd, chug a beer.
Someone from the DNC references Paul Ryan’s notoriously white selfie.
Bonus: If you're watching the convention in a room with more diversity than Ryan’s selfie, finish your drink and celebrate being part of the 21st century.
Sections
It’s official: summer is more than halfway over. That may leave you scratching your head, wondering where the time has gone, and realizing you haven’t done anything exciting yet. So, we here at Flyby compiled a list of the most exciting activities happening in and around Cambridge this week.
Grown Up Study HallMonday at 1 p.m. | Democracy Center, 45 Mount Auburn Street
Calling all students, freelancers, and anyone in need of a place to do work, Grown Up Study is here to help you check off everything on your to-do list. Whether you need to revise your resume or finish a paper for your summer class, this designated productive zone will kick you into high gear by starting off with a goal setting exercise and checking in halfway through to keep you accountable. If you feel like procrastinating a little longer—don’t worry! Grown Up Study Hall is open every Monday.
Paddleboard YogaTuesday at 6:45 p.m. | Fort Point Pier
Stand up paddleboard yoga, or SUP YO, may be the best way to shake up your yoga routine. As their website advertises, going through a vinyasa flow while floating in the Boston Harbor will intensify the workout, while “the peacefulness and tranquility of floating on the water combines nicely with the meditative nature of yoga.” $40 per class is a bit steep, but it could a good way to spend any leftover summer-job money you have.
Billie Holiday TributesWednesday at 8 p.m. | Beat Brasserie, 13 Brattle Street
If you are growing tired of the normal concert/club scene, consider attending Billie Holiday night at the Beat Brasserie. Although it will be difficult for the tribute acts to recreate her uniquely fragile voice, the smooth jazz vocals of “I’ll Be Seeing You” and “Strange Fruit” will surely transport you away from overheated, tourist-riddled Harvard Square and to a cool Harlem jazz club.
Free CrossfitThursday at 6 p.m. | The Esplanade, Fiedler Field
If you’re like most, the endless string of summer barbeques may have caused the summer body you worked so hard for to go soft. Luckily, the Esplanade Association and Kendall Square Crossfit have teamed up and are generously offering free Crossfit classes on the Esplanade. Combining weight training and high-intensity cardio, you’ll surely be back in shape in no time.
Sh*tfaced ShakespeareSaturday at 7:30 p.m. | Oberon, 2 Arrow Street
Remember how “Romeo and Juliet” nearly put you to sleep in your high school English class? Well, bid that version farewell, and say hello to the A.R.T.’s hilariously drunken take on the dramatic classic. Each performance, an actor is chosen at random to get, well, sh*tfaced during the performance to create a truly unique show that is sure leave you laughing.
Cambridge Jazz FestivalSunday at noon | Danehy Park, 99 Sherman Street
