News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I met my roommate because a short-haired girl in a tank-top, standing behind a veil of cotton candy, kept me from leaving the SOCH early on a Thursday night. When I recognized her face, I hello-interrupted her teasing of the candy spinner. Because of the conversation, I stayed and ate two cones. 
It was the first week of freshman year, and the darkness didn’t scare me yet. I was a puppy with newly-opened eyes: Everyone was a potential friend, every activity exciting, every building full of secrets to uncover.
I ran into a boy while walking out, and we talked about Seamus Heaney in the warm air. Some joined as they floated by the SOCH: a boy who’d grown up in Kenya, but whose father had gone to the same New York high school as another boy; two girls who had never met, both from LA. We all were mixed—if not in race, then in culture. We were all fish out of water in a concrete building in old New England, belonging but slant, puzzle pieces misfit to form a collage. And to me, who’d never felt at home anywhere, this was more beautiful than the puzzle might have been.
A girl I’d just met asked: “Why don’t you walk back with us?” So I did.
After dark, the city was alive as it was in day; the lights and the number of voices and people blurred and when I talked, my accent was unfamiliar in my ears. We walked back a different way than we came; we walked into and with two of her FOP-mates who joked like they’d known each other for ages and laughed as if the world were their audience.
We walked to meet a boy who feared learning Spanish, but spoke eight languages. We discussed and dithered in four of them. I called a friend from downstairs and we followed the two FOP-friends to the fifth floor of Thayer, where we found fifteen people we didn’t know and a tree of scarves and jewelry, blended in my memory so that all is twinkling silver.
The girl who welcomed us in became my roommate.
This wasn’t my favorite night from freshman fall—that might have been the night where eight of my entryway-mates took the midnight train to Revere Beach to swim; or the night I learned to play pool in Adams basement; or many of the other nights from the first week, saturated with magic and good weather. But this was the night that I, who’d never felt much at home anywhere, felt that the world had opened up to me, that there was finally a place where I belonged. During freshman fall, ordinary occurrences like the one above transcended the sum of their parts; ordinary interactions with people became glimpses of the divine.
Since then, much has changed. The lives of this snowball sample of people have intricately connected and unconnected and reconnected. I’ve more regrets than I can count at Harvard: I wish I could stretch time to know people more deeply and learn more broadly, but I condense time for interviews and office hours. Classes are exciting every first week, but the magic of learning wears down by the semester’s end, when even speaking a new language or finding a significant p-value or watching a film seems a chore. Through the prism in which I see things today, perhaps this would have been just another night, caught between another night of uninspired essay-ing and another night of lamenting my GPA.
Like all post-freshman, I’ve lost most of the sense of magic.
Moreover, I was wrong that night—I haven’t always belonged at Harvard, because no one does. I am aware that the personal here indeed is the political, and that there is importance in politically-focused articles on life at Harvard—and more so, about life around the world.
But the political is not the extent of the personal, something we too often forget. Like a good social studies concentrator, I’m writing to begin thinking about something that’s missing from the discourse: wonder and the transcendent, that which makes life worth living.
We live in a world where you can find soulmates swing-dancing, if you so wish, where you can discuss Irish poets or laugh as if the world’s your audience—and where there are friends and star-like scarves and warmth. Wonder is a beautiful thing—a deeply human thing.  And if you look, you can find it anywhere—even in ordinary situations, and even at Harvard.
So come walk with me.

Siobhan McDonough ’17, a social studies concentrator, lives in Kirkland House. Her Summer column will normally appear on alternate Mondays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We, like most people, are getting started a little bit late this week on account of the hangovers and headaches we’re all nursing from our raucous Fourth of July celebrations. Hopefully yours was just as much of a blast—and if it was, then we have news for you: it’s time to turn down a bit. The theme of the week: turn down and fill up. It’s time to trade your cheap booze and darty playlists for all of the good food, good drinks, and good vibes floating around Cambridge and Boston this week.
The SOUP’ed up SLAM at Dudley CafeTuesday at 7 p.m. |  15 Warren St, Roxbury
Poets and wordsmiths, take a chance to head on down to Dudley Cafe for the Society of Urban Poetry’s monthly SLAM event. If you’re down to compete, there’s a great chance to win one of three cash prizes, the largest of which is $50. Even if you’re not lyrically talented, it’s a cool event to check out. You either find a nice, cozy spot to chill on this dreary day, or you find yourself performing for the chance to win some cash you can later shamelessly spend trying to rack up points in Chipotle’s new rewards program. Tickets are $8 if purchased online ahead of the event, and $10 at the door.
Harborside Lounge Wine Tasting PartyWednesday at 6 p.m. | 185 State St, Boston
For people who are 21+, head down to Harborside Lounge on State Street to sample some fine wine on Wednesday. It’s a nice, mellow way to round out the day, but be warned: Wednesday is forecasted to be the hottest day of the summer yet, with temperatures reaching 100 degrees Fahrenheit. But there will be jazz music, so you don’t have an excuse. Plus, any place that brands itself as a “stylish hip lounge space” is worth checking out, if only to poke fun at.
Who Will Win in Rio?Friday at 10 a.m. | CGIS S-010 (1730 Cambridge St.)
As the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro quickly approaches, come hear an academic take on the Olympic Games at the “Who will win in Rio?” talk in CGIS South. A panel of professors and other experts will be discussing their research regarding factors that contribute to political, economic, and athletic success (or failure) at the Olympics. Bring vuvuzelas at your own risk.
Plants + Waffles Pop UpFriday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. |  441 Cambridge St, Cambridge
Curio Coffee—a Cambridge-based cafe—is teaming up with Nice Urban Garden Supply for a plants and waffle event this Friday at their Cambridge Street location. The coffeehouse, known across the city for their waffles, is on par with if not better than Zinneken's, so you’re guaranteed some good grub. 
Friday Nights! FestFriday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. | Cardinal Oconnell Pkwy, Lowell
Nothing says hipster more than alternative food trucks and live indie music. If this is your vibe, head into Lowell, Mass. (not Lowell House) on Friday to get a taste of a large array of Cambridge-based food trucks, including Spiceventure, Phoenix Rising Pizza and Marilyn Root. There will also be a beer garden (21+) so you can really get your Friday night groove on.
The Shining Film ScreeningFriday at midnight | 290 Harvard St, Brookline
Everyone loves the Shining, or at the very least appreciates the movie for being the cinematic masterpiece that it is. (If you’re going through this post and you just drew a blank on what The Shining is, then you need to promptly re-evaluate your life.) Coolidge @fter Midnight, a Boston movie theater, is putting on a “Summer of Psychosis” film series this summer (yeah, we’re kind of freaked out by it too), and they’re screening the movie in 35mm.
Magic 106.7 Family Film Festival - Wizard of Oz at SundownSaturday at sundown | Prudential Center, 800 Boylston St, Boston
So you and your friends went to go see Finding Dory last week, and you realized that there’s nothing you’d like more than to relive the glory of all of those childhood, good old-fashioned G-rated movies. Luckily for you, a local radio station is hosting a Family Film Festival all throughout July and August. The locale is easy enough to find: Boston’s Prudential Center, and this week’s feature is the Wizard of Oz. If you get there early enough, there’s even the chance for you to win some sweet gear at a giveaway.
