News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: February 5, 2016 at 3:20 a.m.
­When thinking of the Super Bowl, images of Doritos commercials and chicken wings intermittently sprinkled with football may come to mind. The words Latino and Harvard, however, are not immediately thought to be synonymous with football, let alone the crown jewel of the NFL season. But in its 50th rendition,  the Super Bowl will have a healthy dose of both thanks to ESPN Deportes color commentator Alvaro Martin ’84.
Martin, a Winthrop House graduate who was born in Puerto Rico, will be the play-by-play announcer for ESPN Deportes this Sunday when the Super Bowl is simulcast by ESPN Deportes in Spanish for the first time ever in the United States.
First announced by ESPN on Dec. 28 last year after CBS gave the rights to cover the game, the coverage will facilitate the network’s desire to cater towards the ever growing Hispanic market. Outside of the States, countries like Mexico and Brazil have seen a growth in their respective fanbases, and the two nations account for the second and third-most NFL followers, respectively, behind the United States.
As ESPN Deportes makes its Super Bowl debut this Sunday, Martin will be part of a crew commandeering the coverage alongside a pair of fellow ESPN Deportes stalwarts. Along Martin will be analyst Raul Allegre—a former NFL kicker born in Torreon, Mexico—and sideline reporter John Sutcliffe, renowned among Hispanic audiences as the main correspondent for El Tri, the Mexican National Soccer Team.
While Martin will be broadcasting to millions of viewers in the northern and southern hemispheres on Feb. 7, this reality is one that would have seemed improbable when the Puerto Rican was attending Harvard.
UNEXPECTED BEGINNINGS
The path Alvaro took to land a spot on the ESPN podium is an unconventional one to say the least. While an undergraduate at the College, Martin concentrated in government, although he originally planned on studying engineering. A sophomore seminar changed his mind, and after applying and being accepted to Harvard Business School, Martin opted to work in consulting for two years before fulfilling his MBA.
After graduating from business school, Martin joined the media practice team at McKinsey and Company in New York City, where he remained for two years before becoming an independent consultant.
As fate would have it, his first client in his new practice was ESPN International, resulting in a crossing of paths between Martin’s well-established interests in communications and the wide world of sports.
His interests in communications date back to the days he spent in Cambridge as a member of WHRB, Harvard’s student radio station. Although his time at the station was spent in the folk music department, the experience behind a microphone proved valuable for his future career as a color commentator.
“I had a thrill and an ambition to communicate—to produce something that makes people want to listen to you and make them want to come back to listen the next week.” Martin said. “It’s the notion of making the connection [with the audience] and providing something that makes people stop, consume it, and enjoy your brand.”
His debut as a sports commentator came on a whim, a stark difference from producing a weekly show that reached the greater Boston area. On a visit to a college football game between Big Ten teams Purdue and Illinois in 1991, Martin was brought into the booth and asked to put the headset on.
“At halftime, the guy sitting next to me pulled out a notecard and said, ‘Sitting next to me is Alvaro Martin, who has been watching the first half with us. Alvaro, can you tell us your thoughts?’ That was my debut,” Martin said. “It started by accident.”
REACHING LATINIDAD
As Latinos, Martin and Allegre have been involved in the Latin American community and culture in some capacity since their early days. As an undergrad, Martin was part of La O, or La Organización de Puertorriqueños en Harvard, and was part of an all-Hispanic blocking group. As a Hispanic on campus, Martin felt compelled to join the small but intimate community.
Allegre, on the other hand, came to the States as a high school exchange student in the fall of 1977. Despite never seeing a football game before arriving in the U.S., Allegre’s kicking ability led to him to the University of Montana, where he played for two years before transferring to the University of Texas.
Soon after graduating, he was picked up by the Dallas Cowboys as an undrafted free agent and traded to the Baltimore Colts, which became the Indianapolis Colts after his first season.
Allegre also played for the New York Giants and the New York Jets during his nine-year career, which saw him receive one Pro Bowl nomination and two Super Bowl rings with the Giants.
As Latinos with an extensive background in football who could be relatable to Hispanic audiences, the two commentator became a pivotal part of ESPN’s efforts to expand into the Spanish-speaking market.
Allegre and Martin were tasked with creating a market that Spanish-speaking viewers would be attracted to and turn to when they were asked to work together on ESPN Deportes’ Sunday Night Football.
“We basically have to create a market,” Allegre said. “[Hispanic fans] have the choice of watching the game in English or in Spanish. That’s the challenge for us.”
One of the challenges of creating and navigating a potential Hispanic market was having the ability to act as a guide for those that were tuning in to a sport for the first time. As some of the first people to broadcast and cater to a burgeoning Hispanic audience in Spanish, Allegre and Martin found the task of commentating was not only a matter of calling the game like most commentators but also addressing any potential questions the viewership might have that were being exposed to the sport for the first time.
This was especially true in light of a Hispanic audience who, while watching the then solely English broadcasts, had a crude or misled understanding of leagues such as the NBA or NFL.
“Bringing this information and content to them, before the internet, you were it.” Martin said. “They couldn’t look it up anywhere. There was no encyclopedia in their language, so for many years that was the case.”
A CHANGE IN THE LANDSCAPE 
Since Martin and Allegre started catering NFL coverage to Hispanic audiences, the diversity of the NFL’s viewing population has expanded greatly. Sunday games and Monday Night Football are currently being broadcast in 19 countries throughout Central and South America, bringing the game to more viewers than ever before.
The concept of bringing an American sport overseas was a daunting one. When ESPN Deportes was first established in 2004, there were questions concerning every aspect of the manner in which games would be brought to international Spanish speaking audiences.
“That we brought North American sports to the hemispheres by and large was a huge and a tremendous responsibility,” Martin said. “Literally from the point of view of what language we were going to use…. I jokingly called it Walter Cronkite Spanish.”
Additionally, with people from different countries possessing different dialects, Martin and Allegre had to focus on using language that did not alienate any viewers.
“It had to be somewhat neutral and fully understood. You had to incorporate language and terms that weren’t too foreign, that maybe were from Mexico but weren’t going to be too foreign for Argentines.”
The task of taking a foreign audience through the game of American football itself also comes with trials and tribulations. When dealing with an international audience, the knowledge of the viewership can vary on a wide spectrum, from first time viewers to dedicated fans. The solution to that puzzle is finding the right combination in order to please both audiences.
“One type of fan is very knowledgeable and sophisticated and know just as much as any fan in the United States, but then you are also going to have people that are curious about the sport of football, and they want to learn more, so you have to make your broadcast entertaining enough for that segment.” Allegre said. “But you don’t want to make it so simple that the sophisticated fan gets bored.”
As the number of Spanish speaking fans increases, the demand for more programs that appeal to the demographic also inflates. ESPN Deportes now produces shows that mirror the type of analysis seen on NFL Network, allowing Hispanic fans to dive deeper into the world of professional football on days other than Sunday and Monday.
Allegre has been heavily involved in this branch of media. After holding a variety of positions following his professional football career, Allegre came to ESPN in 2002 to participate in NFL Semanal, a weekly show that summarized the happenings in the NFL on a given week, and Sunday Night Football when it was still broadcast by ESPN. Since then, the show has morphed to a daily production of NFL Live in Spanish, which Martin says he “would put in on par with anything that is out there on the domestic part.”
“I did some research and found out levels of viewership in Spanish, and it’s quite eye-opening the amount of interest that there is,” Martin said. “We feel that a big part of that is the work that we’ve done at ESPN because we’re the first to have a weekly show in Spanish for many years.
With the introduction of new viewership bringing a new cultural context to American sporting events, the competition for the audience is bound to increase. Having a large enough population of foreign speakers in the U.S. to warrant a simulcast of the Super Bowl in a language other than English shows the potential for other markets to open up in the future.
Martin explained the current situation by stating, “The challenge for us is to create something that literally would make someone who is fully bilingual think, if we do our jobs, ‘Am I going to listen to Mike Tirico and Jon Gruden [English speaking commentators] or Raul and Alvaro tonight?’ Eventually, most sporting events will be broadcast in multiple languages and countries, to whoever wants to consume in that language.”
SUPER BOWL SUNDAY
With the announcement of the simulcast of the Super Bowl on ESPN Deportes, the prevalence of the Spanish-speaking demographic of football fans has been pushed even more into the spotlight.
The opportunity for Martin and Allegre to broadcast an event as big as the Super Bowl to their Hispanic audience is one the commentators hope will increase an already growing viewership.
“We have a pretty good following on ESPN Deportes…. I expect to have a lot of crossover from people that don’t necessarily watch football, people that are avid baseball fans, basketball fans, boxing fans, soccer fans.” Allegre explained. “The network is cross promoting so that on Sundays, when people get together and they’re going to have a party, they tune to our broadcast and watch us.”
With the possibility of even more Hispanic fans tuning into the coverage of the Super Bowl this Sunday because of its availability on ESPN Deportes, Allegre is optimistic that even the most casual fans could become loyal followers of further Spanish NFL coverage.
Experience certainly won’t be an issue for the commentators when they set up in the booth on Sunday. In fact, Super Bowl 50 will be the 18th time Martin calls the capstone game of the NFL season, with previous games watched by international audiences.
Though the veteran has had many calls under his belt, he is still thankful for the chance to bring the game to a larger audience.
“The fact that ESPN’s first Super Bowl in the U.S. is going to be broadcast in Spanish is kind of crazy,” Martin said. “We are very lucky that CBS, who is going to carry the game in English, gave us this opportunity.”
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: Feb. 5, 2015
An earlier version of this article stated that the Super Bowl will be simulcasted in Spanish for the first time ever in the United States. In fact, it is the first time ESPN Deportes, the Spanish-language network, will simulcast  the Super Bowl.
—Staff writer Julio Fierro can be reached at julio.fierro@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Ariel Smolik-Valles can be reached at ariel.smolik-valles@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the first 20 years of his life, Jack McInally never saw a single clip of his father’s college playing days. Despite playing quarterback for the high school team his father, Pat McInally ‘75, coached and later joining the very same coaching staff as offensive coordinator, Jack rarely heard about Pat’s exploits as an All-American wide receiver at Harvard or All-Pro punter in the NFL.
It was not until last month, when Pat discovered he would be inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame as part of a 14-member 2016 class, that Jack finally saw videos of his father’s electric route running and acrobatic catches.
Around the same time, when he was honored in a press conference before the College Football Playoff Championship Game and invited to the coin toss ceremony at midfield, the memories began coming back for the elder McInally.
“[The committee] asked me if I had any clips from when I played back in the 70’s,” McInally chuckled as he recounted the call he received in early January. “I told them I hadn’t touched them in a long, long time, and wasn’t sure where they were. They somehow still managed to find some footage to play at the presentation, some that I didn’t even remember happened.”
For people who know Pat McInally,it is easy to understand why those clips are not a more important part of his life. To them, it has always been clear that his love for sports extends beyond the football field.
“Pat did so much off the field that it’s easy to forget sometimes how good he was on it,” long-time friend Michael Jacobs ’81 said. “It’s hard to believe that one guy could have impacted the world of football in so many different ways.”
From writing nationally syndicated newspaper columns advising parents of young athletes, to envisioning the original concept behind the multi-million dollar Starting Lineup football action-figure franchise, to coaching youth football, McInally has touched the sport at every level.
A CRIMSON STANDOUT
Pat McInally arrived at Harvard in the fall of 1971 looking to make his mark as a member of the school’s basketball team. Back home in Southern California, McInally had been a standout athlete in football, basketball, and volleyball.
Upon trying out for and joining the freshmen “Yardlings” football team, McInally immediately established himself as a player to watch on the gridiron.
In a Crimson game recap from 1971, his freshman season, one writer observed, “Coach Joe Restic and company were present for the game yesterday. They came to see if the lanky McInally might be able to bolster next year’s varsity offense, [and he] didn’t let them down, scoring 19 points, averaging close to 60 yards on kick-offs and completing 3 out of 4 conversions.”
After not receiving much playing time his sophomore year following his move to the varsity squad, McInally blossomed the following season. With John Hagerty ’72, Harvard’s leading receiver the previous year, graduating, McInally assumed the role of the primary target on the field.
He became a key cog in the offense right away, collecting 17 catches and 3 touchdowns in his first three games of 1973. By the time the season ended, McInally had amassed 56 receptions for 752 yards and 7 touchdowns, breaking multiple school records and cementing his spot in Harvard football history.
Players and press from across the country noticed McInally’s breakout year, voting him second team All-American behind USC standout Lynn Swann.
“Out of nowhere, I found out that I was second-team,” McInally recalled. “When I heard it was Lynn Swann ahead of me, that was when I first began to really think about a career in the NFL. Harvard’s not exactly a football school, but that recognition gave me the confidence to keep going with my career.”
McInally came back even stronger in his senior campaign, setting  another Crimson record for receiving touchdowns with eight while falling just short of matching his previous marks in receptions and receiving yards.
Unlike the year before, these statistics proved to be enough. McInally was named a first team All-American at wide receiver.
Thus he capped a college career in which he piled up a total of 108 receptions, 1,485 receiving yards, and 15 touchdowns. All of these accomplishments were school records at the time he graduated.
A UNIQUE LIFE
“The trait that defines my dad most is probably his curiosity for so many things in life,” Jack McInally said. “At any given time, he’s doing what fascinates him most.”
There is no better explanation for all that McInally has accomplished since graduating from college. While most professional athletes worry about what they will do after their careers are over, McInally began pursuing other interests before his 10 year stint with the Cincinnati Bengals in the NFL was finished.
Taking an increasing amount of interest in youth sports at the end of his playing days, McInally started a column called “Pat Answers for Kids.” It was run in over 100 newspapers nationwide at the height of its popularity, and as McInally responded to both teenagers and parents, he became aware of the problems and pressures facing young athletes. The cause is one that has since defined his life.
At around the same time that he began the column, McInally also showed how versatile he was on the field. When a series of concussions in his early years with the Cincinnati Bengals made it difficult for him to continue playing wide receiver, he became a full-time punter for the team.
“I loved to punt before I even learned how to play receiver,” Pat McInally explained. “My dad and I would go out and kick the ball around when I was young, and before I knew it, I was really good at it.”
McInally’s penchant for punting ended up saving his NFL career, as he made the transition to the new position seamlessly. He went on to lead the league in average punting yardage multiple times in the late 1970’s and early 1980’s, and was named to the All-Pro team in 1981.
AN UNEXPECTED FRIENDSHIP
Of everything Pat McInally has done in the world of football, however, there is nothing he is more proud of than the relationship he developed with a fellow athlete by the name of Michael Jacobs.
Early in the spring of 1976, McInally found himself back home in Villa Park, California, preparing for the opportunity of a lifetime. In just a few months, he would enter the NFL with the Cincinnati Bengals, punting and catching passes from Pro-Bowl quarterback Ken Anderson.
While training on the campus of nearby Canyon High School during those months, McInally came to know a junior at the school named Michael Jacobs. Jacobs, like Mcinally, was a star athlete, but little else about the two men was the same.
That spring, Jacobs found himself without a home when his mother left the area to look for better employment. The previous year, Jacobs had not only been forced to live with a teammate on his football team, but also struggled to keep up with school and athletics.
In the span of a few months, McInally and Jacobs built an unlikely but deep friendship as the two practiced football.
The bond between the men grew so strong, that, 40 years later, Jacobs was the first outside of McInally’s immediate family to hear from him when he was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame.
By that time, Jacobs had long since turned his life around. After attending Harvard on McInally’s recommendation and earning all Ivy-League honors on the football field, he became a senior medical officer with the title of Commander in the Navy. All of it, he credits to the man he met his senior year of high school.
“He [McInally] was helping me go through a list of vocabulary words in my senior year literature class one afternoon,” Jacobs said. “He knew about my interest in getting a football scholarship to go to college, but a sudden, he brought up the idea of going to Harvard. I took it as a joke at first, but it was probably the best piece of advice anyone ever gave me.”
Now, even with Jacobs well into his fifties and McInally his sixties, the two men still talk almost every week. For McInally, Jacobs is a constant reminder of how impactful youth sports can be.
A NEW CAUSE
McInally continues to work tirelessly at the intersection of sports and youth.
In addition to coaching a local high school team, he is a working on a book that compiles lengthy interviews he has had over the years with star athletes across various sports. The interviews, and the book in general, focus on how coaches, parents, and other important adults in each child’s life can bring out the most in him or her.
“I talked with a lot of the NBA guys from the 80’s, and 90’s, all very smart men who had a lot to say,” McInally recalled. “Pat Reilly, Charles Barkley, they all remembered how things came together early in their lives, and that’s something I want to share with others.”
For the perfect example of what sports can mean for a young, struggling teen, however, McInally need look no further than his close friend, Michael Jacobs. With Jacobs as his main inspiration, McInally remains at the forefront of advocating for youth sports.
At this rate, it is just a matter of time before someone, either directly or indirectly inspired by McInally, joins him in the College Football Hall of Fame.
—Staff writer George Hu can be reached at yianshenhu@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.

    Sections
  
Please let us know how you triggered this error so we can resolve it as soon as possible.
Sections
A large bowl of pink trout ceviche sweats delicately in its mound of ice, like a pageant queen under the lights of a stage. The blushing fleshiness of the fish belies its tartness. (Or so I imagine—due to a rather dynamic case of altitude sickness, I am subsisting on bread rolls and tiny freckled bananas.) I am pleasantly surprised to see that many of the offerings on the long table have Spanish names.
When the tour guide told us that we would be eating lunch at a buffet right next to the entrance to Machu Picchu, I imagined a theme-park extravaganza of starch and docile proteins, coated in a gloss of mayonnaise. Perhaps there would be a few caricatures of Latin American cuisine on a side table. I half-expected Guy Fieri to storm in on a flaming motorcycle, claiming this remote corner of Peru as a colony of Flavortown, U.S.A. Instead, I admire the aji de gallina, the Andean soups. This tourist buffet has me decently—and unexpectedly—impressed.
The restaurant is designed to feed a lot of people, fast. The buffet lineup crowns a fleet of blonde-wood tables, giving the room the efficient sterility of a hospital cafeteria. The servers behind the buffet tables even wear surgical masks.
Wifi costs three U.S. dollars per half hour. The Instagram geotag declares a postcard destination: “Machu Picchu, Peru—Wonder of the World.” Like sliced white bread in a bag and a Coney Island ferris wheel, the ancient mountain city that lies just meters away has earned the designation of “Wonder.”
A quartet of musicians, bearing pan flutes and stringed instruments, begin playing to a crowd of largely indifferent old white people in cargo pants. In the frenzy of quickfire Spanish and rapid, ecstatic beats, I catch one word from the refrain: Pachamama, the name of the Earth goddess worshipped by indigenous people of the Andes. A few of the old white people in cargo pants turn their heads for a moment to smile at the novelty of it all. Well, isn’t that fun!, they all seem to say. At a certain point, they return to eating flan and pudding parfaits.
After just 20 minutes of hiking Machu Picchu, it feels as if my lungs are two sizes too small. I perch upon a rock and peer at the stone structure below me, which my tour guide says is the Temple of the Sun, where Incan priests would sacrifice live hearts to Inti, the solar deity. The guide directs my gaze toward a small window in the temple, designed to capture the sun on the solstice each year. No layman was ever meant to set foot in this place—part of its sanctity was supposed to lie in its seclusion. I imagine the sun, perhaps the most public spectacle of all, sliding into its place in the window, a private reliquary framed in private space. My mind wanders. Considering the utmost holiness of this site, I can hardly believe that the tourist buffet is less than one mile away.
Fog cloaks the entire citadel—January is the rainy season in Peru. Like a timid bride, it only peeks out from beneath the veil, even as its guests stand in anticipation. Not one Catholic cross stands in this place; Machu Picchu was abandoned because the Spanish conquerors never found it. As the mountain demurely pulls over its misty hood, I understand why.
I later find myself wandering the marketplace in a valley town called Pisac. I take an adorable (albeit questionably appropriative) photo of a little girl in traditional indigenous dress. I peruse alpaca wool knitwear in loud and ecstatic hues, decorated with images of llamas, alpacas, and occasionally the Minions from the Despicable Me films. (It is truly a strange time we live in.) Directly adjacent to the marketplace stands a modest white church, strategically located so that Spanish priests could Christianize the market-goers. Through a small window, my guide says, priests would read their sermons for the indigenous people to hear. I learn that priests sometimes combined the figure of the Virgin Mary with Pachamama, the Mother Earth deity, to help convert Incas to Christianity. The chapel faces the mountains, perhaps a concession to the indigenous people’s reverence for nature, especially mountains and valleys. As we leave the market, I hear a street vendor playing “Hey Jude” on a pan flute. Which of the Beatles, I wonder, would have played the pan flute? George, I decide. Definitely George. 
Soon after my visit to Machu Picchu, I make my way to Cusco, touring chapels and churches that the Spanish built over sacred Incan sites. On a narrow, winding street I spy a small Italian restaurant: Pachamama Pizzeria. According to a sign on the door, they serve pizzas, pastas, and meats. I wonder what about this restaurant makes it worthy of such a sacred title, why Pachamama now wears a pizza apron in addition to a Virginal blue veil.
Sections




















Sections

















Sections










Sections
I had arrived in the countryside of Argentina in the middle of the night, exhausted from traveling. Opening my bedroom curtain, I saw horses grazing in the not-yet-hot sun. Down the road, palm trees towered over the path that led to the pristine field and barn. Beyond that, the lagoon reflected the bright sun. I would later learn that 30 SPF has nothing on the power of Argentinian rays. As my Polo teammates and I began our week of training on the shores of a beautiful lagoon, I kept thinking that it was the most beautiful place I’d been. Later, as we cleaned tack, shoveled poop, and scrubbed the barn floor, I realized that there was a price to that beauty.
In the United States, if you ask someone to imagine a polo player, they might conjure up an image of Prince Harry. Before I joined Harvard’s polo team, I associated the sport with royals, too. However, the rigor of the sport—not to mention the barn chores—soon made me reconsider my stereotypes. In Argentina, I saw a whole new side of the sport.
On the northeastern coast of Buenos Aires, where El Rio de La Plata empties into the Atlantic, there is a neighborhood called Palermo. Through Palermo runs La Avenida del Libertador. On one side of Av. del Libertador is a vacant polo field, El Campo Argentino de Polo, hidden behind a cracked knee-high concrete wall and a wrought iron fence.
The modest neighborhood was not where I had expected to find the legendary field, but it was an appropriate setting for what in Argentina is a popular and notably unpretentious sport.
El Campo Argentino de Polo holds 30,000 people and is home to the Argentinian Open—one of the biggest polo tournaments of the year. Because the players and ponies who get to play Palermo are the best in the world, one might expect it to be grand. Yet, though the fields are well-maintained, they look much smaller in real life than they do on television. Next to the field, the ponies are packed into a small enclosure, cables tied to their halters to prevent them from wandering off.
A racing complex across the street, flanked by casinos and expensive restaurants, seemed more like Prince Harry’s domain. Still, the complex was open to all.
Seeing the facilities at Palermo, it struck me how the sport has grown and changed. Polo began as a military sport. It was a way to train—as well as entertain—soldiers. In Argentina, where most people used horses for farm work, the sport evolved from a similar game that did not involve mallets. The relatively low cost of horses in the country made polo far more accessible than it is in Britain or the United States. Today, though long workdays mean that fewer people have time to play themselves, polo remains a national pastime.
Sections
Paris’s biggest slum is about three miles from the Eiffel Tower. Last summer, I conducted research on this slum and its Roma inhabitants. Last month, I went back to Paris to present my findings at a conference on Roma integration, and to finish up some research.
Though many question their background, my Roma friends make it clear that they are, indeed, European. Romania is in Europe; they’re Romanian, QED. They’re here, in Paris, to make money. They’re here to stay.
The work I was doing is easy to put into do-gooder buzzwords: access, public health, marginalization, human rights, etc., etc. It’s the sort of work that Harvard likes to fund.
I was studying access to rights and services in the slums, through survey analyses and field work. My work became increasingly complex and complexly depressing as the summer went on. At times, it induced vertigo. I could take the metro from the Mona Lisa to reclaimed metal shacks in 20 minutes.
In the mornings, I’d walk out of my apartment and pass a glorified coffeeshop, called the “Coworkshop,” where scarf-wearing Parisians typed away at their MacBooks. The front of the coffee shop’s 19th century Parisian storefront  was covered with a makeshift plywood board.
A sign on the door read “Welcome, nomads,” and there always seemed to be a man wearing horn-rimmed glasses drinking a latte and smoking a cigarette in the doorway.
After the coffee shop, I’d walk past the canal. It had been drained for cleaning, and shopping carts, wheelchairs, and metal carcasses sat in its heavy silt. I passed small Chinese restaurants that kept closing, past three new spots that served only brunch, and past a man I knew from the slum I studied. Evicted over the summer, he and his wife now sat on opposite sides of the street, waiting at ATMs for people to give them money. There was no “Welcome, nomads” sign for him.
I kept walking, and arrived at Place de la République. When I walked through the square on my first night, there was a makeshift refugee camp occupying the entire eastern side. On the one-year anniversary of the Charlie Hebdo attacks, the President spoke in that very spot.
The real “nomads” don’t own real estate in hipster neighborhoods, and don’t have track lighting. On my third or fourth day, I headed to a suburb called Grigny with a team from the NGO where I worked last summer. There were four of us. A 21-year-old Senegalese French woman from the northern suburbs, two 20-year-old Romanian men who live in slums to the east of the city, and me.
The puddles on the sides of the train tracks were frozen, and we were bundled but shivering as we got off the train. Everyone lit a cigarette, and we jostled with the others into the suburbs, only 45 minutes from the city. There wasn’t a white person in sight—no baguettes, no berets, no museums.
Grigny is the kind of place French politicians cite when they denounce home-grown terrorism—the Coulibaly brothers grew up and lived here. There were Turkish supermarkets, a new mosque, and a near-endless march of public housing towards the horizon, like upturned shipping containers with tiny portholes.
There weren’t any police there, though, and one of my coworkers bought a discounted phone card from a reseller as soon as we stepped off the train. The reseller also sold cards to call Pakistan and Burkina Faso, and tried to convince me to buy one by calling me “Karachi.” We walked into a sandwich shop to buy a “Greek,” a gyro, from a Turkish man. There, it was “salaam” instead of “bonjour,” and I didn’t mind.
We crossed over a highway, went through a muddy construction site, and dodged a truck whose driver gave us the middle finger. A man we passed cursed at my Romanian coworkers—they were blasting Florin Salam, a Romanian music hero, on their phones. And then we arrived at the slum I had visited some six months before. It was wedged in the middle of an old industrial site, a creek, and a six-lane highway.
The houses were made out of scrap wood, metal, recycled doors, tarps, cloth, whatever could be found. One family’s home was wrapped entirely in an old billboard; it read, “I love my home,” with the picture of a French woman sniffing flowers seated on a plush couch. This home’s floor was gravel, and a big bed was the only thing inside. The father of the house arrived when we did and was carrying a bag of charcoal he found behind the supermarket. “I have heat,” he said, pointing to the charcoal. “Come inside.”
Nothing had changed since I was last there. It was colder than in August, no surprise. We checked if his wife had insurance; she didn’t, no surprise again—the local municipality refused. The teenagers were hanging outside, and showed us some videos on their phones. They’d just come back from Romania, and had all the new hits, which we could barely hear over the whooshing of the rush-hour traffic heading out of the city. Nothing had changed, nobody needed anything, since the NGO team had visited the week before, and so we left after only a half an hour.
It’s likely I’ll never go back; slums are usually evicted and destroyed twice a year. It’s likely that some of these people will become nomads, not by choice, but by necessity. I’m sure the nomad coworkshop will still be there when I get back, but maybe this time, there’ll be a real nomad sitting outside, a man or woman or child, from Romania or Syria or Afghanistan, with a cup, asking for money so they can stay put.
Sections
There is something uncanny in the waterfall materializing over the 405 freeway today, some frenetic motion, some intensity. As if an act of god had transported South American cataracts into the smoggy airspace above our cars.
The 405, a coastal offshoot of the main California North-South highway corridor, passes through Los Angeles before joining up again with the 5. This is the second day it has been under siege by something far worse than rush-hour traffic: El Niño.
The 72-hour stretch of torrential rain, which began on Jan. 4th and will conclude sometime in the wee hours of the next day, marks the first spell the roguish weather pattern has cast on Southern California this year. Flooding has bombarded the UK. Yet around these parts, which were desert long before manicured lawns (or, in modern times, posh cactus gardens) appeared, water tends to be a welcome relief.
Most autumns and winters, the Southland knows a dryness that sweeps into corners with a faint burning stench and the maddening rustle of Van Gogh’s last wheatfields: the Santa Ana winds. “The season of suicide and divorce and prickly dread, wherever the wind blows,” Joan Didion wrote of the Santa Ana in her “Los Angeles Notebook” essay.
What happens when a dried-up, sun-spoiled population primed for angsty breezes collides with a solid three-day wall of rain?
CHILD OF GOD
“The effects on California are probabilistic,” David Pierce, a University of California, San Diego climate scientist, insists on telling me upfront.
What he means is that media reports of this El Niño’s monstrous power have been greatly exaggerated—or at least presented too conclusively.  Pierce explains that there are two ways to measure an El Niño: ocean surface temperature and atmospheric effects.
By the first measurement, this El Niño is certainly not the strongest California has faced. But here’s where things get complicated. Technically speaking, there is no such thing as an El Niño in California. The term refers to warming ocean temperatures way out in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. In fact, El Niño (which means “little boy” in Spanish) got its name from the warm currents that arrived around Christmas, in honor of baby Jesus, according to a report from a late-19th-century Peruvian scientist.
But over here in North America, we never experience the warming effects.  Instead, when ocean and climate interact, weather changes reverberate across the North American land mass. So it’s the second measurement, atmospheric effects, which actually determines the extent to which I regret the decision to leave my rain boots behind in Boston.
And this particular year is heavy on atmospheric effects. Sadly, though, Southern Californians who were hoping that El Niño would be their savior from the recent drought crisis must keep praying.
“The depths we’ve dug ourselves into with the drought…” says Pierce with an undercurrent of bitterness, referencing a two-year deficit in the state’s reservoirs. “One year with El Niño is very unlikely to make that up.”
Instead, it’s a long, uncertain winter ahead, with a high likelihood of more storms. Pierce recommends cleaning out the drains.
MEMORIAL
Driving in the blinding wet gray, I asked if they remembered El Niño. “My first year out here, it rained like the dickens all through Christmas,” said my grandfather.
“These women went up to the canyon to make dinner for the firemen,” my grandmother said.  “And a mudslide crashed through the window and killed them.” I thought it sounded apocryphal, but then it turned out to be worse. In 1969, nearly 50 people hid out in the Silverado Canyon fire station from flooding brought on by El Niño. Then, the hillside collapsed into the station, killing five and burying many more.
Everyone who’s tarried in Southern California long enough has them: visions of El Niños past.  We pray for rain, but we don’t pray for this—the destruction and devastation when loose earth, left far too long in the desert sun, silts up with water and comes crashing down on itself. Think of a glacier calving, chunks of solidity shearing off at a breath. Now think of a glacier covered in houses.
The last particularly tenacious El Niño descended here in 1997—the same year a local playhouse premiered a little show by Richard Greenberg called “Three Days of Rain” (later known as the vehicle for Julia Roberts’s Broadway debut). In the play, three characters attempt to reconstruct the events of a mysterious diary entry written by one of their fathers. The second act depicts what really happened, all those years ago. Betrayal, unexpected intimacy, and so many secrets unfold as the sky torments itself outside a Manhattan loft.
But this is Los Angeles. Ambiguity is nice and all, but we are going to the beach no matter what comes out of the sky.
RAIN ROOM
If a certain class of Angelenos could—without getting a spot of rain on their convertibles or coiffed hair—magically inject the reservoirs full of water, they’d do it as fast as they Botox 30 years away in a day.
Unfortunately, physics exist. So instead they console themselves in the usual way: buying or “I know a guy”-ing their way into exclusive tickets for a much-hyped exhibition.
They get in their cars, curse the excessive caution of authorities who have closed parts of two major SoCal freeways, and zigzag furiously toward the museum while the sky vomits out it guts. Perhaps concerned, the Los Angeles Times pointed its readers to a video on “How to Drive in the Rain.” Pro tip: “Maintain control of your car.” Also: “Wipers remove water from the windshield.”
The Los Angeles County Museum of Art has imported a British art installation called “Rain Room.” In a black room with theatrical lighting, a perfect grid of rain falls onto waiting grates below. Look, there, a tentative toddler wading her way into the downpour. And here comes the art: She doesn’t get wet.
Thanks to some complicated motion-sensor technology I don’t understand, this is one storm that won’t soak your socks.  Heck, you can even selfie in it.
Of a far different weather phenomenon than rain, Didion wrote: “To live with the Santa Ana is to accept, consciously or unconsciously, a deeply mechanistic view of human behavior… the wind shows us how close to the edge we are.”
Perhaps, then, El Niño gives us back a bit of our agency—or at the very least, our irrepressible human stubbornness. Thor smites Southern California with ferocity and a tide of alien water, and we drive our cars at the posted speed limit. Hillsides crumble, and we rebuild our houses in the canyon.
Rain buckets down on freeways and sidewalks for three days, and we go to exorbitant lengths for the privilege of walking through indoor ceiling sprinklers without getting wet.
There is something particularly of Los Angeles in the exodus toward a sleeker version of Mother Nature with better camera angles.  The Southland has always promised to be a kind of rain room, a place where you can fulfill the old Western dream of life’s benefits without the work.  We will survive this latest deluge as we always have done: in the dry hull of our own delusion.

    Sections
  
From the porch of my uncle’s apartment, you can see all of Panama City, Panama. To the left, sparkling high-rises stand with famous names like Trump sprawled across their fronts. To the right, an ever-expanding mall filled with insignias satisfies the American taste for luxury. Immediately below it all, in the shadows of the towers, throngs of the working-class live in tin-roof shanties.
 My parents were born and raised in Panama City and have done everything they can to pass on their culture to my sister and me. While I have never had much success at learning Spanish and have yet to acquire a taste for the language, I have inherited their keen love and appreciation for their home country. Many relatives on both sides of my family worked on the Panama Canal—they were part of the thousands of West Indian men who came to Panama to move earth and water.
 This trip was the first time I ever actually visited the Canal itself. For years, I’d driven past the locks and seen the wildlife in the surrounding areas, but I’d never taken the time to step foot on the grounds that provided my family’s sustenance. My parents had always told me their grandparents went to Panama to build the Canal, but the specific names and histories have been erased, eroded with the ages. At the Canal Museum, I was able to see the history of Panama’s greatest landmark from start to future. The failure of the French to build the Canal before the Americans intervened somehow made it all that much more enjoyable. But most importantly, in the computer archives that documented all of the men who worked on the Canal, I saw the names of my great-grandparents and great-grand uncles who changed our family’s destiny.
 The Canal was designed to reverse Panama’s fortunes, to separate the country from the banana republics of the region. Military dictatorship, drugs, and corruption left a trail of destruction throughout the country. The physical scars of crumbling ruins from the old city dot the rapidly industrializing seaside as a constant reminder of the pain of the past.
Both of my parents and many of my other relatives were involved in the anti-dictatorship protest movement that pitted the former Panamanian government and many students against a CIA-backed strongman. When I was a child, my grandmother would tell me stories of the day she found herself at a rally and realized she’d been yelling the wrong chant for hours. Anytime I complained about the doctor’s office, my mother would recount the horrible conditions at the hospital where she worked, putting my minor gripes in perspective. My father, on the other hand, refuses to tell me his stories, afraid of causing me to romanticize the protest movements of our time. 
Our family vacation reminds us all of just how little progress the country has made in the intervening years. Just days before Christmas, the highest court in Panama ordered the arrest of lformer Panamanian president, Ricardo Martinelli. His long list of alleged crimes includes bribery, illegal pardons, and the use of public money to spy on political enemies. In a move of seemingly-unintentional absurdity, Martinelli waited out the backlash in a Miami apartment complex made famous by the Scarface movie. 
 Nothing would make me happier than to watch Panama come out on the other side of this a better nation. Still, I can’t help but return to one memory from the last time my family spent the holidays in Panama. 
My sister had asked to see where our parents grew up, to get a better sense of our roots. So we drove. As it turned out, though in one sense my mother and father had lived only 20 minutes from the high rises, in another they’d lived a world away.
We never got out of the car. We drove quickly. And after all these years, we realized nothing much had changed. 
Sections
“Why are you here?”
“I’m writing on Milorad Pavić.”
“You should read someone else.”
“He’s not too popular here. We prefer foreign authors.”
“‘Dictionary of the Khazars?’ It’s the only book I did not finish.”
For a thesis researcher seduced to Serbia by Pavić’s postmodernist masterpiece, it was a disheartening first day in Belgrade. I had mistakenly assumed my love of Pavić’s writing would be shared by all. Oneiric, twisting, and blatantly erudite, his work sits somewhere between a Gothic cathedral and a Nabokov novel—if both swapped darkness for light. “Dictionary of the Khazars” is the paragon of that style: Composed of dictionary entries, it is a “lexicon novel,” and was thus originally placed not in the fiction section of the bookstore, but next to other language dictionaries, somewhere, we can imagine, between Khakis and Khmer. The work treats the pseudo-history of the Khazar people’s religious conversion, but multiplies it into three contradictory narratives. Each is told from the viewpoint of a different religion—Christianity, Judaism, Islam—and in each, the Khazars select a different faith. There is no center to the text, no answer and no truth, only a series of appendices refuting all that has been said before.
In that sense, it was a bit like my trip to Belgrade.
My sources were different: not religious prophets, but two kind-hearted, sharp-witted graduate students, one oracular professor, Jerkov, Pavić’s sibylline widow, Jasmina, and a smattering of Serbian locals in cafés and bars. Each held a narrative, a cycloptic viewpoint, a singularity I was tasked with combining into my own dictionary. Its entries were often far from literary. It was the most unconventional and unconditionally useful research I could have imagined.
“I always thought he was a local writer,” said a woman I met at a ćevapi joint one night. She was referring to Pavić’s lack of global recognition compared to, say, Salman Rushdie or Jorge Luis Borges. Two days later, Jerkov would counter, “He was absolutely the most European author.” He was reflecting on Pavić’s cosmopolitan sensibilities: a preference for the baroque ornate over the restrained aesthetics of protestant Serbia; a collection of smoking pipes and an apartment in Paris; a mix of avant-gardism and atavism for the “wrong” histories. Jerkov and his students believed that these tendencies made Pavić fundamentally opposed to the nationalist ideology of then-dictator Slobodan Milošević. But in American circles, he is often regarded as a staunch supporter.
With these paradoxes, my dictionary of the dictionary was growing.
“You have to be very stylistic if you want to get to know him,” observed one of the graduate students on Jerkov. Academic knowledge, in these weeks, was transmitted without the same aggressive intentionality I was used to. It came in looping, elliptical conversations. It was less parceled, more personalized. There was a sensibility of lingering over discussions, instead of compartmentalizing tidbits and sprinting to the next marketable meeting. I’d been told to “swim” in the intellectual environment, to identify with the author and his sources, rather than scoop out what I wanted with my usual external and surgical precision.
The stylistics were full-on aquatic by the time we all met Jasmina. I let her direct the conversation, waiting until a word or image surfaced that related to one of my questions. Then I’d lead the discussion toward that idea. It worked about a third of the time, but when it did, it was brilliant. She mentioned Greek mythology, and I asked:
“Why so many truths and so many myths?”
“Because it’s real. But truth, it does not exist…”
“It’s easier, it’s much easier when you look at it one-sidedly," add one graduate student.
“It shows you the way the truth is being created. It’s like truth in process or in progress," said the other.
To give up on objectivity beneath the research scalpel, to accept that the compiler’s appendices create truth instead of discovering it—this is what Pavić teaches the undergraduate researcher. All we can do is gather more entries: the date in Pavić’s journal when he’d selected the lexical form; a professed wish for text to be “like an architectural model or building or cathedral”; his obsession with escaping an authorial role, to “be absent like Homer.”
After my initial talk with Jerkov, I was unsure we would meet again. But I’d prepared a list of disputes and queries on Pavić scholarship and sent it his way. Then, I woke up to a message saying Jerkov would arrive in 40 minutes at the ice cream shop a student had spotted me at the day before. I ran.
When I arrived, he was peering at the interrogative list, but instead of proceeding to the first question, he opted for an anecdote on Yugoslav author Ivo Andrić. “A writer wanted to meet with Andrić and ask him a series of questions,” Jerkov said, as if he were narrating our experience at the ice cream shop. “He arranged the meeting and they began to move through them. ‘This one I cannot answer,’ Andrić said at the first, ‘Oh and this one… that is for another time,’ of the second, ‘The third is compelling, but no one has much of a clue. The fourth you’d have to find someone else.’ Andrić systematically went through each one in this manner, and the meeting adjourned in just a few minutes. I will not do that, but most of these are unanswerable.”
By the end of my trip, I’d accumulated some exceptional entries for the dictionary. I learned that Serbian students are permitted to take exams six times, and they are currently protesting for more chances; that there’s a local preference for periodization (a strict delineation between literary decades disdained by American academics); that despite being a common local crop, cherries are sometimes unavailable because “someone decides to send them to Russia”; that as the epitome of American capitalism, McDonald’s is the first place to be destroyed whenever there are riots; that, in response, the fast-food chain launched an ad campaign celebrating Serbian culture; that, despite all that, it’s still where local kids have their birthday parties.
But any lexicon makes a statement beyond its parts: Like senior theses, they are undergirded with a belief that the world can be mapped and totalized, broken into its components and stitched back together. The postmodern brilliance of “Dictionary of the Khazars” is to rip apart its own foundation, to take perhaps the most controversial ideological systems we know—monotheistic religions—and show how they can and must coexist without unity. Its world is an author-less architecture.
Later, I would travel through other parts of the Balkans, to the Croatian coastline, and then to Bosnia and Herzegovina—where I was told repeatedly and aggressively that Serbia had no cultural history, that the Ottoman Empire should still control Belgrade. When we read postmodernists like Pavić, we tend to summon voguish theory—Roland Barthes’ dead author, Wolfgang Iser’s work on reader response—but the multiplicity of reality is as grounded as bar-goers in Split and Belgrade telling Yugoslavian history in two polemically different ways.
Pavić is not too popular, I think, because he makes serious demands on us as readers to hold these polemics within us—and because singular truth is always easier. In that good meta-fictive tradition of inverting mimesis, his art offers a model for existence. It teaches us to travel between the dictionary entries of our daily encounters, swim in warring narratives, read appendix materials and secondary sources. And yet it reminds us that even the most learned, earnest pedants will arrive at no answer, no author, no God. Just the reality of truth in process, dreaming, from the Balkans to the Barker Center, of progress.
Sections
I was told on the first day of a writing workshop that only two narrative structures exist in the entire history of plot: 1) a hero goes on a journey, and 2) a stranger comes to town. As useful as this maxim is in plotting the beats of a screenplay, the question of perspective puzzles me in parsing the tangled strands of my own journeys. A real-life wanderer lives any story as its hero—when we travel, we do things. Things happen to us. It’s difficult to escape this self-centered narrative, or view oneself as a stranger, particularly when trying to really see a place. It’s even more difficult to escape later on, in the telling of that place.
Traveling to India for the first time, on a loosely defined fellowship with little-to-no preconceived narrative structure (despite its funding by the English department), I wanted to shed the heroic-journey paradigm, to impartially absorb a new and entirely different place. But certain stories and images of India had been provided for me as a 23-year-old American woman. Would it be “Eat, Pray, Love” or “A Passage to India?” I pictured the Beatles: shaggy-haired, unshaven, posing with a sitar, or the even more fully bearded Allen Ginsberg transcribing visions in his Indian Journals. Then, there’s “Slumdog Millionaire.”
Practically as soon as I cleared my Dubai layover and landed in Kolkata, the Facebook messages started arriving: “OMG how is India? Can’t wait to hear everything!” and I began to think of my experiences in terms of how I would tell them. I became aware of how difficult this would be on the first day, wandering through my neighborhood. The stray dogs and decapitated chickens bleeding into the street didn’t seem part of the same story as the terrifying chaos of traffic, or the mysterious rhythms of the university my travel partner and I were visiting. Nothing paused to cohere into a story we could tell: It just was. We were strangers come to town, but there was nothing remarkable about that.
Stories to write home aside, constructing narratives about the trip for ourselves was a difficult project. Most signifiers had been robbed of their expected meanings—water was danger; our iPhones functioned only as malaria pill alarm clocks. The atmosphere was subsumed by smog into a kind of hazy non-weather, detached, in the mild Bengali winter, from ideas of hot or cold. The usual criteria for evaluating situations did not apply—I had lost the ability to measure safety, feasibility, or even distance (and the ability to Google it), and operated largely on best guesses, vague guidebook advice, and the hospitality of Kolkatans who were always happy to give directions to two lost American girls. Often, crowds would form in the street to collaborate on the project of calling us an Uber, or arguing over the best route to the restaurant we were looking for. In a class at the university—Postcolonial Literature—I was surprised to find my own continent the subject of study. Everything was flipped; the distant and exotic Americas, ravaged by European imperialism. Places I had never felt close to—the waters of the Caribbean and ancestral Inca stomping grounds—suddenly felt like part of my own history.
At a Kolkata literary festival one weekend, held at the colonial-stamped locations of the Oxford Bookstore and the Victoria Memorial, we found keys to the collective narratives we needed to tap into—a little less “hero’s journey,” a little more “stranger comes to town.” Certain stories came up at every panel we attended, whether about book publishing and book covers, Southeast Asian writing, or the literature of trauma, the bloody 1971 partition of Pakistan and Bangladesh. On another weekend trip to Varanasi, the holy city, we puzzled over religious inscriptions on temples.
Sitting in a professor’s apartment over takeout Chinese and rum with flat, syrupy Coke, we told each other stories. Sometimes we stumbled, conversations stalled by the insurmountable obstacle of scale. Our hosts reached the end of a long answer to one of many questions only to sigh, visibly grappling with the counter examples. What role did caste play in contemporary India? Though everyone in the room claimed that it wasn’t relevant, they could read each other’s castes in their last names. Several students teased their Brahmin friend and he described half-heartedly participating in his family’s coming-of-age ritual, wearing a string around his neck and spending a solitary day or two in prayer. His younger brother had bought a cow with his coming-of-age money. Elsewhere, caste really did dictate everything from profession, to income level, to marriage, to place of residence. Embedded in a liberal, privileged university community, our companions couldn’t represent India to us. Likewise, we couldn’t represent America. We don’t like Donald Trump, we insisted.
In Darjeeling, we encountered tourists of all kinds: fashionable Nepali teenage girls who wanted a photo with us, American backpackers flocking to WiFi in an alarmingly Brooklyn-style café, Indians from around the northeast. We wanted to hear about local culture—the Tibetan influence, the tourism industry, the continued existence of colonial-era continental restaurants and resorts—but our Buddhist homestay host turned instead to theories about the connection between ISIS and Angela Merkel as we huddled around his space heater.
“The government created ISIS, and now they won’t take in any refugees,” he explained. “It’s all there online, but the media isn’t reporting it.”
He offered us black tea, wondering if, as American coffee-drinkers, it might be unfamiliar. When we demurred because of the late hour, he insisted that the idea that tea contained caffeine was a myth, and also warned us against the ubiquitous chai we consumed by the miniature, ceramic cupful. Milky, full of sugar and cardamom, this seemingly national drink of India, he claimed, was in fact a chemical byproduct posing as tea.
Towards the end of the trip, exhausted and fed up with processing the raw information of our experience, we turned back to familiar narratives of India. We hijacked university Internet, surreptitiously torrenting Wes Anderson movies with palpable shame. It wasn’t just that we missed American culture; we wanted to see American narratives of India, specifically to be told how to think about the place we were in. We watched “The Darjeeling Limited,” “Bend It Like Beckham,” and, abandoning all pretense of decency, “Slumdog Millionaire.” I felt dirty, voyeuristic. It was as grotesque to me as it had seemed the first time I saw it in theaters, profiting on poverty and violence, spinning a happy ending with a Bollywood-esque dance number. But, although I recognized some of its imagery after three weeks in India, I had no better read on how realistic its depictions were, or how reasonable or acceptable a story it made. Of course, the movie doesn’t describe what India is like—as a quintessential hero’s journey, “Slumdog Millionaire” is about what happens to Jamal. Perhaps frustratingly, but still necessarily, my stories from India are about what happened to me there, and nothing else. In both seeking and resisting narrative, my stories of the trip have probably morphed by now into a mix of inherited images, retrospectively romanticized adventures, and a jumble of sensations and strange details. Several weeks out, the photos and the souvenirs have already taken on meanings they never really had: things chosen randomly and opportunistically, and now forced to contain the entirety of the trip. When asked how my trip to India was, I’ve settled on the non-answer, “intense.”
Sections
North Korea welcomes us to the demilitarized zone as only North Korea could: by setting off a nuclear bomb.
North Korea has since attributed the seismic spike in its northeastern region to a successful hydrogen bomb test conducted around the same time on Jan. 6 that our Harvard tour bus pulled into Imjingak on the South Korean side of the border. Experts on the matter beg to differ. They say that the energy output from the test matches up only with the power of an atomic bomb. This in direct contradiction to North Korea’s claims to have moved beyond the modesty of a mere nuclear weapon to the technological terror of the thermonuclear.
Then again, the DMZ is full of contradictions.
First, there’s its name. The demilitarized zone, as it turns out, is the most heavily militarized border in the world. (It also abuts the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, which is neither democratic nor a republic.)
But there’s more to it than that. When our bus arrives in Imjingak, I expect to see little more than barbed wire and concrete. Instead, I see an amusement park.
The purples, yellows, reds, and blues of swing rides and carousels stand out against the grey sky. A “Super Viking” pirate ship towers over souvenir shops and food stalls. The rides are shuttered, but the shops are open and full of food that would look at home at any Maine fair on Labor Day weekend—plus a bubbling pot of silkworm larvae. “Old Hot Dog,” a sign for one treat advertises. “Eat the Memories.”
Up some stairs, there’s the Freedom Bridge, famous for the repatriated prisoners of war who walked the southerly path home on it. Next to it, hundreds of colorful prayer ribbons hang from a fence. They’re covered in wishes for reunification.
There’s a lot to say about geopolitics here. The war that led to this mess, the peace that ended it. How it’s hardly peace at all, and how other countries will respond to North Korea’s most recent display—not just the nuclear test, but the detention two weeks ago an American college student touring the country for “crimes against the state.” Whether unification is anything more than a pipe dream. Whether, if it’s a real possibility, it will come about through diplomacy or through violence. What consequences the change would bring to both countries’ economies.
But I don’t know much about geopolitics. Mostly, I’m thinking about borders, fences, and walls. I’m thinking about a tired Robert Frost poem my eighth-grade English teacher had us analyze in class, or, rather, analyzed for us. The moral, because there were always morals back then, was that, despite the saying, good fences do not always make good neighbors.
North Korea is not a good neighbor, but that’s probably no fault of the very good fence that is the DMZ. Getting rid of the fence, in fact, only would have negated the need for the “infiltration” tunnels that North Korea tried to dig under it as a backdoor invasion route.
The demilitarized zone itself strikes the same conflicting chords. In front of the official DMZ Pavilion—who knew?—and across from the entrance to the third infiltration tunnel—also turned tourist attraction—the three letters stand tall in textured metal. A crack runs through the M’s right leg. A fake yellow flower sprouts from the gap.
We enter the pavilion and file into a small movie theater. A film starts to play. A disembodied voice begins to narrate the ins and outs of the Korean War with the intense earnestness of a blockbuster voiceover artist. It starts historical but turns propagandistic. Of course, we’re predisposed to agree: The North wages continual aggression against the South. The North is repressive. The North is to blame.
Then, images of war give way to deer prancing and rabbits hopping through the woods—apparently, the DMZ doubles as a wildlife sanctuary full of endangered species (just hope no deer prances onto one of many active landmines still buried in its soil). Small pinwheels, their bright hues reminiscent of the prayer ribbons and theme park rides, spin under the sun. Happy families of four wander through the sites the DMZ has to offer.
The images fade, and so does the talk of the wild and wonderful DMZ. A map of Korea takes their place. It lights up, one half red and one blue. Then, suddenly, the colors give way to a sort of aqua. One day, the narration explains, North and South Korea will come back together as one. The map explodes with sparkles. “Until then,” the voice announces enthusiastically, “the DMZ will live forever!” The screen fades to black.
There it is, in one sentence. The simultaneous celebration and condemnation of the Korean break. On the one hand, both North and South Korea claim to long for unification—they agreed to as much in June of 2000, when both countries signed a declaration vowing to move toward a merger. On the other, the South at least finds beauty in the separation.
North and South Korea say they want to unify. It’s probably more than words, too. Among many in each country, there is a genuine desire to join up as one Korea, but each country wants it on its own terms: democracy for the South, dictatorship for the North. It makes sense. It’s our immediate assumption that together is better than apart. Rifts, political and personal, exist to be mended.
But North and South Korea make me wonder whether some rifts should stay rifts, and some fences should stay up. The way the DMZ has turned into a sort of Disneyland makes me wonder whether both countries, beneath all the fanfare, kind of like it.
We’ll see. North Korea will keep building bombs. The rest of the world will keep watching. And maybe, someday, the gate on the Freedom bridge will open, the prayers on the ribbons will be answered, and North and South Koreans will simply be Koreans again.
Until then, I suppose, the DMZ will live forever.
Sections
Che Guevara was a pretty handsome guy. Whether clean-shaven and suit-clad or chomping on a cigar protruding out of an unkempt beard, the man looked good.
He died on Oct. 9, 1967. Sort of.
Though Che’s body may be decaying, his dashing face is still everywhere. In the United States, his resolute mug graces t-shirts and posters in dorm rooms across America, a brutal kind of irony for the man who declared the U.S. and its economic system “the great enemy of mankind.” Guevara’s face has been flattened onto a poster and plastered to the wall of newly minted communists from Oberlin to Vassar.
In Cuba, the country that made him famous, Che idolatry aligns with the national ideology a little better. There, you tend to see his face on billboards, or painted on walls accompanied, most of the time, by a little revolutionary aphorism. “Socialism or Death.” “The fatherland is made by the merits of its children.” “Without control, we can’t construct socialism.”
It seems Che has made himself a happy home. But Cuba, as anyone whose living accommodations aren’t subterranean knows, is opening up. The U.S. and Cuba normalized diplomatic relations in July, and though tourism is still restricted, the State Department’s enforcement has gotten laughably lax.
While U.S. tourism in the islands isn’t rampant, some Americans, worried that one day it might be, are eager to get there before it’s Americanized. A sort of tragedy of the commons by which those who come seeking the “authentic” Cuba are actually the ones contributing to its “Americanization,” ruining the authenticity.
It is in this vanguard of authenticity-seeking authenticity-destroyers that my family and I made the flight from Miami to Santa Clara, a small city in the center of Cuba, where, as chance would have it, Che Guevara is buried. The first thing you notice flying into Cuba at night is all the light you don’t see. Cities in the U.S. are in a perpetual daylight, streetlights and skyscrapers blazing. Santa Clara is virtually pitch black in comparison.
Before driving to Trinidad, we stop at Che’s Mausoleum, a sprawling complex that seems to double as a community park, at least on lazy nights. An American in khaki pants and matching windbreaker is having his picture taken in front of a bronze Che posing with a rifle on a massive marble plinth. At the last moment, as the photographer counts down from three, the American grinningly raises his fist into a revolutionary salute. He brings his hand down almost immediately once the picture is taken.
Cuba is at a complicated time in its history. Fidel Castro is knocking feebly on 90’s door, and Raul Castro, the man who has taken over the presidency from his sickly brother, is, at a seasoned 84 years of age, only slightly more vital. The island is undergoing economic reforms, which have included raising the retirement age, loosening restrictions on private enterprise, and cutting back on the food rations that guarantee nutrition to all Cubans.
It’s all very complicated, and I don’t claim to understand all of the history. All I know is what I saw, though that helps considerably less than you’d think.
Days after the khakied American salutes Che, we take a tour of Havana, a city with architectural schizophrenia. Baroque, colonial, neo-classical, art deco, art nouveau, and modernist buildings, running the gamut from crumbling to newly restored, sit within blocks of one another. Many buildings mix and match elements of these schools into what the tour guide calls “eclecticism.” It’s hard to tell what you should focus on. It’s similarly hard to tell which image best represents the “new” Cuba.
Is it the museum of the Bay of Pigs invasion, praising the “defeat of Yankee imperialism?” Is it the well-dressed tourist snapping pictures of the Plaza Revolucionario with his Nikon, a green canvas hat with a red star flopping off his head? Is it the state-censored newspapers boasting about 2015’s stellar milk production? Is it the fancy restaurant that uses these same newspapers as placemats for tourists? Maybe it’s the tour guide sitting in the 1962 Ford Edsel and telling her American clientele that
“Cubans want McDonald’s, that’s for sure.” She makes most of her purchases on the black market, which she claims offers the highest quality goods.
I wonder what Che would think. The Che of the highway billboards with the text overlays of “Socialism or Death,” the Che decalled onto the headlights of a truck driving the weathered concrete roads of Trinidad would no doubt be appalled by the impurity of it all.
I wonder more, though, about the real Che. The flesh-and-blood revolutionary who lived in one of the nicest houses in Havana, a spacious compound at the top of a promontory overlooking the city and right next to a giant statue of Jesus Christ. They say he had a taste for fine cigars and used a private driver. From his house, you can just make out the plazas of Old Havana, where street vendors hawk posters of him to tourists.
Sections













Sections
My favorite map is from 1840, and it depicts a city that no longer exists.
The Japanese map is something I’ve come to live inside over the last month while teaching high school students across Japan about cartography. It depicts Tokyo at a time when it was called Edo; when the shogun, who ruled Japan, had taken over and tenanted the imperial palace in the center of the city. Back then, the streets were defined by the rhythms of sankin kotai, a system of alternating residence that brought honor-bound samurai streaming into the city for half the year. The map is densely written, dotted with bright red seals marking seasonal places of residence for the regional lords.
Like many maps from this turbulent period, my favorite map is gigantic—large enough to spread out on the floor and walk across, plotting a path across the Japanese countryside or the careful divisions of Edo in giant-sized steps. Other maps from the Tokugawa era are comprised of stitched-together segments, separately inked at the behest of the shogun by regional ezumoto, or map lords. The purpose of these maps was overtly political—they served as an unofficial census and watchful eye for the far-flung citizenry united under the shogun. If you could map a land, understand where things were and why, you could own it.
Before I arrived in Tokyo, I envisioned a map of the airport, the subway, the series of turns I’d have to make to get to the tiny Shinjuku apartment where I would spend the first night. I nervously traced and re-traced this mental map of mine until it started to rip a bit at the creases, and the corners were smudged and tattered. By the time I landed, I was sure I knew exactly where I was going. This turned out not to be the case.
A lot of the time in Tokyo, we felt like we were in a video game, operating in a world with its own special physics and ways of motion. We would consult the unintelligible spaghetti-tangle of a subway map at each station and then throw ourselves onto a train that seemed like a likely option. (Later, this would result in an accidental trip to Kobe.) The train doors would slide open with a melodic yet mechanical chime and spit us out somewhere in the mega-city, sometimes where we intended to go. I found myself arriving in the same locations over and over again without meaning to—the neon flowers of Harajuku or the increasing familiarity of Shinjuku station from that first night—with no idea of what was in the gaps, or how everything was connected. My mental map of Tokyo became a series of independent bubbles of space that could be accessed through the buzzing mess of trains. I learned and stuck to the Yamanote line, an orbital track running around the center of the city. It was represented in electric lime green on the incomprehensible maps.
KYOTO
Outside the tightly wound chaos of Tokyo, things were slower, but often still delightfully confusing as they always have been. In 1690, cartographers embarked on the creation of a map of the Tokaido, the road running along the length of the Japanese mainland from Edo to Kyoto. The map was created at a scale of one to 12, so it was over 40 meters long. Although a little unwieldy, it was also a proto-Google street view, including details as granular as road surface and the locations of certain shady trees, as well as relevant rest points, sites of interest, and estimated travel times. One could accomplish almost everything with this winding scroll that can be done with a digital map today—perhaps even more, because the Tōkaidō bunken ezu included depictions of imaginary travelers, pilgrims, and wandering samurai and the like, creating a kind of choose-your-own adventure narrative.
In Kyoto, it is theoretically possible to visit four UNESCO world heritage sites before lunch. I know this because I did it, my stomach grumbling discontentedly as I leaned out from the edge of Kiyomizu-dera temple, a bright orange pagoda and temple complex buttressed into the side of a mountain (“Kiyomizu-dera is bae,” my travel companion told me reverently). My phone was dead and my guidebook abandoned, so I had neither paper nor virtual map to guide me. But the abundance of temples and shrines in the old capital has given rise to a network of markers and street signs that helpfully point the traveler in the right direction, providing estimated walk times and distances just as the Tokaido map does. I found myself inside a city that was a giant map of itself, a real place overlaid with routes and markers and physical points saying, “You are here.”
HOKKAIDO
Further north, I found different kinds of cartography to be useful in their own way. Early maps of Japan would often include a dragon coiled around the islands, or take the form of a languidly restless catfish with prefectures for scales. The imagery comes from an old myth attributing Japan’s many earthquakes to a giant sleeping catfish below the region that occasionally shuffles about in its sleep, inadvertently destroying large swaths of the country. Even today, earthquake warning signs in Tokyo are festooned with the image of a cartoony, smiley catfish made only slightly ominous by the words of seismic warning around it.
In manta ray-shaped Hokkaido, I added a few slides about catfish maps to my cartography presentation after a 6.7 earthquake struck off the coast of the northern island. It shook snow from the trees and rattled the floors in the mountain boarding school where we were teaching. Everyone was fine, but I learned that the Japanese phrase for the shaking-induced distress we saw one student go into is “earthquake drunk.”
CAMBRIDGE
Old maps of Tokyo almost always included Mt. Fuji, a comfortingly familiar outline that situates the viewer. In those maps, Mt. Fuji is like the moon, a distant but fixed reminder of where we are that follows us without moving. In reality, Mt. Fuji is much too far to see from the urban sprawl of Tokyo, but eventually I found my own landmarks, sites that would hover on the edge of vision and provide at least a general sense that I hadn’t completely lost myself in the city: the electric blue of Tokyo Skytree, a futuristic spire which seemed to exist just for the sake of existing, a particularly weird character on a billboard, the egg-shaped skyscraper in Shinjuku.
Oftentimes in Japan, I had no idea where I was going. The moments when I did felt like a perfect alignment of puzzle pieces that made the in-betweens worth it. I imagined myself like those ancient cartographers, trying to make sense of the jumble of crepes and onigiri, shrines and skyscrapers, neon and origami. I made my own maps, rewriting them over the ones I had hastily constructed on the flight over. I began to understand how mapping a place, even sketchily, can feel like owning a piece of it.
Like writing, maps are an attempt to turn the impossible complexities of a living, breathing city into something we can hold in our hands. Maps have their own language and their own grammar, a lexicon comprised of inked lines and compass points that hasn’t changed much across centuries and hemispheres.
Maps chart time as well as space. I have a map of Japan on my wall from 2015. It’s fairly unromantic—lacking shogunate seals or slumbering catfish, it opts instead for utilitarian black text and soberly accurate coastlines. There are no fanciful depictions of travelers or helpful approximations of travel times.
The map has been on my wall for more than a year now, long enough that I’d stopped really noticing it most of the time. Until a few days ago, that is, when it suddenly contained everything—the entry I scribbled in my travel journal on the way to Osaka castle, a sweet potato cake I munched on one morning as I tried to navigate to Kyoto, and even the accidental trip to Kobe. It was all right there, on the map.
Sections
Bill R. Bensley is a world-famous architect and landscape designer who graduated from the Harvard Graduate School of Design. He has made it his life’s work to design unique luxury hotels that incorporate elements of the local environment—from elephants to historical artifacts—to create an unconventional experience for guests. He’s also my neighbor in Thailand. 
Fifteen Minutes: What was your biggest takeaway from your education at Harvard?
Bill R. Bensley: The people I met were the biggest takeaway. I had a very small class… and it had only six Americans. There was somebody from every continent around the world, and I met people from Thailand. That’s why I am here.
FM: Like whom?
BB: Like Lek Bunnag, who’s a very famous architect now here in Thailand.
FM: After you finished at Harvard, did you come directly to Thailand?
BB: I came directly to Singapore because that’s where Lek went to do his professorship at the NUS, the National University of Singapore.... Lek kindly invited me to stay there for a couple of days, and the same day I got to Singapore I found a job working for Belt Collins, an American landscape architecture company. The first big job I had there was at the Bali Hyatt, so they sent me off to work in Bali, which of course I loved. In the early ’80s, it was absolute paradise. And [I  have been] doing design for resorts ever since day one, in the fall of 1984.
FM: Which project are you most proud of?
BB: That’s really difficult, because I’ve done about 165 resorts in something like 28 countries.  One of my most enthusiastic, most aggressive, most comprehensive projects is the Intercontinental in Da Nang, Vietnam. It’s 165 rooms, but there are so many different room types. That’s really a beautiful project. I love it.
I guess my all-time favorite, if I had to choose one, would be the Four Seasons tented camp in Chiang Rai, which was a series of 15 tents. It was Condé Nast’s number one hotel in the world for three years in a row. No hotel has done it since or ever did it before.... I’m really more into designing experiences... than hotels.
FM: On a day-to-day basis, from where do you draw your inspiration?
BB: The most important inspiration we have comes from Mother Nature, from the site that we’re working on. So I take it very seriously, and when I go to the sites that we work on—sometimes we’re given very sensitive sites—I really listen to what [Mother Nature] has to say to me. And one of my credos is to never, ever cut down a tree, never change the profile of the land, because it’s been that way for a long time and you use very small footprints in order to work yourself around those trees. It makes all the difference in the final product....
Number two for inspiration is really understanding the place that you’re in—understanding that if you’re in Vietnam, do something Vietnamese, don’t do something Spanish. Do the obvious, and the more that you can really understand the nuances of the neighborhood and the village that you’re working in, as opposed to the state or the country... the more you can bring it to people as an experience and the more people learn [from] that experience. People love to learn.
FM: Are you currently working on a big project?
BB: Well, I’m working on about 25 big projects. We’re working on a really neat one in a place called Keliki, which is outside of Ubud in Bali. It’s 22 tents and it’s based on the idea—and this is really weird—of a Dutch camp... in the 1800s. What would that have looked like in Bali 200 years ago? That’s what it’s all about. The uniforms are 18th century. The tents are 18th century. We’re using real antiques.... I want to teach people the history of Bali, because very few people know that it was a Dutch colony.
FM: If you could give any advice to students pursuing a career in design, what would it be?
BB: After school you should just travel, travel, travel. I’m so glad I did.... I travel a lot for my work, but it wasn’t until I was 50 that I took a three-month vacation. So yeah, travel as much as you possibly can afford after you graduate.
Sections
The Slow Bone
Texas Style Barbecue (“Eat. Prey. Bone.”)
Dallas, TX
The beginning of the meal was not auspicious. After placing our order with the waitress behind the counter (whose gruffness belied oft-repeated claims of Southern hospitality), we were faced with an oversized Colt 45 malt liquor ad in which actor Billy Dee Williams leers and clutches a can to his chest above the slogan, “Works Every Time.” After I sank my teeth into Slow Bone’s Barbequed Brisket, however, my qualms were forgotten. It was, without a doubt, the best brisket I’ve ever eaten—thick slabs of meat, blackened around the edges, yet nonetheless so tender it melted immediately in my mouth. Those who’ve only eaten thin-sliced, deli-style simulacrums of brisket know nothing of the matter. Unfortunately, the accompanying hushpuppies were altogether disappointing: thick spheres of cornmeal fried until they’d lost all flavor and gained, instead, the consistency of cement.
Café Pasqual’s
Fusion of New Mexico, Old Mexico, the Mediterranean, and Asia (“Emphatically Flavored Cuisine”)
Santa Fe, NM
I should have been tipped off by the strings of dried, hot peppers hanging from the wooden rafters. Though festive white Christmas lights partially obscured the deep red bundles, the message was clear—the food at Café Pasqual’s was going to be incendiary. After a throat-burning sampling of my parents’ appetizers, I swiftly set aside two tall glasses of water to get me through my entrée. I was pleasantly surprised, however, by my order of Cochinita Pibil Yucatan Style, slow-cooked pork wrapped in a banana leaf and accompanied by three soft corn tortillas, habanero-marinated onions, corn, zucchini, and fried plantains. The pork was tender, with a subtle wealth of flavor expertly highlighted by the sweet and ever-so-slightly spicy onions.
For the perfect bite, wrap pork, onions, corn, zucchini, and one fried plantain in a corn tortilla—but avoid the fiery chunks of habanero lurking amongst the similarly colored onion slices.
Café du Monde
French Market Coffee Stand (Since 1862)
New Orleans, LA
The waitress at Café Du Monde knew exactly what we’d come for. Midway through my father’s order, she had already bustled off. Moments later, she reappeared, deftly weaving her way through the crowded patio with three Beignets and three Café au Laits held aloft. My beignet, an iPhone-sized slab of fried dough laded with mounds of powdered sugar, was delicious (how could such a combination not be?). But there was neither subtlety nor lasting appeal to the treat—three bites were all I could stomach. In contrast, the café au lait proved an unmitigated delight, creamy and rich with its undertones of chicory.
If beignets are New Orleans’s star performer, the diva-dish of flashy but unsustainable talent, then chicory-enhanced café au lait is the city’s underrated understudy, just waiting in the wings for a richly deserved big break.


Roka Akor
Contemporary Robata Japanese Cuisine
San Francisco, CA
It was the kind of food that made my mother forget the preprandial loss of her wallet (replete with three credit cards, her driver’s license, and her social security card). Sitting at an elegant wooden table with modish gray placemats—the damp San Francisco night pressing against the floor-to-ceiling windows that lined one wall of the restaurant—we dined on Roka Akor’s “stand-out dishes,” according to our lithe, attentive, and soft-spoken waiter. Most memorably, we sampled Crispy Brussels Sprouts. The vegetables were frizzled to a crunchy texture that brought out the earthy, rich flavor of the vegetable, sharpened by a sprinkling of Japanese mustard. Pale bonito tuna flakes perched atop the dish seemed to breathe in and out, fluttering in the currents of steam that rose from the hot sprouts.
The only thing better than the meal? My mother found her wallet the next morning.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Having chosen death over exile after being charged with impiety and corrupting the youth of Greece, Socrates declared at his trial that the unexamined life was not worth living. Thus spawned millennia of thinkers dedicated to understanding the ways in which we do and ought to interact with each other and our world.
Aristotle told us how to live a good life. Kant taught us what it meant to be a citizen of the world. Whitman and Joyce showed us eternal aspects of the human condition. In disciplines from philosophy to literature, freshmen are engaging with these greats, thinking carefully about what a good life entails. Meanwhile, freshmen in economics are desperately trying to memorize the derivative of log x before their unit test.
When Socrates uttered his now-famous declaration, philosophy literally meant “a love of all knowledge,” and the careful examination of one’s life was the key to wisdom. As time passed, philosophy became partitioned into the natural, moral, and metaphysical realms, and somewhere along the way, the question of how we ought to live became scattered across hundreds of disciplines and sub-disciplines.
The humanities’ connection to the examined life remained clear; Aristotle’s teachings on how we should engage with the world have stayed accessible and relevant. But in many of the fields grounded in mathematics, meaning has given way to algebra.
Every student in introductory statistics knows how to substitute probabilities into Bayes’ rule, and yet many commit the base rate fallacy with gusto. Most students of economics know that the solution to the problem of optimizing consumption over time involves equating weighted marginal utilities; the same students balk at the suggestion that they should try to spend more, not less, during their broke college years. The same investment bankers who compute present values 80 hours a week for a living drop their jaws at a one-time signing bonus worth a tenth of their annual salary. There is a fundamental disconnect between the theory we learn and the way we live our lives; with apologies to Oscar Wilde and Philip Fisher, it’s all too easy to know the mathematics of everything and the meaning of nothing.
This state of affairs is not, by any means, a necessary byproduct of mathematical formalization. Arrow, Sen, and Black put the theory of how to collectively achieve social welfare on axiomatic grounds, while Bayes, Pearson, and Jeffreys laid the basis of how science, and the endeavor of knowledge-gathering as a whole, could be understood according to Bayes’ eponymous formula. But somewhere in the midst of problem set deadlines and lectures slides filled with Greek letters, the connection of these ideas to our daily lives has slowly been severed.
Such a divergence is unnatural to say the least: equating derivatives of utility functions has everything to do with how we might maximize our lifetime happiness, and the expected value of dice games can tell us much about the ways we should choose our romantic partners. The basic idea of present value can tell us both why extravagant signing bonuses shouldn’t matter (too much), and why arguments lamenting the flow of top Harvard graduates to lucrative but ostensibly soul-draining fields have less bite than their proponents might think.
Some readers may have noted that the concepts hinted at above are precisely those that underpin the theory of finance, which exists at the intersection of economics and statistics. Though perhaps more well-known for giving rise to a vampire squid-like industry with its tentacles wrapped around the face of humanity, these notions can also help us understand how we might better live our lives. And as we do, I hope that any cephalopod-based conceptions of the financial industry will begin to give way to one of a sprawling, complicated, necessary, and admittedly imperfect human endeavor, built upon some of the most beautiful and elegant of ideas.
The links between financial theory and how we ought to approach the world around us are plentiful and applicable, so long as we take the time to look. The only challenge that remains is to examine our lives not only from the perspective of the humanities but also the more dismal sciences, as we search for the meaning in the mathematics.

Marshall Zhang ’16, is a statistics and mathematics joint-concentrator with a secondary field in philosophy. He lives in Mather House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Now that February has arrived, Harvard College freshmen face a daunting task: They must find a blocking group of one to eight persons with whom they will live for the remainder of their college career. Admittedly, this prospect can prove overwhelming. The blocking process can stress and even fracture friendships, and can lead to considerable drama. 
The Freshman Dean’s Office, though, has begun to advertise in Annenberg a potential remedy to the oft-hectic housing process: an hour-long seminar entitled “Making a House into a Home: Drama-Free Blocking” that will spoon-feed freshmen the techniques they need “to avoid blocking drama and achieve the best possible blocking situation” and provide them with a “panel of upperclassmen [who] will answer questions and talk about their own experiences."
On the surface, this effort seems relatively benign and perhaps even beneficial to a select group. In theory, students who feel no anxiety over the blocking process will not need to attend it, and those who need extra guidance will be able to derive a sense of direction and comfort from the seminar. This calculus, however, has a serious flaw: It disregards the possibility that freshmen may benefit from the discomfort of having to develop the basic life and negotiation skills needed to confront the rigors of the blocking process without any external administrative aid.
This possibility is not at all radical; it is, in fact, perfectly in line with Harvard College’s mission for each student to undertake “an unparalleled educational journey that is intellectually, socially, and personally transformative.” This mission surely presupposes some autonomy for students, and this autonomy should in turn enable students to freely explore the boundaries of their comfort zones, regardless of whether this exploration involves a salutary dose of uncertainty or hardship.
The event scheduled by the Freshman Dean’s Office undermines this autonomy and encourages freshmen to chafe at and retreat from the slightest point of abrasion in their time at Harvard. It conditions them to think that they are categorically entitled to avoid any difficulty or strife, and that any difficulty or strife they do experience is an indelible inkblot on what should be a pristine Harvard experience. It encourages them to flock for a session of glorified coddling upon any perceived threat.
This seminar is not without a predecessor: It and its concomitant advertisements in Annenberg are disconcertingly similar to, in the words of a writer more articulate than I, the placemat problem that precipitated a quick condemnation from students and an eventual apology from administrators. Much as the holiday social justice placemats attempted to arm students with strategies to avoid gauche conversations with family, the blocking seminar aims to eliminate any stress the process of finding roommates can cause. Both demonstrate a lack of respect on the behalf of administrators for students’ intelligence and ability to navigate their own lives. It is disheartening that they have not identified the common denominator between the two and hence continue to fail to acknowledge and respect the autonomy of Harvard students.
Of course, the blocking seminar is not quite as insidious as the placemat problem, because  it does not expressly propagate political positions to students, participation is optional, and issues like blocking are clearly within the jurisdiction of the Freshman Dean’s Office. Nevertheless, both stem from an administrative initiative to intrude in students’ autonomy, an autonomy that is indispensable to the fulfillment of Harvard’s liberal mission.
Furthermore, it is doubtful that many students will truly take interest in the seminar or that any students in the past really parroted the positions advocated by the placemats. Harvard undergraduates presumably have the backbones and keen eyes needed to notice administrative ploys that erode at their freedom. Most probably entirely disregard such initiatives.
These qualifications, however, are beside the point. What is most problematic and incensing is the disrespect administrators exhibit for Harvard undergraduates’ ability to reason and navigate their lives on their own, and their intrusion into the freedom that is a prerequisite to any formative college experience. In fact, the entire problem can be boiled down to a cliché: Harvard undergraduates are adults, and they should be treated that way.

Juan V. Esteller ’19 is a Crimson editorial writer living in Straus Hall.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections

TAKE 1
Hey, ____________ (friend I’m scheming to block with/random girl in my SPU section/boy whose bed I once woke up in). I ____________ (have actually really missed you/haven’t thought of you once/hope no one ever finds out about that night). So how was your winter break?
Oh, it was ____________ (incredible/productive/life-changing)? That’s cool. You ____________ (traveled to Rome, Paris, London, and Dubai/got summer offers from Goldman, Facebook, Microsoft, and the White House/built homes for kids in Burma, Yemen, Cuba, and Sudan)? Also cool. Mine was ____________ (good/fine/honestly pretty shitty). I ____________ (slept/spent too much time with my family/watched all 11 seasons of “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” twice). And I guess I also ____________ (ate/beat “Call of Duty: Black Ops Zombies” level 60/checked every last Snapchat story).
Well, ____________ (nice to catch up/depressing to catch up/didn’t need to catch up—you posted it all on Facebook). Bye.
THAT FAILED, SO... TAKE 2
Hey, ____________ (friend I’m scheming to block with/random girl in my SPU section/boy whose bed I once woke up in). I am ____________ (sick of feeling bad about my break/eager to use this as an opportunity to test my creativity/willing to flat-out lie). So how was your winter break?
Oh, it was ____________ (incredible/productive/life-changing)? Really? You ____________ (traveled to Rome, Paris, London, and Dubai/got summer offers from Goldman, Facebook, Microsoft, and the White House/built homes for kids in Burma, Yemen, Cuba, and Sudan)? That’s all? Mine was ____________ (good/fine/actually pretty extraordinary). I ____________ (improved my memory, bolstered my immunity, and curbed inflammation/really connected with my dad/researched the state of modern feminism in pop culture). And I guess I also ____________ (refined my palate/served on a U.S. reconnaissance mission/studied cultural anthropology in film).
Well, ____________ (nice to catch up/satisfying to catch up/take that, bitch). Bye!
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In conversations on topics that run the gamut from final clubs to house renovations, we and many Harvard students seem always to be asking for the same thing: more safe, inclusive, and ubiquitous social spaces on campus. It is often in our down time that we make the most meaningful and long-lasting connections with our peers, but—as we’ve noted before—it is difficult to have these experiences when exclusive clubs dominate the social terrain we navigate.
In light of these issues, we appreciate the recent attempts to reinvent the on-campus social scene by returning upperclass Houses to their roles as hubs of social life. Most recently, this movement has manifested itself in Cabot’s new “fast track” program, which allows juniors and seniors in the House to register parties easily and quickly through an online Google form so long as they’ve completed a mandatory training program. With versions of “fast track” already fixtures in both Kirkland and Mather Houses, this party registration method is something we are excited to see spreading.
If only from a logistical standpoint, fast track is a much-needed reinvention of Harvard’s party planning protocol. Prior to its institution in Cabot, students wishing to host a gathering of more than 15 people were required to submit physical signatures from all residents of the host suite to the House office and meet with a staff member before 3 p.m. the Thursday before the party. This process certainly burdened socializing in dorms, and we are glad to see a new method that will encourage rather than hamper attempts to host social events in student rooms.
More generally, this initiative seems the most intuitive, cheap, and efficient way to address the larger issue of exclusion that comes up often in discussions of Harvard’s social scene. Turning dorms into sites for easy-to-execute, low-stakes socializing at least begins to dismantle the social monopoly that final clubs and other exclusive institutions hold. As long as students are safe and know how to navigate the sexual interactions and drinking that come with partying, they should by all means be encouraged to host social gatherings in their rooms.
In this vein, we are especially happy to see that the privilege of using fast track is reserved for students who have completed training led by Drug and Alcohol Peer Advisors and the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response designed to equip students to host parties responsibly. Though all freshmen are educated by these two groups in their orientation week, it is usually upperclassmen—and thus students who haven’t heard from DAPA and OSAPR in a while—who are throwing parties on campus. For this reason, we urge the houses to consider making this training session a requirement for all of their residents.
The success of the fast track model in Kirkland and Mather, its expansion to Cabot, and the continued need for more and more inclusive social spaces suggest that the time has come for the wider adoption of online party registration. We hope to see this system, with its required sexual assault prevention and alcohol education course, instituted for all students in all houses soon.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In the era of vacation photoshoots, iPhone cameras, and “doing it for the Insta,” 21st century vacations often include more time spent camera-in-hand than not. History of Art and Architecture Chair Robin E. Kelsey, who specializes in the history of photography, sits down with FM to chat about our tourist tendencies.
Fifteen Minutes: Tell us a little bit about your theories on tourism and tourist photography. What are the basics?
Robin E. Kelsey: Tourism and photography have been entwined for about as long as photography has been with us. Photography is, among other things, an inquisitive technology, a technology that allows us to collect traces of our experiences. It was quite common early in the history of photography for people to purchase photographs from tourist sites, even when photographic processes were too difficult for most people to master. Then, in the 1880s, when more user-friendly and mobile technologies were developed, such as the early Kodak cameras, it became more common for tourists to take photographs.
One of the interesting things now is that because most photographs are shared online, there’s a way in which the connection to the person who made them is more attenuated. For example, once upon a time, when you went on some kind of vacation or tourist excursion, you would take photographs and have them developed and put in an album   that would be on your coffee table. Everyone looking at that album would understand that the pictures represent the things that you had seen in person. So if there were pictures of the Great Pyramids of Egypt, the person looking at the album knew that you were there. When you put your pictures on the Internet, they’re not as connected to you in the same way.... One reason I think we have “selfies”... is that a selfie is a way to tag a photograph as belonging to you in a way that didn’t used to be necessary.... In many ways, it’s just a stamp.
FM: What first made you think about the bigger implications of tourist photography?
RK: I wasn’t the first to write about it. Susan Sontag wrote very eloquently about it in the 1970s. But certainly my experience as a Harvard professor on this campus is one that brings me close every day to tourism photography.... I’ve been asked on a number of occasions, “Where’s the entrance to Harvard? Where’s the gate?” People seem to want that gate that says “Harvard” in huge letters and it’s not really on our campus, so it’s interesting to see tourists try to figure out: “How do I get a photo that signifies Harvard to people who’ve never been here?” And that’s not easy.
One experience that made me think a lot about tourist photography was a safari in Tanzania and Kenya. I knew there was a close relationship with the gun and camera historically, but it was interesting to have that really brought home in that experience.
FM: How many photos do you take on an average vacation?
RK: It depends a lot. I do make a point on certain occasions to not take any photographs. I really do enjoy the modes of attention that I have when I’m not taking photographs.
When I am taking photographs, I generally am taking photographs to make certain kinds of photographs rather than to memorialize the trip. Often, if I’m in a group such as my family, I’m not the one who takes the shot of everyone standing and smiling in front of such-and-such monument. Often that photo gets made, but it’s usually not by me. Part of it is I’m just thinking about other things. I have two daughters, and they make endless fun of the things that I photograph. For example, we traveled a lot last year while I was on sabbatical, and at one point we were literally a stone’s throw from a sea otter who was swimming along—we were on the coast of California—and I photographed a dead seagull instead.
FM: What’s your favorite place you’ve ever traveled?
RK: Most of my favorite experiences have been traveling in the backcountry, either canoeing or backpacking. I grew up doing both. I’m a huge nature freak. Mostly canoeing in Canada and Minnesota (which is my home state) and then backpacking mainly in the Rockies in the West, but elsewhere, in Alaska.
FM: What do you recommend to our readers going on vacation?
RK: Remember to look at things without your camera. I suppose it’s obvious, but I really do think that you get a lot out of observing things and valuing that moment in which you’re observing them, and not simply being on a vacation for the future moment of having people see that you were on vacation. I think it’s good to try to return your life to your own experience.
Sections
My jeans are too short. Last fall, posing in the fitting room of a well-heated Ann Taylor outlet in coastal Massachusetts, I thought their ankle-skimming length was edgy and brave. Three months later and 500 miles north, standing in the dark and stomping my short boots against frozen Canadian pavement, I’ve learned better. The wind scolds the narrow strip of flesh between boot and denim. My 10-year-old cousin, face mostly obscured behind woolen tuque and scarf, eyes my edgy ankles with reproach.
It’s Boxing Day, a post-Christmas holiday celebrated throughout the U.K. and former British colonies, and seven members of my extended family are huffing and puffing in the night air of an Ottawa suburb. We’re a fair-sized group, and our annual evening walk to Parliament Hill is taking a while to coordinate.
Aunt Stella pokes her head out the front door of her house. “Does anyone need another pair of mittens?” She is standing, slightly bent, over a crate of assorted winter gear. Mum has the same crate back home, though hers is a little larger—double the kids at home equals double the snowpants.
I shake my head. “No, no, we’re all set!” Mum sings. She’s wearing two sweaters, a parka, and the mittens I knitted her for Christmas. Aunt Stella scoots her two tiny dogs back into the house and locks up. The snow is already too deep for their stubby legs.
“It’s so much warmer than last year,” Uncle Jean comments. “Remember last Boxing Day? It must’ve dropped below minus 25 with the windchill.”
Dad pulls his scarf from his face. “That was a frosty one. Perfect weather for winter camping, though, with proper gear.” Mum drops her eyes and smirks a little. Winter camping is Dad’s favorite subject, and descriptions of Eagle’s Nest Outfitters DoubleNest Hammocks and Algonquin National Park last us the entire drive to downtown Ottawa.
Ottawa is a city defined by politics and historical statues, and by those criteria, Parliament Hill is its crown jewel. The sprawling lawn is dotted with stern-faced statues and towering High Gothic parliament buildings that house most of Canada’s federal government. The Peace Tower, a 92-meter structure encrusted with gargoyles, is visible from most of Ottawa and parts of Quebec.
Aunt Stella finds great parking, and the walk to the Peace Tower is only a short one, but as soon as I slide from the car, I’m already freezing. My dainty cotton gloves match my too-short jeans in cold-weather inadequacy; I keep my hands buried in my coat pockets. The temperature is about -10 degrees Celsius.
“It’s just so mild for December!” Mum says. My brother Andrew pushes his hood back, though he leaves his tuque on underneath.
We walk uphill for several minutes. When the land finally levels out, I scurry to the edge of the Centennial Flame. A low fountain on the edge of Parliament Hill, the Flame is fueled by natural gas and has been burning near-continuously since 1967. Up close, it looks like a regular fountain: Gas ripples down its slanted sides like water, pennies pebbling its course.
Also like a regular fountain, I remember as I arrive and hold out eager hands, the Flame gives off no actual heat. That fact, however, deters no one. Even the red-cheeked kids,  dangling limbs to blue flame, seem more curious than disappointed.
Cousin Lucy catches up first, panting slightly, and slips through the crowd to toss a nickel in the fire. The rest of my family arrives shortly, and I follow them up the frozen path.
The Peace Tower sits at the center of Parliament Hill, fronted by a wide avenue down the middle of the snowy lawn. The lawn is dotted on both sides with spectators: tour groups holding cameras, families holding children, couples holding hands. A few are snacking on cinnamon sugar beavertails bought across the street. Reflected light flickers across upturned features, which are directed uniformly toward the Peace Tower.
Monstrous polar bears and 20-meter snowflakes are dancing across the sandstone face of Parliament. Luminous fireworks burst near the clock. This year’s light show is tinted faintly blue, like I’m watching through a film of lake ice. Judging by his expression, even my brother—stoic and gruff though he’s grown—is mesmerized. Curious, I wrench my gaze from the lights and look at the crowd around me. They’re mesmerized, too.
They’re also remarkably relaxed. Though my family is standing, many others have brought folding chairs or Hudson’s Bay blankets and sprawled across the lawn. I spot more than one backpack full of snacks. A little boy with snow in his hair is eating a clementine.
The temperature is many degrees below freezing.
Having lived in the country for the better part of two decades, I can confirm that Canadians do feel the cold. Given time and poor weather, Canadian eyelashes ice over. Canadian skin dries out and stings. Canadian digits go brutally numb.
Canadian mouths, however, admit nothing. The cold is a feature of national identity, and cold immunity is a point of national pride. A boy I knew in high school wore shorts every day for a year.
“Laura!” Dad calls me. “We’re taking pictures now.”
A tall mass of navy parkas and faux-fur hoods, my family poses for a dimly lit photo on Parliament Hill. A kind tourist holds the camera; she shivers as she removes one glove to press the shutter.
“It’s supposed to get cold tomorrow,” my cousin says.
Sections
If you have ever arranged to meet me for an appointment, you know that I am never on time. I once saw a meme on Tumblr that showed someone texting a friend that they would be late because of who they are as a person; I put the “me” in that meme. At the time of writing, this piece is late, as is the author for her dinner plans.

Harvard students run on a mutually understood, origin-elusive belief that to be on time is to arrive seven minutes past the hour, a cushiony time period that seemed so luxurious my freshman year. In high school, however, the rules are stricter, and I have a theory that my Compulsively Tardy Syndrome (CTD) might be a directly adverse reaction to my high school commute.
In New York City, choosing a high school is often more stressful than applying to college. An initiative to clean up the public schools split many of the formerly massive but “failing” high schools into micro-schools that often span just a floor or a hallway. This results in so many options for matriculating 13-year-olds that their compilation is roughly the size of a phone book.
For instance, though I grew up in southwest Queens, I ended up at a high school in the Bronx, about seventeen miles from my home. My other option was a school located next door to the building where my mother worked. One would require me to take a bus service that cost $2,000; for the other, I would be able to simply carpool in with my mother each morning.
Of course, I insisted on the former. Having a long commute sounded so grown up, the kind of daily annoyance that a stylish and successful, yet fun and quirky character complained about on a sitcom. Never mind that, should I choose to come and go from school in the hours outside the bus schedule, the travel would involve my parents driving for an hour or me taking three trains and a bus, followed a 10-minute walk to my house. I was 13, and I was going to make everything difficult, goddamnit!
The bus ride, from what I can remember after suppressing memories over the last four, blissful, commute-free years, was hell. During my freshman year of high school, two competing bus companies serviced the students who travelled from Queens to the Bronx. Looking back, I think someone told me that one bus company was for cool kids, and the other one was for losers; today nothing about that advice makes any sense whatsoever.
I did learn that the bus company I chose was notoriously bad at arranging its routes. On the first day of ninth grade, a rumbling yellow bus full of forlorn teenagers pulled up to my stop at 6:55 a.m., and trundled around my neighborhood for 40 minutes before actually making it to the bridge to the Bronx. Often, we were late to first period due to a stalled truck, extra congestion, or a new bus driver who didn’t know the route. Our parents complained, and the stop times were moved forward, giving me a new 5:30 a.m. wake up time to catch the 6:20 a.m. bus.
Then, one February day, the bus didn’t show up. In order to spare me from the cold, my father had taken to driving me to the stop, even though it was three blocks away. When it became apparent that the bus was never going to arrive, my father quickly enlisted the help of my mother, and we carpooled the rest of the students at my bus stop to school.
Within a few hours, the rumors spread around school. As the story goes (one that can now be found on the New York Attorney General’s website), the owners of the bus company claimed that “arsonists” had burned their buses, making their fleet unfit to service the students. However, the owners mysteriously vanished; customers who had paid the nearly $2,000 it cost to send their children to school on the bus service for a year were left unanswered as to how they could retrieve the lost funds. The rival bus company, in an equally mysterious though gallant effort, rustled up an extra 20 buses to take care of the stranded students for the low, low price of $900 for the rest of the school year.
Parents, administrators, and soon politicians alike were enraged with the clear act of fraud that had been committed against the families of students who were only trying to get to school. My parents reluctantly doled out the extra cash to the new bus company. Though I knew the cost was a burden, I was secretly delighted: through the machinations of what I assumed to be a brilliant cartographer, the routes were redesigned and my new stop time was a miraculous 7:10 a.m.
The extra hour to sleep, combined with a burgeoning caffeine addiction, brightened my days enormously. By the time high school ended, I was able to nap, finish my homework, study for a test, and eat breakfast within the space of my morning hour on the bus. Commuting, I came to believe, wasn’t as bad as it first seemed—especially once your badly run bus company commits arson and cedes its customers to its rivals, albeit rivals with better administrators.
After reflecting on my CTD in writing this piece, I’ll try my absolute best to be on time, but more than likely I’ll slink in eight minutes, not seven, past the hour, with a hastily acquired coffee in hand, to a class five minutes from my dorm room. I’ll mentally berate myself for not having been more efficient that morning, but then I’ll remember all those years of a dreaded alarm clock screaming at me to wake up to board a cold bus for eight consecutive hours of class. I’ll think about the last time I’ve been on a bus—hard to recall—and calculate the hour or two until I can take one of those glorious, midday college naps.
And then, I’ll feel just fine.
Sections
Paris’s biggest slum is about three miles from the Eiffel Tower. This past summer, I conducted research on this slum and its Roma inhabitants. Last month, I went back to Paris to present my findings at a conference on Roma integration, and to finish up some research.
Though many question their background, my Roma friends make it clear that they are, indeed, European. Romania is in Europe; they’re Romanian, QED. They’re here, in Paris, to make money. They’re here to stay.
The work I was doing is easy to put into do-gooder buzzwords: access, public health, marginalization, human rights, etc., etc. It’s the sort of work that Harvard likes to fund.
I was studying access to rights and services in the slums, through survey analyses and field work. My work became increasingly complex and complexly depressing as the summer went on. At times, it induced vertigo. I could take the metro from the Mona Lisa to reclaimed metal shacks in 20 minutes.
In the mornings, I’d walk out of my apartment and pass a glorified coffeeshop, called the “Coworkshop,” where scarf-wearing Parisians typed away at their MacBooks. The front of the coffee shop’s 19th century Parisian storefront  was covered with a makeshift plywood board.
A sign on the door read “Welcome, nomads,” and there always seemed to be a man wearing horn-rimmed glasses drinking a latte and smoking a cigarette in the doorway.
After the coffee shop, I’d walk past the canal. It had been drained for cleaning, and shopping carts, wheelchairs, and metal carcasses sat in its heavy silt. I passed small Chinese restaurants that kept closing, past three new spots that served only brunch, and past a man I knew from the slum I studied. Evicted over the summer, he and his wife now sat on opposite sides of the street, waiting at ATMs for people to give them money. There was no “Welcome, nomads” sign for him.
I kept walking, and arrived at Place de la République. When I walked through the square on my first night, there was a makeshift refugee camp occupying the entire eastern side. On the one-year anniversary of the Charlie Hebdo attacks, the President spoke in that very spot.
The real “nomads” don’t own real estate in hipster neighborhoods, and don’t have track lighting. On my third or fourth day, I headed to a suburb called Grigny with a team from the NGO I worked at last summer. There were four of us. A 21-year-old Senegalese French woman from the northern suburbs, two 20-year-old Romanian men who live in slums to the east of the city, and me.
The puddles on the sides of the train tracks were frozen, and we were bundled but shivering as we got off the train. Everyone lit a cigarette, and we jostled with the others into the suburbs, only 45 minutes from the city. There wasn’t a white person in sight—no baguettes, no berets, no museums.
Grigny is the kind of place French politicians cite when they denounce home-grown terrorism—the Coulibaly brothers grew up and lived here. There were Turkish supermarkets, a new mosque, and a near-endless march of public housing towards the horizon, like upturned shipping containers with tiny portholes.
There weren’t any police there, though, and one of my coworkers bought a discounted phone card from a reseller as soon as we stepped off the train. The reseller also sold cards to call Pakistan and Burkina Faso, and tried to convince me to buy one by calling me “Karachi.” We walked into a sandwich shop to buy a “Greek,” a gyro, from a Turkish man. There, it was “salaam” instead of “bonjour,” and I didn’t mind.
We crossed over a highway, went through a muddy construction site, and dodged a truck whose driver gave us the middle finger. A man we passed cursed at my Romanian coworkers—they were blasting Florin Salam, a Romanian music hero, on their phones. And then we arrived at the slum I had visited some six months before. It was wedged in the middle of an old industrial site, a creek, and a 6-lane highway.
The houses were made out of scrap wood, metal, recycled doors, tarps, cloth, whatever could be found. One family’s home was wrapped entirely in an old billboard; it read, “I love my home,” with the picture of a French woman sniffing flowers seated on a plush couch. This home’s floor was gravel, and a big bed was the only thing inside. The father of the house arrived when we did and was carrying a bag of charcoal he found behind the supermarket. “I have heat,” he said, pointing to the charcoal. “Come inside.”
Nothing had changed since I was last there. It was colder than in August, no surprise. We checked if his wife had insurance, she didn’t, no surprise again—the local municipality refused. The teenagers were hanging outside, and showed us some videos on their phones. They’d just come back from Romania, and had all the new hits, which we could barely hear over the whooshing of the rush-hour traffic heading out of the city. Nothing had changed, nobody needed anything, since the NGO team had visited the week before, and so we left after only a half an hour.
It’s likely I’ll never go back; slums are usually evicted and destroyed twice a year. It’s likely that some of these people will become nomads, not by choice, but by necessity. I’m sure the nomad coworkshop will still be there when I get back, but maybe this time, there’ll be a real nomad sitting outside, a man or woman or child, from Romania or Syria or Afghanistan, with a cup, asking for money so they can stay put.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
My friend scrolls through the photos of a man on Facebook. He’s white, lives in a predominantly white neighborhood, and went to a predominantly white high school. But in many of his photos, he is accompanied by Asian women.
“Yes, he has yellow fever,” my friend confirms. No, not the potentially fatal viral hemorrhagic disease transmitted by infected mosquitoes, but rather a preference for Asian women. The term is most commonly ascribed to white men who seem to only ever date Asian women.
Yellow fever is a widespread phenomenon. According to data collected from online dating sites, all men except Asians prefer to romantically pursue Asian women. In fact, there are many dating sites specifically tailored for white men looking to date Asian women. There is even a Tumblr blog that compiles messages from “creepy white guys with Asian fetishes.” Yellow fever was also depicted in Debbie Lum’s documentary, Seeking Asian Female, which takes a close look at relationships between white men and Asian women.
So the real question is not whether white men have a preference for Asian women, but why? The answer varies depending on whom you ask. Some argue that it’s because Asian women are more docile, submissive, and tame than their raucous and outgoing Caucasian counterparts. Others claim that it’s a harmless preference on the basis of physical appearance, no different than a preference for blondes or girls with tattoos.
Unfortunately, neither of these answers is correct. Obviously, Asian women are simply not any more docile or submissive than any other ethnicity. It is egregiously misguided to assume that an entire ethnicity of women has one set of personality traits, and the fact that some men actually believe this reflects the limited experience they’ve had with real-life Asian women. Even worse, it suggests that perhaps they are viewing Asian women more as one-dimensional objects than human beings.
Objectification is already something that all women face regardless of race. Our cleavage is used in advertisements to sell products or services, and even well-intentioned men speaking out against sexual assault implore other men to imagine women as “somebody’s wife, mother, daughter,” never realizing that perhaps the woman is also a “somebody.” But when race gets involved, objectification takes on a different dimension. For Asian women in particular, objectification reduces them to infantile figures—delicate, submissive, and dutiful.
The fact that docility and submissiveness are viewed as favorable traits for Asian women is telling. It implies that non-Asian women are too loud, too opinionated, too intimidating, and that men would prefer women who keep quiet and acquiesce to their every demand. The stereotype that Asian women are meek, though blatantly untrue, nevertheless reveals that perhaps yellow fever is more than just an innocent preference based on physical appearance.
That’s because ethnicity is more than just physical appearance. Being Asian means that when I meet someone for the first time, they ask me where I’m from—“New York”—no, where I’m really from. Being Asian means that men compliment me by calling me exotic. Being Asian means that I’m expected to do well in math and become a doctor. Being Asian means that people are surprised I can speak English so well, never mind the fact that I was born and raised in America and can probably speak English better than most Americans. Being Asian means that when I walk down the streets, I am catcalled with “Ni hao ma!” as well as the usual “Hey sexy!” And that’s why we can’t pretend that yellow fever is nothing more than an innocent preference for straight black hair and almond-shaped eyes. It is rooted in a long history of fetishization.
It began when the United States first established a military presence in Asia during World War II. This led to the creation of local sex industries around the military bases, where thousands of women were coerced into prostitution for the sole purpose of servicing U.S. soldiers. Approximately 200,000 Japanese women were enslaved by Japan as prostitutes and serviced American soldiers after the end of the war under the “Recreation and Amusement Association.” This practice continued through the Korean and Vietnam Wars, with 85 percent of American soldiers reporting having sought a prostitute. As a result, some of the first encounters American soldiers had with Asian women were in the context of being sexually serviced. To them, the women were nothing but commodities.
The world is a different place today. Now white men and Asian women meet each other as classmates or colleagues, more or less equals. And when white men and Asian women begin dating, it’s often because they have a genuine romantic connection, not because he views her as a commodity.
After all, most men today are not even aware of this history. The fetishization of Asian women hearkens back to an era when there was an enormous power difference between white men and Asian women, and Asian women were used as nothing more than recreational activity for bored American soldiers. The decades-old history still resonates today with the continued commodification and fetishization of Asian women. It’s no coincidence that Asian women are often stereotyped as yielding and sexually adventurous, and it’s no coincidence that one of the most prevalent misconceptions about Asian women is that they have tight vaginas.
Yellow fever is dangerous because it strips away the individual identities of Asian women, reducing them to nothing more than an unfair stereotype of their race. Fetishization is a form of objectification, because when you seek someone out because she is Asian, you are seeing her as a racial trope rather than an individual. And that’s why Asian women are suspicious of white men who serially date Asians: we’re concerned that we’re just one in a long list of submissive objects for them to use at their leisure. hec
That being said, not every white man dating an Asian woman is intentionally perpetuating the legacy of commodification, and not every white man attracted to Asian women is deliberately reinforcing these racial stereotypes. There is nothing wrong with being a white man who is attracted to Asian women. Many times, it is a subconscious desire that you can’t really control anyway. So go ahead; pursue all the Asian women you want, so long as you understand the long and complex history of exploitation that used to shape your attraction to us.
The CDC tells me that yellow fever is incurable; however, with the proper treatment, it can be managed for the rest of your life.
Nian Hu ’18, a Crimson editorial executive, is a government concentrator in Mather House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: February 4, 2016, at 12:04 p.m.
Four-star Air Force General Darren W. McDew discussed Reserve Officer Training Corps at Harvard and the task of attracting millennials to the military before an audience of students and professors at Quincy House Wednesday.
McDew, who is the commander of the United States Transportation Command— which controls all transportation for the Department of Defense— emphasized the importance of ROTC at Harvard and more generally, saying such programs “allo[w] the American public to better understand its military.”
“In our democratic society, it’s vitally important that we have the support of the American public,” he said. 
Harvard—which began its Army ROTC program in 1916 and its Navy ROTC program in 1926, and dropped both 1995 after protests criticized the military’s policies toward homosexuals—reinstated the Navy ROTC program in 2011 and Army ROTC in 2012 after the military repealed its “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy. Harvard currently does not recognize Air Force ROTC, though students and alumni are pushing for recognition.
McDew also spoke about the need for the military to evolve, both technologically and culturally.  Physically, he said the armed forces need to “modernize” and eventually have “autonomous or semi-autonomous” vehicles.
The military, McDew said, also needs to adapt to the millennial generation’s changing career expectations when ranking them within the military.
“[Millennials] have a different value proposition of how long [they will] stay with something,” he said. “We’ve got to find a way to look at your experiences across a broad spectrum of things, and be open to bringing you in at different places along the ladder.”
He emphasized the importance of learning to lead especially for ROTC members in attendance.
Charley M. Falletta ’16, a member of ROTC at Harvard who introduced McDew at the talk, said that it was “so interesting, and so nice that he came out for this.”
“He is really the pinnacle of success for the military,” she said.
Carolyn F. Pushaw ’16, another member of Harvard’s ROTC program, said she was also impressed with McDew.
“He was a fantastic speaker and I learned a lot. I was impressed with how down to earth he was,” she said. “To be one of the nine combatant commanders, for him to come to Harvard is a big deal.”
The event was sponsored by Harvard ROTC, the Harvard College Democrats, and the Harvard Republican Club as part of the Conversations at Harvard series.
—Staff writer Nathaniel J. Hiatt can be reached at nathaniel.hiatt@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @nathaniel_hiatt.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Graduate Student Council members approved the organization’s yearly budget and discussed smartphone applications and the potential for a graduate student 401(k) retirement plan at their first meeting of the semester Wednesday.
Representatives unanimously voted to approve the 2016 proposed Council budget, which lists a total income of $96,300 that the body receives from student fees. The bulk of the budget will go towards grants and student group funding.
As a contingent of graduate students continues to call for unionization, the Council largely focused on discussing whether Harvard should offer a similar 401(k) retirement plan—available to staff and faculty—to graduate students. 
Under a 401(k) plan, graduate students would begin saving for retirement while completing their degrees. Council president Darcy Frear and Vice President John Gee said they intend to broach the topic with Graduate School of Arts and Sciences administrators.
Frear said a graduate student emailed her about retirement plans, writing "that they’re spending so much time in grad school that they’re wasting that time for investing money earlier on,” according to Frear.
Responding to a question about whether the status of graduate students would affect a potential 401(k), Gee said “the reason that there isn’t this option is almost certainly that Harvard graduate students don’t have the status of employees.”
Samuel  J. Parler, the Council representative for the Music Department, questioned whether all graduate students would be eligible for a 401(k) plan.
“In my department, for example, during the first two years of the Ph.D. program we’re just doing coursework, so we don’t teach at all and we’re not paid for teaching,” Parler said. “I think that maybe would affect 401(k) status, if we can even do that during the first two years.”
Graduate student also discussed creating an application similar to Omni, which consolidates dining hall food options, a shuttle tracker, and other information for undergraduates. Frear said she plans to create a new committee to oversee the development of a similar app.
“I think it’s pretty open-ended,” Linguistics Department representative Elaine F. Stranahan said. “This is our chance to say as grad students: ‘here’s what a cool app for us would look like.’”
Graduate student representatives largely avoided the topic of recent unionization efforts at the meeting; last November, the body voted to support students involved in the movement. Most recently, graduate students have continued to publicize unionization, even as administrators opposed the effort.
—Staff writer Leah S. Yared can be reached at leah.yared@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Leah_Yared.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Undergraduates who have taken General Education courses under current categories will receive credit for those classes after the Faculty of Arts and Sciences rolls out a revamped program, according to Stephanie H. Kenen, the Administrative Director for Gen Ed.
Speaking at a meeting of the Committee on Undergraduate Education, Kenen said students would not be “penalized” in the new program if they had taken Gen Ed courses under the old system. It is unclear when the new program—which is pending a vote by the Faculty—will be implemented, but FAS Dean Michael D. Smith said it “would be difficult” to introduce the program by next fall.
Kenen emphasized that the transition to the proposed program, designed to address the flaws of the current curriculum that is “failing on a variety of fronts,” should give students the flexibility to balance the “formal” requirements of the current Gen Ed with the principles of the new program.
“We want to balance choice and flexibility with the integrity of the principles of the program,” Kenen said at the meeting, also noting that student input in the process would be vital. Kenen also said she hopes to “adapt the formality of the current requirements to the spirit of where we’re going.”
The proposed program, outlined in a report released to College students last month, would create four new categories of Gen Ed courses, down from the current eight, along with three broad distribution requirements. Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris, who chairs the committee, said the College wants students during the curricular transition to “benefit from the separation” of the distribution and Gen Ed requirements.  
What exactly the transition to a new General Education program would look like remains unclear. Echoing Smith, Harris said there would be impediments to implementing the program quickly.
“It takes time to redo courses, create new courses, and rethink some of the content of these courses,” Harris said, noting also the difficulty of re-coding Gen Ed courses en masse for the new Student Information System.
Committee members also discussed another aspect of the proposed Gen Ed program—a new quantitative requirement to replace the current Empirical and Mathematical Reasoning category. Harris said more discussion would be required to determine “what all students need” in terms of quantitative skills.
Paul G. Bamberg Jr. ’63, a member of the committee and a Mathematics lecturer, said the new requirement should emphasize data analysis, a skillset he said is lacking even among students in the most advanced mathematics courses.
“Students who have finished Math 55 are not necessarily any more capable of dealing with data than your average English concentrator,” Bamberg said. “If we want to have a data analysis requirement, which I personally think is a good idea...  there should be opportunities for people to meet this at all levels.”
The committee also discussed possibly offering full-credit or partial-credit courses during Wintersession, an opportunity Undergraduate Council Education Committee chair Scott Ely ’18 said is“definitely an interest” for students.
—Crimson staff writer Jonathan G. Adler can be reached at jonathan.adler@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JonathanGAdler.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Boston Redevelopment Authority gave a public presentation Wednesday night to discuss plans for Harvard-owned land in Allston, soon to be a site of tumultuous activity as the Massachusetts Department of Transportation straightens the portion of the Massachusetts Turnpike running through the land parcel.
“What we’re producing here is not a plan, it’s a planning study,” Tad Read, a senior official at the BRA, said. “[We want] to determine what some planning goals are for this district.”
Steven G. Cecil and Joshua Fiala of the Cecil Group, a local urban design and architecture firm, led the presentation. The BRA, Boston’s urban planning agency, selected the Cecil Group to conduct a neighborhood development study on the proposed reconfiguration of the Massachusetts Turnpike in September 2015.
Announced in October 2013, the $260 million Turnpike realignment project will straighten Interstate 90 over the Harvard-owned Beacon Park Railyard. The three-year construction project is slated to begin in 2017, and will be accompanied by the erection of a new commuter rail station. 
During the meeting, Cecil and Fiala discussed the potential for rising seas and hurricanes to flood residential districts located near the banks of the Charles River. Attendees voiced frustration with what they called the BRA’s lack of action to combat these effects of climate change.
“Put ten more feet on the [Charles River] dam,” said Frederick P. Salvucci, a civil engineer and senior lecturer at MIT who attended the meeting. “I mean, the idea that [the BRA is] just going to say this is God’s will, I think is pretty devastating for the neighborhoods and for all this land.”
Allstonians also expressed concern about the planned width and slope of streets leading to the realigned highway.
“For the new streets I would think that we would want to aim for [a slope] that is accessible for a person in a wheelchair,” said Jessica B. Robertson, an Allston resident and member of the task force advising MassDOT on the realignment project.
Allston resident Galen M. Mook argued that a gentler slope would be beneficial to the neighborhood.
“The livability of a street does depend on the grade, the accessibility does depend on the grade,” he said. “What you’re encouraging drivers to do with [a steep] slope is to speed dangerously.”
As the meeting drew to a close, Bruce E. Houghton, president of Allston-based Houghton Chemical, expressed skepticism about the functionality and effectiveness of the discussion.
“Right now, we’re talking about hopes and dreams and slopes,” Houghton said. “But right now, the way Allston is being developed is not this way at all. It’s really building by building.”
Houghton called on the BRA to take a bolder stance on development planning in Allston. Specifically, he asked the city to develop a master plan for the neighborhood and to require Harvard’s adherence to specific zoning rules on its hundreds of acres of Allston property.
“What we’re trying to do here is really lay down some solid principles that will guide development,” Gerald Autler, a BRA official, said in response.
Houghton joked that he would likely be dead before the BRA finalized its plans.
–Staff writer Jonah S. Lefkoe can be reached at jonah.lefkoe@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JonahLefkoe.
–Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As relations thaw between the United States and Cuba, Harvard undergraduates are showing an increased interest in the island nation, though some are wary of how the influx of Americans to the country will influence the educational experience there.
Harvard has long maintained a relationship with Cuba; at the turn of the 20th century, Harvard scholars began conducting tropical research in Cienfuegos, Cuba and also invited Cuban teachers to Cambridge for lectures. More than one hundred years later— in 2008— Harvard established a study abroad program in Cuba.
The number of students who traveled to Cuba last semester to study nearly doubled from the previous fall, according to Erin E. Goodman, associate director of programs for the David Rockefeller Institute for Latin American Studies, which runs the program.
More generally, student interest in the country has grown since President Barack Obama announced the United States would restore full diplomatic relations with Cuba in December 2014, reversing over half a century of American policy towards the country.
“Students are buzzing about Cuba. It’s not a tidal wave, but there’s real interest growing and for good reason,”Jonathan M.  Hansen, a Social Studies lecturer and member of the Cuba Studies Faculty Committee at the David Rockefeller Center, said.
This year, four or five students contacted him to ask if he would advise their theses on Cuba, Hansen said—an unusually large number.
The experience for Harvard students in David Rockefeller Center's study abroad program in Cuba has changed in the wake of Obama’s announcement, Hansen said, noting a recent influx of Americans from other universities to the country.
“The point of many of these programs is immersion and the more students show up at the University of Havana, the more tempting it will be for those students and for our students to talk to each other in English,” Hansen said. “The students I talked to in the last couple of semesters who come back love it, but they just say that it is changing.”
Austin R. Mueller  ’17, who studied in Cuba last semester, said while he got to know Cuban students at the University of Havana, the inflow of American students impeded his ability to interact with Cuban students outside the classroom. While in Cuba, he lived alongside American students from Harvard and other universities, and said the Americans spoke mostly in English to each other.
Despite the changing experience in Cuba, Goodman said the program is still more immersive than many others in the Spanish-speaking world.
“Even though it feels compared to the past that there are more Americans, it’s still unique in that it’s one of the most authentic experiences you can have,” Goodman said.
Some students interested in traveling to Cuba have turned to Lynn Shirey, Harvard’s librarian for Latin America, Spain, and Portugal, who said she has received a large number of phone calls and emails from students asking for advice about how to travel to Cuba under the new regulations.
Travel may not be the only experience affected by the changing relations, Shirely said. Harvard's library system can't buy material directly from Cuba because of the U.S. embargo, but Shirely predicts this arrangement will change in the future.
In addition to sending students to Cuba, the Rockefeller Center recruits fellows from Cuba and supports faculty research in the country.
“It’s an old and established and good program,” Hansen said. “There’s no question that everybody wants it to grow and do well and is committed to it doing so.”
—Staff Writer Mia Karr can be reached at mia.karr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on twitter @miackarr.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Square Homeless Shelter and the newly opened Y2Y Youth Homeless Shelter introduced a joint volunteer recruiting initiative in an effort to share resources to combat homelessness in Cambridge.
Both Y2Y and HSHS require about 150 volunteers each, according to Isobel W. Green ’17, administrative director of HSHS. However, the two organizations draw volunteers from the same group of students interested in public service, therefore requiring an adjustment in recruitment practices.
“We weren’t sure if we’d be able to fill both shelters, but there really is interest to support both,” Green said. “Last semester was a learning curve of filling those spaces.” 
In order to find volunteers, HSHS and Y2Y share a recruitment strategy, using email blasts that direct potential volunteers to apply through side-by-side links for each shelter. The email also answers frequently asked questions about the differences between the two shelters and encourages participation in both.
The introduction of the shared recruitment effort continues a history of collaboration between the two shelters, dating back to the inception of Y2Y by HSHS volunteers in 2012.
“Y2Y started by shadowing HSHS. Our co-directors would come to shifts with us to see how we operated, we would bounce ideas off each other,” Green said. “We have a lot to learn from each other and a lot of ability to help each other.”
According to Anais Carell ’17, administrative director of Y2Y, the partnership between the two shelters has strengthened their abilities to address homelessness in the greater Boston area.
“I think having both shelters on campus has actually allowed both to garner a lot more support,” Carell said. “It has drawn a lot more awareness to the issue of homelessness and has encouraged students to participate in both HSHS and Y2Y.”
Emma F. Stone ’19, a volunteer at both HSHS and Y2Y, watched first-hand as the shelters began to work concurrently earlier this year.
“One night, we got way too much food from Panera at HSHS, and we had nowhere to put it, but we didn’t want to throw it away,” Stone said. “It took us awhile to get to realizing we should call Y2Y and share with them.”
Green reiterated that the two organizations were working “synergistically”.
“We’re two separate organizations with separate clientele but our mission is parallel. We are working to address homelessness in this community,” Green said. “Everything we can do to help each other will help the community at large.”
—Staff writer Mahnoor B. Ali can be reached at mahnoor.ali@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Kier W. Zimmerman can be reached at kier.zimmerman@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @kierjwz
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The Harvard Art Museums’ special exhibition on Indigenous Art from Australia opens on Friday, with an opening celebration on Thursday night.
Entitled “Everywhen: The Eternal Present in Indigenous Art from Australia,” the exhibition includes works by contemporary Indigenous Australian artists. It also features historical pieces on loan from the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology that serve as examples of functional art.
The planning for this exhibit began five years ago with an initiative from the Committee on Australian Studies. Indigenous Australian Stephen Gilchrist was hired as the Australian Studies visiting curator at the Art Museums to help make their vision a reality.
Gilchrist gathered works of art that would challenge viewers to think about art and art history differently.
“Stop thinking that they belong in the past,” Gilchrist said about the Indigenous artwork. “They carry into the present and into the future.”
Gilchrist also hailed the exhibition as an opportunity for viewers to appreciate art unfamiliar to most.
“They said yes to a new way of thinking about art history,” he said. “That was important for me.”
There are more than 70 pieces of artwork in display that are linked by the four themes of the exhibit: “seasonality, transformation, performance, and remembrance.”
Jessica L. Martinez, director of academic and public programs at the Museum, said she views the special exhibition as a resource for students.
“It’s for multiple audiences, but we always keep Harvard students first in mind,” she said. “All the [artworks’] labels are aimed at Harvard freshmen.”
Martinez said she expects that many student groups and classes will come to the exhibit because it appeals to a wide range of interests.
“We want to create a ground for new things to happen,”she said. “I think there will be a lot of research papers happening here.”
Martinez also predicts that the show will interest a wider audience.
“We expect people to be traveling from all over the state,” she said. “I think it’s a global show.”
The opening celebration will feature a lecture by Gilchrist and artist Vernon Ah Kee. There will also be a reception with Australian food following the lecture. Martinez encouraged students to take a break from studying and come to the exhibition.
“If you’re busy doing a p-set, come in from 9 to 10,” she said.
—Staff writer Maria H. Park can be reached at maria.park@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Chirpark
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Frank O. Gehry will be the first architect to receive the annual Harvard Arts Medal.
Gehry, a prestigious architect known for designing buildings such as the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles, will accept the award from University President Drew G. Faust on April 28 in a ceremony that marks the commencement of Arts First, the annual student art showcase. The award ceremony will take place in Farkas Hall and will feature a conversation with Gehry moderated by actor John Lithgow ’67.
Gehry is known for his curving, dramatic architectural designs. The Guggenheim Museum Bilbao in Spain and the Walt Disney Concert Hall are two of his most famous works.
Diane E. Davis, who chairs the Design School’s department for Urban Planning and Design, commended the role Gehry’s work has played in revitalizing urban areas.
“His iconic Guggenheim Museum designed for Bilbao was really important in the larger redevelopment of a former industrial part of that city, thus placing his work and architectural vision squarely in the fields of urban planning and design,” she said. “One might even put his  Disney concert hall in that category because it was part and parcel of an effort to bring more activities and people to downtown Los Angeles.”
After earning a degree in architecture from the University of Southern California in 1954, Gehry studied urban planning at the Harvard Graduate School of Design for three years. While he left before earning his degree, Gehry was awarded an honorary doctorate from Harvard in 2000.
Established in 1995, the Arts Medal is awarded annually to a Harvard or Radcliffe alumnus or faculty member in recognition of their achievement in the arts. The award is also meant to honor those who have used the arts to affect positive social change. Past recipients include Matt Damon ’92, Margaret Atwood ’62, and Yo-Yo Ma ’76.
The architect was on campus last fall for an event organized by the Institute of Politics at the Harvard Kennedy School, at which he spoke about the challenges and successes of his over 50 year career and his transformation of contemporary architecture through artistic and technological innovation.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
You probably spent your winter break at home, binging on Netflix and sleeping past noon while trying to forget the trials and tribulations of the semester. But while you were eating everything in your parents' fridge, our friends at HUPD were back on campus, defending the University's honor.
December 21, 2015Officer took a walk-in report of a stolen HUID card, an MBTA card, and $20.00 in U.S. currency.No one can find me now with my new identity.
December 23, 3015Officers dispatched to a report of an unwanted guest in the restroom area. Officers arrived and report individual gone on arrival.“My bad, I thought this was the men’s room”
December 24, 2015Officer dispatched to a report of an individual screaming obscenities and causing a disturbance. Officer arrived and report individual gone on arrival.Must have been a pretty bad breakup.
December 31, 2015Officer took a report of property damage to an area of grass.Harvard property is Harvard property, no matter how small.
January 6, 2016Officer dispatched to take a report of annoying emails.“Mom, you’re embarrassing me!”
January 12, 2016Officers dispatched to a report of a group of teenagers causing a disturbance by climbing on the benches and statues in the area. Officers arrived and report group gone on arrival. Prospective students wanting to get a head start on their Three Things?
January 20, 2016Officer dispatched to take a report of a stolen package containing paint valued at $8.99.Don’t let the haters stop you from making the world your canvas.
January 21, 2016Officer dispatched to take a report of a stolen package containing protein valued at $37.00.How am I supposed to get ripped now? #swolepatrol

