News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Enjoying live music, free food, and plenty of sunshine, students and Cantabrigians gathered in the Science Center Plaza Saturday afternoon for the Environmental Action Committee’s annual Earth Day Festival.
The festival featured tables from various environmental groups on campus and the Greater Boston area, live music from bands from across Harvard, and free items and food.  The theme this year, entitled Feed Change, focused on sustainable food.
John D. Bowers ’18 said he and his fellow Earth Day Festival co-chair Lexi M. Smith ’18, spent the last several months contacting restaurants, organizations on campus and in the in the area that specialize in sustainability, particularly with an emphasis on food.
The EAC, a student group affiliated with the umbrella student service organization Phillips Brooks House Association, obtained food donations from Iggy’s Bread, J.P. Licks, Insomnia Cookies, and Otto’s Pizza.
“There is a really vibrant community surrounding sustainable food both at Harvard and in the greater Cambridge area,” Bowers said. “It’s something that is becoming more and more integrated into all of our lives.”
Bowers said the group added an interactive component to the festival, engaging people with the table holders by encouraging them to collect a sticker from the organization at each stop. The incentives provided for a certain amount of stickers included a free water bottle and a chance to win a portable solar charger for mobile devices.
Members from Divest Harvard, the student activist group demanding the University remove its investments from the fossil fuel industry, were also present. Board member Naima Drecker-Waxman ’18 said they were there to talk with people about the arrests at their sit-in earlier this month and also to provide more information about their campaign.
Drecker-Waxman said the festival is an opportunity for different environmental groups to get together and have a chance to celebrate.
“The work we’re doing can be a big challenge,” Drecker-Waxman said. “We’re up against really huge forces when we talk about things like climate change. Having a moment to also celebrate the Earth and connect is really important to revitalizing people’s energy and reminding them what they’re doing the work for.”
The festival, which was previously held in the MAC Quad, moved to the Science Center Plaza this year.
“There is a lot more traffic here, and we’ve seen really great attendance as a result of that,” Bowers said. “Moving forward we’ll definitely consider having it here again.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Events on campus may offer more food from now on, thanks to a new Undergraduate Council policy.
The UC’s Finance Committee voted unanimously Thursday to increase food funding for student events by $1 per attendee. Under the new measure, snacks will be eligible for funding at $3 per person, small meals at $4 per person, and full meals at $5 per person.
Finance Committee Chair William A. Greenlaw ’17 said the policy change will help balance the Council’s funding allocations between cultural organizations, which primarily seek funding for food, and performing arts groups. Last academic year, performing arts groups cumulatively received about $7,000 more than cultural organizations, according to a report Greenlaw compiled.
“If there's no food at an event, people don't show up,” Greenlaw said. “It's the single biggest expenditure for cultural organizations.”
Although funding for food will increase, the committee’s overall budget will not change, Greenlaw said. If projected allocations in a given week exceed the UC’s budget for that week, then the committee will impose a flat percentage cut on all initial grant allocations.
“It gives [cultural organizations] a bigger piece of the pie,” Pforzheimer House representative Neel Mehta ’18 said.
During the Finance Committee’s Thursday meeting, members also passed 22 other amendments to the committee’s Grant Evaluation Guidelines, which help determine the procedure for grants and how much money student organizations are eligible to receive. One of the new policy changes abolishes a previous rule that only allowed organizations to receive up-front grants if they applied at least 21 days before the event.
Another change eliminates the rule that groups were only permitted to have one outstanding up-front grant at a time.
“It’s needless red tape,” Greenlaw said.
The committee also voted to eliminate the rule requiring that ticketed events provide $50 worth of tickets or 10 tickets for the UC to distribute through a lottery. Instead, all ticketed events must now be eligible for the Student Events Fund, which funds free tickets to student-produced events for students with qualifying financial need.
During the meeting, the committee also evaluated its pilot program to mandate sexual assault prevention training for student organizations receiving large grants. According to Greenlaw, the program has trained 70 students this semester.
Representatives said that next semester they hope to work with the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response to focus the sessions on skills-based training.
“I think that it's still a great idea for us to continue trying to train as many people as we can at a more advanced level,” Elm Yard representative Evan M. Bonsall ’19 said.
In one case, Greenlaw said a student organization that was required to complete training—Harvard Ventures—indicated members would attend the training, but did not. As a result, the Finance Committee voted unanimously to withhold future funding the group until they attend a training session.
Harvard Ventures leaders did not respond to request for comment.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
At the Institute of Politics, Zeid Ra’ad Al-Hussein, the United Nations’ high commissioner for human rights, called for more accountability for UN peacekeepers, a number of whom face accusations of sexual exploitation and assault, and emphasized the enormous threat that such behavior poses to the organization’s reputation.
The John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum event, co-sponsored Friday by the Kennedy School’s Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, comes a month after the UN Security Council adopted a resolution expressing “deep concern” about allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse by UN peacekeepers.
The Security Council also endorsed Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon’s decision to repatriate particular foreign peacekeeping units when “credible evidence of widespread or systemic sexual exploitation and abuse by that unit” exists. Earlier this month, the UN announced it would send an official to the Central African Republic after reports that peacekeeping forces raped more than a hundred civilians.
Al-Hussein lamented that legislation reforming the disciplinary process for peacekeepers has been stalled for the last decade. One proposed measure he supported was mandatory DNA testing of all peacekeepers to both deter illicit conduct and investigate allegations of sexual misconduct.
He also emphasized that only individual governments—not the United Nations—could subject peacekeepers to criminal investigation and punishment.
“The UN can dismiss them from service, in violation of some administrative regulation, but if you can engage in sexual abuse of the worst kind—and we’ve seen this over many years—it’s simply not good enough that the UN can send you back home,” Al-Hussein said. “It’s so frustrating, of course, for us to continuously receive the most appalling accusations.”
Al-Hussein also decried the extremist and nationalist rhetoric of the political right in Europe and United States at Friday’s event, pointing especially to the “incendiary” speech in the ongoing U.S. presidential race.
“We believe—at least in the human right world—that it’s not without consequences that you can say these things, and it’s not the politicians that will be made to pay for the comments they’ve made,” Al-Hussein said. “It will be at the end of the day some vulnerable group or community that will fear the effect. We have seen this time and again throughout the course of human history.”
He also called on Americans to resist “disgraceful” rhetoric that places blame on immigrant communities, and asked Europeans to adopt a more “humane” attitude when discussing the refugee crisis.
“Humanity has a way of self-adjusting and you don’t have to fear that you’re going to all be swamped by people from other countries and lose your identity, it doesn’t really work like that,” Al-Hussein said.
—Staff writer Nathaniel J. Hiatt can be reached at nathaniel.hiatt@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @nathaniel_hiatt.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
It’s a sunny Saturday afternoon, and Cambridge’s most popular politician is in his natural environment.
Wearing dark wash jeans, a t-shirt emblazoned with the phrase “Try Harder,” wireless headphones hanging from the neck, and sporting a man bun, City Councillor Nadeem A. Mazen can’t walk more than five feet from his Mass. Ave. office without being stopped by a large crowd on the street.
He stops to chat up a community organizer, a few college students, and a local candidate for state senate. Throughout the day, his wireless earpiece constantly buzzes with calls from constituents, employees at his startups, and even another reporter.
A testament to his community advocacy background, grassroots campaign, and strong local business ties, Mazen seems to know Cambridge and its people intimately.
Mazen, the son of an Egyptian immigrant, is the youngest member of the Cambridge City Council, squeaking onto the body two years ago with the least votes of any candidate elected to the nine-member Council.
Yet only two years later, he received the most votes of any candidate running. He speaks with a deep knowledge of national and local issues, and is fiercely defensive about his beliefs. More importantly, Mazen is shaking up the Council  and brings national issues to the local level, such as the need for affordable housing, an increased minimum wage, and campaign finance reform.
Mazen has placed self-imposed term limits on himself, and it is unclear how far he will be able to take his ambitious agenda, despite Cambridge’s heavy liberal tilt. But one thing is certain: Mazen's not a traditional politician.
LOCAL ROOTS
In many ways, Mazen had a traditional upbringing. His parents settled in the quiet town of Andover, Mass., seeking a “white picket fence” success in America. He attended the elite prep school Phillips Andover Academy on financial aid and later, at MIT, studied mechanical engineering with a minor in biomedical engineering. He also pursued applied international studies.
Growing up, Mazen felt the need to go out and explore the world beyond his “homogeneous” suburb.
“I felt like every minute in the suburbs was incomprehensible,” Mazen said. “My generation, whether you're the son or daughter of immigrants or not, wants to be in the city.”
Mazen’s father taught as a professor on the study abroad program “semester at sea, ”which takes place on a boat. As a child, Mazen traveled extensively, only to feel dismayed upon arriving home.
“I traveled the world and then to come home to Andover I was like ‘ugh.’” Mazen said. “You see world capitals and you’re like ‘why are we here?’”
Coming from an academic household, Mazen felt pressure from a young age to live up to his dad’s expectations and succeed academically. While he spent most of his undergraduate career studying engineering, he found his true passion in international affairs. That interest, and his faith as a devout Muslim, spurred in him a desire to see effective leadership at home.
“In my religion there is a mandate that if a certain social good is not being guaranteed by government or society... then we have to drop what we are doing individually,” Mazen, who is the first Muslim elected to a governing body in Massachusetts, said. “The fact is there is a lot of latent energy to make improvements wherever people are.”
After a brief flirtation with online fame while directing a viral music video for alternative rock band Ok Go, Mazen began to consider running for elected office in Cambridge. He was deeply disenchanted with national “machine” politics, but remained hopeful that local politics would be different.
He visited City Council meetings to get a feel for what might lie ahead, and was surprised by what he considered ineffective and combative politics. But rather than deter him, it had the opposite effect.
Mazen ran for the council in 2013 against 24 other candidates and won the ninth and final seat with 5.5 percent of the vote.
CALL HIM NADEEM
During his first term, Mazen said he took “every meeting and every time, no matter what time in the day.” He worked tirelessly to acquaint himself with local stakeholders, even while working under self-imposed term limits of “two to three terms.”
During the 2015 election cycle, Mazen received the highest number of votes of any candidate for City Council. He cruised to victory while running against a slate of seven incumbents for one of a total of nine slots. He formed his own four-person slate to try and bring new voices and “innovative thinking” to the Council.
Since then, he has been an active councillor, supporting legislation connected to national debates over raising the minimum wage, the opioid epidemic, campaign finance reform, Indigenous People’s Day, and most importantly to Mazen, the affordable housing crisis. He and Vice Mayor Marc C. McGovern, officially sit on nine of the council’s 11 committees, the most of any councillors.
“He’s very high energy just day to day,” Shaun J. Kennedy, deputy manager for Mazen’s campaign, said. “When you add the requirements of the campaign on top of that it's very demanding, but Nadeem somehow pulls it off. I think most days he probably operates on four to six hours of sleep and he doesn’t drink coffee.”
Mazen in unique in how he maintains his heavy workload on the Council—not to mention his role as CEO of two startups and president of a political action committee.
While other City Councillors arrive to weekly meetings in suits and ties or pantsuits, Mazen dons his quintessential headphones and casual clothes. Countless times he has insisted that almost everyone he meets call him Nadeem instead of Councillor Mazen.
“I’m trying to be authentic. I’m trying to bring it maybe down to a level where people feel like they can participate,” Mazen said. “I don’t have to put on airs to be me. I just show up and it works.”
Despite the casual dress, Mazen debates with the same ferocity as other councillors. On the City Council, Mazen has been a powerful force for progressive legislation, bringing national issues to the forefront of Council debates.
“I really admire how he thinks outside the box, the way he pushes us to ask the big overarching questions about policy,” fellow Councillor Jan Devereux said. “He’s a lot of fun to work with. I like sitting next to him.”
Mazen is now  focused on increasing the number affordable housing units in the area. The Council’s Housing Committee intends to discuss the recently completed Cambridge Inclusionary Housing Study at at least three upcoming meetings.
“We’re in serious throes of gentrification and displacement,” Mazen said. “It’s harkening to a national crisis in housing where only the private sector can participate.”
However, in recent months, recruiting others to run has become another important goal of Mazen’s in preparation for his transition off the Council.
Mazen promised to serve for only two to three terms on the Council before leaving the body.
OUTSIDE THE COUNCIL
Serving on the City Council is Mazen’s priority, but it is certainly not his only commitment. Mazen juggles his time away from the City Council as CEO of two startups, an animated video production company called Nimblebot, and maker space “danger! awesome.” He is also the founder and current president of Jetpac, a political action committee recruiting minority candidates to run for elected office.
All of his businesses, the City Council, and his own house are within blocks of each other on a section of Mass. Ave. by Central Square. From the window of Mazen’s Nimblebot office, the lawn in front of Cambridge City Hall is easily visible, a reminder of Mazen’s political pursuits and closely overlapping spheres of local involvement. Even the impetus behind Nimblebot aligns with Mazen’s goal of broadening political engagement.
“Nimblebot makes animations for nonprofits, issue advocates, and advocacy groups and educators, and some government [groups who] usually don't think of animation as their format of choice or are struggling to tell their stories affordably,” Mazen said.
Nimblebot’s better known clients include  PBS, the Department of Defense, the Boston Globe, and MIT.
“We do a lot for folks who typically don’t get their story out there in a way that is exciting, you don’t usually talk about environmental data with excitement,” Mazen added.
Mazen is eager to show off his businesses, and, from the worn out couches of danger! awesome’s basement, points out projects in various stages of development. The floor is littered with machines for printing and engraving, laser cutters and a myriad of other mechanical tools. The mirrors surrounding the walls boast prototype drawings in marker. With a goal of increasing access to product production capabilities, new workshop classes, and an online store, danger! awesome has seen growth in recent months, Mazen said.
Jetpac, another one of Mazen’s pursuits, combines his two worlds of startups and politics. The organization, born out of Mazen’s City Council campaigns, is “a PAC for minority civic engagement training and anti-hate speech,” according to Mazen.
Kennedy, who is also the vice chair of Jetpac, said the political action committee works to train individuals from minority groups to run for office, organizes minority voters, and lobbies to prevent anti-Muslim rhetoric in politics.
Mazen himself would know about anti-Muslim rhetoric better than most. Earlier this year, Breitbart.com published an article about Mazen called “Hamas on the Charles,” a story the City Council deemed “anti-Muslim libel.”
Balancing work between the three organizations and the Council has proven to be manageable for Mazen, as both his time on City Council and his involvement with Nimblebot begins to run out.
“I’m really focused on danger! awesome right now, Nimblebot is actually for sale,” Mazen said. “It's a very mature company and... I can only focus on so many things.”
Mazen also said that “this term we’re really focused on training others to run, training others to lead, training or inviting those who want to be involved to actually find a place to engage."
In his dwindling time on the Council, Mazen hopes to inspire others to run who think electoral success may not be possible for them. One such person last cycle was Devereux.
“Nadeem has an unusual background for the Council and I mean that in the best sense of the word,” Devereux said. “He really inspired me to run.”
With a little less than two years left in this term, Mazen said he hopes to build on the change he has brought to the Council.
“I actually think we did start a small sort of movement,” Mazen said. “Things have changed fundamentally in just two years.”
—Staff writer Samuel Vasquez can be reached at samuel.vasquez@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @svasquez14.
—Staff writer Joshua Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
Sections
I think we can all agree that college is the place for free food (and, uh, studying …).  So, with Yardfest just a day away, you’re all probably wondering how to snag as much free food as you can before you head over to Tercentenary Theater to get cake thrown in your face (more free food?).  Don’t worry, we here at FlyBy have you covered.
Thanks to the UC, the Office of Student Life, and the HoCos, each house neighborhood will have their own block party where you can get hyped for Yardfest starting at 3pm tomorrow afternoon.  All block parties are open to all undergraduates, and free Yardfest t-shirts and bro-tanks are available at each block party.
Here’s where you should be heading tomorrow afternoon for free food and fun:
River East (a.k.a. Dunster, Leverett, and Mather): Head over to Leverett Courtyard to indulge in pizza, Felipe's nachos, popcorn, and cotton candy.  Lev Towers promises to have music from the student band Foxpack, ice cream from 4:00-4:30pm, and a bouncy castle, where you may experience just a little childhood nostalgia.
River West (a.k.a Eliot, Kirkland, and Winthrop):  Winthrop Gore Courtyard will also feature delicious food and great music.
Central (a.k.a Adams, Lowell, and Quincy): Come over to Lowell Courtyard tomorrow afternoon for cotton candy and an inflatable obstacle course.  This block party also promises to have music, games, and more.
Quad: Visit the Quad lawn tomorrow (I know what you’re all thinking…) for Felipe's nachos and churros.  You’ll also be able to listen to music from a live DJ while sliding down a giant inflatable slide.  Look out for the photo booth where you’ll be take all of your pre-Yardfest photos.
So, take a break from stressing about the impending reading period and finals week and head over to one of the free neighborhood block parties to distract yourself from catching up on the work you’ll need to do for that one class you may or may not have gone to lecture for this semester.
