News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Sanford Levinson, a visiting Harvard Law School professor who is of Jewish heritage, opened his mail Monday morning to find a postcard scrawled with hateful, anti-Semitic language.
In the anonymous, handwritten card, the author first addresses Levinson by his lifelong nickname, “Sandy.” The brief postcard, which includes threatening, explicit, and anti-Semitic attacks on Levinson, ends with: “We’re gonna drain the swamp at Harvard Law. Juden Raus!”
Based on its stamps, the postcard appears to have been mailed from England, Levinson said. Levinson, age 75, is a full-time professor at the University of Texas at Austin, where he teaches government and law. 
The sender’s call to “drain the swamp” at the Law School seems to be a reference to a slogan made popular by President-elect Donald Trump during the election. Over the course of his controversial campaign, Trump often said he would “drain the swamp” in Washington, promising to remove corporate lobbyists and Wall Street executives from positions of power.
“I have been writing a lot of stuff that’s very, very anti-Trump, and I have to assume that’s what triggered it,” Levinson said in an interview Wednesday. “I blog a lot and I’ve written op-eds and the like so I’ve certainly gotten angry responses before, but nothing like this.”
“This is just different, it was remarkably anti-Semitic,” said Levinson, who has taught at Harvard as a visiting professor for the past 12 years.
The postcard’s closing words, “Juden Raus!,” refer to a German board game from the 1930s in which players had to collect small tokens representing Jewish people and gather them at a “collection point,” according to the website for Public Radio International. “Juden Raus!” translates to “Out with the Jews!”
The postcard—and its contents—were reported by The Boston Globe on Tuesday.
Soon after reading the card, Levinson contacted Law School Dean Martha L. Minow and the Harvard University Police Department. Levinson said HUPD officers visited his office Monday to speak with him, but that he doubts there is much they can do.
HUPD spokesperson Steven G. Catalano said Wednesday that the department is conducting an “open and active investigation” into the postcard, but declined to comment further.
The hate mail arrived at a time when reports of racially charged incidents have spiked across the country—and on Harvard’s campus. Last week, a handful of University affiliates said they were harassed, both verbally and physically, by strangers on the basis of their ethnicity or disabilities.
Also last week, University President Drew G. Faust sent an email to students, faculty, and staff decrying the “escalating numbers of cruel and frightening incidents” that have taken place since the election. Citing Faust’s message, HUPD Chief Francis D. Riley on Monday sent an email encouraging Harvard affiliates to report bias-related incidents and hate crimes to campus police.
Levinson said he sees a “connection” between the presidential election and the recent uptick in hateful language and action. In particular, he said he believes people feel “freer” after the election to make “racist, anti-Semitic, or anti-female” comments.
“I do think that the campaign and Trump scrutiny has liberated a certain kind of dialogue,” Levinson said. “I think there is just this sense, at least for awhile and maybe it will be for the next few years, that certain sorts of restraints are now loosened.”
Since The Globe reported the story, Levinson said he has received “very gratifying” messages of support from both friends and strangers. But ultimately, Levinson said he wants to move on from the postcard.
“I think the best response is to say, ‘It’s really terrible that there are people like this in the world,’ but then to go on with your life,” he said.
After opening the postcard Monday, Levinson, a constitutional law scholar, said he sat down and got back to work.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Black Friday is here and chances are it’s caught you unprepared. Let’s be honest, we’ve all been more focused on the psets and essays masterfully assigned on the two days between Harvard-Yale weekend and Thanksgiving break, with no time to worry about just about anything else. Now that class is over though, we can start thinking about how to make it through the end of the semester. Friday’s deals will remind us of all the things we still can’t afford, but there are a few things we at Flyby would  love to see for sale that could help us all survive the end of fall semester.
Swiffer Duster
At this point in the semester,you’re not surprised anymore when people come into your room and wonder where the smell is coming from. There’s probably some unfinished Noch’s between the couch cushions, or, well we don’t even want to think what’s accumulated under your bed and around your mini fridge. It’s more than just dust (though there’s a surprisingly thick layer of that too). After spending a few days in a clean house over Thanksgiving though, you may be more horrified than usual in re-entering your dorm room. The Swiffer duster wasn’t too expensive before sale (~$20), but imagine how inexpensive they’d be at 70% off… Cough up the few dollars and invest in some simple room hygiene.
Keurig
Okay, these aren’t technically allowed in the dorms/houses, but think about it: having one could mean an unlimited caffeine source at our fingertips for the rest of the semester. If you’re one of those unfortunate souls with back-to-back final exams, coffee or tea will probably become your new lifeblood. Afterall, sleep is for those who don’t cram, and last time we checked, that excludes most of Harvard’s student population. This Friday, Keurigs are under $100. If you’re worried about having it in your room, you can always carry it with you to the library to make your friends at Lamont jealous.
Canada Goose
As soon as it hits 40 degrees, most of Harvard’s campus turns black with the coats of Canada Goose. And while the real Canadians with their sub-zero winters might be shaking their heads, you know you secretly covet these insulating jackets. The price tags are brutal -- who wants to spend over five hundred dollars for a coat?! So maybe the only time Canada Goose will be *remotely* near our measly college budgets is this weekend. If you do decide to embrace this winter like our neighbors up north do, you’ll be blessed with the warmest personal winter on record. And if recent political events force you into Canada, you’ll be prepared for that too.
Personal Paper Shredder
At only $25 this Black Friday, what better way to destroy all evidence of the failed midterms this semester? You can also use it post-finals for some stress relief. Definitely worth storming Walmart for.
2017 Edition of Mankiw’s Ec10 Textbook
Buy it now to save your Harvard-bound siblings the frustrating cost of this loose-leaf course pack. $132 could turn it into… well, whatever Mankiw feels he could still sell it for. The question is, would he even endorse a Black Friday sale? For everyone’s sake, we hope so.
And finally… Tuition
