News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
They sit alone in the dark. They fidget like teenagers. They joke like best friends. They try and fail to clear their heads and pretend this is just another game.
Here in gray Worcester and the grayer breakfast room at the Holiday Inn Express, flanked by the waffle machine and the complimentary orange juice dispenser, they somehow sit in the same corners as they always have: Kyle Criscuolo up front, every bit the teacher’s pet; Jimmy Vesey hunched over somewhere in the middle, doing his best to obscure the 6’3” 205 lb. frame that the National Hockey League’s Nashville Predators desperately want to sign; Desmond Bergin, the anchor of Harvard’s defense, silent as always in the back.
This could be any of the 33 pregame film sessions that the Harvard men’s hockey team had held since October, and yet number 34 is different.  They know that Boston College awaits them in seven hours across the way at the DCU Center, and that if they don’t win, their season is over. They also know that the Eagles beat them just six weeks earlier and that basically every top-tier local player goes to Boston College or maybe Boston University but usually not Harvard. Why would a sure-thing NHL-er shoot for a 95th percentile SAT?
And yet they are proud, proud to be Harvard Hockey players and proud to be Harvard students. They are confident in how they’ll represent their school tonight. They are desperate to do it well. They know they’re ready, but they can’t wait to see just how ready they are. They love each other. They relish the chance ahead. This is the best time of their lives: Five months into a grueling sleep away camp of workouts and bag skates and bus rides, they are as close as they ever will be. They never want it to end.
“I know we’re going to win tonight. I believe we’re going to win tonight,” their coach, Ted Donato ’91, tells them. As his voice quivers, they know he is right. It’s the most emotion he has shown during a gameday film meeting since he invited The Crimson inside his program before the 2015-2016 season, convinced that his team was special but not totally understood by the rest of the campus or the media.
What that access revealed, though, was that the story of the 2015-2016 Harvard men’s hockey team begins not on October 31, 2015—a 7-0 destruction of Dartmouth College in the season opener—but sometime in 2012, when things could scarcely have been worse for Donato’s group. With key players implicated in a College-wide cheating scandal, the team that year was dragged through the mud, cast by many as a bunch of jocks who didn’t quite fit in at the world’s most prestigious university.
If you believe winning cures everything—and at Harvard, that isn’t even close to true—losing makes things a hell of a lot worse. The Crimson went a combined 20-36-7 from October of 2012 through March of 2014. They were led, if you can really say that, by the talented but frustrated Vesey, who remembered the two seasons thusly: “We sucked, and teams came in and basically kicked the shit out of us every night.” There’s nothing eloquent about that statement because there was nothing eloquent about that time.
Three years later, here they sit in Worcester. After years of weak attendance at home games, students are about to board busses to the DCU Center. ESPN is televising the game. And the Predators are in the stands because they want to sign the once frustrated freshman who turned into the best player in college hockey and fly him to Tennessee to play an NHL game tomorrow night.
In short, everything has changed. Harvard men’s hockey is back. Here’s how it happened.
To understand where the Harvard men’s hockey program has been and where it is now, you have to get to know Ted Donato. This isn’t easy. Recently, a well-meaning professional hockey coach asked former Harvard captain Max Everson what he thought of Donato.
“It’s like, how do you even answer that question?” Everson thought to himself. That Everson has spent literally hundreds of hours with Donato probably made answering the question even harder: the guy has layers.
The first is Donato’s experience in the NHL and at Harvard. Donato skated for the Crimson from 1987 through 1991 and scored twice in the 1989 NCAA championship game, helping Harvard raise its only national championship banner in program history. From there, Donato played 13 years and 796 games in the NHL, including parts of nine seasons with the Boston Bruins.
At Harvard and in college hockey, few things trump tradition and experience: As a national champion-turned NHL veteran, Donato has instant credibility in both communities. This was much of the attraction when Harvard hired him in July of 2004.
“If you are a Pee Wee player in this area, you can look at Ted Donato and say to yourself, ‘If I work hard, I can go to Harvard,’” Athletic Director Bob Scalise said at Donato’s introduction, summing up the administration’s enthusiasm.
And yet one thing a Pee Wee player could not look at Ted Donato and see was a coach: fresh out of the NHL, Donato had never coached a game, nevermind run a whole program.
His first two years behind the Harvard bench provided some answers to the coaching questions, at least. Playing with recruits from previous head coach Mark Mazzoleni, Donato piloted the Crimson to consecutive 21-win seasons and NCAA Tournament berths. Though the Crimson bowed out twice in the first round, the fast start “gave me confidence in the fact that I could coach,” he said.
It took longer for Donato to master the administrative side of running a program. This included the art of getting recruits into the University. Harvard’s academic standards for recruited hockey players are among the highest in the Ivy League and all of Division I. Working with a smaller pool of potential players, Donato embraced—and perhaps pioneered—what has become a popular Harvard pitch: “it’s not just about the four years you’re here, it’s about the 44 after.”
“I always said that was me, 100 percent,” he said. “I’ve been saying that for 10 years.”
Donato admits that he learned these and other responsibilities essentially on the job. “Nobody gave me a lesson on fundraising,” he quips.
This brings up a second layer of Ted Donato: ego. Like all professional athletes, he has one. He’s not shy about his NHL success, or that he maximized his earnings by playing on a number of one-year contracts, betting on himself each year and generally making out ahead. But as a coach, Donato has done his best to put his ego on the sidelines when a different approach might benefit the program. He’s willing to make changes, even if it means looking at the log in his own eye.
Donato’s humility was tested profoundly four years ago. The season before his toughest year as a coach, the 2011-2012 Crimson campaign had ended in the ECAC championship game with a 3-1 loss to Frozen-Four-bound Union College. En route to the final, Harvard surged in the last third of the season with the help of three exciting freshmen: goalie Steve Michalek and defenseman Patrick McNally—two ECAC All Rookie Team selections—and Everson, a defenseman. After the season, the mood around the team was positive: The Harvard Gazette declared the campaign “A Measure of Redemption.”
“There are seasons where, as a coach, you feel spent at the end. You need to take a breath and regroup,” Donato told the university’s official news publication. “Then there are seasons like this. And you can’t wait to get playing again.”
But as he spoke in the spring of 2012, things were already set to unravel. About two months after the article was published, a number of his players turned in a take-home exam in one of Harvard’s most popular classes, Government 1310: “Introduction to Congress.” After similarities emerged across a handful of exams, the College conducted a full review of the class’s more than 250 exams. Shortly after they returned to Harvard for the fall semester, Michalek, McNally, and Everson were notified that they were being investigated. By Dec. 7, when Harvard skated against Merrimack, all three had left the team.
“Like any other team, we might have had some problems with the academic scandal,” goalie Raphael Girard said after the 2-2 tie.
The problems were significant, on and off the ice. In the former department, the roster losses were crushing for the Crimson, who was forced to call up a club hockey player just to form a team for two games in January. With McNally and Everson, two defensive standouts, Harvard had allowed 2.14 goals per game; without them, that number skyrocketed to more than four. Embarrassing defensive breakdowns became the norm.
“When you’re finding ways to lose hockey games, this is how you give up goals,” chided NESN broadcaster Andy Brickley during the Crimson’s 4-1 loss to Boston College in the Beanpot.
Off the ice, it was worse. The team did its best to help Michalek, McNally, and Everson leave discreetly, but the media immediately connected the departures to the Gov. 1310 investigation, publicly tying the players to the “Harvard academic cheating scandal.”
Before his players left, during their absences, and after their return—when NCAA eligibility became an issue—Donato was their advocate-in-chief, pouring hundreds of hours into their cases. This role occasionally put him at odds with others at Harvard who simply wanted to move on from the cheating incident.
“I have a great relationship with Coach Donato, and unfortunately that’s probably because I made him work really hard for me along the way,” McNally said. “He was a tremendous help to me…. He did take it personally. He had a vested interest in us.”
This is the third layer of Ted Donato: unflinching loyalty.
“In each kid individually, I think that there’s a connection that we had that really impacted me,” he said this year. “None of us are above making mistakes in life, [and] the public nature of it is something that I wouldn’t want on my worst enemy, never mind a kid that’s trying to do a lot of things the right way in life.”
All of Donato’s work for his implicated players could not save the season on the ice. One bright spot was Jimmy Vesey, the centerpiece of Donato’s top-ranked freshman recruiting class. Vesey, from local Harvard-feeder Belmont Hill, led the team with 11 goals and 18 points and was named Ivy League Rookie of the Year. Harvard finished 10-19-3.
A number of fans wondered openly if Donato would, or should, return as coach, and the media took aim at Donato’s performance. “Can Crimson Coach Ted Donato ’91 possibly gain absolution for this year’s circus?” asked Michael D. Ledecky in The Harvard Crimson. “In the past, calls for Donato’s job have been silenced by late-season success,” wrote another reporter, Alex Koenig. “But Harvard should critically assess what it considers excellence on the hockey rink.”
It is difficult to be optimistic after a 10-win season, but ahead of the 2013-2014 campaign, some believed that the returning talent would return the team to relevance.
After a year off from school, Steve Michalek, Patrick McNally, and Max Everson returned for the fall of 2013. The season began awkwardly in October, as Ted Donato benched the returning players for the number of games they had appeared in the year before. Because they had played partial seasons before leaving, the trio was in a complex situation with the NCAA and would likely need a waiver, eventually, to receive their full four years of eligibility.
But even after the players got back into game action, reintegration wasn’t immediate. For Michalek and Everson, the college game was a step up from the United States Hockey League, where they had played on their year off. For McNally, it was a return to competitive action entirely: he had been too old for the USHL and so had spent his year off working.
“We had a good lineup, but those guys were coming off not playing [college] hockey for a year, and they weren’t the same,” Jimmy Vesey remembered.
When Donato looked at his team, he increasingly worried about off-ice dynamics, recognizing a connection between the state of the team away from the rink and its performance every weekend.
In his players he saw impressive individuals, good hockey players and good guys in school and the community, but he didn’t see cohesion or a team-wide commitment to leadership. Donato believed he and his staff were at least partially at fault.
“We had to take a hard look and say, ‘are we making a big enough commitment and taking enough responsibility for the answer to that question of how are you perceived on campus?’” he said early in the 2015-2016 season. “I don’t think that we were ever a team full of derelicts or negative people on campus, but I felt we could be better, and I felt that to have a winning culture, you had to have kids that wanted to win on campus.”
The solution came early in the 2013-2014 season, when a friend connected Donato with former Navy SEAL Adam La Reau, a leadership and team-building speaker who was beginning a one-year program at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government.
“I got a phone call from somebody who was a friend of a friend and said, ‘Hey listen, I know Coach Donato really well and they’re having a tough time with leadership and a tough time just kind of getting guys [together], uniting, and creating a process of winning,” La Reau remembered.
A few hours later, he was sitting across from Donato in the hockey offices, talking about leadership and how he could help the Crimson come together and build a winning culture again. La Reau’s “process of winning” was all about goal setting and accountability: He wanted to help the Crimson by helping each player think like a leader and see it as his responsibility to hold teammates accountable towards shared objectives.
The work began with an introductory survey. One question asked each player to indicate an important date in his life: some players answered with hockey events, but many others gave personal dates and experiences that meant a lot to them. Flipping through the responses, Donato realized that he hadn’t completely taken stock of his players’ off-ice stories, even as those narratives likely motivated them each day. He began to note these days and occasionally pulled a player aside, just to let him know that his coach was there for him.
But other results from the survey weren’t as pretty. When asked about their goals, members of the Crimson were all over the map. Some just wanted to win a few more games—to be respectable, but not great—while others seemed most concerned with their chances to make the NHL. Curious one day, La Reau asked the team to tell him why the top recruit in the nation would choose Harvard: though there were at least two or three players in the room who had been among North America’s top recruits, nobody could offer a coherent pitch.
The inconsistent goals and weak recruiting pitch suggested a bigger problem: the players didn’t really know what their mission was, what values were important to the team, or what it meant to play for Harvard Hockey. Working with La Reau, Donato and team captain Dan Ford began to work on a team ethos that would seek to answer these questions. When it was completed the next season, it read in part:
“Team members embrace the responsibility of acting with integrity in all facets of life, for their decisions reflect upon their University, coaches, teammates and themselves. We understand and accept the sacrifices necessary to reach our full potential as a team.”
Another section read:
“I am expected to always act with the team’s interest first. I view every day as an opportunity to get better as a person, player and teammate. I am disciplined with my studies so when I am at the rink I can focus solely on Harvard Hockey.”
The ethos was part of a new commitment to changing the team’s culture: “Grit, aggressiveness, mental toughness, and perseverance form our identity,” the abstract read. It went along with a number of new goals that La Reau, Donato, and the players agreed on, many of them having little to do with hockey.
The usual milestones—winning the Beanpot and the national championship—remained in place, but they were complemented by an agreement that the players would push for a higher team GPA; embrace community service as a team, rather than individually; and place a men’s hockey player on the athletic department’s student advisory council.
Over the next few months, the Crimson limped to another disappointing campaign on the ice, finishing 10-17-4. The few positives centered on the freshman class, which had been another dominant recruiting effort by Donato. It included two of North America’s most sought-after players, Sean Malone and Alex Kerfoot; during an otherwise disappointing season, the rookies benefitted by getting regular ice time.
“I was put in position where I played a lot of minutes, which was awesome for me just to get thrown into the fire,” now-junior Luke Esposito remembered. “Teddy just kind of threw us out there…. We had an experience that, at a lot of schools, freshmen don’t get.”
The end of the season was bittersweet: the calls for Donato’s job remained, but behind the scenes everything was changing. In captains’ elections, the players picked two teammates well suited for the task at hand. Everson had gone through more than almost anyone to wear a Harvard jersey. He also represented the progress Donato’s program had made before the 2012-2013 season; now three years older, he was a senior set to be a lynchpin in the revival everybody had planned. Junior Kyle Criscuolo had emerged as a primary facilitator of La Reau’s efforts to work with the team in areas like academics and community service.
As the Crimson broke for the summer, they hardly resembled the team that had won 20 games in the past two seasons. Under Criscuolo—an undersized player who was a gym rat by nature and necessity—and Everson, Harvard was in the process of embracing a new intensity in the gym, with Vesey working on adding eight pounds of muscle and Kerfoot striving to transform a frame that had been undersized his freshman season. During the summer, many players stayed on campus working out five mornings a week in a grueling regimen known as Summer Dogs.
They were also treated to a blast from the past: summer reading. The first edition of the men’s hockey team reading list included Alfred Lansing’s “Endurance: Shackleton’s Incredible Voyage,” a personality profile book called “Strengthsfinder 2.0,” and “Winner’s Manual” by former Ohio State football coach Jim Tressel. The goal, in La Reau’s words, was to give the players “books and language so they can start thinking at 20,000 feet, so they can start thinking about the team, about themselves, and about being better teammates.”
Everything about the 2014-2015 season screamed “fresh start.” Over the summer and early fall, the finishing touches had been put on what is now the Bright-Landry Hockey Center. Renovations to the concourses and brand new team locker rooms, a palatial work room for equipment manager John “Odie” O’Donnell, and a sprawling coach’s suite instantly made the players feel like professionals.
Now all they needed to was play like them. Ted Donato says that he never lost sleep over the prospect of being fired, but a third-straight 10-win season was not a gamble he could afford to take.
“When you’re a coach, ultimately you’re hired to be fired,” he said early in the 2015-2016 season. “I’ve lived in a results-oriented business [in the NHL] which didn’t take breaks for anybody…. It wasn’t lost on me that there is pressure to win and pressure to run a program the proper way.”
Entering the year, Donato was confident about Adam La Reau’s work with the group. One big change that started with La Reau and ran through co-captain Kyle Criscuolo was community service. Individual players had done service work before, but now it became a team-wide pursuit.
The first big event was a charity wiffle ball tournament in the spring, and then the Crimson began the fall by volunteering at a school in an underprivileged area.
“Outside the rink you get to know the as people better, especially the new guys and freshmen,” Criscuolo said. “I think it was pretty important.”
The next step was to take the good feelings to the ice. In June, Donato made another move that a less confident coach may not have made, bringing in Paul Pearl as his associate head coach. Pearl brought to Harvard 19 years of head coaching experience at Holy Cross—twice as many as Donato—161 more career wins, and more NCAA Tournament success.
“That tells you that Ted Donato is very confident in himself, confident in his ability,” ESPN’s Barry Melrose  said during a recent broadcast. “A lot of coaches would not bring in a guy that might challenge your authority [or] take some credit away from you, but Teddy really realizes that the bottom line is, ‘We have to get this program to where it should be and can be.’”
Pearl brought clear positives to the staff, most obviously his experience coaching the defense, which had been a problem for the Crimson in previous seasons. Pearl’s teams were also known for structure, grit, and attention to detail—attributes which would complement Donato’s freer, more creative approach to the game. The second assistant, former Northeastern forward Rob Rassey, complemented this relationship by handling the brunt of the staff’s recruiting responsibilities.
Perhaps the most important lingering question from the prior season was who Jimmy Vesey would play with. During his first two years, Vesey had scored 24 goals with an inconsistent rotation of playing partners, mainly due to the Crimson’s injury problems. Everybody agreed that Vesey needed a consistent ride, and during preseason practices run by the captains, he began skating with Criscuolo and Alex Kerfoot.
It was a natural combination: Criscuolo was a points machine, Kerfoot a lethal distributor of the puck, and Vesey a natural destination for those passes, one who could shoot or act as a decoy to free his teammates. Donato had tried the combination for four games to to start the 2013-2014 season, but Kerfoot had gotten hurt, and the trio had not played together since.
A few weeks later, Donato wrote 19-14-11—jersey numbers for Vesey, Kerfoot, and Criscuolo—on the locker room whiteboard as Harvard’s top line before the season opener against Dartmouth. The line paid immediate dividends, as Kerfoot scored Harvard’s first goal in the renovated Bright-Landry Hockey Center, assisted by Vesey and Criscuolo. The tilt ended 3-3, with two electric goals from Patrick McNally, who looked every bit like the dynamic two-way defenseman that Donato’s offenses thrived on.
“I thought they were outstanding, and I think we needed them to be,” Donato said afterwards of the Vesey-Kerfoot-Criscuolo grouping. “They have the opportunity to be a real go-to line for us.”
In the next two seasons, 19-14-11 would dress as Harvard’s top line 59 times, accounting for a staggering 205 points in games they played together, or 3.47 per game.
After the Dartmouth tie, Harvard went undefeated in its next four, highlighted by a statement victory against No. 8 Boston College. Once again, the 19-14-11 line was dynamic: Kerfoot scored a hat trick, propelling Harvard to a 6-3 win, its first over BC in eight years.
The BC win was the first in a stretch of 10 wins in 12 games, Harvard’s best run in recent memory. Even the players were surprised: they had never had this much success before.
“At the beginning of games it was like, ‘Is this going to be the one where we actually fall apart?’” sophomore forward Luke Esposito said. As the New Year approached, Harvard showed no signs of doing so. They were rolling with outstanding play in net from Steve Michalek and at left wing from Vesey, who had 10 goals by the turn of the calendar.
Riding the wave, Harvard made it to No. 1 in the national PairWise rankings—which are used to select the 16-team NCAA Tournament field—on Jan. 10. That night, the Crimson stumbled against Yale in the “Rivalry On Ice” at Madison Square Garden, sending fans into a mini-panic and reporters to their keyboards, looking to write something negative.
“Calm down,” Harvard’s assistant director of athletic communications, Brock Malone, remarked quietly in the press box the next weekend. “They just won eight games in a row.”
Harvard promptly ran Clarkson out of the Bright-Landry Center, 6-3.
After the win, the Crimson was 11-2-2. Predicted by the media before the season to finish ninth in the 12-team ECAC, Harvard was now a sexy pick to reach the Frozen Four in Boston.
It was the first time in a while that people expected the men’s hockey team to win every night. In interviews and around campus, Vesey began to talk about “the resurgence of Harvard Hockey.” It was certainly in the making, with his help: his 10 goals by the end of December became 18 by the end of January and 22 by the end of February. People started to ask him about his candidacy for the Hobey Baker Award, given annually to the best player in college hockey. “I don’t think about that much,” he’d say. Vesey preferred to talk about “the resurgence” and “restoring the tradition” of the program.
But as Vesey surged, the Crimson came back to earth. Injuries were a major culprit. Colin Blackwell, heavily recruited and named ESPN Boston’s “Mr. Hockey” before he matriculated in 2011, was a local mystery: after 33 points in his first two seasons, he did not dress once in 2013-2014 due to major concussion issues, and at the start of the 2014-2015 campaign his presence was nothing more than a rumor. Some people thought Blackwell was still a factor, but nobody was sure if he would ever play again.
Sean Malone was approaching similar speculative status: every week some predicted his return, and, save three games in December, he did not appear on the Crimson line sheet. Other injuries included Kerfoot for nine games—Dec. 5 to Jan. 30, during which sophomore Tyler Moy filled in on the first line and Harvard went 6-4—and Esposito from Jan. 24 to Feb. 7.
The Crimson took each of these more or less in stride. The team may have slowed down, but it still seemed a sure bet to make the NCAA Tournament.
But then, on Jan. 23 at Cornell, McNally seriously damaged his knee. The team did its best to call the injury a “lower body” one and not release a timetable, but everybody who saw the play thought “ACL.” While McNally publicly held out hope that he might return during the postseason, many declared the end of his collegiate career, including the first doctor who examined him.
“We were told he was out for the year. That’s what we had to go on,” Donato said.
The loss was crushing: players hate seeing any teammate go down, but the connection with Michalek, McNally, and Max Everson was especially strong. After Gov. 1310, from Donato on down, the program had rallied behind the players who left. They appreciated how much they had gone through in order to wear the Harvard jersey.
McNally, in particular, was an energizing force. On the ice, he was the player that made Donato’s offensive system really click, because he could move the puck in and out, through the neutral zone, and then on net with a lethal shot. Around the locker room he never stopped smiling, even as he spent six weeks limping awkwardly to his three-hour rehab sessions with trainer Chad Krawiec. Without McNally, the consensus went, Harvard had no chance to get past Yale in the ECAC Quarterfinals, a must-win series for the Crimson, who had by then played played themselves out of an at-large bid to the NCAA Tournament.
On March 13, the Crimson’s bus pulled up to Ingalls Rink—“the Yale Whale”—with confidence. McNally was with them. He was not close to 100 percent, but he desperately wanted to play and the doctor said he could. Donato penciled him in.
“You have to understand that Patrick McNally was a guy that played with a chip on his shoulder and loved the spotlight and loved competing in the big games,” Donato said later. “I think that having that personality injected back into the lineup—along with the skillset of the talent, but really the confidence—I think that was really helpful. We knew that Pat was a difference maker.”
Donato let Brock Malone, the team’s information director, break the news.
“You’ll want to see this, guys,” Malone said as he walked into the press box with the Crimson’s active roster for the game. And there was No. 8, to the left of 37, McNally playing with Desmond Bergin. “Huge return for Harvard Hockey,” tweeted “College Hockey News.”
It was an all-time college hockey series. By now, Vesey’s torrid goal-scoring pace—he had 25 entering the series—had caught the notice of his NHL team, the Nashville Predators, who watched intently and drew up plans to get Vesey to Tennessee whenever Harvard was eliminated. But Vesey kept Harvard rolling, scoring the game-winners in Game 1 and the deciding Game 3. McNally figured prominently, particularly in the deciding game when he tied it up late in the third period.
Harvard’s then-junior class had entered the series with an 0-9-1 record against Yale: for a Crimson team plotting its own revival, getting past the Elis was no small feat.
“I’m too tired to put any intelligent thoughts together,” Donato said afterwards, the adrenaline coursing through his veins and bringing out the giggles. “I told the guys after, ‘I just feel humbled to be a part of it.’”
It was one of the biggest wins of the coach’s career, on the shoulders of a herculean performance from McNally and yet another Vesey triumph. The next weekend in Lake Placid, Harvard’s skill and speed—accentuated by the larger ice rink at the Olympic Center—overwhelmed Quinnipiac and Colgate, with Vesey scoring goals 28, 29, 30, and 31. He was leading the country, and Harvard was headed to the NCAA Tournament as the ECAC champion.
It is said that sports are especially cruel because, at the end of the year, every team except the champion goes home devastated. This is one way to look at Harvard’s 2014-2015 season.
After winning the ECAC Finals, the Crimson flew to South Bend, Ind., for the NCAA Midwest Regional. In the regional’s first game, No. 16 Rochester Institute of Technology upset No. 1 Minnesota State-Mankato, practically snowplowing Harvard’s road to the Frozen Four in Boston. The players knew what was on the line before they hit the ice.
“You talk about rebuilding the hockey culture at school: how do you do it better than that, than playing in the Boston Garden?” now-junior forward Devin Tringale said.
But it was not to be: Omaha came out and took advantage of the Crimson’s troubling habit of allowing soft goals  early in big games. They led 2-0 at the end of the first, jarring Harvard into a hole the team couldn’t dig out of. Omaha 4, Harvard 1.
Vesey was shaken after the game, Everson sniffling but stabilized, Donato simply stunned. The season had been part revival, part roller coaster: at one point, they had fallen from No. 1 in the country to No. 21, before the storybook run that saw them beat Yale and win the ECAC title. The question put to Vesey at the post-game press conference was: Is Harvard men’s hockey back?
“When you look at our lineup, we’re still very young, very talented, and we have a great coaching staff,” Vesey said in the postgame press conference. “I’d say Harvard Hockey is here to stay in the long run in the national picture.”
Vesey finished the season with 32 goals, tops in the country, and was a finalist for the Hobey Baker Award. The Predators told him they wanted him on the next flight to the NHL.
If the program was, as Vesey said, “not going anywhere,” the question remained: was Vesey?
After scoring his second game-winner in three nights against Yale in March 2015, Jimmy Vesey became emotional in the Harvard locker room. As he celebrated with his teammates and hugged Pat McNally, whose third-period goal had extended the game long enough for Harvard to win, he couldn’t imagine leaving Cambridge for Nashville.
And when the Crimson lost to Omaha in the NCAA Tournament two weeks later, Vesey could only think of unfinished business. Harvard lost on a Saturday and was home Sunday afternoon. By Tuesday, Vesey had told the Predators that he was coming back to school.
“I knew that I wanted to finish it through, and I know we have a lot more in store for us this year,” he said the next season.
Vesey’s return was a milestone moment for the Crimson. In many respects, it validated everything Ted Donato had been preaching internally: here was his best player, so committed to his team and his school that he was passing up a $925,000 contract. As the season got underway, Vesey began to work with Brock Malone, the team’s information director, to put his thoughts into writing. A few months later, “The Senior” appeared in The Players’ Tribune.
“I would’ve had a hard time looking my coaches in the eyes and telling them I was leaving,” Vesey, a government concentrator, wrote. “[Harvard] is a tight-knit community, everyone’s pulling for each other, and everyone shares the same hatred for our Ivy League competition.… You don’t want to let [the community] down, either.”
In two sentences, he captured just how far the program had come. Attendance had jumped since his freshman year, and with direction from Adam La Reau and Donato, the team was working hard to fully integrate itself with the rest of the campus.
As the 2015-2016 campaign got underway, those efforts continued.
Off the ice, the players were embracing efforts in the community and in the classroom: the team GPA during the fall would rise to 3.45. The team had also worked with the its faculty liaisons, Law School professor William P. Alford and Timothy B. Brown, managing director of capital gifts for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, to organize a faculty dinner.
Another project that began early in the season was Vesey’s candidacy for the Hobey Baker Award. Last season, his 32 goals had not been enough to unseat a yearlong favorite, the Boston University freshman phenom Jack Eichel, but Vesey and the staff had found the experience, particularly the behind-the-scenes campaigning for support, eye opening. He entered the 2015-2016 season as one of the favorites for the award.
And, on the ice, the Crimson was aiming high.  As the team entered the season, the goal of an NCAA title—one set by every team, but feasible for few—seemed more realistic than ever. At a preseason meeting, Kyle Criscuolo and Vesey—a newly elected co-captain—stood at the locker room white board and wrote National Championship at the top of a long list.
***
If Harvard was to reach the Frozen Four in Tampa, the coaching staff knew that the burden of preparation fell on them.
In a sense, though, the program had been building toward this for years. Because of the nature of college hockey recruiting, this roster—Harvard’s best in some time—had actually been built between 2010, when the current senior class was recruited, and 2013, when Donato had pulled in the current freshman class. That group included his son, Boston Bruins second-round pick Ryan Donato.
One of the reasons many people around the program saw the 2015-2016 season as Harvard’s best opportunity in some time to make postseason noise was that the senior class, led by Vesey and Criscuolo, had now played together for three full seasons. There was a similar meshing effect with the coaching staff, now together for its second year. In particular, the structured approach of Paul Pearl was emerging as a neat complement to Donato’s, which centered on the former NHL-er’s ability to see things on the ice that nobody else could.
The most direct manifestation of this Pearl approach came in the film room. On almost every game day, the Crimson met six hours before puck drop for a catered lunch and a 10-15-minute video review of the opposing team’s tendencies. Pearl and Rob Rassey generally alternated hosting the meeting and narrating the clips, and Donato would periodically jump in with something like “I just want to make sure everyone sees this with their forecheck.” Often, not everyone had seen it like Donato. The sessions always closed with an upbeat address by Donato.
“Hey guys, not a bad team tonight,” he said more than once, “but let’s not worry about them. Let’s get out there and play our game.”
Early in the season, that’s exactly what Harvard did: the Crimson was 4-1-1 at Thanksgiving, and that weekend, Harvard won twice more to capture the Shillelagh Tournament. The four-team draw was hosted by Notre Dame in South Bend, Ind., the site of the Crimson’s devastating loss to Omaha in the NCAA Tournament the previous March. The players had written the return engagement on the locker room whiteboard as one of the season’s goals. “Win the Shillelagh Tournament—check,” Vesey wrote on social media after the Crimson’s 4-0 defeat of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in the final.
***
The next checkpoint came a month later in Minneapolis. Donato loves mid-season tournaments because he feels they simulate the one-and-done situations the Crimson hope to play in every postseason, and on Jan. 2, Harvard had a chance at another trophy. The night before, they had rolled over Ferris State, 7-3. Tonight, the opponent was the University of Minnesota. The Gophers were expecting a sellout in their 10,000 seat arena.
“We have a chance on a pretty good stage here. We have a chance to win this tournament,” Donato told his players at the end of the film session, which Rassey had run. “This doesn’t come along enough times, guys. And to me, when we look back on this, even years from now, this will be one of our signature wins. We want to look back and say ‘we went into Minnesota and won their tournament.’”
It was a signature game in more ways than one. Harvard got out to a 2-0 lead, but nothing could quiet the Gopher crowd: the Crimson had never played in an environment quite like this. Multiple times, Harvard goalie Merrick Madsen’s net came loose due to an issue with the ice. The Gopher crowd, though, saw the situation as Madsen purposefully pushing the net off in order to interrupt the Minnesota attack.
“He’s doing it on purpose!” someone yelled as thousands of boos rained down on the Harvard sophomore.
The same crowd exploded when the Gophers cut the lead to 2-1, and then scored two goals in 28 seconds to lead 3-2, with 5:31 to go.
Still trailing 3-2, Donato pulled Madsen from the net with 90 seconds to play, giving Harvard an extra forward. With 58 seconds to go, he called timeout. He had told Rassey to be ready to draw up an end-of-game “we need a goal now” play, and as Vesey, Criscuolo, Alex Kerfoot, Luke Esposito, Colin Blackwell, and Victor Newell skated over, the young assistant stepped confidently into the huddle.
Rassey gave the group a simple plan: Esposito, Harvard’s best faceoff man, would need to win the draw in the Minnesota zone. Then he would cycle the puck to the top of the zone, and the Crimson would work on getting it near the net to Vesey, who could shoot himself or pass to an open man with a better angle.
It worked perfectly. Esposito got the puck to Vesey, and the entire Gopher team seemed to lunge at the Harvard star. This left Criscuolo open: tie game. In overtime, a similar Gopher error—lunging at Vesey and leaving Criscuolo open—gave Harvard the 4-3 win.
The game was a three-hour exhibition of everything the Crimson had been working for during the last three years. Nobody in the media could remember, for example, the last time Harvard had scored with the goalie pulled to win or tie a game. “I can’t either,” Donato said after. “That probably means it’s been too long.”
“Grit, aggressiveness, mental toughness, and perseverance form our identity,” the team ethos claimed, and in Minnesota, the Harvard team had shown all four qualities.
“Win the Mariucci,” Vesey wrote on Instagram that night, “Check.”
***
After the win in Minnesota, Harvard had a grand opportunity. They were 8-1-3, and with wins in the next week at home against BU and in New York against No. 1 Quinnipiac, they would move to No. 1 in the nation.
Instead, things went in the other direction. With 10 minutes remaining in the third against BU, Criscuolo scored from Vesey and Kerfoot to give the Crimson a 5-3 lead: the game appeared to be in hand. But then, with 4:11 to go, Blackwell went to the box on an unsportsmanlike conduct call that surprised both benches. The Terriers responded with three goals in the next two minutes. BU 6, Harvard 5.
Donato was livid, first at the official and then at his team. They had taken their foot off the gas at exactly the wrong time. Madsen, coming back to earth, hadn’t been there to bail them out.
“I think he would be the first one to say that he wasn’t as sharp as he wants to be, or needs to be,” Donato told reporters about his goalie after the game.
Privately, he was even more cutting.
“Merrick was terrible in that BU game,” he said. “Awful.”
He told Madsen the same thing, and the sophomore tried to appreciate the candor. “It pushed me harder in practice every day…. At least we’re not beating around the bush,” he said.
Prior to the BU debacle, Madsen had yet to lose a game. Thrust into action after Steve Michalek, along with McNally and Max Everson, lost their appeals for an extra year of eligibility, Madsen rattled off a 7-0-2 record to go along with a .956 save percentage through his first nine games, appearing to put a stranglehold on the starting job.
But the next time out, Jan. 9 against Quinnipiac at Madison Square Garden, the staff decided to see what they had in freshman goalie Michael Lackey, who had been injured throughout the first half. But the Crimson didn’t show up early—“[Lackey] got thrown to the wolves in that game,” Tringale remembered—and the freshman faced a series of odd-man rushes in the first. Harvard was down 4-0 after 13 minutes. The Crimson mounted a comeback, but lost 5-4 in OT. Donato tried Lackey again the next weekend against Clarkson, but had to pull him after he allowed three goals in the first 30 minutes.
“When Lackey came back [from injury] we thought, from what we saw in practice, that they were pretty close,” Donato said a few days later. “Maybe we were wrong. We’ll see.”
The goalie controversy ended with Madsen back as the starter, just in time for Harvard’s Beanpot semifinal matchup against Boston College, one of the biggest games of the year: Harvard had not won the four-team tournament since 1993 or even been to the final since 2008.
***
Harvard schedules an Ivy-maximum 29 regular season games per season, but there is nothing like the Beanpot. When the Crimson walked to the team bus outside the Bright-Landry Hockey Center on Feb. 1, two Boston Police motorcycle escorts were waiting.
The tournament meant even more than usual to the 2015-2016 team. With Vesey, Tringale, Blackwell, Desmond Bergin, and the Donato family, the Crimson had a local feel, and Vesey had been vocal about wanting to win before he graduated.
“Our guys have had this game circled on the schedule for a long time,” Donato said an hour before puck drop. “It’s been a long drought here at the Beanpot…. I know our guys are very excited about the game.”
But it wasn’t to be. Harvard opened with a massive defensive breakdown, treating Madsen to an unmarked Eagle free in front of the net. BC led 1-0 just 1:35 in, and although Harvard took the lead at the end of the first, two penalties in the second doomed the Crimson. In what should have been one of the most frantic, emotional third periods of the season, Harvard had nothing. BC 3, Harvard 2.
“Yeah, it sucks,” Vesey said later. “Especially my senior year, we had bigger plans than that.”
The Beanpot ordeal stretched into the next week, when Harvard trudged back to the Garden to play in the consolation game. The opponent was Northeastern, a team four games under .500 but playing some of its best hockey. And the Huskies quite clearly wanted to win more than the Crimson. Lackey got his last start of the year and, once again, the defense in front of him was nonexistent, allowing two and three-on-ones at will. Northeastern 5, Harvard 1.
When things were going badly, the coaches usually preferred to talk to individual players in private. The staff agreed that it didn’t make much sense to embarrass a player who was trying his best just for the heck of it. But the Northeastern loss had exposed recurring flaws, particularly in the defense, and so Donato told the team to get dressed for practice but wait in the locker room on Wednesday, Feb. 10. Pearl cued up the video.
“There’s some bad stuff in here,” he began.
The clips showed various hustle miscues and a general weakness at moving the puck out of the defensive zone, which was giving opponents great chances in front of the Harvard net.
“It’s wearing on everybody where we turn it over like it’s a damn Pee Wee game,” Pearl said, his voice rising. “We cannot give it away to the other team.”
What got to the coaching staff most was an emerging trend of giving up on plays and not sprinting to the puck.
“When you’re not playing as hard as we can, you’re letting the team down,” Pearl told the defensemen. “We can’t do that when we have six games left in the season and want to win an ECAC title.”
Years ago, it may well have fallen on Donato to both blow up at the team and then pick up the pieces, but respect for Pearl was so high that the head could skip straight to playing savior.
“[Pearl] also has a mean side to him as well, I think the presence of a head coach and an associate head coach really put us in line, made us focus,” senior defenseman Brayden Jaw said. “Paul brings a really strict and fierce demeanor with him that you don’t want to piss off.”
The dirty work done, Donato walked up to the whiteboard and began drawing: going forward, he wanted Harvard’s defenders to get more involved in the offense. This wasn’t explicitly forbidden in the current system, but Donato wanted more firepower. He knew that aggressive play up front would demand a little more from Madsen, but he needed the team to play with more confidence, and scoring created confidence.
“We’re talking about making a little adjustment…but let’s not think of it as an X’s and O’s thing,” Donato said. “It’s a commitment level and execution thing.”
The team responded. They split at home the next weekend, and then on Feb. 19 tied Cornell, 2-2, to earn at least a share of the Ivy League title. Feb. 20 was Senior Night, and in one of the most entertaining games of the year, Criscuolo scored his 17th, Vesey his 19th and 20th, and Harvard won 7-4.
The team was thriving in the newly aggressive system that Donato had given them to play. Jaw, who had come to Harvard as a forward before moving to defense, was emerging as a potential two-way threat in the new scheme, racking up four points in the four games that followed the Feb. 10 film meeting. His previous season high for points was three.
***
Since the loss to Omaha in the previous year’s NCAA Tournament, the Crimson had thirsted for postseason hockey, for the chance to redeem the loss and keep moving forward as a program. On Sunday, March 20, Harvard was on its Peter Pan bus leaving Lake Placid, N.Y., as the ECAC runner-up when it received its next destination. The Crimson would play Boston College in Worcester, Mass., that Friday in the NCAA Northeast Regional semifinals.
March had mostly treated the Crimson well. The team had run all the way to the ECAC Finals on the strength of an onslaught from the top two forward lines. In the ECAC Quarterfinals, the Crimson had outscored RPI, 13-4. Most encouraging was the performance of Sean Malone, the talented but oft-injured forward who had scored three goals against the Engineers.
After beating St. Lawrence in the conference semifinal, the Crimson faced Quinnipiac for a second consecutive Whitelaw Cup. They began the game out-skating the Bobcats five-on-five, but a five-minute penalty to Esposito at the end of the first period gave Quinnipiac target practice on Madsen. They scored twice and ran away with the game, 4-1.
The players and staff saw the game as a late wake-up call, a reminder of how ill-timed penalties could ruin seasons in March.
“There’s nothing worse than losing your conference’s championship game,” Pearl said before practice the week of the NCAA Tournament, “but there could be an advantage to losing the championship game and still going [to the NCAA’s] because now they know what it feels like.”
The biggest story of Harvard’s ECAC playoff run, however, was one nobody wanted to think about. During the second period of Harvard’s 8-2 series-clinching rout of RPI, 6’7” defenseman Wiley Sherman had gone down awkwardly in the corner. He skated a few more shifts, but left the locker room after the game with a cast somewhere on his upper body, as the team preferred to disclose. It was an important enough area that he was done for the season.
Looking ahead to BC, the coaches were concerned about the lineup without Sherman: against the Eagles’ forwards, who had tremendous size and speed, the Crimson were worrisomely small on the back end. In Lake Placid, sophomore Thomas Aiken had filled in well. Aiken was the team’s only walk on, but he was playing like a recruit. Not only had he avoided mistakes, but he also made two critical plays, getting back as the last man and potentially saving a goal in each game.
But Aiken was still small and relatively inexperienced, and the coaches worried that trotting him out against BC’s size up front would create a fatal mismatch. Jacob Olson, another freshman who had made a game-saving poke check in Minnesota, offered more size, if less polish. A third option was Newell, a lynchpin of the defense and the power play in the first third of the season, who was approaching full health.
“Your gut when you look at BC is no Tommy Aiken,” Pearl said in the coach’s locker room on Wednesday, the Crimson’s last full day to prepare. “But then you watch the tape from Lake Placid, and he’s one of our best players at times.”
***
On Thursday, March 24, the Crimson got on its Peter Pan charter and drove to Worcester for NCAA media responsibilities and a short practice. The staff was leaning towards starting Aiken in Sherman’s place, a decision they would firm up that night.
It was not the end of Harvard’s problems on defense. Not even close. Not traveling with the team on Thursday was Bergin, the veteran leader of the defensive corps. Bergin had been fine the day before, but around dinner time he’d come down with the chills and a fever. He woke up on Thursday with a 103-degree fever, 36 hours before the biggest game of his career.
“I was pretty sure I wasn’t going to play,” he said later.
And yet there he was the next morning, white as a sheet in a gray Harvard Hockey sweatshirt after being dropped off at Worcester’s DCU Center by his mother.
“Well Des, I’ll guess we’ll just give it a try, huh?” Donato said, greeting him and smiling nervously.
Bergin hit the ice for 15 minutes at the end of Harvard’s Friday skate. He told Donato he could play, but the coach told Newell to be ready.
After the skate, the Crimson headed first to a local restaurant for lunch, then back to the hotel for film. Everybody was early—a rarity for the Crimson—and Pearl ran the clips. The team sat in silence, focused and listening for his impromptu poetry as the words filtered through the room:
On the forecheck, we can’t let them pass into odd-man rushes.
If we can get the center open, we just have to work together, D’s and center.
We know if we run our little D exchange they’re going to try to jump it.
We’ve got to know that and vary what we do on the draw.
Offensive zone draw they’ll run, kind of swing up high and just throw something on the net.
This is all stuff we work on, guys, that we just have to be good at tonight.
Can’t get beat up the ice by their 3rd or 4th guy.
They’ll be jumping.
This is all stuff we’ve seen, guys.
It’s just a matter of us playing our systems.
The Friday film meeting was always brief, meant to highlight the same aspects of every opponent’s game, and many elements were review. Today, moreover, the coaches were more concerned about BC’s rich forward talent than its particular systems. Though Madsen was tending some of the best net of his career, few predicted that he would shut the Eagles out.
Thus, the staff emphasized special teams. Harvard had recently struggled on the penalty kill, but when other teams went to the box, the Crimson featured one of the best power plays in the nation, scoring nearly 30 percent of the time. Pearl was the primary architect.
Just know guys: If we get four power plays tonight, we’ve got to score twice.
Pearl wrapped up and ceded to Donato, who opened up the Moleskine notebook that he carried with him almost everywhere—to the rink, to the couch at night where he took notes on NHL games, and to bed in case an idea popped into his dreams.
It was something of a running joke among the Harvard team that some of Donato’s pregame speeches were near identical—alternating emphases on “play our game” with “let’s start fast boys” and “we gotta play physical out there”— but this was different. This was the NCAA Tournament.
Even going way, way back when we were here, when we played these teams, the only guys that thought we would win were the guys in our room.
Donato rarely brought up the 1989 national championship during the season, and certainly not at the weekend film meetings. But with the Crimson an underdog against a more traditional hockey power, Donato had been here before.
When we played Michigan State, they said ‘Michigan State will destroy them.’
When Donato took the Harvard job in 2004, about 15 years after he scored two goals in the Crimson’s national championship victory over Minnesota, he had talked about focusing “more on the journey than the end result.” He believed in that message, to a point. Tonight was that point: somebody’s season was going to end.
The only guys we need to believe need to be in this room.
I know we’re going to win tonight.
 I believe we’re going to win tonight.
 We don’t need to pull a rabbit out of the hat, we don’t need any magic, we just need to play hard.
We just need to play as as a team, and we’ll get our two points tonight.
College hockey is a game of momentum, and for all the progress Harvard has made in the last three seasons, the team has often struggled to find momentum in the biggest of games.
But the Crimson felt that this year, and this game, would be different. The players had planned for this for 12 months, the NCAA Tournament hanging in their heads as they worked out every summer morning in Tim Mullen’s grueling Summer Dogs program; as they became creatures of the road and missed Thanksgiving, New Year’s, and countless campus social events; as they skated suicides to Ted Donato’s whistle after a 5-1 loss to Clarkson in January.
“We didn’t play that well in the Beanpot and we lost 3-2, and they were like ‘Mighty BC,’” said Jimmy Vesey, who still remembers the lack of interest the Eagles showed in him as a high school player. “So we were confident. We talked in video, went over them, [we] thought that they were very beatable as a team.”
Because the first semifinal game in Worcester required double overtime, the Harvard-BC nightcap started more than an hour late, forcing the players to suppress their adrenaline as long as they could. But when the game finally got started, the Crimson showed life, surviving an early BC barrage and controlling the play for the next six minutes, courtesy of a number of strong shifts from the second unit of Luke Esposito, Sean Malone, and Colin Blackwell.
But then, eight minutes in, the Eagles seized the momentum when 6’4” forward Alex Tuch—a first-round pick who left after the season for an NHL contract—went into the crease, pushing Merrick Madsen into the net and, as Desmond Bergin tried to push him away, found the puck and put it across the line.
“That goal to me was almost like a, ‘here we go again,’ type thing,” Devin Tringale said. “Just deflating. I mean, obviously you never show that during the game, especially because I’m a vocal guy. I’m just like, ‘Oh, we’re gonna score, we have the next one,’ but deep inside, [there’s] that pit in your stomach.”
It got worse. Trailing now by two in the last minute of the first, Vesey dangled into space and passed the puck to Brayden Jaw at the top. The defenseman who had thrived in Donato’s reorganized system shot it and created a juicy rebound that Kyle Criscuolo backhanded past BC goalie Thatcher Demko—and into the right post. CLANG was the closest the Crimson would get to a game: BC made it 3-0 early in the second and didn’t look back. The Eagles added an empty-net goal to win, 4-1.
When the final whistle sounded, Vesey dropped to one knee and the Crimson lingered, stunned. After handshakes, they went back to the locker room, where Donato said something brief and gave his players time to say goodbye.
As the seniors took their jerseys off for the final time, each player hugged the graduates, and then the seniors hugged each other.
“Anytime you play for a program, you definitely want to leave the jersey in a better place,” Vesey said after the game as he and Criscuolo fought back tears at the mandated NCAA press conference. “The last two years, getting back to the NCAA Tournament, and then [having] more support for the team, was a great start. And I’ve said this before, but Harvard Hockey’s not going anywhere I don’t think…. I wouldn’t be surprised to see a national championship anytime soon.”
***
Harvard’s season ended in tears on March 25 in Worcester.
“Well that was probably the saddest room I’ve ever been in,” Esposito said. “ A lot of emotions flying around, guys sad that we lost but also sad that it’s the last game you’ll ever play in [with the senior class].”
“We truly believed we were going to Tampa,” Criscuolo said, speaking of the site of the Frozen Four.
Two weeks later, everybody was celebrating, thanks to Vesey. But before he could put a triumphant stamp on Harvard’s season, he had to figure out his next professional steps.
Drafted by the Nashville Predators in 2012, he had chosen to play all four years of college. This meant that, after his Harvard career ended, he could either sign with Nashville immediately or become a free agent after Aug. 15, gaining the ability to pick his team.
Predators officials followed Harvard’s year closely, and a delegation attended the Crimson’s final game against Boston College. They wanted to sign Vesey to a contract and fly him to Tennessee to play as soon as possible. But after the game, Vesey met the media and went back to campus.
“My mind was kind of made up at that point,” he said later. “We had just lost the season: that’s one of the things that pissed me off most about the whole situation. It took me a few days to regroup from that loss, and the last thing I was thinking about was going to Nashville. If I did go, it probably would have taken me a few days.”
A few days later, Vesey announced his intention to become a free agent. Predators fans everywhere cried foul, alleging that Vesey had returned to Harvard primarily to game the system and earn free agent status.
“No, that’s bullshit,” Vesey said as the dust settled. “I tried to focus as much as I could the whole year on Harvard, but it did weigh on me a lot the whole year.”
As speculation about his NHL destination exploded, the Harvard forward had one last thing to accomplish in college hockey. At the end of the season, Vesey had been selected as one of the final three candidates for the Hobey Baker Award.
But even as he made the Hobey Hat Trick for the second straight year, most experts predicted that Kyle Connor, a freshman forward at the University of Michigan who had 71 points to Vesey’s 46, would take the prize.
“I didn’t think they’d fly me down there just to lose,” Vesey said.
He was right. In a ceremony in Tampa, Florida on April 8, Vesey became the fourth Harvard player to win the Hobey.
A few days later at the team’s postseason banquet, Donato was beaming. Vesey’s award had cast a new light on a season that had ended short of everyone’s expectations. Just like his return the year before, it seemed to validate everything Donato had been saying about what it meant to be play for Harvard Hockey. It was still true that the Crimson had come up short against BC, but now there was a consensus. The program was moving forward.
Vesey, as usual, was quiet at the banquet, rising for a short speech—he was, once again, the team’s MVP— in which he thanked his teammates, coaches, and supporters of the program.
Donato had more to say. Addressing the players, parents, and supporters, he spoke of “the idea that being a better person makes you a better Harvard Hockey player,” and gushed praise on Vesey, Criscuolo, and the seniors. “The guys in this room have really redefined the kind of leadership we want in this program,” he said.
As the dinner broke up and the players headed to their last bus ride of the season—from the Downtown Harvard Club of Boston back to Harvard Square—Donato could not stop smiling.
“You saw how the negatives can spiral,” he said, “but now we’re seeing how the positives can spiral, too.”
—Staff writer Matthew Q. Clarida can be reached at matthew.clarida@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @MattClarida.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
It was a perfect pass.
Suspended in mid-air, suspended in time, the football hung in the late October chill of Harvard Stadium.
Hordes of helmeted players lined either side of the field. Dartmouth was in white, green, and black. Harvard in black and crimson.
Behind them rose rows of spectators. The temperature had dipped below comfort, but most of the 13,058 remained, arranged in coliseum orderliness and waiting for a moment such as this one to happen.
Somehow, in the vast choreography, Big Green wide receiver Victor Williams stood alone in the end zone. The pass was intended for him, and he cocked his chin up to follow the arc of the ball.
The senior was hardly used to catching passes in these conditions—cold New England nights before thousands of strangers. He was raised in Muskogee, the 11th largest city in Oklahoma, and played for his local public school. Even there, he was undersized; as it turned out, a 5’9” football player was a shrimp in any sea, Muskogee or otherwise.
But Williams had those two key ingredients, natural talent and drive. He was a black belt in karate. A hurdler and 100-meter sprinter. An engineering major at Dartmouth, which was rare among his gridiron teammates.
On the field, he made a living off quick feet and sharp routes. So far that season, he was averaging over 109 receiving yards per game. As small as 5’9” might have seemed, few coaches could bear to overlook him these days.
Certainly, many eyes were on him now as he waited for the ball to drop. Footsteps approached, gasps and cheers bounced around the horseshoe, and inch by inch, the ball drifted downwards.
Finally Victor Williams reached out his hands.
***
As soon as the final champagne cork had settled to the ground following Harvard’s 2014 triumph over Yale, a single date loomed for the 2015 Crimson squad.
It was October 30, 2015, meaning the matchup with the Big Green.
“It was the one I had marked on my calendar,” senior wide receiver Seitu Smith said. “You don’t want to get too wound up in the fact that it’s going to be a tougher opponent… [but] we couldn’t have asked for a better matchup.”
In 2014, Harvard had escaped Hanover with a 23-12 victory, handing Dartmouth its only loss of the season and putting the hosts’ title in jeopardy.
The next week, jeopardy became reality when the Crimson squeaked past the Bulldogs, simultaneously capping an undefeated season and denying the Big Green a share of the trophy.
Such deep wounds scar but do not disappear. Heading into 2015, Dartmouth espoused a single aim—to win its first Ancient Eight championships since 1996—and therefore courted a single opponent—Harvard.
Media pundits recognized this hunger, as well as the talent that Dartmouth returned. A preseason poll picked the Crimson and the Big Green to finish one-two.
The start of play bore out these expectations. In the six games leading up to the climactic showdown, neither team lost.
The Crimson frolicked from rout to rout, averaging 44 points over the first six weeks and holding four straight teams to seven or fewer points.
Meanwhile, Dartmouth put up no less than 30 points per outing. While a 13-9 victory over Columbia on Oct. 24 provided unexpected tension, the Big Green never trailed in that contest and held on despite 17 penalties for 161 yards.
“We all knew that this was going to be the premier matchup of the season, especially with the way games were going with our previous opponents,” senior linebacker Jacob Lindsey said. “We were blowing everyone out.”
By the time week six rolled around, a perfect storm of stakes, history, and success had formed. The matchup was scheduled for a Friday night, the first time Dartmouth kicked off on a Friday evening since the 19th century.
More than that, the Big Green had lost 11 straight to Harvard. More than that, the Crimson was riding a 20-game winning streak. More than that, both teams had undefeated records, and the winner seemed destined to take the Ivy League.
In any season, Harvard-Yale matters a great deal. But in 2015, with everything on the line, Harvard-Dartmouth was The Game.
***
Just past 7:30 p.m. on October 30, kicker Kenny Smart raised his hand above the redone turf of Harvard Stadium and advanced toward the tee. Then the ball was in the air. Above the screams and sudden chaos, the scoreboard gleamed: Crimson 0, Big Green 0.
That scoreless draw held for less than three minutes. On the strength of a 43-yard strike from Dartmouth quarterback Dalyn Williams, the visitors advanced across midfield.
Huffing and puffing, the Harvard defense called a timeout to ready a last stand. Sophomore linebacker Luke Hutton provided the crucial play, causing a third-down incompletion and forcing the Big Green to settle for a 33-yard field goal.
“We came out flat as a team, actually,” Lindsey said. “Personally I was wasting a lot of energy during the day just getting psyched about it.”
To many teams, especially the few that put up over 40 points a game, a field goal deficit might have occasioned nothing more than a blink. But for the Crimson defense, three points was nearly half of what the team was accustomed to yielding.
Through the first six games, Harvard led the country with seven points allowed per outing. That stinginess carried over from 2014, when the Crimson topped all programs in scoring defense.
If the defense powered the program, then the linebacker trio of Matt Koran, Eric Medes, and Jacob Lindsey powered the defense. All weighing at least 210 pounds, the three players ranked one-two-three in tackles for Harvard and generally played as many snaps as their lungs could handle.
Medes was the most experienced, a three-year starter out of St. Joseph’s Prep in Philadelphia who had topped the Harvard roster in tackles as a sophomore.
Lindsey was the most athletic—a title substantiated by his appearance on the All-Ivy second team in 2014.
Meanwhile, by popular decree of players, Koran was the most leader-like. At the end of last fall, teammates named him the 2015 captain, the 11th straight defensive player to man the position.
A tremendous wrestler and catcher in high school, Koran stood three inches shorter than Medes and Lindsey but tackled with ferocity. He wore great amounts of eye black, and by the end of most games, that color smeared his cheeks.
In short, this 4-3 defense was not a unit comfortable with early deficits—which made what came next even more surprising.
Starting with 10:13 left in the first quarter, the Big Green mounted the most dominating drive of its season. The possession began at the Dartmouth six and lasted 7:24.
On the 17th and final play, running back Ryder Stone took a handoff and plunged through the center of the defense. He landed in the end zone, clutching the ball and a 10-0 lead.
A few yards behind him, Williams raised his arms in touchdown formation.
It was a familiar pose for the senior, who had started games for the Big Green since arriving as a rookie. Growing up in a suburb of Dallas, he had played at Lake Dallas High School, a 5A program with a football stadium in the shadow of a water tower.
That preparation impressed Dartmouth coaches enough to entrust responsibility to the young play-caller, and he responded by winning Ivy League Rookie of the Year. These days he was team captain and averaging 318 yards of total offense per game.
“We just have to line up as an offense and execute,” he had told the newspaper The Dartmouth prior to the game; less than 15 minutes into play, this was exactly what the Big Green was doing.
***
As Williams and company marched up and down the field, the Harvard offense remained stagnant—either stuck on the sidelines or entrenched on the field.
The team’s first drive had stalled at the Dartmouth 41. Then the score was 3-0; now it was 10-0, and an air of desperation smothered the sidelines.
The Crimson responded on the ground. Taking a handoff, senior wide receiver Seitu Smith ate up 20 yards, and soon enough the Crimson faced a first and goal from the five, seemingly ready to hit back at Dartmouth’s defense.
A word about that defensive unit: those guys could play. In late August, exactly half of the players on the Preseason All-Ivy first team defense hailed from the Big Green. Midway through 2015, the group had met this billing, holding opponents to nine points per outing, second only to Harvard in all of FCS football.
Little surprise, then, that two straight rushes by Stanton lost nine yards, leading to a field goal attempt.
As it turned out, “attempt” was the right word. A blocked kick preserved the clean sheet, and the pigskin was returned to the Harvard 26. In the Crimson fan section, cathedral silence accompanied the development.
With a rush and two passes, Williams the quarterback turned a tough situation even tougher, setting up first-and-goal from the one for Dartmouth. Painfully, almost comically, a Crimson substitution penalty moved the ball one-and-a-half feet closer.
But against statistical odds and mounting momentum, the defense held, forcing a 22-yard field goal try. Remarkably that kick sailed wide left, keeping the score at 10-0.
On the Big Green sideline, senior linebacker Will McNamara watched with rapt attention, if not grudging admiration.
The 235-pound tank knew a thing or two about goal-line stands. A unanimous All-Ivy first teamer as a junior, McNamara had been named the Preseason Defensive Player of the Year.  With chiseled muscles that exploded from jersey sleeves and red-blonde hair that curled outside his helmet, he resembled a Greek statue as much as a college player.
Now it was his turn to make a play.
Starting at its own 13 with 3:45 left in the half, the Crimson zoomed ahead thanks to a 53-yard bomb to senior receiver Andrew Fischer. After some offensive sputtering, 19 seconds remained in the half. The ball was on the 15. Crowd noise was nearing lawnmower levels.
Crouching under center, Hosch collected the ball and scanned the end zone. With one soft twist, he flipped the ball over the middle—and right into the hulking figure of McNamara, who was waiting at the five-yard line.
As the groans of the home crowd floated into the sky, the two teams split for their locker rooms. Above them, the silent scoreboard still loomed: Dartmouth 10, Harvard 0.
One half of all-deciding football had been played. Another half remained.
***
As a freshman, wide receiver Andrew Fischer wore No. 32 for the Crimson. Rookies got last pick of jersey number, and by the time his name came up, No. 32 was the best option remaining.
These days, though, he claimed a shirt number closer to his heart: No. 1.
Talkative and buoyant, Fischer laughed a lot and had a smile that scrunched his eyes.
On the field, that energy remained. As former quarterback Conner Hempel put it: There was fast, and then there was “Fischer fast.” A top-25 hurdler in high school, he dazzled opponents with a combination of speed and body control.
For many Crimson fans, his career reduced to a single instance of athleticism: mid-afternoon on Nov. 22, 2014, when he outran his Yale defender and hauled in the winning score with 55 seconds left.
A year later, the lesson from that contest remained: Speed wows, speed excites, and speed can change games.
When the second-half whistle blew, all Fischer needed was a couple of blocks and a glimmer of open turf to return the kick 53 yards. He came up howling. New life in the horseshoe.
Three plays later, the Crimson faced a fourth-and-six from the Big Green 31—the first of many moments that would feel decisive.
As usual, quarterback Scott Hosch shouldered the responsibility.
It was not hyperbolic to say that, up to this point, he had never let his team down: Heading into the Dartmouth matchup, he had never lost a college game.
But Hosch hardly fit the mold of a hotshot play-caller. He had emerged in 2014 only after an injury consigned Hempel to the sidelines. Now a senior, the Georgia native possessed neither a cannon arm nor exceptional athleticism.
Instead, what he did possess was quiet self-confidence that emerged as nonchalance. A three-time captain in high school, Hosch thrived by making good decisions—or, more precisely, by not making bad ones.
However, facing a key fourth down, a bad decision was exactly what he made. Rolling right, Hosch twisted across his body and flicked a pass over the middle.
For the second time that evening, the throw dropped into the hands of McNamara. So great was the senior’s excitement, and so loud was the Dartmouth crowd, that he nearly bulldozed Harvard running back Paul Stanton Jr. before falling to the ground.
Less than 28 minutes remained, and an offense averaging 44 points per game had yet to score a single one.
***
All season Harvard made stops with low stakes, when the offense had already put up four or five touchdowns. Tonight, obviously, was different.
This first Dartmouth possession of the half presented the first test. And aided by two holding penalties, the Crimson passed, limiting the Big Green to its side of the field. Punt.
Perhaps now was the time for Harvard to put points on the board. Certainly, a trio of completions to tight end Ben Braunecker raised that hope, as the Crimson marched to the Dartmouth 17.
First and 10 in the red zone. Three-year starter Paul Stanton Jr. was lined up in the backfield.
A Louisiana prospect, Stanton had dreamed of going to a local school—possibly LSU or Tulane—before college recruiters and his 5’9” height intervened. But largely thanks to a 4.4 40-yard dash, he had landed at Harvard, where he had claimed the starter’s role since sophomore year.
Now the senior grabbed the ball, looking to inject some energy into a moribund offseason. Instead a Big Green player slammed in, causing Stanton to bobble the carry. The ball popped loose and fell to the turf; players dropped to the ground.
Moments later, a straight-armed umpire confirmed what the stadium had suspected: a third Harvard turnover in Dartmouth territory.
“It felt like we couldn’t get a break,” Lindsey said. “It was kind of hopeless for a while, but at the same time, you have to put your head down and do everything you can.”
Energized by the turn of events, Williams pranced onto the field.
Suddenly, he could not miss a throw. Four straight completions advanced his team to the Crimson 27, and the Big Green lined up for a first down.
Harvard, to put it mildly, was in disarray. Four times, the offense had seemed on the verge of score, and each time some calamity (a blocked field goal, an interception, an interception, and a fumble) had derailed the attempt. What more could the Crimson do?
On the other side, Dartmouth’s offense seemed able to move the ball at will—something no Harvard opponent had been able to do so far. With the score still at 10-0, with the Big Green threatening to add more, and with the clock suddenly becoming a factor, hope had retreated to the back row.
Let us watch, then, with removed attention as Dalyn Williams slaps his hands and spreads the Dartmouth offense. Across the line, Lindsey and his fellow linebackers crouch in position.
The ball snaps, and Williams takes a few jab steps back before opening his hips to chuck a screen to wide receiver Ryan McManus.
McManus does not cross the line of scrimmage. Instead, he grips the ball by the laces, pivots, and lofts a 27-yard pass to the end zone, where Victor Williams stands alone.
Suspended in mid-air, suspended in time, the football hangs in the late October chill of Harvard stadium.
The eyes of the stadium are on Williams now as he waits for the pass to drop. Footsteps approach, gasps and cheers bounce around the horseshoe, and inch by inch, the ball drifts downwards.
Finally Victor Williams reaches out his hands.
And he drops the ball.
“If we were supposed to lose that game, he would’ve caught that pass,” Smith said. “I remember saying, ‘Oh, we’re going to win this game now.’”
***
If linebackers Koran, Medes, and Lindsey formed the heart of the Harvard defense, then offensive linemen Cole Toner, Anthony Fabiano, and Adam Redmond formed the heart of the offense.
All three men stood at least 6’5” and weighed at least 290 pounds. But as large as the unit was in stature, the group loomed even larger in impact.
In 2014, the Crimson finished second in the FCS in tackles for loss allowed and yards per rush. Those metrics hinted at the effectiveness of the bunch—a crew of individuals that stuck together on and off the field.
After the 2015 season, all three signed with NFL teams. Toner, a government concentrator with quick hands and a quicker mind, went in the fifth round to the Arizona Cardinals. The Ohio native Redmond signed with the Indianapolis Colts, and the eminently quotable Fabiano did the same with the Baltimore Ravens.
But against Dartmouth, at least for the moment, the trio only mattered as a group. Collectively they formed the last line of defense against the veteran Big Green front line.
Early in the fourth quarter, they took on an additional role: three-headed battering ram.
With 11 minutes remaining to play, Dartmouth held a 13-0 lead. Although Williams let that sure-fire touchdown slip through his hands, the possession did not end on that play. Two quarters after missing a 22-yard chip shot, Dartmouth kicker Alek Gakenheimer earned a measure of redemption by nailing a 39-yarder.
“We were just sitting there looking at the clock,” Smith said. “We’re thinking, ‘The clock’s winding down, we’re down two touchdowns, [and] this one doesn’t look like it’s going to be good. This was supposed to be our year.’”
But six minutes after the field goal, Harvard held the ball. More than that, the team stood on the Big Green’s one-yard line. Suddenly it was up to the veteran front line to finish the deal.
On first down, Stanton rushed for no gain.
Still present and yelling, the Big Green fan section reached a higher octave. Surely nothing could be more dominating than a stand at the one-yard line—a mano-a-mano stop in the fourth quarter with the visitors up 13-0.
On second down, Hosch rushed for no gain.
Right as Hosch was slamming to the ground, the referees called a late offsides penalty on the defense, giving the Crimson another chance to run the play. As it turned out, Harvard elected to work through Hosch again.
On the re-done second down, Hosch rushed for no gain.
Crucial seconds ticked off the scoreboard. With each rush call, the Crimson kept the clock running, raising the stakes of a score right here and now.
On third down, Stanton rushed for no gain.
Toner, Redmond, and Fabiano were tired. Three times, they had bent their knees only to see the ball move minimally, if at all. They faced a wall, and the wall was not moving.
Now, with the screams of fans reverberating around the coliseum, Murphy faced a decision: to run again through the stuffed middle or risk a pass? He relayed his instructions to Hosch, who convened the huddle.
Harvard came out in power formation, foreshadowing a run. And a run it was: Hosch pushed against the backs of his senior linemen before spinning away to dive for the goal line.
He came up short, again. No gain.
Half the stadium exploded in the loudest cheers of the night. The Dartmouth bench stormed partway onto the field, colliding with victorious defenders and yelling themselves.
It was a remarkable display of grit, willpower, determination and prowess—any intangibles applied. After the game, Dartmouth coach Buddy Teevens would say that he would never forget that stop.
For the Crimson, the emotion yielded to a cruel reality. Roughly 10 minutes remained, the score was 13-0, and the Big Green defense had just prevented Harvard from gaining a yard on five consecutive plays.
Maybe, just maybe, the luck of a magical 20-0 run had run out.
***
Senior wide receiver Seitu Smith learned to run routes in the hills of Florida. His dad did the teaching, and along with his younger brother, Semar, who would join Harvard football in 2014, Smith was a ready pupil.
By the team he reached high school, Smith was a bruising rusher with a touch of finesse. He emerged as a top-100 player in South Florida and earned attention from such big-time programs as the University of Alabama and the University of Michigan.
But Smith’s mother also had something to teach her son. Born and raised in the Philippines, she had always stressed the importance of education. Now that Smith was weighing college options, she pushed him firmly in the direction of the Crimson.
So Smith appeared on campus in 2011 as a kick returner and all-around athlete. He averaged 30 yards per go, including a 91-yard score on Freshman Parents’ Weekend.
Mid-college injuries limited some of that potential and forced Smith to stick around for five years. But by the time he lined up across from his Dartmouth defender, the fact remained: he was a high-caliber player with a track record of big plays.
By then the Crimson faced a third-and-12 from the Big Green 39. Backpedaling, Hosch tried to find freshman wide receiver Justice Shelton-Mosley, but the toss fell to the turf.
It was now fourth-and-12, in a two-possession game, with less than seven minutes remaining.
“That was one of my first plays as receiver that game,” Smith said. “I started at running back.”
The play call was all verticals—a series of straight-line sprints. But as the team broke the huddle, Hosch gave Smith more specific instructions: to give a stop-and-go to try to drop the defender. Smith agreed.
The ball snapped. Smith broke the line. He hesitated and pumped his arms. He looked up.
The pass was in the air—high and spinning. Just a half-step back, Smith’s defender put his hand up and leapt to defend the ball; Smith leapt too. Then everything crashed to the ground, leveling the pylon and kicking up turf pellets.
“He put it where only I could catch it,” Smith said. “There was no sound at first.”
Although Smith clutched the ball to his chest, it was not until the referee deliberated and raised his arms that the news traveled around the stadium.
Finally, after 53 minutes of play, something had broken in Harvard’s favor.
***
Temporary elation aside, the score still stood at 13-7 with 6:38 left, and Dartmouth owned possession. The Crimson needed to prevent first downs in order to have even a slim chance of victory.
The defensive stop, it turned out, was relatively simple. Mirroring early-season form, Harvard held the visitors to a single first down. The ensuing punt placed the ball at the 20 with 4:26 left. Time to work.
But the Big Green defense had other plans. Smarting from Smith’s miraculous grab, Dartmouth stonewalled the Crimson on three straight plays.
Another decision confronted Murphy: whether to risk a fourth down deep in Big Green territory (in which case failure would likely end the game) or to punt the ball and pray for a defensive stop (in which case two or three first downs would likely end the game).
He chose to punt. With 3:43 left, Harvard’s defense trudged onto the field, either to mount a last stand or concede the hard-played game.
For Dartmouth the task of closing out the contest fell to compact running back Ryder Stone. The son of a ranch foreman, Stone stood 5’11,” weighed 205, and ran with the grinding inevitability of a bowling ball. All he needed to do now was push through a few exhausted defenders, and the much-coveted victory belonged to the Big Green.
Standing in his way was Lindsey. A two-year starter, the senior talked slowly, projecting a casual-yet-deliberate demeanor.
This appearance belied his on-field energy. Earlier that season, Murphy had called Lindsey perhaps the most athletic linebacker in the league.
This night, the result of the contest hinged on whether Lindsey’s conditioning was strong enough to withstand the previous three-and-a-half quarters.
Dartmouth’s possession opened with a pass—a 15-yard dart that moved the team near midfield. Less than three minutes remained, and the Big Green held the ball on the 49.
On first down, Williams advanced to the line only to call an audible. The new play was a speed option, designed so that Williams would rush to the outside before pitching the ball to Stone.
So Williams did: He grasped the snap and flipped it to his running back. Across the line, Lindsey tracked the toss and headed for Stone.
“We had a good idea of what they were going to do pre-snap given their motion,” Lindsey said. “I couldn’t see the ball on contact. I just tried to hit him as hard as I could and pop the ball out.”
When the two players collided, it was a hard hit: Lindsey smashed into Stone from behind, jarring the sophomore’s body.
It all took place in front of the Harvard sideline, meaning that the whole team had a good view. The players saw the option and saw the hit. A second later, they saw the ball pop into the air and settle onto the turf. An unambiguous fumble.
As junior defensive lineman Langston Ward dove on the ball, the sideline hopped up and down in childish glee. Headsets fell to the ground, and arms pumped. The referee waved his hands and chopped his arm.
“There was no doubt at that time,” Smith said.
Improbably, after all the mistakes and misfortunes, the Crimson had possession with a chance to take the lead.
***
Svelte and soft-spoken, Justice Shelton-Mosley pretty much resembled a typical freshman receiver. He wore No. 17—like Fischer’s No. 32, not a popular pick—and during warm-ups, his size made you wonder whether it was safe for him to jog around a field full of 220-pound linebackers. Then play began.
In his very first college game, Shelton-Mosley’s very first catch was also his very first touchdown: He skipped past his cover and caught a bomb in the end zone with space to spare.
That start prefaced a season of unusual highlights—unusual because Murphy was normally hesitant to play freshmen at all.
Needless to say, with the Crimson looking to consummate the Dartmouth comeback, the lithe rookie was on the field.
As exciting as the fumble might have been, there was still the matter of scoring a touchdown against the second-best defense in all of college football. More, Harvard had just 2:54 to do so.
For seven plays, Hosch alternated completions with incompletions, trading yards for seconds.
Finally, less than a minute remained, and Harvard held the ball inside the 10. First-and-goal against a physical defense. All spectators out of their seats.
On first down, the Big Green stuffed Stanton for a two-yard gain. Second down saw a different play call, but the result was the same as a pass to Smith went for two yards before the senior tumbled out of bounds.
Fifty-nine minutes of boxing had come down to a pair of jabs. Assuming no improbable turnovers, the Crimson had two chances either to punch home the victory or collapse in exhausted defeat.
In the end, it took only one try. Hosch rolled to his right, Stanton headed for the pylon, and a swarm of defenders followed the running back. Meanwhile, in the middle of the end zone, Shelton-Mosley stood as still as a statue.
“It was a big moment for a freshman, obviously,” Smith said. “He’s a kid we relied on the whole year, so I’m sure he was ready for it.”
Hosch saw the rookie and zipped the ball there, ignoring heavy traffic. As the pass flew, a Dartmouth defender launched himself in the air, aiming for the hit and the break-up.
Yes to the hit, no to the break-up: Shelton-Mosley grabbed the ball, and he hung on.
***
Thirty-eight seconds. That’s how long the Big Green had to move the ball into field-goal range.
Moments before, Harvard kicker Kenny Smart had lined up for the extra point. Accustomed to the automaticity of professional players, many fans were not aware of the tension of the moment. Already that season, Smart had missed two extra points. With the score tied at 13-13, a made PAT was no guarantee.
But the sophomore proved cool under pressure, nailing the ball through the uprights. Crimson 14, Big Green 13.
Still, 38 seconds remained. Scott Hosch stood on the sideline, not far removed from the trio of Cole Toner, Anthony Fabiano, and Adam Redmond that had protected him all night. They had played their last snaps of the evening; they were spectators now.
So were wide receivers Andrew Fischer and Seitu Smith. On the field, they were No. 1 and No. 2, respectively; off the field, they were blockmates. Win or lose, odds were that the pair would turn to each other—for celebration or support.
Dalyn Williams, Victor Williams, and Ryder Stone—they were all on the field trying to score, with Will McNamara urging them on.
Jake Lindsey, Matt Koran, and Eric Medes—they were all trying to prevent that possibility.
With yells filling the air and lights shining down, the Big Green took the field. And those 38 seconds began counting down.
Starting from the Dartmouth 35 after an out-of-bounds kickoff, Williams the passer found Williams the receiver for 20 yards. This time the Muskogee product held on. First down at the Harvard 45.
Next, Williams threw a dart down the middle to Ryan McManus for 16 yards. First down at the Harvard 29.
One more solid completion would put the Big Green securely in field goal range. But the Crimson secondary stiffened up to force a no-gain screen out of bounds. Still at the 29, less than 10 seconds left.
Electing to try one more play, Williams backpedaled to evade the pass rush. He escaped the pocket but felt additional pressure bearing down on him.
Still dancing around, Williams was letting seconds slide off the scoreboard. It appeared that this play would be the last one. So the quarterback heaved a Hail Mary into the end zone. It sailed and sailed, landing outside the field.
Immediately Harvard players rushed the field. The ball had dropped; the game was over; they had won.
But a referee whistle indicated otherwise: Exactly one second remained on the clock, meaning enough time for a field-goal try, meaning enough time for Crimson heartbreak and Dartmouth redemption.
Harvard players and coaches were livid. A game that ended only to be un-ended? Even on a night full of twists and turns, the development seemed absurd.
But the officials stuck to their call, and the two teams filed to their respective sidelines.
This, truly, would be the last play.
“I was thinking ‘I hope this kick doesn’t go through,’” Smith said. “That was all I could think. We just went through all this. We had a fourth-down touchdown catch, Jake Lindsey pokes out a fumble, and then now they’re going to drive down?”
For the final time that night, Harvard Stadium drowned in immense sound as Dartmouth kicker Alek Gakenheimer prepared for the 46-yard try. He took a few steps back and gazed at the yellow uprights. The arbiters of his fate, they stood a world away, separated by gloom and chill and crowd noise.
“It was do-or-die,” Lindsey said. “I was pretty sure they weren’t going to make it just because of how the game had gone.”
The snap twirled back, the holder planted the ball, and Gakenheimer swung. The ball rose and rose and rose—until, in one violent jolt, it collided with the arm of Crimson defensive lineman Stone Hart.
As screams rose into the sky, the ball tumbled forward, prolonging the game as long as physically possible. Finally a Harvard special teamer converged on the pigskin and ended the night by dinking it out of bounds.
This was not the end of the season, and no championships had been won. But bedlam overcame the stadium. Coaches mixed with players; players mixed with fans. Helmets and water bottles littered the field.
“I was tired,” Lindsey said. “And we were all shocked.”
As chaos enveloped the field, the scoreboard gloomed silently above, just as it had throughout the night. But this time the neon letters displayed a different message.
Harvard 14, Dartmouth 13. And that’s all she wrote.
—Staff writer Sam Danello can be reached at sam.danello@thecrimson.com.
Sections
After she clinched the NCAA individual saber title her freshman season, it may have seemed that junior Adrienne Jarocki did not have much left to prove to the collegiate fencing community.
Yet after a disappointing finish at the individual championships her sophomore campaign—disappointing only in the sense that a tie for third place was a step down on the podium compared to the prior season—Jarocki found herself with something to prove on the biggest collegiate fencing stage her third time around at the yearly event held in nearby Waltham, Mass.
“I think like any NCAA’s, it’s really about persistence, and keeping your focus throughout the two days,” Jarocki said. “[It] is a marathon, so being able to push through it is the key.”
A 19-4 pool play record gave Jarocki the top seed heading into the direct elimination bouts, laying the groundwork for the title run to come. Fourth-seeded UC San Diego fencer Leanne Singleton-Comfort proved to be no match for the Harvard standout, and a 5-0 run to close out the title bout against Princeton’s Gracie Stone marked the end of another successful year and a return to the summit of individual fencing prowess at the college level.
“Words can’t really describe it,” Jarocki said immediately following the bout. “I think that not winning my sophomore year actually makes this win so much sweeter because I was able to overcome that—put it in the past—and do it again.”
Fellow junior co-captain Liana Yamin has seen her teammate’s ups and downs over the course of her career.
“[Adrienne] has always been dominant in the collegiate field,” Yamin said. “She proved that coming out strong freshman year. Sophomore year was definitely a disappointing upset for her, but the fact that she came and won it in junior year proves that it wasn’t in any way a one-time win but a representation of her continued growth.”
Despite her accomplishments on the individual stage, it was the team-focused success that set her junior campaign apart from—if not above—her freshman year efforts.
At the 2014 Ivy League Round Robins, a then-freshman Jarocki went an undefeated 18-0 on the weekend, earning her both Outstanding Performer and Outstanding Rookie Performer honors—a feat achieved for the first time by a Harvard fencer. However, despite six fencers earning All-Ivy honors for their performances, the Crimson was edged by the No. 1 Tigers.
The 2015 rendition of the same event ended in a similar fashion—Jarocki went 18-0 once again, yet two losses as a team relegated the women’s team to a tie for second place.
The third time was indeed the charm for Jarocki and the rest of her Crimson teammates in their quest for a fourth Ivy title in program history.
Ironically enough, it came with Jarocki finally posting a blemish on her previously-unbeaten Ivy performances—she would finish 17-1 over the course of the two-day, six-match marathon.
Despite the single loss, it was one of her final wins that sealed the share of the crown for her team.
“I was fencing the bout just before we found out that we would be co-champions,” Jarocki said. “When I won it, everyone rushed over to me in a group huddle and everyone was crying and laughing and jumping up and down.”
The picturesque moment of a triumphantly shouting Jarocki with one knee down at the strip and her teammates rushing towards her jubilantly with outstretched arms was just one of many celebrations for Jarocki on the year, but this one had a slightly different meaning for her.
“This is something we’ve wanted for so long and we haven’t won since 2009, and we always come so close and we just missed it [before],” Jarocki said. “It’s an incredible feeling to win it as a team…. There’s no better feeling than that.”
The victories in 2015-2016 for the women’s fencing team came under the guidance of two juniors—Jarocki and Yamin were nominated and chosen by the rest of the squad as captains before the start of the academic year and took the team to new heights.
“We worked incredibly well this year,” Yamin said. “We had a historic win at the Ivy League Championships, and she’s such a strong leader that it only taught me how to be a better [one]. I’m incredibly proud of what we were able to accomplish in terms of both team wins and team dynamics.”
The team’s schedule for the season was filled with W’s, with the Crimson finishing with a 14-1 team record. The only loss came against then-No. 1 Columbia at the Ivy League Championships, and came after Harvard drubbed Yale and Brown by 22-5 and 25-2 scores, respectively, the day before. Victories against Brandeis, MIT, and Boston College on Feb. 10, just a few days after the exhausting Ivy Championships, resulted in the program’s ninth Beanpot title.
In a performance that has become typical for her at the Beanpot, Jarocki finished 9-0—an improvement upon her 8-1 Beanpot showing her sophomore year. Overall, the women’s saber group carried the team with a 26-1 bout record over the three matches to culminate a nearly-perfect campaign for the team.
Though the Crimson women may have a tough time one-upping its 2015-2016 dominance, the group is poised for even further growth with just one senior—Aliya Itzkowitz—walking at graduation in May and new recruits joining the team in the fall.
In addition, the Jarocki-Yamin captain pair will continue into the future, as the team unsurprisingly nominated the duo to resume its captaining duties after the summer.
“We’re lucky enough to be given the opportunity to continue to work together next season,” Yamin said. “There’s so much that goes on behind the scenes as a co-captain, and it was incredible to see how hard-working, organized and caring [Adrienne] was in that role. I’m so happy to be working in that context again, and I can’t wait to see where that will take us next year.”
With Jarocki using her penultimate year’s worth of experience juggling captaining duties with her own individual performances to improve her focus and abilities, all eyes will be on her to continue her dominance of the sport next season in the quest to string together multiple NCAA titles on both the individual and team level.
—Staff writer Caleb Y. Lee can be reached at caleb.lee@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
It’s hard to pinpoint the best moment of co-captain AnnMarie Healy’s season. Maybe it was the last second turnaround jump shot to take Princeton into overtime. Or perhaps it was 27 points against Columbia where she shot a record setting 13-of-14 from the field. Perhaps it’s the fact that she never failed to score in double-digits all season or maybe it was the 18 points she scored against Yale in what was the largest comeback in school history.
The list goes on, but suffice to say, Healy leaves Cambridge as one of the most dominant forwards to lace up at Lavietes.
While it’s difficult to pinpoint the best game of her season, perhaps the most memorable moment came in late February when Harvard matched up against Yale at home. After the Crimson ran up a lead as high as 14, a jumper from Yale senior Nyasha Sarju tied the game at 63 with just over 30 seconds on the clock.
What ensued might just be one of the best finishes the Harvard women’s basketball saw all year.
“Sydney [Skinner] just gave me an incredible pass,” Healy said. “I did miss the first one, but I grabbed the rebound and was able to put the second one in. I ran back not knowing I had even won the game.”
Healy’s shot fell right as the buzzer sounded and the Crimson walked away with the 65-63 win.
Beyond the dramatic finish, the victory kept Harvard in the race for the Ivy League title and extended a Crimson winning streak to five games. Healy finished the contest with 21 points, seven rebounds, and six assists.
“As a player you totally dream about those moments, but don’t necessarily expect that they would happen to you,” Healy said. “I was just at the right place at the time.”
In an up and down season that saw the Crimson drop five in a row at one point only to later win six consecutively, Healy was without a doubt the most consistent player on head coach Kathy Delaney-Smith’s squad. Healy finished the season averaging a team-high 16.1 points per game on just over 50 percent shooting from the field—marks good for second and third best in the Ivy League, respectively.
In a starting rotation that featured two freshmen and three seniors, Healy was by far the most experienced on the roster. With classmates Kit Metoyer and Shilpa Tummala both missing significant time during their first three seasons due to injury, Healy quickly became to go-to forward for coach Kathy Delaney-Smith on a squad that lacked height to begin with.
“She was never injured and [injuries] have been a huge problem for us,” Delaney-Smith said. “Some talented players missed some key developmental time, but not AnnMarie. It’s why she’s gotten better and better.”
Through her first two years, Healy saw limited time behind standout forwards Erin McDonnell ’15 and Temi Fagbenle ’15, but in her junior year she broke out for over 13 points a game, shooting at a 52 percent clip. With dominant post moves, Healy was a force to be reckoned with on offense. The upward trend continued into her senior year as she became one of the best inside finesse players in the league.
“We definitely needed AnnMarie,”  junior forward Destiny Nunley said. “We lost a few of our forwards last year and [Delaney-Smith] was forced to move a lot of us to the four position, so we definitely needed AnnMarie to be a leader.”
Often drawing multiple defenders inside, Healy quickly became a threat inside both with her ability to finish through contact, or with the skill to find the open shooter on the perimeter. Healy finished her career with 964 points on 50.8 percent shooting from the field—the latter of which was good for sixth best all-time among Harvard players.
“She was basically unstoppable on the offensive end,” Delaney-Smith said. “She was certainly our go-to and even when our opponents knew she was our go-to they were not able to stop her very well. She’s just a very intense, very hard worker in games. Even when she was tired she fought through it and played like she wasn’t tired. She just had a tremendous senior year.”
—Staff writer Troy Boccelli can be reached at troy.boccelli@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In her first ever game with the Harvard women’s water polo team, freshman attacker Kristen Hong made her presence known early—and often.
Within two minutes, Hong scored the very first goal of the Crimson’s 2016 season off a rebound in front of the net. The rookie then went on to tally four more, finishing with five scores, an assist, and two steals in the season opener against Villanova.
If such a stat line was unsustainable, no one told Hong.
Hong’s entire freshman season shaped up to be a macrocosm of her first collegiate performance. Without skipping a beat, the rookie punched in a program-record-tying 80 goals and 35 assists. She also racked up 45 steals, enough to lead the team.
“She did a good job of coming in and figuring out what this team needed her to do,” coach Ted Minnis said. “She snuck up early on, on people—they didn’t realize how good she was. As she started getting on those scouting reports, she continued to produce.”
Her season included a team-high 21 multi-goal efforts, including 11 games with four or more strikes. This production reached a high point with a six-goal performance on March 17 against Villanova.
Given the numbers she put up, the Crimson’s young attacker will almost certainly be a mainstay on future scouting reports of opposing teams. Minnis gave praise to Hong’s character as a building block for continued growth.
“We had a very experienced roster coming back, and she took advantage of her opportunities,” Minnis said. “I think that just shows the kind of kid she is and how hard she worked throughout the year.”
For her efforts, Hong was named the team’s Rookie of the Year at the year-end banquet and collected a program-record five CWPA Division I/II Rookie of the Week honors. The recognition came as part of a record-breaking season for the Harvard team, as it posted a 24-10 record—the most wins in a program history—and its highest-ever CWPA ranking at No. 13.
While Hong put up big numbers, the season was hardly a perfect ride. Looking back, the freshman remembered moments of jitters and self-doubt especially in the minutes leading up to the opening sprint on the morning of January 30. That day, Hong put on a Crimson jersey for the first time.
“I just remembered I’d been very nervous,” Hong said. “I was like, ‘How good is Villanova? What’s going to happen there?’ One of my teammates was saying, ‘Don’t worry about it, you got it, we’re all going to do great.’”
Another aspect of the game that Hong had to contend with was the transition from high school to Harvard. The freshman graduated from Miramonte High School, a school in Northern California in an area that has sent several Olympians to play water polo for the country. Hong also captained the school’s water polo team during her senior year.
Still, even with all her previous experience, nothing can compare to playing the sport on a collegiate level.
“[Coach Minnis] was able to help me see the game in a different way and adjust to college water polo,” Hong said. “A big part of the transition was the speed of the game. The game was a lot faster in terms of practice and what’s happening... . You have to read situations and read the plays a lot of faster.”
Most importantly, the season provided a load of wear-and-tear on the entire team. Since it traveled to Italy over the winter break to train, the team was tasked with pushing through a season that was essentially a month longer than normal.
Running from late January to early May, the schedule is plenty long already, and that extended itinerary presented a mental challenge for rookies such as Hong.
“The season was just really long, and it was really hard to adjust to,” Hong said. “Everyone was getting burnt out by the middle and end of the season. It was just pushing through that wall in order to keep going.”
At the end of the day, however, the hardships proved to be just another obstacle that Hong was able to hurdle on her way to a record-breaking freshman season. Given the way this season turned out, and the way the program as a whole has risen, her next three years with the Crimson may just promise an even bigger splash than 2016.
—Staff writer Bryan Hu can be reached at bhu01@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard water polo head coach Ted Minnis took the helm of both of the school’s water polo teams in the fall of 2010. Having just completed his sixth season with the programs, Minnis has taken both the men’s and women’s programs and transformed them into legitimate contenders in the Collegiate Water Polo Association.
This year, Minnis coached the men’s team to a 21-10 record and a third-place finish at the CWPA Division I/II Championship in the fall, then turned around and led the women’s team to a 24-10 record and a sixth-place finish at the CWPA Division I/II Championship in the spring.
The men’s third-place finish tied the program’s highest finish ever in the tournament, and the women’s 24 wins constituted the most regular-season victories in program history. Both Crimson teams also attained peak rankings of No. 13 in the national polls.
The programs haven’t always been known for their success.
“We’re at a place in our program where we’re competing at a very high level and competing to win championships,” Minnis said. “You have to learn how to do that too. We’re learning how to consistently go out and play at a high level on both the men’s and women’s side.
After coaching at Castilleja School, a private, all-girls middle and high school in Palo Alto, Calif., before coming to Harvard, Minnis acquired a men’s team that went 7-17 and a women’s team that was 12-16 in the 2009-10 season. In the half-dozen years since, Minnis has consistently mowed down school records and set new standards for both teams.
Minnis was also named the CWPA Division I/II Coach of the Year for his efforts during the 2014-15 women’s water polo season, the first time that that honor has been bestowed upon a Harvard head coach.
“I think I learn something every day,” Minnis said. “That’s how we grow as a program. We have to be adaptable and able to change. If I’m asking my players to continue to do those things, I need to be able to do it too.”
This type of attitude has been instilled into his teams and has translated to results in the pool. In a changing water polo landscape at Harvard, the ability to adapt and learn on the fly has been an invaluable tool for Minnis.
“That’s why we have so much success,” he continued. “I’m able to say, ‘hey this isn’t working, let’s change it,’ instead of ‘oh, this is my way, it’s got to work, and you got to figure out how to do it.’ We’re learning these lessons and growing as a group, and I think that’s going to help us in the future.”
His players also recognize that these types of intangibles give more insight into the success of a coach than just the story that even his gaudy numbers might tell.
“I think [his success] has a lot to do with how positive of a coach he is,” said women’s water polo freshman Kristen Hong. “He’s really helpful in keeping team morale up. He doesn’t focus on the negative things unless his feedback is very constructive.”
Although both Crimson teams found success this season, perhaps the greatest source of motivation for next year is in knowing that there was room for more.
The men’s team fell to No. 11 Princeton in the 2015 Championship semifinal, forfeiting a chance to play for the crown, while the women’s team fell to No. 19 Princeton in the opening round of the tournament.
“I think we came up a little bit short, but I was very happy with the way we played,” Minnis said of the men’s team.
Meanwhile, the women’s team fell victim to a plague of injuries towards the end of the long season, and a lack of depth contributed to a below-expectations showing at the Championship tournament.
“I’m just a little bummed about how the season ended in terms of having so many girls out with injuries and playing with no subs, only because we all had really high hopes going into it,” said Hong.
Nonetheless, both the men’s and women’s teams are on upward trajectories.
“We want to win a championship,” Minnis said. “We want to go and have a chance to get to NCAA’s and hopefully that’s where we’re headed.”
–Staff writer Bryan Hu can be reached at bhu01@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Over his 22 years as head coach of Harvard football, Tim Murphy has earned a Bill Belichick-esque reputation for keeping his emotions in check. He tends to downplay his excitement after big gains and minimize his anger after big losses—in short, a level-headed leader.
But recent years have tested this philosophy. A coach can only hide so much emotion after his team scores 14 unanswered points against Dartmouth, in the fourth quarter, before a raucous crowd, and with an undefeated record and potential league title on the line.
Not even Murphy hesitates to show emotion in these situations.
“That [Dartmouth game] was just an emotional rollercoaster ride,” captain Matt Koran said. “We almost lost—we should have lost probably. But after that game coach Murphy was just ecstatic.”
No matter the emotions Murphy chooses to show or hide, his management style has generated significant success during more than two decades at the helm.
In 2016 Murphy followed his familiar pattern of winning. He guided the Crimson to a 9-1 record and a share of the Ivy League title, his ninth total and third consecutive championship as head coach in Cambridge.
Although Harvard failed to complete back-to-back undefeated seasons, this year still served to cement Murphy’s legacy as one of the all-time great Ivy League coaches. Since the official organization of the Ancient Eight in 1956, only one other coach—Yale great Carmen Cozza—has more wins than Murphy. Over the last 15 seasons under Murphy’s leadership, Harvard has the best record of any team in FCS play (123-26).
As he has done so effectively over the past two decades, this year Murphy employed his skill of making not only the right football decisions but also the right personnel moves.
Two rookies, wide receiver Justice Shelton-Mosley and running back Noah Reimers, played integral roles in Harvard’s offense in 2015. Murphy was confident that these two freshmen would be able to develop a rapport with senior quarterback Scott Hosch, and that confidence lies in his style of player evaluation.
“Coach Murphy actually has a really good read on whether freshmen can handle that job,” Koran said. “Those two guys in particular have really been studs ever since they walked in the door…. [Murphy] trusts the guys that he recruits, and he trusts that he can read people well.”
Throughout his recruiting process, Murphy does not just look for raw talent. He searches for high school athletes who he believes can represent Harvard well both on and off the field. As a result, he places emphasis on character and ability to handle adversity, along with sheer talent.
On the field, Murphy proves similarly calculating. According to senior offensive lineman Anthony Fabiano, his knack for controlling his emotions helps keep the team focused—such an attitude paid dividends toward the end of the 2015 season.
“He’s all business all the time,” Fabiano said. “The season’s not over after one game. Our goal every year has been to go 10-0, and only until that goal is met will he show that type of emotion.”
Riding a 22-game winning streak that dated back to 2013, Harvard faced off against Penn in the penultimate week of the season. A win would give the Crimson a shot at a second straight undefeated season and an outright Ivy championship.
After the Quakers dominated the first quarter, 21-6, Harvard rallied in the second quarter, putting up 19 points to grab the lead heading into the second half. However, Penn stifled the Crimson offense for the rest of the contest and found the end zone twice to secure a 35-25 win.
Even after such a heartbreaking loss, Murphy managed to rally his troops in anticipation of The Game, which would decide whether Harvard would claim a share of the Ivy League crown.
“After that game, I think there was just a melancholy throughout the locker room for the next Sunday lift,” Koran said. “He called in all the senior leaders into his office and sat us down…. It ended up being a really great week, and we came back strong.”
However, when the team does achieve its goals, lofty as they may be after years and years of continual success, Murphy is not slow to jump into the fray and celebrate with his team.
The Crimson’s final game provided an opportunity for such elation, as Harvard cruised past Yale, 38-19, to claim the ninth straight Game. Overall Murphy has posted a 17-5 record against the Bulldogs.
For some coaches, that victory might be the prelude to an offseason of celebration—just not for Murphy.
If past years indicate anything, it’s that Murphy moves on quickly from previous accomplishments, ready to improve slowly but surely. Despite all the complexities that come with the top job, Murphy’s philosophy boils down to another Belichick-esque emphasis: on to the next day.
“Coach Murphy likes to say, ‘Your next day is your best day,’” Fabiano commented. “The fact that he preaches that every single day doesn’t really sink in until you leave the program. Those words have stuck with me, and they’ll probably stick with me for a long time.”
—Staff writer Jack Stockless can be reached at jackstockless@college.harvard.edu.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Down 21 points multiple times during the second half, the Harvard men’s basketball team had rallied to take the lead in its late February contest with Cornell. The Crimson, which in earlier contests against Columbia, Vermont, and Dartmouth had proved adept at snatching defeat from the jaws of victory, looked to finally be flipping the script.
However, Cornell’s sublime freshman guard Matt Morgan had no interest in writing a different story. With 24 seconds to go, Morgan canned a deep three to tie the game at 74. A fan base that had seen its team outscored by 24 points in eight minutes erupted.
After the timeout, Harvard coach Tommy Amaker put the ball in the hands of his own rookie point guard, Tommy McCarthy. With ten seconds to go, the team’s two best players—junior Zena Edosomwan and senior Agunwa Okolie—turned into decoys, setting staggered screens at the top of the arc for the freshman. With their marks drawn to the three-point line, the hoop was unguarded and McCarthy took advantage, banking in a floater with 5.5 seconds to go to cap off a career-high 21-point effort and give Harvard its biggest win of the season.
“To be able to do that and do it on the road, that’s even more impressive,” Amaker said after the game. “I can’t tell you how proud I am...his point guard play, his savviness, winning basket, all the plays that he made for our team. He really grew up tonight right in front of our eyes.”
Taking the final shot was not supposed to be in the cards for McCarthy. With former Ivy League Rookie of the Year and three-year starter Siyani Chambers ’16-’17 returning, McCarthy was slated to battle for minutes with juniors Matt Fraschilla and Corbin Miller in the Harvard backcourt. A torn ACL—which led Chambers to drop out of school to retain his eligibility—changed everything, thrusting him into a starting role a year early.
The results were mixed—McCarthy was at times the team’s lead facilitator, at times its top scoring threat, and at times its innings-eater on a roster that lacked another true point guard. On the season, he averaged nearly 25 minutes a game and appeared in all but two of the team’s contests. While McCarthy averaged nearly nine points and four assists per game on 35.7 percent shooting from deep, he hit just over a third of his shots overall.
McCarthy was thrown into the fire from the get-go. While McGill and MIT provided some tune-up to begin the season, Providence and a matchup with likely top-seven pick Kris Dunn reminded McCarthy that he was no longer in the San Diego Section of the California Interscholastic Federation.
Squaring off with Dunn wasn’t the only thing to come from out of the Providence matchup, as another torn ACL, this one by Fraschilla, left McCarthy in the driver’s seat. Amaker was brutally honest about the load it placed on his freshman and the expectations that came with it.
“We are trying to rely on our veteran guys and not trying to put our young guys in places or positions where we are counting on them so much but our position is different with McCarthy,” Amaker said after a loss to Boston College. “This is a critical spot and he’s just a freshman...it is easier said than done for any player but particularly young players to be solid.”
From that point forward, he became an essential part of the team. He logged 30 minutes or more eight times throughout the course of the season—at first out of necessity, but eventually due to his improved play and leadership capabilities. In matchups with Providence, UMass, Kansas, BYU, and Oklahoma, the freshman squared off against some of the best guards in the nation. He shot 11-for-49 but gradually improved, registering three triples, five assists, and two turnovers in a narrow loss to Oklahoma. The play continued to improve throughout the season: In his final seven games, McCarthy turned the ball over just 16 times and posted double-digit scoring outputs three times, including the 21-point outburst at Cornell.
Although McCarthy missed the penultimate Ivy League weekend with a concussion, the Crimson went as McCarthy did down the stretch. In the freshman’s last four games of the season, Harvard went 3-1, with the only setback coming against Columbia. In those four contests, McCarthy averaged 14 points a game and made at least three field goals in each contest.
“At the beginning of the season, I came in a little tentative and nervous,” McCarthy reflected after the Columbia loss, in which he scored 17 points on six-of-10 shooting.
“But I am really starting to get the hang of things,” he continued. “I feel a lot more comfortable out on the court and I know what Coach Amaker wants from me.”
–Staff writer David Freed can be reached at david.freed@thecrimson.com.
–Staff writer Stephen J. Gleason can be reached at stephen.gleason@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
A certain look overcomes Branden Clemens when the Harvard men’s volleyball team wins an important point.
As soon as the ball caroms off the other side of the court and the referees straighten their arms, Clemens crouches down.
Already, the captain has locked his gaze on a teammate. Eyes wide open, he advances with heavy steps. Then, palms facing the ceiling, he stretches out both hands for a high five; sometimes an errant yell lands in the crowd.
Over the past four years, that celebration has animated the Malkin Athletic Center time and time again. It’s a display of uninhibited emotion—explosive, genuine, but somehow always the same.
In other words, much like Clemens himself.
“It’s really impressive how excited he gets about every point and keeps the team excited,” sophomore middle blocker Riley Moore said. “In practice, he usually tries to keep it in, but in games every point is a must-win.”
In a sport that depends on instincts and takes place in seconds, the senior outside hitter has distinguished himself as a steadying force.
He has compiled an impressive list of accomplishments, including four straight EIVA playoff berths, three seasons with over 200 kills, two nominations to the All-EIVA first team, and one All-American honorable mention.
This season, Clemens led the Crimson as captain and top attacker. At times, he singlehandedly powered the offense, making key plays at critical moments to push Harvard to the conference tournament.
“There were times this year where he was basically unstoppable,” coach Brian Baise said. “He wants to compete as much as anyone I’ve coached.”
At no point did Clemens matter more than during the last week of the regular season, when Harvard hosted Princeton and NJIT. Win, and the Crimson made the playoffs; lose, and it was out.
In the later matchup, the stakes loomed especially large, as NJIT held a 10-6 advantage in the fourth frame after coming back from a two-set deficit.
Then Clemens took over, recording five finishes in the next seven points to snatch back the lead. Fifteen minutes later, Harvard had secured the set, meaning the match and the playoff berth.
But that stretch was not the only tide-turning show that Clemens put on during the weekend. Against Princeton, Clemens turned back a second-set surge by serving through a 9-0 run.
“If we needed a point, if we needed a kill, we would just give him the ball,” Baise said. “It didn’t matter if the other team knew where it was going. He came through.”
Clemens’ ability comes from a volleyball-heavy upbringing. In 2013 and 2014, he qualified for the FIVB Beach Volleyball U21 World Championships, placing ninth in both cases.
Compared to the indoor variety, beach volleyball requires players to do everything—serve, dig, pass, and hit—and this flexibility helps to explain why Clemens has reached the top 10 in Crimson history in kills, aces, digs, and total blocks.
However, Clemens hardly spent his childhood on some beautiful Pacific Coast strip of sand. Growing up in Carmel, Ind., he played for his local high school and regularly drove three hours to Chicago to compete against better competition on the club circuit.
“He came in with a very well-rounded game,” Baise said. “He’s a lot bigger and stronger now, but his skills were always good for a tall guy.”
As a Harvard freshman, he switched positions from right side to left, a more jack-of-all-trades role that required passing as well as attacking.
Yet the 6’6” outside hitter specializes in smashing the ball across the net. From March 14, 2015 to March 14, 2016, Clemens played in 26 games. In 25 of them, he recorded double-digit kill totals—a truly unique proof of consistency.
This season, Clemens placed second in the conference with a .320 hitting percentage. So central was he to the Harvard attack that, besides the Springfield matchup, the Crimson won every contest in which he reached .500.
“Showing dominance in our division at every level was just because of how hard he worked,” Moore said. “He had an amazing senior year that you can’t really pull off unless you work hard for four years.”
Beyond on-court prowess, Clemens served as a mentor for several teammates, including Moore. Now a sophomore, Moore recalls that Clemens made a habit of reaching out to the younger guys, often just to hang out.
In this sense, the final testament to Clemens’s season, and indeed his career, is whether that behavioral norm outlasts his exit. Spikes roll to a stop, referee whistles lapse into silence, but personal impact lingers in remaining teammates.
While several starters return for the 2017 season, that consistency only means so much without Clemens—who, after all, has been the program’s bedrock over the last several seasons.
“As a captain, it was never about him,” Baise said. “It was what the team needed. Those are guys that make teams work well when they do and make coaching fun.”
–Staff writer Sam Danello can be reached at sam.danello@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The day before the Ivy League women’s volleyball tiebreaker between Harvard and Princeton, the league office released its decision that Tiger junior Cara Mattaliano had won Ivy League Player of the Year honors.
The announcement did not go unnoticed by Harvard junior setter Corie Bain, who for the past three seasons has been a unanimous first team All-Ivy selection but has yet to claim Player of the Year status.
While Bain fell short of that singular honor, it was the Manhattan Beach, Calif., native who had the last laugh the next day.
Buoyed by Bain’s triple-double of 15 kills, 18 assists, and 14 digs, the Crimson cruised to victory past Mattaliano and Princeton in a four-set victory to nab the program’s first NCAA bid. While Mattaliano recorded 22 kills on the night, she did so over 54 attacks, 10 of which resulted in errors.
“Cara absolutely deserved it; she had a great season,” Bain said. “[But] it absolutely played into the playoff…. When I have something to be a little bit more fiery about, I do play better. I wanted to use that.”
Notching a triple-double is nothing new for the Harvard career record-holder in that category. Bain finished with eight on the year, including three in her last four games of the season. But Bain does not import statistics as much as her own evaluation of her play.
“I don’t judge my play off my statistics,” Bain said. “I judge off the feeling that I have throughout the game and how I perform in every given scenario.”
Bain topped out at ninth across the Ivy League’s major statistical categories (specifically, assists), but looking only at the trees would lead one to lose sight of the forest. Bain also ranked 14th in kills per set with 2.37 and 11th in digs per set with 3.41 during conference play.
Since kills and assists are, by definition, mutually exclusive, Bain’s 2.37 kills per set are made even more noteworthy given her 5.63 assists per game. For comparison’s sake, Princeton setter Claire Nussbaum recorded 0.09 kills per set for the only other Ivy League team that totalled 10 wins.
Such a stat line may have surprised the Corie Bain from four years ago, who, as a setter, had not starting hitting yet.
“All of the stats and accolades I get for hitting are still new to me,” Bain said. “And I think that, if anything, I’m shocked that I’m ranked high for hitting percentage...because that’s not even my position. I wasn’t trained as a hitter.”
Bain’s ability to contribute to every facet of the game makes the psychology concentrator difficult to contain.
“She is able to not only play and excel at almost every position, but it helps her to understand the other positions,” sophomore outside hitter Paige Kebe said. “Especially as a setter, I think it’s really important that she also understands the dynamics of hitting.”
While Bain was consistent throughout the season, it was her ability to rise up in critical situations that made her the Crimson squad’s most valuable player.
The team’s first game against Princeton was a must-win—or as much of a must-win as the second conference match of the year can be. After dropping the league opener to Dartmouth, Harvard roared back against the Tigers thanks to Bain’s 10 kills and 13 assists, along with senior Kathleen Wallace’s 16 kills.
“Vocally, she’s a great contributor to the team, and she’s a really good supportive teammate,” Kebe said. “She kind of knows that different people need to hear different things during stressful times. She’s definitely very tuned into the pulse of the team.”
Weeks later, in a crucial fifth set against Brown, Bain recorded three assists and four kills, including the game-winner, en route to another triple-double performance. The next weekend, the junior had one kill and six assists in the decisive fifth set of a win at Cornell.
And it was Bain’s season, not Mattaliano’s, that caught the attention of the American Volleyball Coaches Association, who named her to the All-East Region first team. Bain was the only Ivy League player to receive that distinction, while Crimson freshman Christina Cornelius took home an honorable mention.
Three years into her stint with Harvard, Bain is used to the Ancient Eight accolades. The setter finished her rookie season as the unanimous Ivy League Rookie of the Year and a unanimous first team All-Ivy selection. She also received five Ivy League Rookie of the Week honors and has received nine conference Player of the Week nods over her career. But teammates enjoy playing with her for more than just her talent.
“She’s a great teammate,” Kebe said. “She’s so fun to play with. She celebrates big points really well and has a great attitude no matter what…. [But] she [also] knows when it’s time to focus.”
Ivy League Player of the Year honors may have eluded the star thus far in her time with the Crimson, but she still remains one of the most feared competitors in the Ancient Eight.
And, most frighteningly for Harvard opponents, she still has one year left.
–Staff writer Kurt T. Bullard can be reached at kurt.bullard@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
The last time Harvard men’s golf hoisted the Ivy League trophy, Gerald Ford was President of the United States and Microsoft was a start-up. The year was 1975, and, entering the season, the Crimson had been waiting 40 years and counting to snatch the Ancient Eight trophy once more.
This year, Harvard coach Kevin Rhoads changed up the schedule to increase the quality of competition the team would see on a week-to-week basis. But even so, the 2016 squad got out of the gate hot, finishing in the top four at St. John’s, Dartmouth, and Yale, the last of which was a first-place performance.
The men ended the fall portion of their campaign with a trip to UCLA and began the spring with a trek down to Georgia Southern. Though the Crimson only placed 13th in each invite, the lessons learned over both weekends helped propel the team to the success that was to come.
The Crimson came into Ivies coming off back-to-back second place efforts at the Furman Intercollegiate and Princeton Invitational. The team had placed third at Ivies each of the two previous years.
Harvard opened strong at the Ivy Championship, jumping out to a nine-stroke lead after day one. But the Crimson found itself in a tight spot come the last round. Dartmouth had carved into the Crimson edge, once as large as 12, finding themselves only one stroke off the pace with nine holes to play.
“We have a very talented team and a very hard-working team,” Rhoads said. “There were a lot of little things that can change on a yearly basis like weather. Some of it was lessons learned from the last few years, but a lot of it was just those little things going our way this year.”
Ultimately the Crimson was able to stave off the Big Green and hold on to the lead to capture the trophy.
Winning the Ivy League meant that the team would take a trip to the NCAA Regional Tournament in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. Once there, however, Harvard found itself in the midst of a very competitive field, with eight of the thirteen in the top-50.
The Crimson came in with the additional disadvantage of not being able to practice outdoors nearly as long as its Southern competitors due to the nature of New England winters. Harvard finished 12th out of the 13-team field.
Newcomers Aurian Capart, Seiya Liu and Paul Lei made their presence felt. Capart was the top Crimson finisher at the Ivy League Championship tournament, shooting an eight-over 224 and earning All Ivy honors. The depth of this year’s team made it highly competitive week-by-week in practice to determine who qualified to tournaments.
“Besides being the most talented team we have had in a long time, every guy on the team is completely committed and desperate to compete each week,” sophomore Greg Royston said. “We all push each other to play better and work harder.”
In the eyes of the players, it is important to continue building on the momentum gained from this season, with the hope of making Ivy League championships the norm rather than the exception.
“We are certainly on the upswing for sure and I feel very confident in the health of this program and where we’re going in the years to come,” Rhoads said. “As we feel strong and competitive in the Northeast region, we’ll vary our competition and sites a bit to make us strong in more different ways.”
–Staff writer Jed Rothstein can be reached at jrothstein@college.harvard.edu.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Seven members of Harvard College’s Class of 2016 who are married or engaged to be married soon celebrate their engagements.
 How did you propose: We were going to go to Newbury Street and walk around, but I then suggested we should go to the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum instead. I acted like I had never been there before, but really, I was there a week before planning. Two of my roommates were at the museum, hidden in these back little rooms. One of them was the photographer, and the other was holding people off. We walked all around this path and eventually right to this perfect archway in the center of this beautiful courtyard with flowers in the middle. It was funny because there was this older woman next to us taking photos with her husband, and she wouldn’t move. I was freaking out because this lady wouldn’t stop taking photos right next to us. Finally, she moved, and I asked Natasha. It was a very big operation. She was super surprised. She ended up telling me after that she thought that I would think it was too obvious to do it then, so it ended up being a reverse psychology thing where I ended up tricking and surprising her. She was stunned at first. That was April 23, which is the same day we started dating. It timed out perfectly.

 Most memorable date: BN: Our anniversaries have always been psycho. He’d been in an animation seminar for a year and wouldn’t tell me what he was doing in VES. We went on this dinner date in downtown Boston and brought me back to the Quad. We went to this theater area in the SOCH. It was totally deserted and empty. He puts this reel up on the screen, and he animated a sequence about how we met. I just started crying. It killed me. I was amazed. I cherish that video.
How did you propose:
BN: Everywhere we would go—we went to a conference in Japan one time, we went to San Francisco, my hometown, his hometown—he’d always be picking up rocks. He said, “I’m a rock collector.” But there was nothing about the rocks that were distinct. He kept picking them up, but I never thought anything of it.
JM: We were at her home in Washington. I brought her back from her favorite breakfast place. We did Jigsaw puzzles because she loves Jigsaw puzzles.
BN: It felt like my birthday, but it was actually the anniversary of the day when I first messaged him on Facebook, July 17.
JM: I took her to her favorite seafood place, doing all her favorite things and eating her favorite food. We dressed up, and I cooked dinner for her. I’m grilling the steaks, but at some point, she got food poisoning.
BN: I walked in and said, “John, you’re being very sweet, but I can’t eat anything.”
JM: She changed into her hoodie, looking very cute, and we went to the gazebo out in the front yard. I brought out a gift box filled with rocks.
BN: He had written every place we had ever been on the rocks, and we talked about all the things we’ve seen and done together.
JM: I hopped down on one knee and said, “I’d like to give you one more rock, but this one to commemorate our future.” That’s when I pulled out the ring.

 How did you propose: After my flight was canceled, and I was originally on Southwest, I asked someone, “I’m about to propose today—is there anything you can do to get me to Chicago by 5?” I eventually ended up having to get another flight on United, so I had to go out of security, grab my bags, take my bags to the United terminal, and go back through security. I finally got there, though. Her parents and my parents were both in on it, but she obviously had no idea. She goes to school at Loyola University of Chicago, and the campus is right on the lake. We always used to take this walk before I would leave her on Sundays to come back to Harvard. So I mentioned right before dinner that I wanted to go on this walk one last time because this would probably be the last time we’d get to do it. So I took her on the walk and asked her at this specific place that is on her campus right by the lake.
The first thing you noticed about your significant other: I don’t want to be too sappy, but I would say her passion for really anything she puts her mind to, because whatever she decides that she wants to do, she will always get it done.

 Post-grad plans: I’m going to be working at Bridgewater as a technology associate, so we’re moving to Connecticut. We’re going to move on July 18. She’s applying to PA [physician assistant] schools in Connecticut and New York so she’s planning on going to grad school to be a PA.
How did you propose: I was in San Francisco for the summer. I flew home to Fort Worth, TX, took her to a brunch and then to the Botanic Gardens at Fort Worth. I proposed there and had her friend there to take pictures. It was kind of stressful because I was only going home for a few days, and I went to talk to her parents and my family. I didn’t want to her to find out.
In 15 years you are: Hopefully back in Texas, closer to family. She’ll likely be practicing as a PA, and I want to own a business, so maybe transition from software engineer to the business side.

 Most memorable date: On our first anniversary, he had saved the movie ticket from the first date even though we had not been officially going out then. We went to the same cinema and recreated our first date. On our first Valentine’s Day, he took me to New York and we had dinner in Times Square.
How did he propose: He came to England for Christmas and asked my parents for permission. On Christmas Eve, he suggested we get dressed up in nice clothes, have a couple glasses of wine, and at midnight, he said, “Why don’t you open up your presents?” I didn’t have my contact lenses in so I couldn’t see anything. Apparently the ring touched my face before I found it because I’m so blind. We got quite drunk and watched Love Actually, so Christmas and in England.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Fifty years ago, plus two, I sat where you are sitting today.  Well…I sat at a graduation ceremony across the globe, at my “whites only” university in Johannesburg, South Africa.  This was at the height of the white apartheid government’s oppression of black South Africans.  Nelson Mandela, the greatest statesman of our time, had recently been convicted, narrowly escaping the imposition of the death penalty, but sentenced to life imprisonment on a remote island, banished forever. Countless other South African political figures were jailed, some executed.
Twenty-six years after the release of Nelson Mandela from his almost three decades of imprisonment, it will be difficult for you to imagine what South Africa was like when I was a university student there in the 1960's. Many of my teachers and my friends were jailed, tortured, or forced to leave the country, often because of the views they held and the ideas they expressed. Books, the press, were censored, heavily. There was no television: the apartheid government could not tolerate “foreign” ideas. Far, far worse, women and men were treated as sub-human simply because of the color of their skin. The blindness of white South Africans to apartheid was banal, quotidian.
In 1962, I received a high school scholarship to study in the United States.  I returned to South Africa with my eyes opened, opened by a year of experiencing the freedoms we too often take for granted.  But back in South Africa, I now felt hopeless, impotent, caught in a juggernaut of evil, and hatred, and oppression.
With opposition political parties outlawed, universities remained one of the few places of political protest. Universities always are. I could join others and raise my student voice. I traveled throughout South Africa, speaking and organizing against apartheid. Campuses were hardly safe havens. Professors and students who confronted the apartheid regime could be, were, spirited away in the middle of the night by the dreaded security police, jailed, or banished to remote areas. Although I violated no law, I came to fear a knock on the door in the middle of the night... to know that if the government arrested or banned me, as it had so many other student leaders, no court could or would protect me.
Were we protesting students making a difference, making any real difference to end apartheid?  The heavy boot of the apartheid government continued to crush its opponents, ruthlessly.  The government grew stronger, its economy more robust, its military capabilities unrivalled on the African continent. How insignificant, how useless, our small protest gestures felt.
One such small gesture: My student organization invited Senator Robert F.  Kennedy to deliver a talk in South Africa. What difference could that make? A white politician from a country that was scarcely aware—then—of South Africa’s racial tyranny. Robert Kennedy accepted our invitation. The apartheid government, furious, targeted its vengeance on Ian Robertson, the student leader who had invited Senator Kennedy. Robertson was “banned” by judicial order, confined to his home, and legally forbidden to meet more than one person at a time. I succeeded Robertson as head of our student organization, and as host to Senator Kennedy. So I was in the audience when he spoke to the students at the University of Cape Town on June 6, 1966.
Listening to Senator Kennedy's speech that evening, in Cape Town, has had a lifelong impact on me. Robert Kennedy recognized how my fellow students and I felt—overwhelmed by the awesome power of the apartheid state, by the smallness of our insignificant acts, by the seeming futility of our gestures. He spoke to us about that. “[T]he danger of futility,” Kennedy said, is “the belief there is nothing one man or one woman can do against the enormous array of the world’s ills—against misery and ignorance, injustice and violence.” “Yet,” he continued, “many of the world’s great movements, of thought and action, have flowed from the work of a single [person].” Then Kennedy spoke words that I have never forgotten: “It is from numberless diverse acts of courage and belief that human history is shaped. Each time a [person] stands up for an ideal, or acts to improve the lot of others, or strikes out against injustice, he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope, and crossing each other from a million different centers of energy and daring those ripples build a current which can sweep down the mightiest walls of oppression and resistance.”
Senator Kennedy changed South Africa. Senator Kennedy changed me.  I carry always his words of inspiration. What matters is to believe, to know, that a single act, a small gesture, can make a difference—and will make a difference—often in ways that you never could have imagined. The question for you, the class of 2016, is this: What must I do to change the world, to make the world a better place? My answer: Stand up for an ideal, or act to improve the lot of others, or strike out against injustice.  Change did not come to South Africa overnight; real change never does. But if you act, with urgency and conviction, your ripple of hope will make a difference.  I know it will.

Margaret H. Marshall served as Chief Justice of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court from 1999 to 2010, and an Associate Justice on the Court from 1996 to 1999. She was Vice President and General Counsel of Harvard from 1992 to 1996. She is the Senior Fellow of the Yale Corporation.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Thanks Andrew for being a good friend—I’ll never forget your quirky sense of humor and laid back outlook on things. You are missed and never forgotten. Rest in peace.” —Daniel Abarca ’16
“Andy had an unmistakable laugh, and it always came at the funniest of times. He truly cared for the poor, constantly making conversation with and offering food to homeless people on the street.  He loved to encourage people and often sacrificed his time to make sure others were getting through things alright.  He had a servant’s heart and put others before himself.” —Daniel C. Henderson ’16
“Andy’s absence is still felt strongly. We miss his friendly face and warm personality. The times that we shared with him will live on as some of our greatest memories in college.” —Stephen P. Albro ’16
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dear Class of 2016,
Wow, what a week. Managing Match 16 made us realize that you are all our friend-crushes. At Senior Olympics, you showed us that every gathering is a dance party waiting to happen. And on the Moonlight Cruise, you reminded us that the most important ship is friendship—but a ship full of friends, drinks, and dancing comes in at a close second. 
Senior Week may have felt like a marathon, but let’s not forget to cheer for each other—and ourselves—as we approach the finish line of our Harvard educations. In a lot of ways, our four years of Harvard were at times a little disastrous, or at least included a series of natural disasters that resulted in a record number of school days cancelled. And yet, throughout the blizzards and the hurricanes and the mumps, we managed to transition from practical strangers swarming the Sunday Sundaes table in Annenberg to friends or co-workers or familiar faces. In fact, it may have been through the disasters that we grew closest to one another. We survived by helping each other: keeping each other company when we couldn’t go outdoors, standing together to fight for causes we care about, serving as sounding boards during quarter-life crises. Our struggles, while manifold, often created the moments that unified us the most.
This year we’ve been thinking a lot about what brings us together. Although we walked different paths on this campus, we influenced each other’s lives through our conversations, our debates, our mutual presence. We were a huge part of each other’s world for these four formative years.
A couple of weeks ago, we on the Senior Class Committee organized an outing to the Red Sox game, where we were promised free crimson Sox hats as a part of Harvard night at Fenway. The hats were an exciting giveaway, but even more powerful was the feeling of walking back to our seats and looking out over the stands. Sprinkled throughout the crowds and dotted among the bleachers were flashes of crimson, visible even from a distance. In that moment, we really felt like we were part of something, something bigger than we’d even imagined.
Harvard is a place where we’ve learned what it means to be a part of something—how to contribute meaningfully to friendships, to classrooms, to student groups. Even though we will walk through Johnston Gate Thursday morning, we will always be a part of the Harvard Class of 2016. We might not be able to spend afternoons chatting with friends in our House courtyards or pull all-nighters fueled solely by brain break and wee-hour-delirium, but we shouldn’t forget that we’ll be seeing those flashes of crimson around the world for the rest of our lives—our blockmates, our teammates, our classmates, and friends we haven’t even met yet.
We’d like to thank each and every one of you, for making Harvard an incredible “something” to be a part of.
Getting to know so many of you over the past four years, and especially the past few months—at Senior Bars and Senior Dinners and Senior Week activities—has been an absolute honor. There’s a spark within you, Class of 2016 (how else could Senior Week have been so lit?), and hearing your perspectives, your hopes, and your plans of action as we all prepare to enter the real world has been an inspiration. Thank you for making Harvard what it’s been for all of us, and we can’t wait to see what magic you all will make beyond the gates to better serve thy country and thy kind.
Reylon A. Yount ’16, an Environmental Science and Public Policy concentrator in Lowell House, is First Marshal of the College’s Class of 2016.
Jessica A. Barzilay ’16, a History and Science concentrator in Dunster House and a former Crimson news editor, is Second Marshal. 
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
First of all, congratulations, soon-to-be alumni!
I have a special place in my heart for Harvard, since my sister graduated from the College in 1986. Her graduation came four years after I graduated from the University of Pennsylvania. Needless to say, there have been some good-natured rivalries over the years, particularly during the two years when we overlapped as students: that is, when she was still at Harvard, and I was still at Penn.
On her first Thanksgiving visit back from school, my sister was bursting with Crimson pride. At the dinner table, she began dilating on the magnificence of Fair Harvard: The Yard, her friends, her classes, her professors, and so on.
I rolled my eyes and said to my parents, “Was I this bad as a freshman?”
“Oh,” said my father without a trace of irony, “much worse.”As wonderful as is your Harvard education, and as rich as your experience has been in Cambridge, there is a lurking danger of which I’m sure you’re aware: the patented arrogance that comes with having graduated from an Ivy League school. So my advice to the graduates of the Class of 2016, are three easy things to remember, passed on to me from an elderly Jesuit. They will help you combat the inevitable feelings of vanity, entitlement and general arrogance that all of us, Harvard or no, are tempted to.
So, remember the following:
Let’s take these dicta one by one.The first is essential for life in general, but has special meaning for anyone, like yourself, who has just spent four years being told by many people that you’ll be able to change the world. Of course it’s important to work for change, but there are limits.
“You’re not God,” then, has multiple implications. First, you can’t change many things, so stop trying. Second, you’re not in charge of the universe, so stop acting like you are. And third, you don’t know everything, so stop acting like you do.
Simply reminding yourself of this can bring calm, perspective and humility. It may also save you some heartache in relationships with friends and coworkers. As the Bible says, or at least should have said, “No one likes a know-it-all.”
The second dictum, “This isn’t heaven” can help to reduce, by a factor of ten, the amount of complaining you do. For example, if you an app on your phone isn’t working, if your internet access is on the fritz, if you’re stuck on a subway (or, variously, the T, the El, or the Metro), you can remind yourself that life isn’t perfect. This will cut down on how much you complain and, therefore, how much you bother everyone around you.
If you’re still tempted to carp, think for a minute how much easier your life is than that of most people on this planet. I used to work with refugees in East Africa, and when I get annoyed by those “first-world problems” just mentioned, I try to think of people who have far less. Gives perspective.
But it’s that last apothegm that I wish more people remembered: “Don’t be a jerk.”
Look, I’m as guilty as the next person of being a jerk. It’s hard not to be today, since jerkiness is contagious. In my first job after graduation, the company seemed to prize managers who were “tough” and “demanding.” Sometimes this meant lauding men and women who were  tough and demanding. But sometimes it meant promoting people who acted like jerks—throwing their weight around, screaming at underlings and basically acting like, to use an underutilized word in corporate America, babies. That meant, in turn, that some who aspired to management positions emulated them. So, more jerkiness.   There will be many times when you feel like you’re entitled to be a jerk. You’ve got a cold. You’re hung over. Your roommate has again forgotten to put his dishes in the dishwasher. You left your credit card in the  restaurant last night. The person in the airplane seat next to you has just taken his shoes and socks off and is scratching his feet. So you’re annoyed. I get it.
But that doesn’t mean you need to pass on your misery to the next person you meet. Let the jerkiness cycle end with you. Be nice. Be kind. Try to smile. Yeah, I know it’s hard. Do it anyway.
Do all these things anyway.
Why? If you put these three simple rules into action, you’ll be a lot—a lot—happier. And you’ll make everyone around you happier too. And that’s the Veritas.

The Rev. James Martin, SJ is a Jesuit priest, editor at large of America magazine, a frequent commentator in the media on religion, and was for a time the “Official Chaplain” on “The Colbert Report.” He is the author of many books, including Jesus: A Pilgrimage.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.

News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Like Harvard’s Mather House, Boston’s city hall sticks out like a sore, concrete thumb. A geometrically quirky fixture in downtown Boston, it houses the city’s government. Perhaps it is the same aversion to concrete that Harvard students experience that led Boston Mayor Marty J. Walsh to designate McKenna’s Cafe —a wooden-paneled, classic diner in Dorchester, Massachusetts—as one of the de-facto alternative meeting places for his pow-wows with local leaders. Among these diner frequenters isHarvard’s President Drew G. Faust.
“Meetings have occurred in President Faust’s Mass Hall office, at McKenna’s Diner in Dorchester, as well as President Faust’s home in Cambridge,”  Kevin Casey, associate vice president for Public Affairs and Communications said.
In many ways, the location of these meetings represents a continuation of a tradition observed during previous Mayor Thomas M. Menino’s term. During the latter half of his 20-year tenure, Faust would occasionally steal away from the bustle of Harvard’s sprawling Cambridge campus to meet Menino in the quaint neighborhood of Hyde Park. His private home at the time—an approximately 1,700 square foot residence on Chesterfield Street—served as the locale for many of their conferences.
Casey said Faust and Walsh meet “regularly, on a semi-annual basis” to discuss a wide range of topics. Though formal agendas are not set ahead of the meetings, the discussions ultimately migrate to the topic of the Allston neighborhood—Harvard’s chief target for expansion in Boston over the past decade.
That Faust and Walsh meet intermittently might seem to indicate a departure from the close relationship Faust forged with Menino. Both Faust and officials from Walsh’s office assert that is not the case.
In Faust and Walsh’s relationship there exists a glimpse of a bigger picture—a reflection of the ever-evolving partnership between Harvard and its neighboring city, which currently focuses on involving Harvard in after-school and educational programs in Boston.

The two leaders—Faust and Walsh—face even more of an age gap than Faust did with Menino. An almost five year age difference separated the two, yet Faust still described their relationship as one of mentorship. In comparison, Walsh is 49 years old.
“It’s partly not being in that student-teacher situation that I was in with Menino,” Faust said. “I was thinking about Marty Walsh the other day, and I think he’s 20 years younger than I am.”
Still, a potential mentorship implicit in that age gap does not exist; they are peers in the most literal of senses, collaborating on some of the biggest projects to hit Allston in the last few years.
“It’s not like I’m in any sense a mentor to him,” Faust said. “But it’s a more even playing field. It’s more conversational. I enjoy his company a lot, I admire his commitment to the city.”
The feeling is largely mutual,  Walsh’s chief of staff, Daniel A. Koh ’07 said. Koh, who oversees the Mayor and knows the details of his schedule, said Faust and Walsh meet regularly, with the two often alternating between Dorchester and Faust’s residence in Elmwood for breakfast chats.
Casey described these meetings as an opportunity for Faust and Walsh to meet “leader-to-leader.”
Their disputes are scarce, but have historically been about details in Allston. Generally, there’s a feeling of mutual respect between the two, even if the sense of public companionship that existed with Menino is not as visible with Walsh.
“I just know that now there’s a sense of respect, and it’s a really positive thing,” Koh said. “I think we see Harvard as an opportunity to collaborate and do some really great things for the students and people of Boston, and not at all as an adversary.”
Koh said Harvard interacts more with the city of Boston than MIT does, largely because of the vast real estate stake it has in the city.
“She is cognizant that he and his administration have very high expectations of Harvard as both a partner and a neighbor, and is committed to doing right by him and by the community,” Casey said.
Though Faust and Walsh, and even Faust and Menino, boast a relatively cordial relationship, Harvard did not always work so smoothly with the City of Boston.

Almost two decades ago, news broke that Harvard had been secretly buying up land in Allston, hiding its identity by making the purchases through a separate entity. Menino, the longest-serving mayor in the history of the city, denounced Harvard’s actions with strong rhetoric, writing in a letter to then-University President Neil L. Rudenstine that Harvard’s actions represented “the highest level of arrogance seen in our city in many years.”
In the years after the news first circulated, communication between the University and officials in the City of Boston grinded to a definitive halt. With relations between the city and the University effectively splintered—some at the time thought beyond repair—Harvard officials found themselves hard-pressed to continue their development plans without the blessing of the mayor.
Robert Winters, the editor of the Cambridge Civic Journal and a Math instructor who worked at Harvard during Rudenstine’s tenure in the 1990s, said that from his observations, many in Allston were angry at Harvard’s expansion efforts.
“I think it was the fact that, at the time, it was done so surreptitiously,” Winters said.
Winters added that Cambridge residents were largely apathetic to the news. “It probably depended on your own prior feelings about Harvard,” Winters said. “And there are people who have always had a bit of a bad attitude about Harvard.”
The appointment of President Lawrence H. Summers in 2001 was the first step towards assuaging the tensions between the two entities. Almost immediately after assuming the position, Summers went on a diplomatic mission of sorts to Menino to ease his mind about Harvard’s plans, largely because the University was aware of the fact that, without the mayor’s blessing, its plans in Allston would be hard to come by.
At the forefront of their discussions: how Boston and Harvard could work together and advance their mutual interests. Ultimately, the key to calming these tensions between the two was transparency.
“The mayor and I kind of agreed that we weren’t going to surprise each other,” Lawrence Summers said in 2013. “If something interesting was going to be in the Boston Globe, we’d let each other know beforehand.”
That spirit of transparency continued into Faust’s presidency, though the two adopted a mentor-student relationship upon meeting one another.
“He was hugely experienced, hugely politically astute,” Faust said. “He gave me great advice. He was very much a mentor, and I was the student in lots of ways of his wisdom and insight.”

With several other universities flanking Harvard on all sides in Cambridge, much of the University’s development has thrust out and across the Charles  River. The location: Allston—a working class neighborhood where many of Harvard’s community-oriented centers have been erected.  
“It’s a little known fact that Harvard owns more land in Boston than it does in Cambridge,” Koh said. “It’s a big land owner in the city, and I think it’s important for us to have a very productive relationship.”
Now, with the University’s relationship with the city at a high point, Faust and Walsh’s collaborative relationship is visible through their joint attendance at events in Allston.
Harvard has expanded its programs at the Ed Portal in recent years, including offering scholarships for summer science programs and free academic mentoring from undergraduates, both for local schoolchildren.
“Our colleges are filled with talented people who can help our kids,” Walsh wrote in an emailed statement. “Having positive role models to help guide them through life is key and it ties into my administration’s Mentoring Movement, in partnership with Mass Mentoring. I hope to see more community projects like the one in Allston, and I look forward to working with President Faust to achieve our shared goal of a strong Harvard/Boston partnership.”
“I think the Mayor is always kind of excited to talk about what the Boston Public School district is doing, how the schools are,” Koh said. “He’s excited when there are students who are attending Harvard from Boston Public Schools.”
One of Harvard’s latest installments in Boston is the Ed Portal, is an educational innovation center in Allston, where Harvard hosts after-school programs for neighborhood students at no cost to local residents. This February, at an event celebrating the grand opening of the Ed Portal’s new locale, the two spoke about Harvard’s role in Boston.
“Programs like the Harvard Ed Portal are a great example of how Harvard can work with the City of Boston, and its surrounding neighborhoods, to create community dialogue,” Walsh wrote.
Aside from in Allston, Walsh and Faust have collaborated on expanding a fellowship program between the City and the Harvard Business School to include students from the College, Koh said. Currently, the Mayor’s office takes on HBS students to work in City Hall throughout the school year.
“We are exploring an opportunity to take the same premise that happens at Harvard Business School and do it with undergrads,” Koh said. “We’ve seen a lot of great ideas and a lot of great things come out of our leadership fellows program for graduate students, so there’s not a reason undergraduates can’t have the same effect.”
Harvard’s investment in Allston is set to continue into the foreseeable future. Harvard has recently allocated $5.3 million to public improvement projects in the Allston neighborhood. At a meeting in March, the City of Boston and Allston residents requested that Harvard allocate a portion of that money to renovate a park in the area.
Additionally, Harvard announced plans to open a life science innovation lab in the parking lot west of Harvard’s four-year old i-Lab. The building will house co-working spaces and a myriad of labs, including a private faculty-in-residence lab suite.
Walsh reiterated the importance of making sure that Allston residents are included in the development process.
“My job as Mayor of Boston is to advance the interests of all of Boston’s residents, and it’s vital their voices are heard when it comes to residential development in Allston,” Walsh wrote. “I look forward to continuing our work with President Faust to ensure Boston’s residents have a voice during this process, and that their best interests are protected.”
—Staff writer Brandon J. Dixon can be reached at brandon.dixon@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BrandonJoDixon.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Last month, more than 400 Harvard affiliates congregated in the Science Center plaza to rally in support of the graduate student unionization effort. Chants from the crowd filled the air, as ralliers yelled: “this is what democracy looks like” and “let the workers decide.” The energy was palpable, and passersby lingered to watch.
In April 2015, when The Crimson first broke the news that graduate students intended to form a union, the movement was considerably smaller. Over the past year, support for the movement has increased dramatically, with a majority of graduate students employed by Harvard as teaching fellows and research assistants now advocating for a union. Organizers formed a partnership with the United Auto Workers, began a card campaign to gather supporters and authorize the Harvard Graduate Students Union-UAW to represent them in a collective bargaining unit, and have collaborated with other campus activist groups like Divest Harvard, Reclaim Harvard Law, and the Student Labor Action Movement.
Harvard, likewise, has amped up its opposition to a possible graduate student union. University President Drew G. Faust has repeatedly condemned the movement, arguing that unionization would change the relationship between graduate students and Harvard from one based in academics to a tenser one, focused instead on labor. And in March, the University made its most public denunciation of the movement yet: It submitted an amicus brief to the National Labor Relations Board, which is currently reviewing cases from Columbia University and the New School that could result in requiring private universities to recognize graduate student unions. The brief argued that unionization could create “conflict and tension” between students, faculty, and administrators.
The push to unionize has created stark division between students and administrators, often leaving faculty in the middle. Over the past year, both the movement and opposition to unionization have become stronger and more sophisticated, with no clear signs of letting up. 
A Certain Dynamic
The refrain among Harvard administrators is that unionization could threaten the dynamic between graduate students and faculty—an argument that unionization movement leaders strongly contend.
Last fall, as union organizers began to shore up support among their peers, administrators at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences predicted that faculty and students would inevitably discuss unionization. In a letter to faculty, GSAS administrators sought to guide union-related discussions, encouraging faculty to “stress the importance of the academic relationship” between graduate students and professors. Though faculty were explicitly told to never intimidate union supporters, they were asked to explain the disadvantages of union membership. Additionally, GSAS administrators emphasized the benefits that Harvard currently provides and its “record of steady improvement over time—without a union.”
Union organizer William Baldwin, an English Ph.D. student, does not think unionization will affect the dynamic between graduate students and faculty in his department, which, he notes, contains a strong contingent of union supporters. Nearly every graduate in the English Department has signed an authorization card, according to Baldwin.
“When I’m serving as a TF, my employer is the President and Fellows of Harvard—is what I believe it says on my W-2,” Baldwin said. “Unionization is about my relationship with my employer, who is the administration. My academic relationship with my advisers sometimes overlaps with that in various ways, but is a distinct relationship.”
GSAS Dean for Administration and Finance Allen Aloise wrote in a statement in February that “the relationship between graduate students and a university is fundamentally about education not employment.”
Government professor Harvey C. Mansfield agreed with Aloise, citing concerns about how he believes unions typically interact with employers.
“It would indeed ruin the relationship between the teacher and the student—you couldn’t be friends anymore. You wouldn’t get this control over your own courses that you have now,” Mansfield said. “The union would tell you who to hire and nobody would ever be fired, and all the course evaluations would be perfect.”
While Harvard is preoccupied chiefly with relationships between students and faculty, one Physics Ph.D. student, Jae H. Lee, says that tensions have already began to develop between graduate students.
“I think the most salient aspect of the tension is among students,” Lee, who is vocal about his opposition to the movement, said. “If a student supports the union and [another] student doesn’t, then it sometimes creates a lot of tension among them. I experienced this myself, and I’ve heard from my other personal friends that they can’t talk to some other students about this issue because it gets a little bit too heated.”
Brett Culbert, a Ph.D. student at the Graduate School of Design who opposes unionization, said he conferred with some faculty about how a union could affect faculty-student relationships. According to Culbert, those faculty told him they did believe relationships would change.
The faculty “haven’t steered me one way or the other,” Culbert said. “They just sort of gave me their position on it. I wasn’t in a pro-union, anti-union position—I just kind of wanted to get more information for myself.”
A Call For Neutrality
As Harvard ramped up its opposition, the graduate students took on a new strategy, calling on administrators and faculty to remain neutral as they seek to form a union.
Students have circulated a form asking faculty to stay openly neutral and help call on administrators to refrain from interfering with students’ efforts. Neutrality agreements are common when a workforce is attempting to unionize, although Harvard’s graduate students are not currently legally recognized as a workforce.
The agreement defines interference as “public statements, one-on-one meetings, distribution of literature, or any other active campaigning or activities intended to affect the free choice of graduate workers.”
Union organizers declined to comment on when the neutrality agreement campaign started, or the exact number of signatories, although union organizer and Slavic Languages and Literatures Ph.D. student Abigail Weil said they have, as of early April, “a few dozen.”
Aloise wrote in an email that GSAS has been sustaining a “full and open” dialogue about unionization, but that administrators “also believe that GSAS can be a strong advocate for our students while having an opinion on a matter with far reaching effects on the entire university.”
Music Department Director of Graduate Studies Alexander Rehding signed the neutrality agreement. But because of his position in the department, he said he does not feel it would be appropriate to indicate his personal opinion.
“I hold personal opinions about unionization which I would be happy to share, but I am also [director of graduate studies] at the moment, so I feel compelled to respect GSAS’s position,” he wrote in an email. “This was a lot easier at the beginning of the year when I signed the neutrality pledge, but since the rhetoric has been ramped up I feel the only responsible neutral position is to state nothing beyond my own neutrality.”
 Nine other professors declined to comment—and more than three dozen did not respond to interview requests—some saying they did not know enough about the issue, others saying that they did not want to voice their opinion on the matter.
Graduate student and union organizer Rudi Batzell made clear that signing the neutrality agreement does not mean a professor supports unionization.
“A faculty member might be against the union but still recognize that workers have a right to choose whether or not they want one,” Batzell said. “Faculty members who sign the neutrality pledge simply support a fair and democratic process.”
Assistant History professor Kirsten A. Weld, who is among the signatories, called the neutrality agreement “the best way to go.” She stressed its importance, particularly in situations in which faculty members serve as advisers for graduate students.
“The whole point of a neutrality agreement is precisely not to take a position one way or the other,” Weld said. “If a faculty member takes a strong public stand on the issue of unionization and they have advisees who diverge from that stand, it can put the advisee in an uncomfortable position. It’s important for graduate students not to feel that their adviser is judging them harshly because of their involvement or their lack of involvement in the unionization effort.”
Some professors have publicly advocated for Harvard to remain neutral. At the union movement’s rally in April, Economics professor Stephen A. Marglin took the Science Center plaza stage and spoke out against what he considered Harvard’s interference in the unionization process. Harvard administrators, though, maintain that in opposing a union they are acting within their legal right.
Although the NLRB decision is still pending, union supporters are optimistic that the ruling will work in their favor. That optimism permeates their rallies, which they held several times over the course of the semester. At one event, the crowd dispersed to the chant “We’ll be back.”
Come next fall, that chant will certainly hold true.
—Staff writer Brandon J. Dixon can be reached at brandon.dixon@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BrandonJoDixon.
—Staff writer Leah S. Yared can be reached at leah.yared@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Leah_Yared.
On two evenings in April, students gathered in Leverett Library for a performance. They were not there to see standup comedy, or an a capella group, or an orchestral concert. They were not even there to be entertained.
They were there to speak and listen about sexual assault at Harvard.
The theater project, entitled “Our Voices,” featured accounts from students about their experiences with sexual violence on campus. It was the product of an ongoing partnership between the Harvard-Radcliffe Dramatic Club and the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response.
“I think it was really important for a lot of community members to start thinking about the ways that theater can both serve survivors and serve the community,” HRDC board member Eliza B. Mantz ’18 said.
Sexual assault prevention has, over the past year, continued to be a top priority for administrators and students alike, following the release of a sexual conduct climate report and preventative recommendations from a University-wide task force. While theater may not be considered a typical domain of sexual assault prevention efforts, it has emerged as one of many avenues for students sought to address the issue.
Over the past year, student groups have taken steps to address sexual assault more directly through OSAPR-organized bystander intervention trainings. But despite efforts to improve trainings, some have suggested the brief sessions on their own may be insufficient.
“I’m not likely to be able to end sexual assault in 50 minutes,” OSAPR Director Alicia Oeser said.
A University-wide sexual conduct climate survey found a “deeply distressing” prevalence of sexual assault at Harvard, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana wrote in an email this fall. Thirty-one percent of senior undergraduate females reported some form of “non-consensual sexual conduct” while at the College, and 16 percent of that cohort reported sexual penetration or attempted penetration without their consent.
A University task force on sexual assault prevention released a report this March calling for Harvard to mandate annual sexual assault prevention training for all students, and hire a full-time administrator in the Provost’s office to coordinate efforts to address issues of sexual violence across the University’s schools.
Administrators are still evaluating the task force’s recommendations, according to Associate Dean of Student Life David R. Friedrich.
“A lot of good thought is going into exactly all of the ways that the College will respond to this,” Friedrich said. “Those recommendations are being finalized.”
Meanwhile, students have begun their own sexual assault prevention initiatives. Earlier this semester, the Undergraduate Council’s Finance Committee passed legislation mandating bystander intervention training for the top quintile of student organizations that receive funding from the UC.
“I'm very interested in getting this going,” UC Finance Committee Chair William A. Greenlaw ’17 said to his committee while pitching the policy in February. “I think it's within our authority to do so; I think it has good externalities for this campus.”
During the two training sessions that took place after the policy went into effect this semester, more than 70 undergraduates from 16 clubs received training. The UC intends to continue the policy next academic year, Greenlaw said.
The UC-mandated trainings reached a wide range of student groups who requested UC funding this semester, from club sports organizations to cultural groups. Other student groups, including HRDC and Harvard College Queer Students and Allies, have implemented their own initiatives to help address sexual assault.
“I think it’s really important that students really step up and take leadership on this,” Friedrich said. “As leaders of student organizations, they have responsibility for smaller communities and are responsible for how the climate is set in that group.”

While College administrators have yet to implement the task force’s recommendation to mandate annual bystander intervention trainings for all students, they have praised the UC’s efforts to encourage student groups to receive trainings on their own.
Student leaders have also praised the effectiveness of the Council’s policy. UC President Shaiba Rather ’17 and UC Vice President Daniel V. Banks ’17 won November’s presidential election on a platform that, in part, called for improved bystander intervention trainings.
“[The trainings are] something that I think the student body has warmly received,” Banks said. “The sexual assault training for groups is really really important, and it’s gone over quite well.”
Greenlaw said he hopes the trainings will help to make undergraduates more aware of the resources available to victims of sexual assault. According to the University survey, 71 percent of respondents said they were not at all or only a little bit knowledgeable about what happens when a student reports sexual assault or misconduct. 
“People are discontent at Harvard, and there's a million resources,” Greenlaw said. “We just don't know where they are.”
Harvard’s Title IX Officer Mia Karvonides said her office has “fallen short” when it comes to making the University’s policies clear. As part of the ongoing effort to combat this confusion and lack of knowledge, the Title IX office is currently working to develop an online training module for students, Karvonides said. The office hopes to roll out the training at the College this fall—with programs for other schools at the University to follow.
Karvonides said that, while the online module could offer more in-depth training than students have previously received, a single training session every year would still be inadequate on its own.
“Doing an online training by itself is not enough,” Karvonides said. “That I think is clear. What we need is reinforcement throughout the year.”
Separate from any Title IX training, students currently receive a mandatory OSAPR-run bystander intervention workshop during the first week of freshman year from the peer counseling group. However, several students who recently received training under the UC initiative said they found value in reviewing information they may have previously forgotten.
“I think it was helpful for me personally. The only time that I had other sexual assault training or exposure to this kind of training was during the beginning of the year,” Harvard Figure Skating Co-President Joy Q. Jin ’19 said. “At the time it was very hectic... so it was very easy to have the sexual assault training get lost.”
Other clubs at the College have taken their own steps to address sexual assault concerns. Harvard College Queer Students and Allies has implemented policies to provide trainings and protect attendees at its parties. HRDC’s partnership with OSAPR is another example of clubs taking initiative to address sexual assault directly.
“They support us by having workshops with all of our directors and producers and stage managers,” Mantz—HRDC’s OSAPR liaison—said, describing OSAPR’s efforts to help HRDC. “Any show that deals with any gender-based violence or sexual assault or anything concerning consent, we have a representative from OSAPR come and work with the cast and staff to talk about the content, get a dialogue going.”
Mantz said the OSAPR trainings have been particularly effective in helping HRDC leaders better handle the “power dynamic that exists naturally within theater.”
“There’s really been sort of a mood shift in the rehearsal room,” Mantz said.

Trainings, which are growing in prominence on campus and nationwide, have their share of supporters, though some researchers and students have questioned the extent of their impact. In a 2016 paper analyzing the development and efficacy of bystander intervention programs, Caitlin B. Henriksen, Kelsey L. Mattick, and Bonnie S. Fisher wrote that more research is necessary to determine whether bystander trainings have long-term effects on students’ attitudes and behaviors.
“There is some evidence to suggest that bystander intervention training works in the short-term, but few studies have examined the long-term effects of these programs on college students,” Henriksen, Mattick, and Fisher wrote.
Some students, too, expressed concerns about the effectiveness of the trainings. The UC’s policy only requires that half of a club’s board receive bystander intervention training, which often amounts to a small fraction of a club’s total membership.
“[It’s] 50 percent of our executive board, but right now our board is two people,” Harvard Shooting Club Co-Captain Jake H. Hummer ’17 said.
Others who attended the trainings noted that, even if they were effective for those who attended, the lessons from the trainings might not impact the majority of club members.
“I am very doubtful if these club officers actually communicated with their club members about the training session,” Jin said.
Oeser said she believes the training sessions are not the sole solution to sexual assault, but rather just one of many steps undergraduates can take.
“Does an hour-long conversation produce long-term change? Not on its own,” Oeser said. “The more these conversations are happening, the more that we will see a… shift [in] attitudes.”
Some attendees at the UC-OSAPR training sessions said they felt the trainings were not specific and thus were not tailored to the needs of their groups.
“It seemed very general, the issues they were talking about. It didn’t really seem geared toward a club sport or toward a student organization. That’s something that could be worked on,” Hummer said.
Oeser said OSAPR is willing to tailor group-specific trainings to student organizations that request them, as it did with HRDC. She also noted the importance of providing standardized basic information to all student groups before providing more specific training to address groups’ individual needs.
While Oeser and other administrators acknowledged that mandating sexual assault training for some clubs is, on its own, unlikely to solve the growing concerns about sexual assault on campus, they still emphasized its importance as a movement in the right direction.
“We also recognize that this won't be done overnight,” Khurana said. “This is a long, sustained set of dialogues and discussions that we need to have.”
–Staff writer Jonathan G. Adler can be reached at jonathan.adler@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JonathanGAdler.
—Staff writer Brian P. Yu can be reached at brian.yu@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @brianyu28.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As a lawsuit alleging discrimination in Harvard’s admissions practices remains delayed—awaiting a Supreme Court decision on the related affirmative action case Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin—the College’s use of race as a factor in admissions decisions has once again come under scrutiny.
In response to the allegations by anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions, University President Drew G. Faust has upheld Harvard’s commitment to diversity, pledging a “vigorous defense of our procedures.”
Faust’s comments recall those of former University President Derek C. Bok, who likewise defended the University’s race-sensitive admissions practices nearly four decades ago on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”
During Bok’s tenure as president, critics argued that Harvard’s consideration of race in its admissions policies was unfairly discriminatory.
In fact, current litigation may find a precedent in the 1990 investigation by the U.S. Education Department’s Office of Civil Rights into allegations charging the College of using illegal quotas to deny Asian-Americans admission.
The two-year long inquiry sparked debate both on campus and off, even following its conclusion in the fall of 1990.
Though the Office of Civil Rights ultimately cleared Harvard of the alleged use of quotas or any other violations of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, administrators and critics continued to spar over the implications of the report’s findings—a debate that has taken on newfound relevance given the current controversy regarding Harvard’s admissions practices.
The national press first turned its attention to the issue of Asian-American admissions policies in 1985, when several newspaper articles questioned their implementation at public universities in California and selective New England institutions.
Critics like University of California at Berkeley professor L.C. Wang and MIT alum Arthur Hu cited comparatively higher SAT scores amongst accepted Asian-American applicants and lower acceptance rates—an average of 13.3 percent admission for Asians compared to 17.0 percent for whites between the years of 1978 and 1988—to contend that Asian-Americans needed to be more academically qualified than their white counterparts to be admitted. 
Addressing this disparity, Dean of Admissions William R. Fitzsimmons ’67 and then-admissions officer and Assistant Director of Minority Recruitment Susie S. Lebryk-Chao ’86 released a statement in January 1988 explaining the disparity as a result of the small number of Asian-Americans who are either children of alumni or recruited athletes—both groups of which the College gives a preference, or “tip.”
“I think a good case could be made that the acceptance rate for Asian students was going to be lower for [those] two factors,” Parke P. Muth, a former associate dean of admissions and director of international admissions at the University of Virginia, said, reflecting on the College’s admissions trends in the 1980s. “That’s certainly going to affect the numbers a little bit.”
The Department of Education, nonetheless, opened an investigation into Harvard’s admission practices in June 1988. Over the following two years, federal investigators met several times with University officials to learn about the admissions process, interview admissions officers, and review specific data about Asian-American admissions, Lebryk-Chao wrote in an email to The Crimson.
Ultimately, the Education Department accepted the University’s explanation and dismissed allegations of the use of quotas in a report released in October 1990, reaffirming the 1978 decision Regents of University of California v. Bakke, in which Harvard’s admissions methods were cited by the Court as a model of constitutionally race-conscious admissions.
Lebryk-Chao said the admissions office did not change admissions practices following the department’s review.
“The admissions process then and now considers applicants individually, in the context of their schools, communities, activities, and personal strengths,” she wrote.
Despite the conclusiveness of the investigation’s findings, reactions among administrators, students, legal scholars, and interest groups were decidedly more mixed.
According to David Steiner ’54, the University’s vice president and general counsel at the time, the report to read like an endorsement of the College’s overall admissions program as opposed to only an investigation on the treatment of Asian-American applicants.
“There is a lot of language in that report that seems to refer to… approval of [Harvard’s] admissions policies in a general way,” Steiner said in 1990.
Some students at the time of the investigation agreed with administrators. Hoang Quan Vu ’92, former president of the Vietnamese Student Association, for example, said he was satisfied with the Education Department’s findings and glad Harvard would not lose federal aid.
Other Harvard affiliates, however, took issue with the findings, contending that the department had hidden behind the letter of the law in a case of clear wrongful discrimination.
“There’s a difference between what is legally right and what is morally correct,” Professor of Law Alan M. Dershowitz said at the time. “There is no question that Harvard is wrong.”
In contrast to Vu, other leaders of student minority organizations at the time seemed to share in Dershowitz’s sentiments.
Charles C. Kwak ’92, president of the Korean Student Association, echoed Dershowitz’s reasoning, arguing that the tips system attempted to “institutionalize discrimination through some loopholes of Title VI” of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
“I expected that changes would be made in admissions that is more equitable… but it doesn't sound like they’ve made any progress,” Kwak said following the review’s end.
With the College’s admission policies under scrutiny once more, admissions experts say historical antecedents have again become relevant.
“Affirmative action and race in admissions has been looked at a number of times, and in part defended, and in part challenged,” Muth said.
Despite the 1990 investigation’s affirmation that Harvard did not use quotas, he noted that the investigation failed to clarify many more key questions.
“Basically, the issue was: was it tougher for Asians than for white kids,” Muth said. “And that was pretty much the be-all and end-all of the decision.
The ambiguity that resulted from the investigation led to more disputes about the role of race in admissions in the 25 years that followed, with new attitudes and new litigation emerging, according to Muth.
Quan Vu, who had supported the department’s findings at the time, has since changed his views in the 25 years following the decision.
“I can tell you that there is a strong feeling among Asian-Americans that there exists a bias—whether or not it’s intended,” he said. “ I can tell you that Asian-Americans feel very much that their ethnicity is a strike against them because… whether or not there is a real quota, there is a perceived quota.”
Muth concurred with Quan Vu’s assessment, referring to a “confirmation bias” in admissions that is “not even conscious discrimination.” However, he cautioned, “That doesn’t mean there’s not discrimination.”
Given such perceptions, new litigation has been brought against Harvard to challenge perceived inequity of the College’s admissions practices. In 2014, the anti-affirmative action group Students for Fair Admissions filed a lawsuit on behalf of Asian-American applicants, mirroring concerns that prompted the Education Department investigation more than 25 years ago.
Shortly after, a similar complaint—since dismissed—was brought forth by 64 Asian-American groups, accusing the College of many of the same discriminatory practices that the Students for Fair Admissions alleged.
Edward Blum—the litigant behind both of these lawsuits as well as the Fisher v. Texas case—wrote in an emailed statement to The Crimson that “studies suggest that racial preferences in admissions at America’s most competitive universities [have] grown during the last two decades,” calling this “an unfortunate evolution.”
“As we have asserted in our lawsuit,” he continued, “Harvard uses a quota to limit the number of Asians it admits. Quotas are legally impermissible as well as morally wrong.”
The case has been delayed, pending the Supreme Court’s review of Fisher v. Texas.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
When Sheryl K. Sandberg ’91 “bounced” onto campus during Harvard’s Opening Days freshman orientation program, her friends immediately knew she was a force to be reckoned with. Clad in what her college best friend Adam J. Freed ’91 described as her signature outfit—“leggings, a jean mini-skirt, and a big Florida gators sweatshirt”—Sandberg captivated her Canaday E entrywaymates from her earliest days on campus.
Throughout the next four years at the College, Sandberg would consistently surprise professors and classmates alike—wooing individuals with her natural leadership abilities and acute intelligence. When she graduated summa cum laude from Harvard and left to pursue a career in economics, few were surprised: they had expected her to embark on a distinguished career path.
“I didn’t anticipate what she was going to do, exactly, but I anticipated that she would make an important difference in the world, and she definitely has,” Douglas W. Elmendorf, dean of faculty at the Harvard Kennedy School and an adviser to Sandberg as an undergraduate, said.
Almost 25 after graduating, the Class of 1991 has selected Sandberg as its Chief Marshal in this year’s Commencement ceremony—a position awarded to a class member who has achieved success in their careers, contributed to their communities, and served the College, according to the Harvard Alumni Association’s website.
Since graduating, Sandberg has become somewhat of a household name—partly because she is the Chief Operating Officer of Facebook, one of the most high profile companies in the world—but also because of her far-reaching career in the public and private sectors.
In 2013, Sandberg also published her best-selling book “Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead”, which explores female empowerment in the workplace. The book’s title, Lean In, explains exactly what she hopes readers will do: engage more readily in their professional environments.

Before landing a job at one of the most sought-after tech companies on the West Coast, Sandberg floated between different economic institutions.
Her first job out of college was at the World Bank, where she took on health projects addressing leprosy and other ailments. Lant Pritchett, a colleague from her time at the World Bank and current professor of international development at the Kennedy School, said Sandberg “learned, like many people straight out of school, that she didn't know the practicalities of what she did, but she learned fast.”
“Now, if you had to think of what would be the most hardest thing to work on in the world, I think leprosy is it,” Lant added.
Following her stint at the World Bank, Sandberg found herself working at the U.S. Department of the Treasury with her undergraduate thesis adviser, former University President Lawrence H. Summers, as his Chief of Staff.
In a 2012 Atlantic article, Washington editor at large Steve Clemons wrote, “Clearly, Sandberg gave order and discipline and imposed a ‘game plan’ on Lawrence Summers—who must be just in the person he is one of the greatest challenges possible for an ‘organizationalist’.”
Soon, in 2001, she moved to the private sector, working for then-rising internet service company Google.
At Google, Sandberg bumped elbows again with her friend and former classmate Freed, this time as his boss.
“She was a magnanimous and great, thoughtful boss,” Freed said. “She was a great and thoughtful colleague, and no matter where she’s gone, whether it was working together at Google, or I presume at Facebook, she can make any place feel like our freshman dorm.”
Though Sandberg wrote that she struggled academically freshman year, Sandberg’s friends characterize her as an avid academic who explored versatile interests outside of the classroom. For all four years of her undergraduate career, she taught aerobics at the Malkin Athletic Center.
“She always had an aerobics instructor’s bubbliness, and the seriousness of a professor when it came to her academics, and the ability to lead people down any path, and always for good,” Freed said.
Still, Sandberg openly discusses the academic challenges she faced at the College.
“I had only ever written one five page paper before college,” Sandberg wrote for the Harvard Alumni website. “When I got all Cs on my midterms (which, let's face it, are not easy to get at Harvard), my freshman proctor told me I had been accepted to Harvard for my personality, not my academic potential.”
Yet, Sandberg was known for reaching out to faculty to explore her interests.
Elmendorf, then a professor in the Economics department, said he was surprised by how willing Sandberg was to approach him when she was an undergraduate.
Sandberg, who was a member of the Institute of Politics’ Harvard Political Review, approached Elmendorf during her junior year with a request for him to be the faculty adviser for a new organization she was starting—a student group hoping to increase the number of College women concentrating in economics.
“I think partly I was just struck when she first came to see me, to ask me to be the adviser of this group,” Elmendorf said. “I had been quite shy when I was her age, I would not have approached a faculty member the way she seemed comfortable approaching me.”

After Elmendorf accepted, and with classmates Merrill M. Hannis ’91 and Deirdre M. Gallagher ’91 in tow, Sandberg founded Women in Economics and Government.
“Part of what she did was host get-togethers between students and faculty so that the departments would seem more welcoming and less off-putting than they might have seemed before,” Elmendorf said. “And I helped encourage some of my colleagues on the faculty to come to some of those get-togethers.”
Sandberg’s most recent women’s empowerment initiatives speak to this long-time interest in exposing herself and others to opportunities that would not otherwise be explored. In fact, her professional development during and after Harvard epitomizes her belief, evoked in Lean In, that  “careers are a jungle gym, not a ladder.”
Across the world, Lean In is considered an important book in twenty-first century feminist leadership. Sandberg often draws on the book when she speaks at events like Harvard College Class Day.
More recently, Sandberg has also spoken openly about her experiences coping with the death of her husband, Dave Goldberg.
Freed commended Sandberg for her candor in sharing personal anecdotes with others.
“It’s a powerful, powerful conversation, and really speaks to themes of being friends and working with Sheryl,” Freed said. “I think she’s taking that approach now by kind of marrying a very painful personal experience with an opportunity to help others who are in a similar situation feel like they are not alone.”

Philip W. Lovejoy, executive director of the Harvard Alumni Association, said he believes Sandberg’s penchant for addressing difficult issues in a very public manner is a central reason why the Class of 1991 chose her as its Chief Marshal.
“I think she’s an extraordinary individual, the work she’s done for Facebook and what Facebook does in our world, as well as her writing and Lean In, and empowering women,” Lovejoy said. “She just has an incredible resilience and strength, and I suspect that’s why the class chose her.”
—Staff writer Brandon J. Dixon can be reached at brandon.dixon@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BrandonJoDixon.
Sections
When Department Chair Nathan I. Huggins died in December of 1989, it looked like the end of Afro-American Studies at Harvard.
Huggins’ death left a vacancy that the Harvard administration couldn’t seem to fill.
“It was not that easy to attract just anybody,” recalled Henry Rosovsky, former Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. “The [department’s] history was turbulent.”
The department had been fraught with conflict since its inception. Established in April 1968, it was born out of the civil rights movement and pressure from groups like the Association of African and Afro-American Students (AAAAS).
These activist origins led some to doubt its legitimacy. According to Robert L. Hall ’69, a former member of AAAAS, some faculty and administrators viewed it as “a peace-seeking accommodation.”
“There was a perception here that people who went into African history here did so because they couldn’t cut the mustard in regular history,” Hall added.
More than two decades after the department’s establishment, similar doubts continued to plague the department’s progress. “It was perceived as being easy, as not rigorous,” said Carolivia Herron, a professor within the department in the 1980s.
This reputation led to serious staffing difficulties—by 1990, the department had only one senior faculty member, Werner Sollors. Sollors, a professor of English literature, also served as interim chair.
The dire state of the department did not go unnoticed. As University President Derek C. Bok entered the last year of his term in 1990, he prioritized revitalizing the Afro-Am department. Bok and Rosovsky “both agreed that one of the major problems was to make sure that the Afro-American Studies department had a really promising future,” said Rosovsky. “We spent much of that year looking for a new person to take charge of that.”
Bok and Rosovsky’s mission was easier said than done. The department’s reputation preceded it, and though Harvard energetically pursued potential chairs and faculty at other schools, candidate after candidate fell through. Nearly a year after Huggins’ death, the University had made little progress—the department was still understaffed and flagging.
In the fall of 1990, students lost their patience. “This was when the rumbling started that [administrators] were going to close the department,” said Tamara D. Duckworth Warner ’91. “That’s really what sparked the protest.”
The conflict came to a head with a series of protests in the fall of 1990. During one memorable week in November, eight students staged a 23-hour sit-in outside University Hall and demanded the administration hire more faculty. About 150 other students rallied in support of the sit-in that day, and another 70 marched down JFK Street during the annual Harvard-Yale football game the following week.
When they reached the Harvard Stadium, protesting students began to chant: "The roof, the roof, the roof is on fire. We don't want excuses, we want faculty hired.”
Protesters focused their demands on Henry Louis “Skip” Gates Jr. Then a professor at Duke University, Gates was considered a rising star in the field of Afro-American Studies.
“Yale was recruiting him. Columbia was recruiting him. It seemed like everybody and their mother was recruiting Skip Gates. But Harvard wasn’t recruiting him,” Warner said. “So we asked the dean, ‘Why isn’t Harvard making an offer?’”
Protesters interpreted the oversight as a lack of commitment to the field. “We felt that Harvard really wasn’t serious about trying to keep the African-American Studies department. If we’re on the brink of closure, why wouldn’t we be in this game, in the game to try to get Skip Gates?” Warner added.
Shortly after, the administration turned its attention to Gates in earnest, offering him the chair position and a promise of renewed support for the department. “I trusted Henry Rosovsky, and I trusted Derek Bok,” said Gates. “I knew their commitment was sincere.”
In early 1991, he accepted the position.
While the Afro-American Studies department of early 1991 may not have been at the forefront of the field, Gates saw potential. “It had the kind of pull and clout and resources that, if it wanted to, it could go from last place to first place,” he said. “That was very much on my mind when Dean Henry Rosovsky and President Derek Bok made me the offer to come and to attempt to regenerate what was called Afro-American Studies at that time.”
The months that followed were a period of intense preparation. Gates said he flew from Duke to Harvard every two weeks throughout the spring of 1991 to prepare for the job and sit at “the proverbial feet of the masters.” By the time he officially began work in the fall of 1991, Gates was ready to hit the ground running.
Gates’ first order of business was faculty recruitment, the catalyst of the previous year’s protests. When he took the reins, the department still had only a few senior faculty members: Sollors, Gates, and Gates’ longtime colleague and friend K. Anthony Appiah. Afro-Am needed a staff.
 As a condition of the department’s creation in 1968, all new Afro-Am faculty needed to be joint appointments, approved by both Afro-Am and another department. “Nobody wanted to make joint appointments with the department until we came and transformed everything,” Gates said.
To facilitate the process, Gates visited almost every department in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences to introduce himself and “demonstrate to people what the vision was.”
Within a few years, Gates’ faculty included some of the biggest names of the field—including Cornel R. West ’74, William J. Wilson, and current professor of history and African and African American studies Evelyn B. Higginbotham, among others.
This roster, in conjunction with a robust fundraising campaign, rapidly rejuvenated the department. “The only way you can build a great department is to persuade brilliant people to join you,” Gates said. “Then, it’s like the movie Field of Dreams: If you build it, they will come. Once we got the faculty, then the students started swelling our ranks.”
Enrollments grew rapidly, and soon the department grew to include a Ph.D. program.
“We now give a Ph.D. in African studies, in African-American studies. We created what became the largest African language program in the world under the direction of Professor John Mugane,” Gates said. “That was a big agenda.”
Under Gates’ guidance, the Afro-American Studies department gained national recognition and it became what is now known as the Department of African and African-American Studies.
“Everything felt like it was dying on the line and he came in like a breath of fresh air,” Warner said.
This growth signified more than the expansion of just any department. “The birth of the department was very difficult because [while some students] felt that it was a triumph of activism at that time, faculty always felt that it was simply a kind of political accommodation,” Rosovsky said. “Both are wrong. The issue was not just the department. The issue was the establishment of Afro-American Studies as a legitimate field within the University.”
This growing legitimacy was based on a reimagining of what it meant to study African and African-American history in an academically rigorous way. “We let it be known that this wasn’t going to be ideological. This wasn’t a political department. Everyone was welcome, black and white. There would be no black nationalist politics, no political correctness,” Gates said. “It had to be an academic department, rigorously meeting the standards of every other department and every standard of excellence.”
“It’s hard not to see it as a success story,” Rosovsky said. “The department has legitimacy with students, not in a political but in an academic sense. I think the field has gained acceptance, in the University and elsewhere. When you think about it, this all started not that long ago. That’s a pretty significant achievement.”
—Staff writer Laura E. Hatt can be reached at laura.hatt@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Harvard Law School had 65 tenured and tenure-track faculty in 1991. Five of these were black men, five were white women, and 55 were white men. None were women of color.
This statistic propelled 300 Law students to boycott their classes and gather outside the Law School’s student center on April 4, 1991 to march to Massachusetts Hall before taking over the office of then-Law School Dean Robert C. Clark overnight in protest of the lack of diversity among the school’s faculty. 
Twenty-five years later, the Caspersen Student Center’s surroundings look noticeably different—the building has undergone a major renovation, the plaza outside is paved, and Wasserstein Hall now adjoins it.
But Caspersen has remained the center of student life and the rallying point of impassioned Law students demanding change. Protests have once again engulfed the school, placed pressure on administrators, and occupied the national spotlight, as the most recent movement to improve the experience of minorities at the Law School emerged in full-force this year.
A new generation of activists is at the school’s helm. Student activists’ demands are broader and their tactics adapted, as they have drawn inspiration from their predecessors and built their own movement on the foundation of a vibrant history of protest at the Law School.
The Law School found itself at the center of a firestorm in 1991, as administrators faced intense pressure from students to hire minority female faculty.
“We were there during a very tumultuous time,” Marcia L. Narine—a former self-described “radical protester” who graduated in 1992—said in an interview earlier this semester.
A collection of student affinity group leaders formed the Coalition for Civil Rights in 1989, drawing inspiration from anti-apartheid divestment efforts and a strike at UC Berkeley pressing law schools across the country to diversify their faculties.
Inspired by student activists, acclaimed Law professor Derrick A. Bell, Jr.—the first black law professor at the school—decided to take an unpaid leave of absence in protest of the lack of minority women on the faculty. A young Barack Obama, then a second-year Law student, stood nearby as Bell announced his decision to a crowd of students in April 1990.
Bell’s departure drew national media attention and fueled existing activism at the school. “Professor Bell leaving further solidified the importance of our activism and called out the gap in our faculty make-up,” Lisa R. Hodges, a former CCR member in the class of 1991, said. “We felt really validated by that, and his sacrifice was very meaningful.” 
Activists held teach-ins and rallies, and presented administrators with a list of qualified women of color the school could hire. A group of CCR members also sued the school in the fall of 1990, arguing that discriminatory hiring practices harmed students. The suit—which a superior court judge later dismissed on the grounds that the students lacked standing—received attention from The New York Times and support from lawyers and civil rights leaders around the country.
Tensions escalated later that semester, when activists held a series of sit-ins in Clark’s office to draw attention to their cause and compel Clark to respond. The students’ allies among the faculty—including Bell and Law School professor Charles J. Ogletree—brought protesters blankets and food while they staged sit-ins.
Administrators, however, were less sympathetic. After students occupied his office in late April, Clark threatened them with disciplinary action.
The common perception of the Law School in 1991 was that of an institution fundamentally opposed to change. Ogletree described the faculty as “very conservative,” and John C. Bonifaz, a founding member of CCR, said Clark and faculty were unwilling to heed students’ calls to diversify the school’s ranks.
“Most of us thought that there were almost no faculty on our side,” Narine recalled. “[And] Dean Clark at the time was particularly insensitive to our concerns.”
 This perception was reinforced when two visiting female professors of color were not offered tenure-track positions, Hodges said. The school hired four white male professors instead in 1992.
Bell’s 13-year tenure at the Law School was terminated when he did not return by the summer of 1992. “He felt that if the school had not moved forward, he could not in good conscience go back,” Bell’s widow Janet D. Bell said in an interview.
By 1994, things had quieted down at the Law School as activism had effectively disappeared. The school did not hire its first woman faculty member of color—Lani C. Guinier ’71—until 1998.
Institutional memory is a perennial challenge for student activists, since movements are difficult to sustain once their leaders graduate. So when racial tensions resurfaced at the Law School this fall, current students turned to history for guidance.
“We were very interested in learning about the history of activism at Harvard Law. And one of the things we learned when we were starting our own activism was how much had been lost about what happened then,” activist and third-year Law student Bianca S. Tylek said. “It felt like every few years students re-invented [activism] because yet again another incident of racial animus occurred at the institution.”
The incident that sparked the current wave occurred in November, when Law School affiliates found pieces of black tape placed over the portraits of black faculty members in Wasserstein Hall.
The discovery sparked outrage, a police investigation, and protests relating to diversity and inclusion at the school. Students formed the group Reclaim Harvard Law—a diverse, leaderless coalition resembling the CCR of 1991 that adopted a similar system of democratic decision-making.
Like activists 25 years earlier, today’s protesters are calling on the school to increase the representation of minorities on its faculty. But the demands Reclaim Harvard Law issued to current Law School Dean Martha L. Minow in December also included removing the school’s controversial seal, reforming the curriculum, and establishing a critical race theory program.
When Morris A. Ratner, a former member of CCR who graduated in 1991, visited the Law School this year and observed contemporary activism in action, he was struck by the scope of students’ objectives. 
“It seemed to me that the student demands were both more fundamental and more amorphous,” Ratner wrote in an email. “Today’s student protestors seem to want more than a reflection of themselves at the front of the class, but a wholesale shift in attitudes across the Law School.”
Current activists see their movement as an extension of the 1991 movement. “Our fight is a continuation of their fight,” Reclaim Harvard Law member Alexander J. Clayborne said. “One of the things we’re facing now is an understanding that just having faculty of color isn’t going to be enough if they’re not allowed to teach things that are going to be useful to other people of color. That’s why critical race theory is so important.”
Current activists have selectively incorporated elements and tactics from that era into their own movement. Like the students who occupied the dean’s office during sit-ins in 1991, Reclaim Harvard Law members have made occupying public spaces a central pillar of their activism. And activists read Derrick Bell’s books aloud at a teach-in they held in Minow’s office earlier this year.
Contemporary race-related activist movements across the world—such as Black Lives Matter and Rhodes Must Fall—have also served as sources of inspiration, according to Clayborne. New tactics borrowed from these movements, as well as social media—which has proven a powerful tool for increasing visibility—give Reclaim Harvard Law a modern flavor.
“Reclaim has kind of carried the mantle for many different movements of the past, and we’ve added our own things,” said Leland S. Shelton, a member of Reclaim Harvard Law and the outgoing president of the Black Law Students Association. “We’re standing on the shoulders of the past student leaders, and we hope that we’re growing a bit taller and speaking a bit louder.” 
Alumni in the class of 1991 say the Law School is a very different place now than it was when they were students.
“The law school community, as a general matter, is a much gentler, kinder, more humane place to be,” Lecturer Stephanie Robinson, who was a first-year student at the school in 1991, said. “This place in it of itself is very different than when I was here.”
The faculty is noticeably more diverse now. Alumni and current activists alike agree that Minow is considerably more attuned to racial issues and receptive to students’ concerns than was Clark—a stark contrast that has translated into an environment more welcoming of activism.
“The administration, they didn’t care about us at all,” Narine recalled of her time at the school. “It’s completely different than how things were handled when I was there… At least Martha Minow did something.”
Minow has responded to current activists’ demands by creating a committee to reconsider the school’s controversial seal—which was retired in March—and outlining a series of initiatives in February to improve diversity and inclusion at the school.
While contemporary activists have remained critical of Minow, Tylek said they acknowledge that she genuinely cares about improving the experience of minorities at the school.
Contemporary activists also benefit from wider faculty support. Thirty-three faculty and staff members signed an open letter in support of activists in December. While this generation of students does not have a unifying, public figure like Bell around which to rally, Tylek said several faculty members have consistently provided Reclaim Harvard Law assistance in the form of advising, food, and solidarity.
Some of these mentor figures, like Robinson, can provide activists with historical perspective. “Part of it is being able to stand on the balcony and look down and be able to be empathetic,” Robinson said. “But also being able to give you some perspective. Because when you’re in the storm, when you’re in the weeds of something, you’re not able to get perspective.”
Opinions on current activists and their demands vary among alumni who were involved in protests in 1991.
Some, like Narine, view the problems activists are focused on today as less serious than those she and her classmates were up against.
“I think what is important is to pick your battles,” Narine said. “You’ll have a lot of situations where if you’re a female or a minority, there’s always going to be what is perceived as microaggression or insensitivity and when you protest or complain too much, no one is going to listen to you.”
But in Robinson’s opinion, progress should not diminish the value of subsequent generations of activism. She thinks young people are the changemakers of each generation, and it is the duty of older generations to support them.
“Progress is undeniable. It’s better than it was when I was a student, and when we were students. Jim Crow is better than slavery, and so what?” she said. “That really isn’t the point at all. I truly just view these current protests in this broader historical context.”
Members of the class of 1991 who were involved in protest movements have made gestures to bridge the generational gap and advise current students. Several black alumni sent a letter in solidarity to the Black Law Students’ Association after the black tape incident, and some met with members of Reclaim Harvard Law early in their movement to share stories and techniques. And a group of 1991 alumni are compiling a targeted gift for their 25th reunion to advance dialogue and scholarship on race and diversity issues at the school.
While the Law School looks significantly different than it did in 1991, alumni are not surprised activism there has continued.
“I would be surprised if in 25 years we were not to see still a whole bunch of students engaged in some sort of activism taking over a public space and protesting,” Ratner said. “Each generation looks around it and finds something worthy of improving. It’s going to be ultimately unsatisfied with the status quo—that’s just part of being young and optimistic about change.”
—Staff writer Claire E. Parker can be reached at claire.parker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ClaireParkerDC.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
During the short recession that ended in 1991, characterized as fairly mild relative to other post-war recessions, universities across the U.S. faced financial hardships given increasingly large budget deficits from the late 1980s and early 1990s.
At Harvard, unexpected changes in University leadership resulted in unforeseen budget cuts and delays in the new capital campaign, exacerbating the University’s economic difficulties in 1990 and 1991. Ultimately, the recession hit students the hardest, reducing government financial aid packages and leading to bleak job prospects.
In October 1990, then-acting Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences Henry Rosovsky announced the University’s budget deficit was set to reach over $13 million by the end of the year. Under the previous dean, A. Michael Spence, FAS had used deficit spending to renovate facilities, settle with the clerical and technical workers’ union, and cover financial aid and housing expenditures.
To reduce that deficit, Rosovsky declared a six percent budget cut across FAS, totaling $3 million. Administrators, however, emphasized that budget cuts would not impact undergraduate teaching or the University’s need-blind admissions policy.
“It would be one of our last resorts to cut in areas involved with basic teaching. We want to reach efficiencies with the least impact on services,” then Associate Dean for Finance, Candace R. Corvey, said in an interview at the time of the budget cuts.
While the recession did not alter University aid packages, the Massachusetts state budget cut back on student scholarships. Under Massachusetts Governor William F. Weld ’66—elected in November 1990—the state student aid program was converted to a loan program, and Harvard students alone lost a collective $350,000 in aid.
University budget cuts were instead aimed at reducing department spending and cutting salaries of staff and other employees, namely by eliminating cost-of-living yearly adjustments.
“In essence, it means asking the departments to act as if inflation didn’t occur,” Corvey said in the 1990 interview.
The resignations of University President Derek C. Bok and Spence between 1990 and 1991 heightened the University’s fiscal uncertainty. Bok’s unexpected departure from the presidency, in particular, delayed Harvard’s capital campaign—originally slated to raise $3 billion—by a year.
Despite the expectations for increased capital from the fundraising efforts, administrators were doubtful that the fundraising campaign would have a significant impact on the budget deficit. The money would not provide a permanent cash flow, and education experts at the time said donors might prefer to invest in long-term projects rather than pay off old debts.
“Each year, the deficit has been managed by drawing on the reserves to cover the shortfall. This is a common practice, but one which we cannot rely on indefinitely,” Rosovsky said when he announced the budget cuts to the faculty in October of 1990.
As the outside world—specifically corporations and big businesses—cut back on spending and hiring in response to the recession, resources and opportunities for Harvard faculty and students became more limited.
Faculty members, particularly those conducting research in the social sciences and humanities, tended to rely on external capital from foundations to fund their projects. As the economy declined, so too did options for outside funding of research efforts.
The weak economy affected students as well. The high inflation and unemployment rate made the job search especially daunting for seniors graduating in 1991.
A Michigan State University study conducted in 1991 found that, for 1991-1992, graduating college seniors faced a tighter job market for the third consecutive year. The study pointed to the recession, government budget deficit, and impending conflict in the Middle East to explain the low hiring rates.
Harvard’s Office of Career Services also saw an increase in student involvement during the recession.
"In the fall months we saw 15 percent more students than we did the year before. It's been a much busier year. There has been a higher level of anxiety among the students,” Martha P. Leape, who was director of the Office of Career Services, said in 1991.
With fewer jobs available to graduating seniors, many across the country turned instead to graduate school. Applications to medical schools alone saw a 50 percent increase in 1991, according to Leape.
Alternatively, many graduates accepted lower paying or less prestigious jobs, or broadened their geographic range.
Many members of the Class of 1991, however, remained optimistic that a Harvard degree still held many advantages.
"If it's a ladder, you just bump down one rung, but so does everyone else," Jon M. Biotti '91 said in 1991. "We are still ahead of certain other college grads so therefore everything is relative."
Professor of organic chemistry emeritus Elias J. Corey, who has taught at Harvard for 65 years, said he believed the recession of 1990 and 1991 had relatively mild impacts on the University.
“There were almost certainly adverse effects on some job-seeking graduates,” Corey said. “There were over the years huge adverse economic effects—of the wars, for example…but we have survived and emerged with spirit intact. There are many things that we do well.”
—Staff writer Kathleen G. Barrow can be reached at kathleen.barrow@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the summer of 1990, against the backdrop of an economy in recession, University budgetary cutbacks, and a war brewing in the Gulf, a committee of nine leaders in business and academia undertook a momentous task: choosing the next president of Harvard University. The search, which played out over the course of 11 months, was shrouded in secrecy and at times rife with controversy.
In May 1990, after nearly 20 years in office, University President Derek C. Bok announced he would step down in June of the following year, citing his age as the primary motive behind his decision. Faced with an upcoming capital campaign threatened by a struggling economy, choosing the University’s next president became a matter of the highest priority.
Secret and oft-turbulent deliberations yielded a result that surprised many so-called “Harvard insiders.” The presidential search committee selected former Harvard and Princeton professor Neil L. Rudenstine, a later addition to the list of candidates and a figure largely unknown to those outside of the elite academic circles of the Ivy League.
With Bok’s departure imminent, the presidential search began almost immediately. Prior to 1990, this responsibility had fallen to the Harvard Corporation, the University's highest governing body. The establishment of a search committee broke several significant precedents.
In July 1990, the Corporation announced that, for the first time, the president would be chosen by a separate search committee consisting of the six members of the Corporation and three members from Harvard’s Board of Overseers—the second highest governing body of the University—as opposed to the traditional process of internal deliberation by the Corporation.
According to search committee chair and former Corporation member Charles P. Slichter ’45, this move to include Overseers sought to expand the knowledge and backgrounds of the search committee members. “It was useful because the Overseers [on the search committee] included academics who could provide unique knowledge about potential candidates,” he said.
In making its decision, the committee juggled selecting an academic with choosing a president with the administrative experience necessary to run a major university.
In a September 1990 statement, one of the very few that it released, the committee stated its intentions to chose a president who was a “recognized scholar” with a “distinguished intellect.”
Furthermore, the committee sought a president with a vision, writing in its statement that, "The president should possess imagination, vision and the eloquence to express those qualities to the University and to the world.”
The committee also sought a more experienced administrator to unite Harvard’s 12 decentralized, degree-granting schools.
“There are administrative problems involved when trying to work between faculties, so we wanted to pick someone who was accustomed to that and understood how to accomplish it,” Slichter said.
In light of impending budget cutbacks announced during the search by acting Dean of Faculty Henry Rosovsky, who declined to comment for this story, and an upcoming multi-billion dollar capital campaign, the University also sought a candidate who could manage the budget while acting as an effective fund-raiser,  Slichter said.
After its formation, the committee drew up an initial list of names in September 1990 and narrowed it down throughout the fall.
Many thought Rosovsky would be the likely choice to replace Bok. However, in late July 1990, shortly after the committee had formed, Rosovsky complicated the process by publicly announcing that he did not wish to be considered, citing his age as the primary reason.
By October of 1990 the Committee had successfully narrowed the list down to 35-50 candidates, including future front-runners Rudenstine and former genetics professor Philip Leder ’56. Although the proceedings were kept secret, The Crimson’s sources at the time confirmed that by late January 1991 Leder and Rudenstine, along with Professor Martin S. Feldstein ’61, were the top contenders for the post.
In the final weeks of the deliberations, between late February and early March, the committee appeared deadlocked, unable to decide on a single front-runner. Finally, on March 22, sources informed The Crimson that the committee had made its recommendation and referred Rudenstine’s nomination to the Board of Overseers for approval. Although the records of the deliberations will not be released until 2071, it is believed that Rudenstine’s experience as an administrator ultimately helped sway the committee in his favor.
In addition to the frequent delays in the search process, due in part to the death of a committee member and a lack of consensus in deliberations, the search for a new president inspired controversy on multiple fronts.
First and foremost among the complaints was that the entire process had been shrouded in secrecy. Throughout its deliberations, the committee kept a tight lid on its progress, rarely releasing public statements and holding secret meetings in the Boston Ritz hotel and McKinsey & Co.’s New York headquarters.
This secrecy drew the ire of many groups at Harvard. In September of 1990,  the Ralph Nader-sponsored group Harvard Watch, criticized the committee’s lack of transparency, with Nader even visiting campus to hold a protest rally.
When asked about these criticisms, Slichter said that the nature of the search process involved approaching individuals who were often already employed, which necessitated discretion. “Some of the people in whom you’re most interested… don’t want their bosses or colleagues to think they’re about to leave so confidentiality is a practical problem.  That’s why the group is kept small.”
Many also criticized the lack of student input in the search process, with more than 1,000 students signing a petition in the fall of 1990 calling for the addition of students to the search committee. Versions of the petition were approved by the Phillips Brooks House and the Harvard-Radcliffe Democrats.
The Undergraduate Council was also involved, with Council Chair Guhan Subramanian ’92 writing to the search committee in the summer of 1990 to urge more student input. When asked about the council’s input, Subramanian—now a Harvard University professor—said he recalled the council eventually was allowed input into the process, but that he did not remember the specifics. Indeed, after much controversy, the search committee eventually agreed to let 15 students—a mixture of UC reps and other undergrads—meet with the search officials on several occasions.
Slichter said the idea that there was a lack of student input in the process is largely inaccurate. “We talked to a lot of students, both current students and former graduates, as part of our initial interview process,” Slichter said, positing that many students who complained likely did not understand the extent of research and consultation of different groups that went into the search process.
The makeup of the committee itself also came under critical scrutiny. Harvard Watch, in particular, criticized the corporate ties of the search committee members, publishing a report in the fall that detailed the $550,000 in income collected by six out of the nine members of the search committee by sitting on the boards of major corporations.
According to Slichter however, the search committee members made sure to solicit input from faculty and other Harvard-related groups at the beginning of the search process in order to educate themselves about the concerns and preferences of the University community. “ It was a huge education for the governing board. All the members of the board heard from faculty and outside experts about the important things that they should be considering.”
Like the process itself, the selection of Rudenstine also elicited a mix of criticism and surprise. Rudenstine’s decision to follow former Princeton President William G. Bowen to the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation rather than remaining at Princeton to likely become its next president caused some to question his commitment.
According to Slichter, the committee indeed considered this concern during its search but decided to look into the matter further. “We were told that he would never accept but… he’d been a student and faculty member so he had emotional ties to Harvard as well as intellectual ones.”
Indeed, according to Slichter, the committee sent Rosovsky to the Mellon Foundation in New York City to “sound out” Rudenstine. During this meeting, Rudenstine agreed to be considered for the position.
Some expressed doubts about Rudenstine’s qualifications, pointing to the fact that he was virtually unknown outside of academic circles.
When asked about their familiarity with Rudenstine in the fall of 1991, some students acknowledged that they had never heard of him in any significant context before his selection. However, the committee looked at Rudenstine’s experience at Princeton as evidence of his extraordinary qualifications.
“Rudenstine was a very well-liked and respected figure at Princeton… he is someone that was tried and true at an institution much like Harvard,” said Slichter.
Indeed, many did praise Rudenstine’s appointment. In an op-ed written in the Crimson shortly after his nomination, students praised Rudenstein as a “professional president,” lauding his administrative experience and abilities.  Another op-ed pointed to Rudenstine’s prioritizing of inter-school cooperation on administrative and fundraising efforts and encouragement of academic exploration, describing them as in-line with the desires of the larger Harvard body.
If Rudenstine’s selection process was fraught with controversy, his 10-year term as President was relatively peaceful. Rudenstine made good on many of his stated goals and objectives, appointing a University provost for the first time in decades to facilitate administrative cooperation between Harvard’s 12 schools.  He was also an adept fundraiser, although he quietly reduced the goal of Harvard's fundraising campaign at the time from Bok’s original $3 billion goal set in 1990 to $2 billion.
Reflecting on the process, Slichter stressed his belief in the strength of the current search system. “I think [the system] really left the governing boards with full knowledge. And I think this is a superior method,” he said.
Rudenstine made his own mark on the future of the Harvard presidency. As president, Rudenstine was a central negotiator in the merger between Radcliffe College and Harvard, out of which came the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study.
The institute’s first dean, former University of Pennsylvania professor Drew G. Faust, would later go on to become Harvard’s first female president.
—Staff Writer Laszlo B. Herwitz can be reached at laszlo.herwitz@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @laszloherwitz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As the Dean of the Radcliffe Institute at the turn of the 21st century, University President Drew G. Faust faced a delicate task: navigate the merger of the historically separate female school into the much larger, much older, and much more male-dominated University.
When the class of 2000—the first in which men and women graduated with identical diplomas—fully integrated into the rest of Harvard, there were fears that Radcliffe’s independent history and identity would be lost in the mix of Harvard lore.

So when then-Dean of the Faculty Arts of and Sciences Jeremy R. Knowles wanted to stop playing the Radcliffe hymn at commencement ceremonies, Faust put her foot down.
“I said, ‘you're going to have all these little ladies out there, you know, the class of 1920 sitting there and their college is gone,’” Faust said in an interview earlier this month. “Let’s keep some of the symbols of the past to make that transition to something new easier.”
For Faust, a historian of the American South, the preservation and recognition of Radcliffe’s separate past was essential to its identity at the University. And while her career has progressed further and further away from her days of scholarship, Faust’s acute sense of institutional history has only sharpened.
Only a few years later, as Faust took the stage in Tercentenary Theatre to accept her installation as the president of the oldest university in the country, she charted a vision that has become a theme of her time at Harvard.

“A university looks both backwards and forwards in ways that must—that even ought to—conflict with a public’s immediate concerns or demands,” she said in her inaugural address.
This past year, Faust has rooted her decision-making rationales in history—both Harvard’s and her own—to pick which pieces of the past should be carried into the future.
She accepted a Law School committee’s recommendation to shed the school’s controversial seal, dedicated a plaque to enslaved persons who lived and worked at Harvard in the 18th century, and welcomed the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps back to campus after decades of absence.
And in May, breaking decades of precedent, Faust announced a series of sanctions for students in single-gender social organizations, including final clubs, challenging some of the institutions that have helped define Harvard undergraduate life for more than 100 years.
In each case, as Faust waded into some of the most charged discourses on college campuses across the country, she turned to a familiar tool as she sought to justify the University’s future course: historical analysis and argument. A prize-winning historian herself, Faust has, in the past year, repeatedly reviewed Harvard’s historical record with an academic’s eye and decided which legacies and structures are deserving of recognition in the year’s to come—even, or especially, when it rankles the “public’s immediate concerns or demands.”
Her acts have met no shortage of criticism, either, from those who assert that Faust’s reverence of history is narrow and overly political to those who say she has not done enough to combat the persistent vestiges of racism, sexism, and inequality at Harvard.
“I often wonder if I became a historian because of the way I approach the world or if I approach the world the way I do because I am a historian,” Faust said in May.

Faust’s own origin story has been told and retold so many times it now nearly resembles a historical narrative itself.
Catharine Drew Gilpin, the daughter of a horse breeder and a socialite, grew up in Virginia’s Shenandoah Valley in the segregated South. She attended the then-all-female Concord Academy and then Bryn Mawr, where she marched for civil rights in Selma as a freshman and graduated magna cum laude. After college, she moved to the University of Pennsylvania, where she would complete her master’s and doctorate. She stayed on as a faculty member in American Studies, and eventually rose to a prominent professorship, teaching and studying the history of the antebellum South.
“She joined a whole lot of people at the time who were more and more interested in the history of the South because of the burgeoning civil rights movement,” said Steven Hahn, a history professor at Penn who has  known Faust for decades. “Whereas Southern history had been sort of the province of Southern white men, it became much more diverse.”
Faust’s writing, even in the crowded field of Civil War scholarship, stood out for its unconventional feminist bent; in one controversial paper, she concluded that "It may well have been because of its women that the South lost the Civil War.”
In 2000, Faust was named the first dean of the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, formed after Harvard-Radcliffe merger. There, she took charge of shaping the fledgling institute’s mission, striving to reconcile its past as an institution for women and its future as a co-educational research institute.
About six years later, after then-University President Lawrence H. Summers’s turbulent tenure came to a premature end, the more mild-mannered Radcliffe dean made the shortlist for his replacement.
And so, charged with unifying a divided faculty and returning stability to the shaken university, Faust became Harvard’s first female president before a windswept Tercentenary Theatre in 2007.
To her new red-walled office in Massachusetts Hall, according to Law Professor Bruce H. Mann, Faust brought a historian’s keen sense of legacy and temporality.
“Historians are trained to need to see context, to see texture, to see nuance, to take a long view,” Mann said. “They’re also trying to sift through the mounds of often confusing evidence and accounts to get at what some approximation of historical truth, to confront it directly and then turn around and explain it both to the present and to the future.”

Amid recent calls to rename and remove slavery-tainted symbols, Faust has indeed tended to take the historian’s conservative long view, warning against erasing the past and feeling superior to generations prior.
“I think if you erase the whole past, it’s too easy to feel innocent. It’s too easy to not learn from it and to think that you’re not going to make any mistakes in the present—you’re better than those mistakes. We’re not better than those mistakes,” she said last year.
Over the past year, there has been no shortage of opportunities for Faust to decide what merits active revision.
In October, a group of two dozen Law School students calling themselves “Royall Must Fall” gathered to call for the removal of the school’s seal, which they criticized for its historical ties to slavery. Isaac Royall, Jr., whose family owned slaves in the 18th century, endowed Harvard’s first professorship of Law, and the school’s seal was the Royall family crest.
At first just a student protest, the groups’ claims picked up steam as the academic year progressed, culminating with Faust and the Corporation’s decision in March to allow the school to change its seal, over the concern of some alumni and donors who cautioned against the change.
Mann, who also chaired the Law School committee that initially recommended the seal change, said the committee rooted its recommendation in historical scholarship.
“As we made our arguments, we recognized that the president of the University is also a historian,” Mann said. “Since we were writing as historians, we knew that at least part of our audience would understand how we were proceeding.”

But throughout the conversation about the Law School’s seal, Faust was careful to draw a distinction: Harvard would not rewrite its historical connections to slavery.
“We accepted the recommendation of the Mann committee and the dean because we thought it was correct, but she was very clear in the letter that we sent back to the dean that we thought this was the right decision on this particular issue, but it shouldn’t be reflective of a belief that you can somehow erase history,” said William F. Lee ’72, the senior fellow of the Harvard Corporation who also wrote the letter approving the seal change with Faust.
Still, at least one committee member—historian Annette Gordon-Reed—cautioned in her dissent that removing the Royall seal would constitute an erasure of history and a failure to be “ unrelentingly frank and open with the whole world, now and into the future, about an important thing that went into making this institution.”
While Faust and the Corporation still accepted the committee’s majority recommendation to remove the seal, concerns about forgetting history seem to have resonated with Faust.
Just weeks after approving the seal change, Faust announced in op-ed in The Crimson that Harvard would dedicate a plaque to honor four slaves who lived and worked at Harvard’s Wadsworth House.
“The past never dies or disappears. It continues to shape us in ways we should not try to erase or ignore. We must never forget,” Faust said at the ceremony to commemorate the plaque. In addition to the Wadsworth House plaque, Faust has also tasked a committee with examining other campus sites connected with slavery and considering future memorials.
The Wadsworth House plaque, according to University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76, is a textbook example of how Faust’s training as a historian colors her cautious but critical approach to Harvard’s checkered past.
In the case of the plaque, he said, “she used history as a way to make a statement about how we are as a University and who we aspire to be.”

But while Faust is wary of renaming buildings and removing symbols, she has been willing to engage with some historical vestiges that still loom large on campus. Her latest history lesson arrived in a short, unassuming email: two paragraphs, two links.
The first link, authored by Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana put forth a set of sanctions for members of final clubs and Greek organizations. But the second was signature Faust—a letter accepting the recommendations, and detailing the historical justification behind them.
Unlike her cautious stance on changing tainted symbols and names, Faust’s email endorsed a definitive break with Harvard tradition; this part of the past she would reject wholeheartedly. The sanctions would be the first significant strike against the all-male final clubs since 1984, when they disaffiliated from the University under pressure to accept women.
“Tradition is important, especially to an institution with our long reach into the past, but we must measure it against the contemporary needs of a dynamic, modern academic community,” Faust wrote.
In this case, Faust’s historical review of the clubs’ place on campus had not resulted in any kind of plaque or memorial; instead, the future of the centuries-old organizations was in peril.

Many alumni, distressed at the possible dissolution of their old stomping grounds, were quick to accuse Khurana and Faust—neither of whom attended Harvard—of selectively editing Harvard’s history to fit a particular political agenda. Faust’s fealty to a vision for the future of Harvard undergraduate life left those more familiar with its past upset.
Gerard J. Cassedy ’61, a Delphic Club member, was among them.
“If I could sit in front of President Faust and explain, I think she would at least be open to the idea of culture and tradition of institutions that are hundreds of years old,” Cassedy said. “Tell me what is foul, what is so odious, about these clubs?”
Graduate president of the Fly Club Richard T. Porteus Jr. ’78, who has publicly disparaged administrative involvement in campus social life, also questioned Faust’s understanding of the clubs.
“I think that President Faust, in opportunistically linking gender issues with sexual assault, is suggesting that sexual assault will go away if gender neutrality is at all times, in all places, for all people the rule,” Porteus said. “That’s an incredibly ahistorical point of view.”
But Linda K. Kerber, Faust’s longtime friend and former colleague, said she believes Faust’s strong public stance against single-gender clubs is less an attack on Harvard tradition than an unearthing of its darker corners. In particular, Kerber said, Faust’s years attending women-only schools and leading a historically female institute may be motivating her unusual level of involvement in undergraduate social life.
“The final clubs are a piece of the larger question of how do we shape an institution, a co-ed institution, that will be as welcoming to women as it is to men?” Kerber said. “Drew’s still in the business of, will Harvard actually sustain its women students as well as Concord Academy and Bryn Mawr?”
Director of the Mahindra Humanities Center Homi K. Bhabha, who was a faculty advisor to Faust at Radcliffe, said Faust’s decision on the clubs was in line with her “very emancipatory and progressive ideas on women and gender.”
“What she's trying to do in the finals clubs is completely consistent with how she has thought about equality and creating community,” Bhabha said.
Lee, however, said Faust’s denigration of the clubs has less to do with her personal history than her unequivocal belief that discrimination on the basis of gender ought to be left in the past.
“Whether she was the first woman president of Harvard or the 10th woman president, she would have made the same decision, because she thought it was the right decision,” Lee said.

Stephen P. Shoemaker, a religion professor who teaches a course on Harvard’s past leaders, said Faust’s commandeering of the bully pulpit to advance a historian’s agenda is well within the bounds set by previous presidents.
“Not only were they interested in using that pulpit to address a national audience, but they’re interested in having Harvard take a national role,” Shoemaker said. “In that way, she’s absolutely following in their footsteps.”
While, under Faust, Harvard has turned on the final clubs, the University is welcoming back another relic from Harvard’s past: the Reserve Officer Training Corps. For several decades, military training was one of the largest student activities on campus.
But in the 1960s, widespread student protest of Harvard’s relationship with the military eventually pushed the program away from the University. The two institutions—Harvard and the United States military—would remain divorced for the rest of the 20th century and into the 21st.
“We started the ball rolling under President Summers and we didn’t lose ground under President Faust,” said Paul E. Mawn ’63, the chairman of Advocates for Harvard ROTC, an alumni group. “President Summers took it down into the red zone and finally with President Faust we got our toe over the line.”
After recognizing Navy ROTC and Army ROTC in 2011 and 2012, respectively, Faust signed an agreement with Air Force Secretary Deborah Lee James, formally welcoming back the third ROTC branch of the military.
At the recognition ceremony, Faust—herself a descendent of a number of soldiers—traced the history of Harvard’s relationship with the military.
“These silent reminders connect us to the past. But ROTC is, of course, about the future. About the preparation of soldier-scholars who will lead on behalf of their generation and those that follow,” Faust said at the April ceremony.
But the symbolic reconciliation may not be enough to restore Harvard’s historically close relationship with the military, Mawn said. Harvard’s ROTC programs are still much smaller than they used to be, he said, and the real test going forward will be if Harvard’s program can grow.
“A beachhead has been established at Harvard but the mission is not complete,” Mawn said. “The key issue is not the recognition but the glaring lack of participation in ROTC among Harvard undergraduates.”

With Faust now nearly a decade into her presidency, some have their sights on the legacy she will leave.

Hahn, who followed in Faust’s footsteps at Penn, said she departs from past leaders by placing intellectual inquiry—not “business models”—at the center of her presidential philosophy. He predicted that his predecessor would strive to make faculty, students, and staff “more historically conscious” of the university where they live, work, and study.
“My sense is that she would like to leave an institution that looked different than the one she came to, both at Radcliffe and as president of Harvard, and try to sort of rearrange and loosen some of the hierarchies that she found,” Hahn added.
Mann, however, said he thinks Faust has little interest in constructing her own historical narrative.
“I honestly don’t think that she thinks in terms of her legacy, because none of this is about her,” Mann said. “What it is about is is her personal, professional desire to assure that Harvard lives up to the highest values that institutions such as Harvard can aspire to.”
A. Clayton Spencer, Harvard’s former vice president for policy, characterized Faust as a storyteller-in-chief with a powerful but “quiet leadership style.”
“It’s not history that teaches you something, it’s historians,” Spencer said. “A big part of leadership is shaping a motivating narrative that people at the institution see as the right way forward for the future, and they see themselves a part of.”
Famed biographer Walter S. Isaacson ’74, a Harvard Overseer, said he thinks Faust will be remembered for bringing historically marginalized groups back into the campus fold.
“President Faust’s background as a historian makes her understand well that the arc of American history has, as one of its main themes great inclusivity,” Isaacson said. “That’s an extraordinarily important concept in the world we live in today. It’s been a theme of her historical writing on the Civil War, and I think a theme of her presidency at Harvard.”
But in this present moment, Faust doesn’t seem to be concerned with the way she’ll go down in the history books. For now, she’s looking back—at past injustices, questionable symbols, and entrenched inequalities—to move Harvard forward.
“I’ve often talked about history a lot as a way of thinking about where we are now, and what is the momentum towards where we want to be,” Faust said.
—Staff writers C. Ramsey Fahs and William C. Skinner contributed to the reporting of this story.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
—Staff writer Daphne C. Thompson can be reached at daphne.thompson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @daphnectho.
The Harvard athletic department is home to more than 50 coaches’ offices, but only a select few do double duty. Since 2012, Kevin Rhoads has served as coach of both the men’s and women’s golf teams. Prior to that, he had served as women’s coach for eight years.
In his tenure, Rhoads has led the women to seven Ivy League titles, all of which have come in the last nine years. This dominance made the Crimson the first program in conference history to earn at least four consecutive women’s golf championships.
This year, for the first time in Harvard history, both the men’s and women’s golf squads took the Ivy League championship home to Cambridge. It was the first trip to regionals for the men since 1975.
“Coach Rhoads has been an integral part of the success of this program the last few years, this year especially,” men’s captain Rohan Ramnath said. “He’s been a fantastic coach and mentor. We couldn’t have had our successes without him, and it’s a testament to his resolve and expertise.”
Prior to coming to Harvard, Rhoads played golf and majored in history at UCLA, graduating in 1995. He currently serves as the Teaching Professional at The Country Club in Brookline, Mass. in addition to his coaching positions.
Golf is unique in that its season is split between a fall and spring portion, with no tournaments being played in the region during the winter months. For Rhoads, the added workload is well worth it due to his love of golf and teaching.
“From a personnel standpoint, I’m really lucky because I just love my job,” Rhoads said. “To be around so many good players on a daily basis and try to help them all improve is just really engaging for me. It’s been a lot of fun.”
Rhoads is very optimistic for the future of Harvard golf and sees the program as still being on the upswing despite all of the success the Crimson has captured in recent years.
“A lot of our work goes in in the preparation phase leading up to the weekend’s tournament,” Rhoads said. “We have a very strong work ethic, never feel like we’re up against history, and I’m really proud of all we’ve been able to accomplish.”
In his coaching, Rhoads attempts to tailor his game plan to each player’s individual situation and style of play.
“Coach Rhoads has an approach to the game that is fairly different than anything I had experienced before coming here,” sophomore Greg Royston said. “I completely buy into his way of thinking and it is without a doubt a fundamental part of the teams’ successes.”
Rhoads has done well to prepare both of his teams for competitive tournaments against top-tier programs despite being restricted by brutal New England winters.
“All in all, we’re spending 25 percent less time on the course than most programs due to different restrictions,” Rhoads said. “In any sport, that is a lot of reps to give up. It’s important for our players to know that it’s not entirely an apples to apples comparison.”
Players on both of Rhoads’s teams always try to go into competition not only in top physical shape, but also with high confidence and mental willpower.
“He emphasizes the importance of process over results,” women’s captain Christine Lin said. “He makes sure we are our best helpers by getting us in positive frames of mind. Team members are super fortunate to have such a great coach and mentor who constantly fosters collaborative spirit and believes in each and every one of us as players and people.”
In addition to their weekly tournaments across the country, Harvard golfers are given ample opportunity to pursue their unique individual interests and do well in the classroom.
Harvard is a school that places restrictions on the amount of class days students can miss in each term, creating a balancing act for coaches to try and minimize absences while maximizing the quality of competition players have to opportunity to engage in.
“At Harvard, academics do come first; we arrange all practices around class, which is different than almost any other Division I school,” Rhoads said. “It’s a big logistical effort to organize our scheduling, but I think it’s well worth it for the players and the benefits far outweigh the costs.”
In striving for improvement, Crimson players have looked toward preparation and doing the little things extremely well to take their game to the next level.
“Coach Rhoads has a very unique style of coaching that allows us to effortlessly submit ourselves to the present and focus on elements that are helpful for us to adapt to the varying conditions of each day,” Lin said. “His philosophy allows us to differentiate what really matters and what doesn’t, and this allows us to precisely pinpoint areas of our games that need improvement and implement tangible ways to reach our goals.”
Staff writer Jed J. Rothstein can be reached at jrothstein@college.harvard.edu.
Sections
This March, b.good was forced to shutter its Harvard Square restaurant to make way for renovations to Harvard’s Smith Campus Center. After nearly 10 years of operating the locally-sourced burger eatery next door to his alma mater, b.good’s co-founder Anthony S. Ackil ’99 said the neighborhood he left behind is markedly different from the one he remembers as an undergraduate.
“When I was [at Harvard], there was not a lot of national chains and now, all of Harvard Square is a national chain,” Ackil said.
Harvard Square is a constantly changing environment, but recent increases in rent prices and different shopping patterns have made it harder for smaller local establishments to remain in business alongside national chains. In addition to the disruption caused by Harvard’s construction in the heart of the Square, the past year has seen a significant change to the face of Harvard Square.
While shop owners acknowledge the mercurial landscape of the Square, recent changes have them anxious for the future. 

For Denise A. Jillson, the executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, local change is a constant. Jillson oversees the organization tasked with promoting the interests of the Square’s businesses, and she said she views the constantly transforming business landscape as a positive.
“The one thing we depend on is change and that’s a good thing,” Jillson said. “That’s the nature of business.”
 Indeed, this year has seen a number of closings and openings. Along with the closing of b.good, Yogurtland, Yenching, Panera, Au Bon Pain, and Al’s Harvard Square Cafe were among those who departed the Square within the past several months. As they close shop, a number of businesses have either recently opened or announced plans to open local establishments such as Sweetgreen, Tom’s Bao Bao, Parsnip, Tatte, and the Capital One Cafe.
Jillson said data indicate that the proportion of locally-owned independent businesses in the Square has remained relatively stable throughout the years, fluctuating between 70 and 75 percent.
Still, local shop owners disputed Jillson’s interpretation of the local business environment. Bill Bartley, the owner of Bartley’s Burger Cottage, a local staple that has been around for more than 50 years, disagreed with Jillson and said few local businesses have been able to sustain themselves over the long term in the Square.
“It’s not even close to 70 percent,” Bartley said. “As far as we’re concerned, there’s only four of us that’s turned over to second-generations.” 
The Square in the past has often been characterized as “eclectic,” and locals have long feared losing that character as national chains move in. Even as Ackil actively plans b.good’s return to Harvard Square, he said the Cambridge hub has lost some of what made it distinct.
“Harvard Square is meant to be an eclectic area,” Ackil said. “It’s not meant to be a strip mall.”
For more than 50 years, Christos Soillis has witnessed the change firsthand from behind the counter of Felix’s Shoe Repair. He said that in the last 20 years, only new businesses moving in have been mostly “more big business” like banks and pricey restaurants.
“Small business, they cannot afford to stay in the Square,” Soillis said.

Harvard Square has become a major tourist destination for its cultural offerings and the draw of one of the world’s most famous universities. It has a steady flow of foot traffic, and includes one of the three busiest MBTA stations, so perhaps it is no surprise that rents have skyrocketed in recent years. That increase in rent, along with changing shopping patterns, have led to times for local brick-and-mortar shops.
Iram Farooq, Cambridge’s assistant city manager for community development, said Harvard Square plays an outsized role in the Boston area and is a major draw for tourist, in turn spiking real estate prices.
“It’s a place that gets a lot of traffic, it gets high visibility, which means that from the retail perspective, retail gets high visibility if they’re located in Harvard Square,” Farooq said. “That makes it very attractive and the more attractive a place is, the more people are willing to pay.
Ackil said the rent for b.good’s property in the Square increased substantially over the past decade, making it very difficult for local businesses to do well for themselves.
That increase has changed the calculation for which businesses enter Harvard Square. According to Soillis, national chains are established enough to take a risk on the high rent.
“For someone to come into Harvard Square, they probably have to have a good idea of what they’re doing,” Paul Lee, a manager of the 62 years-old Hong Kong Restaurant, said. “It’s going to have to be something that’s more established because the rents might be a little higher in the area.”
Along with rising rents, changing consumer patterns such as online shopping have also hurt local retailers, Bartley said. He said that in the past, people visited the Square for their essentials, and while there would get a meal and make other purchases. Increasingly, he said, shoppers are buying their goods on the Web, which drives out business and has left local shoppers with fewer options.
“Retail is dying a slow death,” Bartley said. “Now [people] go, get in their Uber, go home and order takeout and get it delivered.”
As Harvard Square businesses undergo significant change, store owners say Harvard, as one of the major land owners in the area, will have a significant say in the Square’s future.  
Rising rents in the area are market-driven, but it is the landlords who ultimately set the price points. Local shopkeepers have credited Harvard with working to encourage local businesses.
“You certainly don’t see many shoe repairs,” Bartley said regarding Felix’s Shoe Repair. “If Harvard wasn’t the landlord, you wouldn’t see it. It wouldn’t be here.”
Given Harvard’s long history and the important role it plays as a local anchor, Farooq ,the Cambridge official, said Harvard and other established landowners are more deliberate in their real estate decisions than some newer and more commercially-motivated property holders.
“Some of the people who are purchasing now are newer folks who are not so familiar with Harvard Square,” Farooq said. “They are not so much focused on the character or the sense of the place, but much more of a financial investment so that changes who they target for retailers.” 
Still, some undergraduates said they feel students are losing out as more national chains move in.
Michael A. Kikukawa ’17 said he felt changes were “being driven by people that are actually eating at these places rather than the people who are living in the Square.” Aaron L. Fogelson ’19, meanwhile, argued for maintaining local options.
“There’s something better about local that’s just like it really represents the school and where you’re from and because of that, you feel more personal with the eating experience,” Fogelson said.
At the end of the day, while local shop owners may be unsure of what the future may bring, they are certain they will need to continue fighting for their spaces.
“It’s not easy. The Square is definitely not easy,” Bartley said.
—Staff writer Beth Young can be reached at beth.young@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @thebethyoung.
Coming into this season, there wasn’t a lot that junior Nikki Okwelogu had not done in the women’s shot put.
She had won Ivies. She had set school and Ivy records. She was a first team All-American.
But now, after this season, she can add winning a bronze medal at nationals—and setting two personal bests along the way—to the list.
This last item is courtesy of Okwelogu’s record performance at the NCAA indoor nationals this past February where she threw for 17.66 meters—breaking her old Ancient Eight record in the process—on her way to a third place finish.
The podium finish came in spite of a finger sprain earlier in the year that had limited Okwelogu’s practices and impacted her performance all season.
“Going into [the meet] I wasn’t as confident as I would have hoped to be, but that could have played into an advantage where I felt like I had nothing to lose,” Okwelogu said. “It worked out pretty well.”
Okwelogu got a big confidence boost from the first throw of the competition, where she set a new personal best of 17.49 meters—good enough to put her in first place at the time.
She would go on to best her initial mark a few throws later with a toss of 17.66 meters, another personal best, and the distance that ended up landing Okwelogu the bronze medal.
Though the success might come as a surprise to some, Okwelogu’s third place finish was the culmination of years of work. The Fresno, Calif. native attributes the success, in part, to nerves and pressure from her sixth-place performance at nationals last year.
“[Last year] was a big thing. Nobody wants to go back on your career, after getting sixth last year,” Okwelogu said.  “I think I’m the type of competitor [for whom] nerves just give me an adrenaline boost that I know how to use.”
Okwelogu also credited her teammates for helping to push her both on and off the field. Before her performance, sophomore teammate Courtney Smith claimed her own first team All-America honors after finishing eighth in the 5K. Smith’s endeavor was a powerful motivation for the competitive Okwelogu.
“[Courtney] was younger than me, and I didn’t want to be showed up by her,” Okwelogu joked. “Since she raced the day before me and got eighth, I felt like I had to get at least eighth. I love her to death, but there’s always competition between teammates.”
It was a combination of all these factors—and some luck—that led to Okwelogu’s outstanding performance at nationals.
“You can always try with weightlifting and reps to try to make sure you’re at your best on a given day, but a lot of luck still goes into it,” Okwelogu said. “If I could describe it in one word, it would be surreal. I can’t believe it happened.”
While the junior was surprised with the performance, those following her career trajectory would have a hard time finding a reason to be surprised.
Okwelogu has dominated the Ivy League since she came into college, winning the Ancient Eight shot put title three consecutive times in both the indoor and outdoor championships—usually by significant margins.
For example, in this year’s rendition of the Ivy Championships, Okwelogu’s throw of 17.01 meters was almost ten feet better than the second place effort. Likewise, her throw in the outdoor Ivy Championships of 17.14 meters was more than ten feet better than her closest competitor.
“With Nikki, she’s the kind of kid where you are no longer surprised when she crushes everybody,” co-captain Paige Kouba said. “It’s just what she does.”
Okwelogu hopes to head to outdoor NCAA nationals in June. From there, she could return to the international stage and head to Brazil for the Olympics with the Nigerian national team.
For now, however, Okwelogu plans to take it all one step at a time.
“I’m still focused on this year,” Okwelogu said. “We’re gonna play this season out, then start to set goals for next season.”
Staff writer Phillip Yu can be reached at phillipyu@college.harvard.edu.
There are certain core factors that college teams rely on to be successful all season long. Teams rely on coaches for directing the values and goals of the program as well as honing the skills of their players. Captains and senior leaders are meant to rally their comrades so that the central goals can be achieved. Lastly, the youth of the underclassmen provides a breath of fresh air as the new crop of players brings enthusiasm and eagerness to the season.
This outdoor track season, the Harvard women’s outdoor track and field team received the highest national ranking in the program’s history, reaching as high as 10th in the USTFCCCA rankings. In order to achieve as much success as the Crimson has had, the level of talent developed every year must be high to attain such a ranking.
The Harvard women’s track team does not stray from this model. Head coach Jason Saretsky continues to have success with his teams year in and year out in both the indoor and outdoor seasons.
One of the biggest challenges, however, is making sure athletes transitioning into the program can help continue this success.
The freshmen are always the highest priority when it comes to communicating the expectations of the coaching staff.  New expectations and a new system are often hard to adjust to, and they take time to understand. Yet, two freshman sprinters in particular have taken the new system and run with it.
Gabby Thomas and Ngozi Musa are two freshman standout athletes for the track team that have bought into the system and are running times that would be impressive for an upperclassman to produce.
The rookie sprinters have made the transition from high school to Division I track competition look nearly effortless, but the transition has involved its fair share of growing pains. But both Thomas and Musa have shown willingness to learn.
“The transition requires a lot more focus and commitment,” Thomas said. “It’s not like high school where you only have to dedicate two hours in the afternoon. From nutrition to getting school work done, it just comes down to training yourself.
Being able to humble themselves to the task of transitioning to the collegiate level has been key to their success.
“Trusting the process is one of the main things that we talk about on our team,” Musa said. “Being willing to fail and buying into the system. It’s easy to just go with what you know, but to be successful, you have to buy into the system.”
The pair began to shine early on in the indoor season as Thomas ran a 7.38 second 60-meter dash while Musa ran the same event in 7.40 seconds, good for first and second in the nation, respectively. In addition to their dominance in the 60-meter dash, Thomas holds the school and Ivy League records in the 200 meter, was an integral part of the 4x400 meter relay team, and competed in both the long jump and high jump.
Their efforts propelled the Crimson toward an Ivy Heptagonal Championship, Harvard’s 4th indoor Ancient Eight title in a row. And from the indoor track in the winter to the outdoor track in the spring, the talented freshmen duo continued their success.
Thomas so far in the spring season has rewritten the Harvard record books in the 100-meter dash, 200-meter dash, and the 4x400 meter relay. At the Florida Relays, Thomas ran an 11.30 and 22.75 in the 100- and 200-meter dashes, respectively. Musa also has top-10 times in Harvard history in the 100 and 200 meter.
Musa and Thomas’s contributions continued at outdoor Heps, going 1-2 in the 100 meter and teaming up with co-captain Autumne Franklin and junior Jade Miller to take home the 4x100 meter relay.
With continued success in both the indoor and outdoor seasons, Thomas and Musa credit their success to sprints coach Kebba Tolbert and his dedication to placing emphasis on attention to detail.
“Coach Tolbert is one of the best coaches in the country by far,” Thomas said. “He’s always trying to better himself and pushes us to our limits. He’s a really good coach and mentor.”
As much as Coach Tolbert’s teachings of attention to detail has been invaluable to both Thomas and Musa, they also credit their success to one another and the way that they make each other better.
“She’s my supporter and my competitor,” Thomas said. “We push each other to do well, and at the same time we motivate each other… We don’t really worry about the competition driving us apart.”
“I’m really excited for how far we can go with it,” Thomas added. “My coach and I are really excited to see what more we can do.”
Staff writer Stuart Johnson can be reached at stuartjohnson@college.harvard.edu.
Sections
Harvard coach Tommy Amaker pauses to smile. It’s the last presser of the year—scarcely two weeks after Ryan Arcidiacono and Villanova trumped UNC in the season’s climactic title game—and he’s fielding a question he’s been avoiding all year: How did you bring a top-10 recruiting class to Harvard?
The beginning of his answer carries the essential components of a classic Amaker dodge: deflection of personal accountability, praise for his assistants, and a nod to the Harvard brand.
“We’ve been really fortunate in our staff who has done an amazing job,” he says. “[They] put us in a position to communicate with these kids and get them here on campus so they can see it and the growth of our program.... I kind of take myself out of it.”
Midway through, however, he will pause and shake his head—flashing his trademark toothy smile as his way of acknowledging the ridiculousness of it all. A lifelong Dukie who asks for their scores during postgame pressers, it’s hard to believe he isn’t aware that he out-recruited the Tar Heels, who finished two spots below Harvard in ESPN’s recruiting rankings. He surpassed six of the Elite Eight teams as well; the two that beat Harvard, Kansas and Virginia, did so by a combined five slots.
He hasn’t stopped aiming high: the No. 2 overall recruit in the Class of 2017 according to ESPN, Wendell Carter Jr., has publicly said he’s taking his first official visit to Harvard in the fall. In a recent conversation with Scout.com’s Evan Daniels, Carter noted that Harvard will make his final seven and is a definite contender to snag him.
“Tommy Amaker has taken a high-major approach to recruiting and it’s really paid off,” ESPN national recruiting analyst Paul Biancardi said in December. “[This] has never been done before.”
During the year—a disappointing 14-16 slog where Harvard needed wins in four of its final five games to just reach .500 in the Ivy League—Amaker refused to take questions about the incoming class. As the four-star recruits came in—Seth Towns in June, Robert Baker in August, Bryce Aiken in October—he kept the focus on the players on campus.
In that regard, he was alone. From the moment that Siyani Chambers ’16-’17 took a gap year to rehab a torn ACL, the media focus shifted from who the team was to what it would become. The hype of previous seasons quickly dissipated—the five-time defending champion was picked to finish fourth in the Ivy League. Scarcely six months later, ESPN has already christened Harvard the seventh best mid-major in the country for next season, just behind VCU and Wichita State and two spots ahead of Princeton, who brings back every player from a squad that was two baskets away from winning the Ancient Eight.
The hype is largely centered around the freshmen. Aiken, a four-star point guard from New Jersey, is a balanced captain of the offense in the mold of Chambers. Baker and Chris Lewis, the son of NFL linebacker Mo Lewis, will immediately compete with sophomore Chris Egi for the starting spot alongside All-Ivy junior center Zena Edosomwan. Also in the mix is Henry Welsh, one of three players in the class 6’8” or taller and the brother of UCLA sophomore Thomas Welsh, who averaged 11.2 points and 8.5 rebounds in his second year on campus.
Arguably the best of the bunch comes in with no clear competition for his position. Towns, a silky smooth scorer from Columbus, broke his high school’s points record earlier this semester—no small feat when Jared Sullinger and Trey Burke are the competition. He averaged 32 points and 12 rebounds while showing an ability to play both inside and out—allowing him to toggle between the three and the four in a forward rotation that is short on shooting.
Towns, like many of the freshmen, is a quintessential Amaker recruit, boasting high-level basketball talent alongside standout academics. He carries a GPA north of 4.0 and competes on his school’s math team, but may not even be the most academically oriented of the class; Lewis strongly considered going to MIT to pursue engineering and indicated that the ability of Harvard students to take MIT classes factored into his decision.
“I thought [Harvard] would be the best balance between athletics and academics,” Lewis told future150.com after he signed.
Lewis’s quote reflects the thrust of Amaker’s pitch to recruits. Like men’s hockey coach Ted Donato, he tells recruits that Harvard is a “40-year decision,” not just a four-year one. Current players take the motto to heart.
“Four years from now, when no one cares who Zena Edosomwan is, I know a lot of opportunities will be there for me to be successful on and off the court,” Edosomwan, the first top-100 recruit to come to Harvard, told Sports Illustrated when he committed. “If I become successful, people will remember that I took that chance, that I had a higher purpose than basketball.”
“Maybe I’ll be a trendsetter,” he presciently closed.
The road to Towns, Aiken, Baker, etc. began long before Edosomwan, however. Amaker’s first big recruit was Oliver McNally ’12, a feisty point guard from Northern California who had over 20 other offers. McNally and classmate Keith Wright ’12 were the first in a series of dominos to fall. In the coming years, Harvard would begin to get into play for the big fish—Brandon Knight put Harvard on his final list, while Jabari Parker and Victor Oladipo were both connected with the Crimson in the twilight days of their recruiting processes.
Stories of the staff’s persistence are legendary—McNally got calls nearly every single day, while Amaker began showing up at Chambers’ games when the point guard was in eighth grade.
“[Amaker] wanted us to go out and identify the best possible students out there who could play basketball at the highest level,” VCU head coach Will Wade, a former Amaker assistant and lead recruiter, told the Crimson in 2014. “He was always pushing us to find even better—identify more kids.”
On the road, Amaker’s pitch is multifaceted. He leveraged the school’s academic brand—one he often refers to at the best in the world—in trying to build a basketball one. “Defense and Harvard,” he jokingly calls it.
Yet, he finds ways to connect with recruits: in a midweek interview last year, players on the team noted the importance of Amaker’s personal faith in forming connections. The coach himself doesn’t discuss that, but mentions that he tailors his approach to communicate to a vastly different generation.
“Trying to communicate with a kid on my phone is just... It just doesn’t happen,” Amaker said. “Obviously it’s not a world I was born into like these kids are. This generation, that’s all they know so it forces old heads like me to kind of work with that and try to understand it.”
“I thought I was cool at one point,” he laughs. “But not anymore I guess.”
Given his presence on the recruiting trail, many might disagree.
Staff writer David Freed can be reached at david.freed@thecrimson.com.
Sections
Standing at 5’9,” 175 pounds, Kyle Criscuolo certainly isn’t your prototypical hockey player—but he has never let that hold him back.
In hockey, players are drafted to the National Hockey League when they are about 17 or 18 years old—usually before their collegiate careers even begin. The Entry Draft for the NHL is much different than most sports. The team that drafts you holds your “rights” until you leave college, at which point you typically sign with that same team.
Few players sign with an NHL team the summer they’re drafted; so most drafted college hockey players report to school as highly touted recruits, wielding a potential NHL future as a means of credibility and legitimacy. Players that go on to have college careers as successful as Kyle’s, usually arrive on campus as draft picks... Kyle did not.
In typical Kyle Criscuolo fashion, he walked onto campus humble, undrafted, and ready to prove himself. And in typical Kyle Criscuolo fashion, he continued to prove himself year after year.
Recently, just days after his collegiate career ended, he signed a professional contract with the Grand Rapids Griffins of the AHL, just one step beneath their NHL affiliate—the Detroit Red Wings—one of the most storied organizations in hockey.
Riding this accomplishment, he has now squared himself up with those very players who came into college as highly touted draft picks.
Kyle, for myself and many others, has always epitomized hard work and grit, and with his goal of reaching the NHL closer than ever, he has only grown hungrier.
His dedication to his teammates, perhaps more accurately described as brothers, is evident in everything he does. After each season, all members of the Harvard hockey team vote on end of the year awards, given out at the team’s annual banquet. As a testament to the team’s respect for Kyle’s work ethic and devotion, he was presented the Ralph “Cooney” Weiland Award, presented to the team member “whose devotion to the game has repeatedly been evidenced by aggressive and spirited play and by selfless contribution to the total team effort.”
To lend perspective, Kyle has won the Ralph “Cooney” Weiland Award every single year of his collegiate career. If there were somehow a “Cooney” Award given out on every team Kyle has ever played for, or in every classroom he’s ever been in, he’d have won it in those circumstances as well.
One lesson that Adam La Reau, a former Navy SEAL who works with our team on leadership and team building, preaches to us is, “How you do anything, is how you do everything,” meaning, the way you go about certain things in life is indicative of the kind of character and work ethic you have. Kyle Criscuolo is the embodiment of this quote.
On top of these impressive accolades, Kyle broke a nearly 70-year trend last year when he was named the first junior captain of the Harvard Men’s Hockey team since 1945. The character, leadership, and work ethic it takes to earn this distinguished honor as a junior, as well as the poise and confidence it takes to employ those leadership skills as a junior on a team with six seniors, speaks volumes about Kyle. After displaying exceptional leadership as a junior, he was voted captain again for his senior season.
Before puck-drop at the 2015 ECAC semifinals in Lake Placid, Kyle was announced as the winner of the ECAC Student-Athlete of the Year Award, given to the player who has achieved the most impressive combination of academic and athletic accomplishments. One year later, before the 2016 ECAC semifinals, he was again recognized as the ECAC Student-Athlete of the Year.
Noticing a trend here?
Throughout his career, and most prominently in the two years he served as captain, Kyle also spearheaded our team’s contribution to the greater community by increasing our engagement with community service. He took the lead on our team’s involvement with several different endeavors, such as working with the Special Olympics, One Summit, Making Strides Count, and the local homeless shelter in Harvard Square. His leadership and community service efforts culminated in his selection as a finalist for the 2016 Hockey Humanitarian Award and finalist for the 2016 CLASS Award.
Of all the accolades and accomplishments that Kyle has accumulated since he stepped on campus, I think he is most proud of the strides that the Harvard Hockey program has taken during his four years. During the 2012-2013 season, Kyle’s freshman year, Harvard Hockey posted a dismal 6-14-2 ECAC record. Kyle had six goals and seven assists. His sophomore year wasn’t much different. Harvard posted a 6-12-4 conference record, and Kyle accumulated 11 goals and nine assists.
In his junior year, the tides began to turn. His captaincy proved to be a catalyst for a dramatic cultural shift in the Harvard men’s hockey locker room, leading to an ECAC championship and Harvard’s first appearance in the NCAA tournament in almost 10 years. That year he finished with 17 goals and a league-leading 31 assists, ranking fourth in the league with 48 points in total. That year we finished 21-13-3.
Looking forward to a big senior campaign, Kyle scored 19 goals while collecting 13 assists for 32 points in his final season with the Crimson. Harvard Hockey won a share of the Ivy League title and made a return to the ECAC championship in Lake Placid, as well as the NCAA tournament. So, after an almost 10-year tournament drought, the Harvard Crimson appeared in back to back NCAA tournaments under Kyle’s leadership.
One thing our team always talks about is leaving the jersey in a better place. And with the team’s growing success, the postseason stakes grew. With every playoff win, we increased the potential to put that jersey in a better standing. But at the same time, the potential for a season-ending loss became even more crushing.
As a junior, having been to hell and back with the guys on this team, to say that I was heartbroken after our NCAA tournament loss in Worcester doesn’t exactly do it justice. But of all the memories I’ve had the honor of making with my brothers on this team, one thing I’ll never forget was how tough it was for Kyle Criscuolo to take off that jersey, the jersey that meant so much to him, for the last time. And I also know that I speak for everyone when I say that, when he finally managed to pull it it off, as hard as it was, he could always rest assured that he left it in a better place.
For all that he’s done for the program, for all the awards and accolades he’s accumulated over the years, and for all the times he’s proven himself through hard work and character, there is not a more deserving person for the Career Achievement Award than Kyle Criscuolo. The boys are forever grateful for what you’ve done for us. We all love you, brother. Congrats.
Devin Tringale is a forward on the men's ice hockey team. He will be one of two senior captains for the 2016-2017 season.
Sections
Hockey is Emerance’s serenity. Not only is she one of the hardest working people I’ve ever met, but she’s also amongst one of the calmest and most supportive teammates I’ve ever had the pleasure of playing with.
Her consistency as a teammate and person in the dressing room, at school, and in the gym, inevitably transferred to her having jaw-dropping performances in every practice and game. It also caused her to be an exceptionally special leader for our hockey team this season.
Being a goalie is considered, mentally, one of the toughest positions to play in hockey and that’s without having the responsibilities of being a captain that Em had.
Us players can only imagine the high levels of pressure that is put forth on a goalie in each and every game. They deal with being extremely technical in every move they make as mistakes are more easily seen. This can take a toll on anyone’s emotional and physical energy in a game. That being said, Emerance embraced the claim that “pressure is power.”
She knows exactly what she has to do to execute at her best every day at the rink. As a teammate, you can feel the serene confidence she retains as she carries herself through her game day routine. There are not too many minutes that are not regimented in a game day for Em. Most of the rituals are left a secret but what can be told is that almost every minute of her game day is dedicated to becoming more and more dialled in for the 60 minutes in the game. The intense game preparation she has developed through her years inspired both myself and many other teammates to develop our own corky routines that soon turned into crucial superstitions.
For Em, the leadership role this year came so easy for her; mainly because she led the team right from the start of her Harvard hockey career. She always knew what to say in the dressing room to keep us on track and on the same page with one another. There were never moments where she was overly vocal because she was always the type to say something when we needed to hear it. “We gotta stay confident and relaxed in the defensive zone.
The results will come. We just need to trust each other and ourselves.” Words like these just come naturally to her in times of high stress, and they ultimately gave our team an extra jump in our stride when we needed it. Everything that was said by her was respected to the highest degree.
One of the most admirable characteristics about Emerance is her ability to develop an exceptionally close and unique bond with each and every teammate. She is one of the easiest people to talk to, open up to, and trust. Her desire to know each teammate on a deeper scale ultimately led our team to have unconditional support and reliance in her leadership and more importantly, within each other.
Despite the team’s setbacks throughout the season, she brought our team closer and put forth the “never give up” attitude day in and day out.
She never let the intense pressures of being a student, captain, and goalie, get to her. Putting forth every single ounce of her dedication and heart into Harvard Hockey was just something she demanded from herself. The enormous competitiveness she brought in every practice was contagious to each player and uncontrollably influenced others to do the same. Putting the team before anything was an intangible for her.
When I first met Em eight years ago, I knew she was one of those people who you couldn’t help but imagine becoming a star. Her persistence to become a good teammate and goalie regardless of the situation has caused nothing but a growth in pure respect for all her hard work. The leadership and performance marks that she has left on Harvard Hockey are something that cannot be replicated and most definitely will not be unremembered.
It has been incredible to watch her grow into such an impactful goalie and person. I am so lucky to have had two years of putting the Harvard jersey on, and even more grateful to call her my best friend.
Em, as a team we are all so proud of your accomplishments, and we cannot wait to continue watching you thrive in all your future endeavours. On top of being an exceptionally inspiring leader, you without a doubt delivered the power to Harvard Hockey—despite the undeniable pressures you obtained.
We love you, and will miss you Em. 154 forever.
Karly Heffernan is a forward on the women's ice hockey team and has played alongside Maschmeyer for the past two seasons. 
Sections
Twenty one years. That’s the average age of a college student but it is also the amount of time Katey Stone has been coaching the Harvard women’s ice hockey team.
The 2015-2016 season saw Stone line up behind the Crimson’s bench for the 21st year of her tenure, a period that encompasses more time than half of the players on Harvard’s roster have been alive.
Over the course of her career at Harvard, Stone has managed to achieve milestones that other women’s hockey coaches have not come close to eclipsing. Stone became the winningest coach in the history of Division I women’s college hockey during the 2009-10 season after defeating Princeton in the ECAC quarterfinal, tallying her 338th win.
Since then, the total has increased to 446–over 50 more than the closest coach. In addition to the victories, Stone has led the team to 11 Beanpot titles, eight Ivy championships, seven ECAC regular season titles, six ECAC tournament crowns, and 11 NCAA Tournament appearances–including six Frozen Four berths.
Stone has also obtained success in player development, helping various of her athletes reach a high level. The Watertown, Conn. native has coached 11 Olympians, 23 All-
Americans since 1999, six Patty Kazmaier Award winners—given to the top women’s college hockey player in the nation—and nine ECAC Players of the Year.
The success, in Stone’s opinion, is a testament to the intricate balance put together to compose the Harvard Women’s Hockey program, and finding a successful combination is much more fulfilling than her name at the top of a leaderboard.
“I don’t spend along time thinking about that [the wins record],” Stone said. “What I do believe, and it’s more of a reality statement than it is a hockey statement, that if you can win at Harvard, you can win anywhere because the academic standards are so high, and the demands on our kid and outside distractions like no other place. To have that level of commitment from our athletes and those that work within our department and our staff, really allows us to be successful. I think that’s what I’m most proud of, in seeing what our kids do on the international level and post graduation.”
For Stone, the transition from playing hockey to coaching had a quick turnaround. A graduate of the University of New Hampshire in 1989, Stone led the Wildcat hockey and lacrosse teams, both of which she was a captain and four-year letter winner, to great success in her four years, including a lacrosse national championship in 1985.
Coming out of college Stone turned immediately to coaching, serving on the athletic staff Tabor Academy before being hired by Harvard in 1994. Being handed a team that had trended toward the middle of the ECAC presented Stone with a challenge to try and revamp the Crimson in her first years behind the bench.
She was up for the challenge. In a five year span, Stone took a team that had barely finished above .500 in 1994 to a squad that racked up 33 wins during the 1998-1999 season.
That year Stone led her team to Harvard’s first and only national championship in women’s ice hockey, bringing the AWCHA National Championship back to Cambridge after defeating UNH in the final–the last of a string of 30 consecutive wins to close out the season.

Fast forward 15 years and Stone found her Crimson team in another national championship game, though she came to the ice under very different circumstances. Instead of the young, barely established face Stone had presented in 1999, Harvard’s leader had now become an experienced mentor to two decades of skaters.
Having returned to the team for the 2014-2015 season after taking the previous one off to coach the USA national team–which included four current or ex-Harvard players–to the silver medal at Sochi, Stone seemed to seamlessly slip back into her leadership role on the side of the ice, immediately taking her team to Beanpot and ECAC title, although the national championship alluded her this second time around.
However, the immediate success of her team following the return provided a testament to the program Stone had built in Cambridge.
“We had an incredible run and I think when you work for someone who is so established... it was not hard for the girls to know who is in change when Coach Stone came back,”  said Maura Crowell, the current Minnesota-Duluth head coach and a former Harvard assistant coach who took over as head coach while Stone prepared for the Sochi games. “When she came back, I think that was a shot in the arm in a positive way—a shot of energy for everybody. And the proof was in the pudding. It was an incredible year—lots of championships along the way, lots of wins, and a lot of fun.
Stone has served as an anchor not only for the Crimson program, but for the sport of women’s college hockey as well. From the expansion of the team’s roster to the expansion to the ECAC conference, Stone has been there to see it all and watch the game transform before her eyes.
She has also been a major key in bringing the top athletes to Harvard, as the success she has maintained throughout the years has correlated with the talent recruited to join in on the ice.
“Knowing that she was the Harvard coach was definitely a big part of my decision,” said senior forward Michelle Picard, who Stone coached at Harvard as well as in Sochi. “She was known to be an amazing coach and she was a big part of the puzzle of what made Harvard great.”
Stone’s influence is not limited to her players, however. The coach’s prominence has allowed her philosophy and team first mentality to spread throughout women’s hockey, changing the way the game is approached by other coaches.
Crowell’s transition from Harvard assistant coach to head coach at Duluth has seen her embrace Stone’s methods, methods that have become commonplace in the hockey world.
“[Harvard’s] motto has long been “team first.” Now unfortunately everybody’s using “team first,” but it really did start with the Harvard women’s hockey team and that mentality.” Crowell said. “That culture is extremely powerful, and that’s certainly something that I believe in too, and I’ve been trying to create [at UMD].”
Despite amassing a resume most coaches can only dream of fulfilling in a career during her time leading the Crimson, Stone is not even close to thinking about putting a cap on her time coaching in Cambridge.
“I plan to coach for quite a few more years,” Stone said. “I haven’t thought about retirement…. If i stopped loving it I’d step away but I love it and the goals of the program are the same.”
While Stone’s impact has undoubtedly been felt by many both in and out of the college hockey world, the most important impact she hopes to pass down is the way she has gone conducting herself as a coach. Even with her success, Stone remains true to the roots that helped her ascend in the first place.
“My hope is that I have been a good example for how a female should conduct themselves in the coaching world, whether they be coaching ice hockey or another sport, in that they do it with integrity and professionalism.” Stone explained. “That’s my hope. That’s how I try everyday to conduct myself and I hope somehow that trickles over to others in the game.”
—Staff writer Ariel Smolik-Valles can be reached at ariel.smolik-valles@thecrimson.com.
—Staff writer Julio Fierro can be reached at julio.fierro@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
She sank the second free throw, looked over at the bench, and smiled as she jogged back on defense. It was her final home game for the Harvard women’s basketball program, and senior forward Shilpa Tummala had signed off with a bang, scoring a career-high 24 points and grabbing 12 rebounds to lead the Crimson to an emphatic win over Ivy League rival Brown.
Most remarkable about the performance wasn’t that she scored 24 points on Senior Night, or that playing as a forward for the first time in her career she recorded her fourth double-double of the season—it’s the fact that Tummala should never have been on the court in the first place.
Once a top-100 recruit in her class according to ESPN, finishing second in the national high school three-point shooting contest at the 2012 NCAA Final Four, the Arizona native endured consecutive season-ending shoulder injuries in her freshman and sophomore campaigns, needing shoulder reconstruction surgery both times.
“Having a new shoulder two years in a row, that was really tough,” Tummala said. “For most people, that surgery would have been career-ending.”
A two-time state champion in high school, Tummala was touted as one of the top incoming shooters in the country. Nagging injures, however, limited her to just 28 total games. Her highly touted scoring abilities went unseen, contributing less than five points per game in her first two seasons. For someone with such high expectations and experience, it was a mental and emotional adjustment.
“It was really tough for me because I wanted to come in and confirm the belief of the people around the Ivy League, and my coaches and teammates, that I could contribute to the program in a way that was substantial,” Tummala said. “Not being able to play and meeting the expectations that were set for me, I felt like I was letting the team down.”
Tummala, however, did not feel sorry for herself. While she was unable to make an impact on the court, she trained harder, waking up early to lift and rehab on a daily basis while studying organic chemistry the summer before her junior year. Impressively, she also found time to make a difference in the community. She is an ambassador and volunteer for the Crossover Basketball & Scholars Academy, running a camp during the summer in Chennai, India. Tummala was honored by the Philadelphia 76ers this winter for her work with the Crossover program.
The experience and hard work put her on track to be an impact player in the 2014-2015 season, and while she finally avoided the injury bug, things were not all rosy for the 5’11” guard. Two straight seasons of injuries and rehab could not be erased easily.
“The kid literally missed almost every developmental part of her college career,” coach Kathy Delaney-Smith said, “which is spring, summer, and preseason work. Shilpa was always rehabbing and never able to grow her skill set.”
She shot just 22.2 percent from outside the arc in her first ten games, showing rust and a lack of confidence. Add to that the fact that shoulder injuries forced her to re-learn her shooting motion in back-to-back seasons, and you had was a shooter badly out of rhythm.
“Not being able to participate fully in my junior preseason was tough,” Tummala said, “because I hadn’t gotten the same amount of reps as everyone else and I was restricted in my ability to work out. Obviously, not having game experience, game time, [in the previous two years] played a factor in my lack of confidence.”
January, however, brought the turning point, as Tummala ignited a double-digit comeback against Dartmouth. A more focused and confident player emerged from that contest as she ended the season with two 15-point games in her last three contests, representing a new career high.
Tummala continued to work hard on returning to full fitness and confidence, training over the summer with co-captain Kit Metoyer while studying for the MCAT and researching her thesis. When she returned to the team in the fall and Delaney-Smith asked her to switch to the small forward spot to accommodate a large class of incoming freshman guards, Tummala took it in stride, just as she had her entire career.
“We switched her to a forward position, which was foreign to her,” Delaney-Smith said. “She very humbly and unselfishly did that for the team, and ended up being invaluable in that role because she had guard skills.”
She indeed became an indispensable member of the offense, scoring 11.7 points per game while shooting an impressive 35.2 percent from three-point range. She adjusted to her new role at the three spot—occasionally even filling in at the four—quite well, leading the team with 6.5 rebounds per game.
It was truly remarkable to see Tummala perform at the level expected of her four years ago given the struggles she went through during the early parts of her career. By the end of the season, the entire league had taken notice, and she was rewarded with an All-Ivy Honorable Mention selection.
Staff writer Manav Khandelwal can be reached at manavkhandelwal@college.harvard.edu.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
As the clock wound down in a tie game against Princeton, senior Patrick Steeves looked over to the sidelines. His Crimson had led nearly the entire second half against a Tigers team that had whipped Harvard earlier in the season in an authoritative 19-point dismissal.
By the bench, Harvard coach Tommy Amaker gave a signal Steeves had not seen all year. The play, four-deep, called for his teammates to run to the corners, leaving Steeves in an isolation play against Princeton’s best wing defender, Steven Cook. The junior got in his grill as Steeves waited.
With just over 10 seconds left on the clock, Steeves made his move: a quick dribble right and a dash into the paint. Unable to catch up, Cook hit his arm—a foul Steeves would later comment that “you could hear from the rafters.” The two subsequent free throws, his 24th and 25th points of the night, provided the winning margin, with a Steeves block at the buzzer sealing the win and putting the stake into Princeton’s tournament hopes.
“I don’t know how to put [the feeling] into words, to be honest,” Steeves said.
Before the season, to envision Steeves with the ball as the clock wound down would have been farcical. The senior had not played a single minute in his first three years on campus. As a freshman, he had impressed at Crimson Madness, looking like the brightest talent on a court with six future All-Ivies, but injuries had consigned him to the bench.
The first was a stress fracture in his foot that put him out for three months. He would watch his teammates upset New Mexico in the NCAA Tournament—Harvard’s first-ever March Madness victory—from the stands. Of small consolation: his skill set was eerily similar to that of graduating senior Christian Webster ’13, whose steady hand and ace three-point shooting had been pivotal in the four-out Harvard lineup that had won the Crimson the league title.
Steeves never had a chance to compete for a replacement role. Hurt in another preseason scrimmage, he received the bad news immediately: ACL tear. Season over.
“That day I completely broke down,” Steeves told WBUR in January. “Because with the foot you at least have a little bit of hope to get back for that season. With the ACL, it’s just, ‘Thanks for showing up. See you next year.’”
The knee never healed that year or the year after, as a shooting-bereft Crimson squad barely squeaked out its fifth league championship. A healthy Steeves might have been the drive-and-shoot stretch four that the team needed, but injuries kept him on the bench all year.
A year later, he was penciled in as a footnote by most pundits. In Harvard’s season-opening scrimmage, he did not even make the court. A week later against MIT, the Lavietes Pavilion crowd cheered with the team as Steeves entered the contest, but the senior’s contributions (one point, one rebound) were nothing to write home about.
It didn’t take long for that to change. After three straight DNPs, he got 12 minutes against Bryant, chipping in eight points, three rebounds, and three assists. A game later, with the starters sleepwalking through the first half against Holy Cross, Amaker put Steeves in. The result was a revelation: two threes, 12 rebounds, and seven assists in 26 minutes.
“I thought Pat was our bright spot today,” Amaker said after the game. “... For Pat to be our best playmaker, that says a lot for him.”
The Holy Cross game provided a template for what Steeves would become—the Crimson’s jack-of-all-trades. On offense, the senior ranked among the team leaders in assists and scoring while leading the Ivy League in three-point percentage. While turnover-prone, he created offense on a team desperate for it.
“He was the guy we really went to and leaned on,” Amaker said after the BYU win. “He did a terrific job for us throughout the game... I thought his play was very much needed for us to come out with the W.”
Ivy League play was not nearly as rosy. After putting up 20 points in the first game against Dartmouth, Steeves had 10 combined in the next four—all losses. After a loss to Penn that gave Harvard nearly as many Ivy League defeats (five) as they’d had in Steeves’s first three years on campus (six), the senior was defiant, noting that “we are going to play all these teams again.”
Steeves’s play bore out his point. Harvard closed the year winning four of the final five rematches, sweeping Princeton and Penn to avenge its earlier struggles. During the revenge tour, Steeves averaged over 12 points and three assists a game—generating more offense than any  member of the team.
Other teams took notice: After filing to get extra eligibility with the NCAA office, Steeves signed an agreement to play his postgraduate season at George Washington while he pursues an M.B.A.
As his own coach said after the year ended: “I don’t think anyone would have foreseen the story of Patrick Steeves.”
Staff writer David Freed can be reached at david.freed@thecrimson.com.
Sections
To put Brown’s offensive dominance during the 2016 regular season in perspective, one only has to look to the fact that the team’s starters on the attacking line, Dylan Molloy, Kylor Bellistri, and Henry Blynn, scored more goals on their own than three of the Bears’ Ivy League foes managed all year.
Entering the conference tournament, the trio had collected 144 goals as a unit. Harvard, Brown’s opponent in the first round, had scored 161 as a 42-man team. Just as in every other game it played, the No. 2 Bears were expected to overwhelm the Crimson offensively when they finally faced off on May 6, with a berth in the tourney final on the line.
By the time the rain had stopped on the damp Friday night showdown at Stevenson-Pincince Field, in Providence, R.I, however, it was Harvard who had emerged with a nailbiting, 13-12 victory.
“We came into the game knowing that we had to be at our absolute best to beat them,” Harvard coach Chris Wojcik ’96 said. “But at the same time, we knew were capable of that. We believed all year we were good enough to match up against anyone in the country.”
Even at halftime of the contest, all was still going according to script. Top-seeded Brown held an 8-5 lead over the fourth-seeded Crimson after finishing the second quarter on a 3-0 run, and was on its way to reaching its then-best mark of 17.07 goals per game in the NCAA. The home crowd of almost 2,000 was buzzing as it sensed another win on its way.
Harvard, meanwhile, was holding on thanks to an impressive first half performance from sophomore attackman Morgan Cheek. Cheek tallied three goals to go along with an assist, keeping his squad in the game.
Despite Cheek’s brilliance, the Crimson’s season was hanging by a thread. Having finished the regular season an even 7-7, and 3-3 in conference play, the team was a long shot to earn an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament. Only an Ivy League tournament title would get it there.
It was clear to everyone in the locker room that a potential loss to the Bears would mean the end of the season.
“We struggled with a lot of ups and downs during the season,” Harvard co-captain and defender Stephen Jahelka said. “We knew, though, that the postseason’s a whole new ballgame, and we still had a chance to earn our way into the [NCAA] tournament.
With its back against the wall, the Crimson responded.
No player had a bigger role in the comeback than Cheek, who found the back of the net four times in the third quarter before finishing the night with a career-high nine scores.
He immediately set the tone for the rest of the contest by finding the goal just 13 seconds after the restart, in a man-up set. He went on to add a goal in transition as well as one in a man-down set, exhibiting his ability to score in any situation.
“Cheek was the star of the show that day,” Wojcik said. “He showed how much he had improved over the course of the season with a big performance on a big stage. I couldn’t have been prouder of him.”
On the other end of the field, the Harvard defense held the potent Brown offense to its second scoreless quarter all year in the third frame. The first coincidentally came in the previous matchup between the two squads, and in the third quarter as well. In that game, the Bears still managed to win by a comfortable three-goal margin.
This time, however, the Crimson made sure to ride their defense to a lead and see it through. After Cheek’s sixth goal of the game put Harvard ahead, 9-8, midway through the third quarter, it never trailed again.
By snuffing out a late Brown rally, the Crimson emerged with the 13-12 win, in the process earning a spot in the conference tournament final.
Though Harvard would go on to fall to Yale, 14-9, and come up short in its quest to claim a spot in the NCAA tournament, the victory over the Bears gives the program something to build on as it enters the offseason.
After all, not every team in the country can claim that it defeated two Top-5 opponents in 2016.
“When the current seniors and I arrived on campus, our goal was to make Harvard competitive on the national level,“ Jahelka said. “Wins like these are extra special because they mean we’re heading in the right direction.”
—Staff writer George Hu can be reached at yianshenhu@college.harvard.edu.
Sections
Junior Zena Edosomwan didn’t mince words when he committed to Harvard.
“It’s the best school in the world, the basketball is building, and I want to be a part of that—I want to make history there,” the then-high school senior told The Crimson in March 2012.
Edosomwan’s road to Harvard subsequently took a detour; in order to qualify for the department’s academic standards, he had to take a fifth year at prep school Northfield Mount Hermon. For a top-100 recruit who received scholarship options from nearly 40 schools, Texas and UCLA among them, it was an unusual choice.
When he finally arrived in Cambridge in the fall of 2013, however, his statistics left something to be desired. The Los Angeles native averaged 2.9 points in just under six minutes per game during his freshman year. In his sophomore campaign, Edosomwan continued to underwhelm—though he doubled his minutes, he averaged just four points per game. Playing behind a deep, upperclassmen-heavy frontcourt led by Steve Moundou-Missi ’15 and Jonah Travis ’15, Edosomwan was forced to fight for playing time.
But this season, in his third time around, Edosomwan exploded. As a core member of the starting rotation, he averaged 13.1 points and an Ivy League-leading 9.9 rebounds per game, finishing just four rebounds shy of averaging a double-double on the season.
“I was really pleased and proud of seeing Zena make steps [and] make the improvement in more than anything—gaining the confidence to become a marquee guy,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said in a March postseason press conference.
Before the season, Amaker described Edosomwan’s previous body of work as “jumpy,” noting that he “sometimes tries too hard.” However, an offseason of work allowed the 6’9’’ forward to develop stronger post moves that allowed him to shoot at a higher percentage, sinking shots at a 10 percent better clip than in 2014-2015.
Just as important as the improved shooting was the poise he showed. Edosomwan flashed refined passing skills as a junior, registering six games with at least four assists.
“I think as a big man you want to be assertive and not stagnant in the post,” Edosomwan said in a preseason media conference. “You need to find that balance. I’ve been finding that rhythm in the post of knowing when I want to attack, knowing when I want to pass out, and becoming overall smarter.”
Edosomwan put his offseason progression on display in the season-opening exhibition against McGill. He recorded 21 points and 11 rebounds—the first double-double in a season filled with them. The center’s 12 double-doubles tied a program record, and this performance included five 15-plus rebound efforts.
With Edosomwan anchoring the paint, Amaker focused the offense on playing inside-out, forcing the defense to collapse in on his powerful center and open up space for strong outside shooters such as freshman guard Corey Johnson and junior sharpshooter Corbin Miller.
“Having Zena going really opens up things for our shooters,” freshman Tommy McCarthy said following the McGill exhibition. “[H]e’s such a threat down low [and] he attracts so many guys that it’s easy to kick it out in wide open shots. It’s nice to have kind of a safety net. When you get in trouble, you can throw it in to him, and he’ll usually do something good with it.”
Edosomwan shone brightest on Christmas Day at the Diamond Head Classic tournament championship game in Honolulu, when the Crimson faced off against then-No. 3/2 Oklahoma. Despite Harvard’s eventual loss, Edosomwan put up a career-high 25 points along with 16 rebounds, earning a spot on the All-Tournament team.
“I just wanted to be aggressive,” Edosomwan said after the loss. “My teammates were finding me, and honestly, I don’t fear anyone. I want to play the game, and I think they should fear me.”
Edosomwan’s importance to the team was felt when a  left leg injury consigned him to the bench just eight minutes into the second half of a Jan. 30 contest versus Columbia. With Edosomwan out for the remainder of the second half, the Lions outscored the Crimson 38-21 in the period and snagged a 55-54 win.
The following weekend, he remained out of the lineup during a pair of road losses to Princeton and Penn. But later, with Edosomwan back in the lineup for home matchups against the Killer P’s, Harvard won both games as the Los Angeles native averaged 13.5 points and 12 rebounds, earning Ivy League Player of the Week honors.
It wasn’t just Edosomwan’s offense that the team missed during those games, however. Besides leading the team in scoring, Edosomwan received consistent praise from Amaker for his defense and ability to force opposing teams out of the paint.
“He’s an enforcer kind of player for us on the [defensive] end,” Amaker said after the Princeton loss. “I mean, it’s not comfortable or easy for the guards to drive it in there if he’s in there.”
Despite his improved play this season, Edosomwan certainly has room to grow. His most glaring fault lies in his inability to hit free throws, as he shot a better percentage from the floor (50.3 percent) than he did from the charity stripe (49 percent), even though his 153 attempts led the team.
At one point, he even noted that he favors dunks over layups because it guarantees at least two points if he misses his free throws.
“My mentality was just to go up and try to dunk it,” Edosomwan noted after a Feb. 20 road win over Cornell. “If I’m not going to make free throws, then let me get and-ones.”
With his growth, Edosomwan became a target for opposing teams. Going into his senior season, the scouting focus on Edosomwan will only increase.
“[Scouting reports say] to limit you, to frustrate you, or whatever because you’re the marked guy,” Amaker said. “You have to work hard. Whatever you’ve done to get to this point is not going to be good enough to get wherever you need to go at the next point. I think that’s the message that’s necessary.”
Staff writer Theresa C. Hebert can be reached at theresa.hebert@thecrimson.com.
Sections
After a tough loss to Dartmouth at home where she scored eight points and struggled from beyond the arc, women’s basketball co-captain Kit Metoyer bounced back the next game in dramatic fashion. Playing at Cornell, she put up a career-high 26 points on 6-of-11 shooting from deep to go with six assists and seven rebounds. After a last second heave from the Big Red took the game to overtime, she scored Harvard’s first four points and added an assist to shut down Cornell in the extra period.
For the Houston native, however, the road to a breakout senior year was far from easy.
In her junior year Metoyer started eight games, often struggling with consistency on both ends of the floor. Playing a little over 20 minutes per game, she averaged five points per game on 18 percent shooting from three and 24 percent from the field.
A year removed from a lackluster season that saw it finish third in the Ivy League with a 7-7 conference record, Harvard women’s basketball had big expectations for Metoyer. As one of only two seniors who saw significant minutes the year before and with a starting rotation expected to feature two freshman guards and three seniors, Metoyer was to be one of the Crimson’s primary options on offense this year.
Despite the pressure, Metoyer didn’t shy away from the limelight. Instead, she blazed a path to be one of the Crimson’s most prolific three-point shooters of all time. She finished her senior year fifth all-time in three-point field goals made with 127 total—73 of which came in her last season alone, a mark good for third all-time in among Harvard players and best in the Ivy League this year.
The journey to her phenomenal season wasn’t without its ups and downs, however. After three years with Metoyer at point guard, head coach Kathy Delaney-Smith came into the season short on offense following the departure of senior standouts Temi Fagbenle and Erin McDonnell, who contributed just under 42 percent of the team’s points during the 2014-2015 season.
“She came in as a point guard and had some skills that you want your point guard to have, but there were some skills she didn’t have that we wanted our point guard to have,” Delaney-Smith said. “She’s a great, great shooter and we weren’t getting the scoring out of her that we wanted to in the point guard spot.”
After dealing with injuries throughout her career, Metoyer’s senior season was the first time she was fully healthy while at Harvard. More significantly, however, it was also the first time she wouldn’t consistently have the ball in her hands.
“We told her at the end of her junior year we wanted her to move to the shooting guard spot and it was primarily to get her shot,” Delaney-Smith said. “We were losing a lot of our shooting power in Temi and Erin.”
After three years at the one spot, Metoyer began her senior season in a completely new position. Early on, the switch was far from easy—through her first four games she averaged just over seven points on 28 percent shooting from the field. As the season went on, however, Metoyer quickly became one of the Crimsons biggest threats on offense, especially from deep.
Along with teammates Shilpa Tummala and AnnMarie Healy, Metoyer was one of only 19 players in the Ivy League to average double digit points a game. She led the team in minutes per game and league in three pointers made.
The shift paid off in a late season game against Cornell at home when Metoyer hit a deep three pointer to keep the Crimson ahead after giving up an eight point lead late in the game. The victory kept the Big Red winless in Cambridge and kept the Crimson in contention for the Ivy League title.
“She wants the ball in her hands so she had to work hard to come out of her comfort zone, and be there to shoot when she got her hands on the ball, and get her feet ready, and come off screens the way we wanted her to come off screens,” Delaney-Smith said. “I think she did a great job doing that.”
She finished the season shooting at a 34 percent clip from beyond the arc, a mark good for ninth in the Ivy League and nearly double her percentage from a year earlier. On the season, she averaged 11.4 points, 4.7 rebounds, and 2.9 assists per game. As important as Metoyer’s leadership was on the court, what she did off the court was equally important.
“Bottom line, Kit was just such a great leader,” Healy said. “[She’s] always someone who knows what to say at the right time and knows how to get the team motivated. She’s a great teammate just because she works hard and leads by example.”
Coach Delaney-Smith echoes the praise.
“Her work ethic might be in the top 10 percent of anyone I’ve ever coached,” Delaney-Smith said. “She just has an extraordinary work ethic.”
—Staff writer Troy Boccelli can be reached at troy.boccelli@thecrimson.com.
Sections
When Jerome E. Hyman wanted to make a donation to Harvard Law School, where he received his law degree nearly 70 years ago, he went about it in a less than obvious way. Rather than cutting another check or pledging his investment funds, Hyman made a more tangible promise: Harvard could have his house.
Hyman owns a vacation home in Westhampton Beach, New York, a popular waterfront beach destination. Or, at least, he used to.
“The deed, the technical records, would show that it is owned by the President and Fellows of Harvard College,” Hyman said—though that doesn’t stop him from visiting for the occasional weekend getaway or mid-summer vacation. Harvard may own the property, but it will only sell it and reinvest the money when Hyman dies, per the agreement he and the University reached.
Hyman’s home is just one of many unconventional gifts Harvard receives from alumni and donors. In the past, the University has welcomed as donations stamp collections, Italian villas, geological minerals, and fine pieces of art. Except in cases when the University may want the object for itself, Harvard usually sells and re-invests the money from these donations into its $37.6 billion endowment. 
Amidst Harvard’s record-setting $6.5 billion capital campaign, the University tries to raise hundreds of millions of dollars every year. Sometimes, though, raising money means making a sale.
“They give it a value, and then they generally sell it. It can be homes, it can be land, it can be apartments,” Peter  L. Malkin ’55, a prominent donor and real estate mogul, said about Harvard fundraising. “It can be anything.”

Benefactors have donated non-monetary gifts since the beginning of Harvard’s history. John Harvard, one of the University’s first major donors, gave to Harvard half of his estate and his entire library. In 1982, a stamp collector donated his whole collection to the University.
Today, donating such gifts to the University begins, as most donations do, with a conversation. Harvard fundraising officials regularly meet with alumni to discuss donating to Harvard, beginning a series of negotiations between the donor’s interests and the University’s needs. 
That back and forth becomes all the more complicated when donors want to give their home or piece of real estate. The Harvard Management Company, which oversees Harvard’s endowment, then helps evaluate and sell the property. The complicated nature of the process can help explain why Harvard does not actually receive the money from some gifts to Harvard’s capital campaign until long after the fundraising drive is over, according to Tamara E. Rogers ’74, the vice president of alumni affairs and development.
But Harvard may not want to accept every piece of real estate a donor offers, said Gary Snerson, who was the vice president of estates and special gifts at HMC until 2011 and now works at Planned Giving Innovations, LLC. Sometimes the pieces of property may be too indebted, so purchasing it may not be the wisest investment.
“A lot of times you reject a particular piece of real estate because the amount of time and effort you have to spend to do the due diligence and liquidate it is just not worthwhile in terms of the amount of funds derived from the sale,” Snerson said. “However, it was my policy to try and take the assets offered if I thought they could yield Harvard a net gain.”
“The rejections were much fewer than the acceptances,” he added.
After Harvard decides to accept real estate, it usually sells it. When a donor’s estate has not already sold the property, Harvard often turns to real estate brokers to do the job for it.  Harvard tries to liquidate real estate donations as quickly as it can—the return on investment is much higher on the endowment, Snerson said.
But when Harvard and a donor sees value in a particular property beyond its price tag, it may end up keeping it for research or other Universities activities. The Villa I Tatti, a 66-acre villa in Florence, now serves as the Center for Italian Renaissance Studies; Bernard Berenson, class of 1887, left his Italian estate to Harvard in the 1950s.
Harvard will also keep more humble pieces of property if they are located nearby, Snerson said. Alan M. Garber ’76, the University Provost, lives in a donated home on Hawthorn Street in Cambridge. Garber is the first provost to live in the unassuming olive brown home, located less than a mile from his office in Massachusetts Hall.
“If someone died and left Harvard a house that was close to Cambridge, the first thing I would do is call Harvard Real Estate and ask if they were interested in retaining the house for visiting professor housing,” Snerson said.
Non-monetary gifts to colleges and universities are somewhat commonplace. Just last year, Stanford grabbed headlines when it received a donated art collection valued at $622 million.
While Harvard certainly profits from the gifted real estate, donors also reap benefits beyond the usual satisfaction that comes from giving to the University.
Donating his house to Harvard, Hyman said, seemed like “the logical thing to do.” Not only did it allow him to pledge a larger amount of amount of money to support the University, but now he does not have to pay as many taxes on his vacation property as he would otherwise. As a tax-exempt educational institution, Harvard doesn’t have to pay real estate taxes. And Hyman doesn’t have to worry about selling his home.
“In effect, you get the tax advantage, and the University gets it eventually,” Hyman said. “It also saves the trouble of selling it, it shifts that burden to Harvard.”
Donating real estate also allows philanthropists to avoid a capital gains tax on the added value of the property.
“If you have a property that you bought for $100,000 and it’s now worth a $1 million and you decide to donate it to Harvard or some other charity, you avoid capital gains taxes on $900,00 and get a charitable income tax deduction for $1 million,” Snerson said.
And having the Harvard Corporation as your landlord isn’t so bad, Hyman said. While the University owns his home, Hyman said he’s largely free to do with it what he wants—he can repaint or redecorate as he sees fits.
“You can do anything I suppose. If you set fire to it they might be a little unhappy,” Hyman said with a laugh.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Queer and trans students have been saying these things for years.”
Joshua D. Blecher-Cohen ’16, an undergraduate intern in his third year at the Office of BGLTQ Student Life, said he was not at all surprised by the results of last spring’s Association of American Universities sexual conduct climate survey. That survey, distributed across the University, found a disproportionate prevalence of sexual violence against queer students at Harvard.
“Everyone who works in the queer community at Harvard was aware of disparate incidence of sexual assault in our communities,” he said. “The report confirmed what we’ve known anecdotally for years; it provided the data necessary to back those stories up.”
Jessica R. Fournier ’17, an organizer for Our Harvard Can Do Better—an anti-sexual assault student advocacy group—said the survey hardly shocked her organization either.
“I think that really no one at the University has any excuse to be surprised,” she said. “It was certainly a confirmation of what we knew to be true.”
In the wake of the survey, administrators emphasized the need for additional research on sexual assault prevention strategies specific to BGLTQ students. In a September email to Harvard affiliates, University President Drew G. Faust said assault against BGLTQ students is an area of concern that “merit[s] further exploration.”
Later in the year, when the University’s task force on sexual assault prevention released its final report, the group highlighted the need to provide additional support for BGLTQ students as one of six key recommendations. Steven E. Hyman, chair of that task force and a former University Provost, suggested the College work with queer students on campus to develop assault prevention strategies.
But even as administrators have welcomed the task force’s recommendations, many students, including Blecher-Cohen, say the College has more work to do in building a relationship of trust with queer and transgender students.
“I don’t think students have any more reason to trust that the administration will take them seriously than they did a few years ago or than they did 10 years before that,” Fournier said.
Faust wrote in her University-wide email that the results of the AAU survey, released in September, revealed an “extremely distressing” prevalence of sexual assault at the College, emphasizing the higher rates of sexual assault reported by BGLTQ students.
Male and female undergraduates identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual, asexual, questioning, or “not listed” reported higher rates of sexual harassment and assault than their heterosexual counterparts. Overall, 17.9 percent of LGBAQN female undergraduates reported experiencing “nonconsensual sexual contact involving physical force or incapacitation” compared to 12 percent of heterosexual undergraduate females. 
Meanwhile, 10.9 percent of male LGBAQN undergraduates reported nonconsensual penetration or sexual touching, compared to 2.7 percent of heterosexual male undergraduates.
Results in other categories followed similar patterns, a trend that Hyman said in a September letter demonstrated a “not just higher but markedly higher” prevalence of sexual assault against LGBAQN students at Harvard.
“It underscores the need for the University to work with the LGBAQN community and the Schools to obtain a full understanding of the realities of the LGBAQN student experiences on our campus,” Hyman wrote.
Harvard’s survey results are consistent with national trends. In a paper analyzing data from the Online College Social Life Survey, Jessie Ford and José G. Soto-Marquez—both doctoral students at New York University—found non-heretosexual students experience disproportionately high rates of sexual violence.
In an interview, Ford emphasized the need for further research paying special attention to the experiences of BGLTQ students, particularly transgender students who were underrepresented on her survey.
The AAU survey, which featured data from 27 participating universities, similarly indicated higher incidence rates of nonconsensual sexual contact for LGBAQN students than for their heterosexual peers.
Following the survey’s release, student groups like Our Harvard Can Do Better and Harvard College Queer Students and Allies have made efforts to advocate for the safety of queer and transgender undergraduates.
Ted G. Waechter ’18, a co-chair of QSA who emphasized he was not speaking on behalf of the organization, said QSA tries to ensure there are “safe spaces” for queer and transgender students on campus.
“It’s really important not to frame safety as safety only for cisgender or heterosexual people,” Waechter, a Crimson editorial writer, said. “Cisgender” refers to a gender identity that matches the sex of an individual at birth.
In order to protect queer and transgender students at their events, QSA has designated trained board members who remain sober at parties and intervene when the safety of attendees is in question.
“A big part of our efforts has been in terms of educating folks who are coming to our events, making sure that there are visible people as resources,” Waechter said.
Our Harvard Can Do Better has pushed for more student groups to receive targeted trainings. Fournier said expanding sexual assault bystander trainings is key to reducing sexual assault of BGLTQ students on campus.
“[We’re] demanding that any training that this University does… should be mandatory for all students, for all four years, or for however many years they’re on campus,” Fournier said.
The University’s sexual assault prevention task force—convened in 2014—recommended mandatory yearly trainings for all students in its final report. The College is currently considering the task force’s recommendations, Associate Dean of Student Life David R. Friedrich said.
“A lot of good thought is going into exactly all of the ways that the College will respond to this,” Friedrich said. “Those recommendations are being finalized.”
Beyond training, Our Harvard Can Do Better is working to ensure that students know their rights under the federal anti-sex discrimination law Title IX, Fournier said. The College is currently under investigation by the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights after Our Harvard Can Do Better filed a Title IX complaint in 2014.
The University survey indicated that 36.6 percent of female undergraduates and 35.7 percent of male undergraduates were “very or extremely knowledgeable” about where to get help for themselves or a friend after an assault.
“Students don’t really understand the policies and procedures, and if you don’t have that kind of basic understanding from the student body, students a) don’t trust that they will be able to be protected if they bring something forward and b) students won’t know what their rights are,” Fournier said.
After the survey, the University’s Title IX office expanded and clarified a list of frequently asked questions on Harvard’s sexual harassment policy and procedures. University Title IX Officer Mia Karvonides said her office, in conjunction with the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response, is working to improve and reinforce students’ knowledge of policy through a number of avenues, including an online Title IX training module for students. The new module is tentatively set to launch in the fall.
“There will be some type of general introduction, an introduction to the Title IX coordinators, information on the policy and procedure,” Karvonides said, referring to the planned online training, which will also include student vignettes.
Although Karvonides acknowledged such online trainings are not sufficient on their own, she said a standardized module will create a common baseline for other conversations about University policies and procedures.
Although some students acknowledge administrators are working to expand BGLTQ resources, many said the University must first establish a greater level of trust with its queer students.
“Harvard has never responded well to these issues,” Fournier said, referring to sexual assault. “I think students don’t trust the administration because the administration has not shown that they can be trusted.”
A supplement to the University survey found that both male and female LGBAQN students were less likely than their heterosexual counterparts to believe that Harvard would “take a report of sexual assault or misconduct seriously.” Those students were also less likely to trust that the University would “conduct a fair investigation” or “take action against the offender(s).” 
“The College takes very seriously the safety and well being of all of our students on campus, including our BGLTQ-plus community,” Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana said.
Both Waechter and Blecher-Cohen said having queer voices present in conversations about sexual assault is key, but the College has more work to do in including their perspectives.
“In other meetings with administrators not about sexual assault, they have mentioned sexual assault parenthetically, but we haven’t had any concerted outreach from the administration about the issue of sexual assault,” Waechter said, referring to QSA.
Karvonides said she meets frequently with student groups to discuss sexual assault, including issues specific to gender and sexuality. She added that her office has made concerted efforts to expand its own knowledge on issues pertaining to students from a variety of backgrounds and identities.
“Cultural competency in this area is really important for us within my office but also across all schools’ Title IX coordinators,” Karvonides said. “We see issues around sexual orientation, gender identity... or prevention of discrimination, really being embedded in all the work we do.”
Some students are also calling for more examples that incorporate queer experiences and gender-neutral language into bystander intervention trainings. Groups across the College have increasingly participated in training workshops, in part because of an Undergraduate Council mandate that some student groups receive trainings from OSAPR.
“[We’re] demanding that any training that this University does... should include gender inclusive language and should pay attention to the special issues of the BGLTQ community and to all marginalized communities,” Fournier said. “It’s not a little thing—it’s not ‘add queer people and stir.’ It’s about the entire way we talk about these issues.”
OSAPR Director Alicia Oeser said her office has modified workshops in recent years to ensure their trainings are gender-neutral and more inclusive of multiple identities. Before 2013, trainees were separated by genders, which Oeser said could make transgender or gender nonconforming students uncomfortable.
“We… try to make all of our general programming gender-neutral and explicitly queer-friendly,” Oeser said. “We have made the decision, when I first came in, to go gender neutral. I think that that is a huge shift in the field of sexual violence prevention.”
Oeser said she also has a personal interest in ensuring queer students feel comfortable during trainings.
“I am a queer person,” she said. “I don’t profess to know all of the issues for all of the people because of that, but I do hope that that’s relevant in that I have a vested interest in this myself.”
–Staff writer Jonathan G. Adler can be reached at jonathan.adler@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JonathanGAdler.
–Staff writer Mia C. Karr can be reached at mia.karr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @miackarr.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
UPDATED: May 25, 2016, at 1:04 p.m.
It’s a Friday night at Harvard, and hundreds of students are dancing to the live band. Drawn by the music, free admission, and promise of a different social experience, undergraduates fill a large tent in the Science Center Plaza. It’s not an unusual sight on most college campuses, but at Harvard the evening represented something new.
Sponsored by College women’s groups, the “[BLANK] Party” aimed to foster a “more inclusive, open social scene.” Although the event was planned by and for undergraduates, in many ways it represented an ideal social space in the minds of Harvard administrators. The party was completely open to all undergraduates regardless of identity or organizational affiliation, and took place on campus under the direction of the University.
 Indeed, the very top of Harvard’s administration helped finance the party. University President Drew G. Faust specifically gave money to Harvard College to fund events—including the [BLANK] Party—that offer alternative and “safe” social spaces.
But at the same time that students were dancing under the lights in the Science Center Plaza, many others were gathering off campus in some of the College’s single-gender unrecognized social organizations—where alcohol is less subject to Harvard regulations. Beyond the control of administrators, and subject to the individual clubs’ guest policies, for many years these groups have had outsized influence on undergraduate social life.
This year the College has taken greater control over undergraduate social life at Harvard, and where it takes place. Administrators have cracked down on final clubs, fraternities, and sororities, and implemented sweeping sanctions targeting a culture they say is conducive to excessive drinking and sexual assault. But alongside punishment, administrators have offered incentives to promote their vision for inclusive and safer social spaces on campus. Their actions aim to bolster social life, but some people said the University has gone too far.
At most of the nation’s colleges and universities, “social space” is seldom a phrase uttered by administrators or students. But at Harvard over the past year, the words have become inescapable.
Driven by concerns over sexual assault, backlash over the policies of off campus social organizations—particularly the College’s historically all-male final clubs—and a new dean on a mission to fundamentally recenter the undergraduate social experience, social space was at the forefront of campus discourse and administrators’ agendas over the past year.
Administrators have been highly involved in promoting social spaces that fit their vision for undergraduate life. Along with the [BLANK] Party, the College has supported a number of other events, including an undergraduate-wide Halloween party, a five-floor party in Winthrop House, and a series of pre-Yardfest parties. All were backed with Harvard money, open to all students, and free of charge.
Additionally, in Cabot and Adams Houses, staff have designated spaces—like Cabot’s fittingly-themed “aquarium” (the House’s mascot is a fish)— for students to book their own events. Some Houses introduced streamlined and expedited party registration processes. Employees at the Office of Student Life also began tailoring programming at the Cambridge Queen’s Head pub, a space below Annenberg Hall, specifically for undergraduates.
Harvard College is increasing the money it spends in a bid to re-engineer social life. Over the past two years, the College Dean’s Office has increased funding for undergraduate social activities by 73 percent, with another 15 percent increase budgeted for the 2016-2017 academic year. That comes as the Faculty of Arts and Sciences undergoes a more than $1 billion dollar effort to extensively renovate the Houses.
Rakesh Khurana, dean of the College and Faculty Dean of Cabot House, has often spoken of recentering social life in the Houses and increasing “inclusivity.”
“One of the things that’s really been phenomenal is that with this vision of an inclusive social environment that our students have helped define and aspire to, we have been able to mobilize resources,” Khurana said.
Social space has also been a top priority among leaders of the Undergraduate Council, the College’s student government. In November, the six undergraduates campaigning for the Council’s top two spots focused heavily on the subject during the presidential race. The election’s victors, Shaiba Rather ’17 and Daniel V. Banks ’17, have made creating more inclusive social spaces a priority of their “Open Harvard” platform. Already, they have sponsored a number of open parties, including a new initiative called Club 1636 that looks to open local nightlife to undergraduates under 21.
But while the College has advanced some forms of socializing, it has deliberately criticized others that don’t conform to its vision.
Throughout the year, Khurana, in a series of private meetings, has pressured the College’s unrecognized single-gender organizations to go co-ed in. Just weeks ago, he implemented a new policy barring members of those organizations from holding varsity captaincies, club leadership positions, or prestigious fellowships beginning with the incoming Class of 2021. The change represents a new frontier in relations between the College and its unrecognized social groups, but a continuation of Khurana’s efforts to bring social life in line with his interpretation of the College’s mission.
The College’s strengthened effort to control social spaces and guide their use is in keeping with a specific vision for undergraduate social life, one that emphasizes safety, regulation, and inclusivity in students’ interactions. While discussions about social space on campus took place since Khurana’s tenure began last fall, this past year has seen a clearer articulation of the College’s vision and a quickened pace of change spurred by heightened attention on sexual assault and social exclusivity.
This September, Harvard released the results of a sexual conduct climate survey that Faust said revealed a “deeply troubling” prevalence of sexual assault on campus. The survey found 31 percent of senior undergraduate females experienced some form of “nonconsensual sexual contact” during their time at the College. It also found heightened rates of assault for senior undergraduate females involved with unrecognized social organizations.
Months after the survey results’ release, a University task force issued a related set of recommendations on ways to reduce sexual assault. Faust took up the recommendations, which included a number of College-specific proposals that addressed the subject of social space head on.
The task force wrote in their report that, “Space — who controls it, what is allowed within it, who finds it attractive — shapes the possibilities for social interaction.” The report praised the [BLANK] Party and Annenberg Halloween Party as models of events that create a “shared campus culture.”
The report recommended mandating yearly sexual assault prevention trainings for all students, a measure that this year was piloted in some Houses and by the UC. The report also suggests a shift in alcohol policy to more closely regulate hard liquor consumption, with one recommendation specifically proposing that administrators institute policies to “discourage consumption.”
Along with policy changes, the report urged physical modifications, “[w]here possible,” by decreasing residential entry points so that security officers would be able to better oversee students and assist those in need of help.
The task force report, while proposing safety and regulatory measures within College infrastructure, offered pointed criticisms of the unrecognized final clubs. It called out the clubs as breeding grounds for cultural malaise, and said they were threats to both campus culture and student well-being, and required University attention. Greek organizations were not left out of the fold; the report's authors wrote that these organizations “raise a related set of difficulties.”
In a set of recommendations specifically for the College, the report closely echoed administrators’ comments from months past, advocating an increase in open parties in lieu of unrecognized events, which the report noted are “typically open only to members and selected guests.”
Months later, in Khurana’s letter laying out the recommendations to penalize off-campus, single-gender social organizations, he wrote that, “through their extensive resources and access to networks of power, these organizations propagate exclusionary values that undermine those of the larger Harvard College community.” In Faust’s letter accepting the proposal, she criticized the clubs for “enacting forms of privilege and exclusion at odds with our deepest values.”
Along with the report, moving social life further on campus and increasing inclusivity has been a hallmark of College administrators over the past year. Khurana emphasizes community and inclusion often, both when it comes to social life as well as issues of diversity. Before his tenure as dean officially began, he helped lead the creation of a diversity and inclusion working group, and has begun implementing some of its recommendations.
To that point, Associate Dean of Student Life David R. Friedrich said the broader goal of administrative oversight is to encourage students to interact with more diverse groups of people.
"When the College is thinking about how it wants to promote interaction and socializing, a lot of it is around engaging with difference," he said. "Students come here from all different walks of life, have different experiences, are studying different things."
Harvard’s efforts to guide social life mark a change from years past. Interim Dean of Student Life Thomas A. Dingman ’67, who has served as a College administrator for many years and was a member of an all-male final club as an undergraduate, said the current generation of students expects more programming.
“When I was in college, I don’t think I looked to Harvard to provide my entertainment at all,” Dingman said. “I think that times have changed.”
However, the recent actions have some questioning if Harvard has overstepped its bounds.
The decision by Faust and Khurana to sanction members of off campus single-gender social organizations has drawn a sharp wave of criticism and protest.
After the two announced the policy, hundreds of women rallied in front of Massachusetts Hall to protest what they saw as an unjust punishment of female-only spaces. The protest, titled “Hear Her Harvard,” lamented what they said was the likely loss of crucial support networks for women that will come as Khurana’s recommendations are implemented. National Greek organizations also issued statements criticizing the policy.
The new restrictions have touched off a larger debate about the influence of administrators on students social lives, and many undergraduates and alumni have criticized Harvard for going too far in exerting control over how students spend their free time and which groups they associate with.
Former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68 issued perhaps the most pointed critique of Khurana’s attempts to curb unrecognized single-gender social life. In a letter to Khurana, Lewis wrote that “Students’ membership in organizations is their own business, not the College’s.”
The Harvard Republicans echoed Lewis’s sentiments in the group’s official response, in which they wrote, “We, as students, do not attempt to regulate your social circles, nor should you ours.”
For Cameron K. Khansarinia ’18, a Cabot House representatives on the UC and a member of the Republican Club, students need to have agency over their own social lives. Indeed, he says, it is an important part of their College development.
“The best social life isn’t one created by a Harvard administrator,” he said, adding that for many students, the best social events are spontaneous and student-driven. “It’s important for students to develop their own social lives.”
The administrative intervention did have its share of supporters, but some of the students most active in combating campus sexual assault said they felt the action was misguided.
Drisana M. Mosaphir ’17, an organizer for anti-sexual assault advocacy group Our Harvard Can Do Better, said she had no qualms with administrative involvement in social life, but that she did not think the new policy specifically addressed activists’ concerns. She added she “felt there was a lack of communication and listening to what survivors have been asking for.”
When Khurana, the architect of sweeping changes to Harvard’s social scene over the past year, was asked to respond to those criticisms he reiterated broader goals.
“The College is committed to promoting an inclusive and robust social experience for students,” he said.
—Staff writer Jalin P. Cunningham can be reached at jalin.cunningham@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JalinCunningham.
—Staff writer Ignacio Sabate can be reached at ignacio.sabate@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @ignacio_sabate.
Sections
If the whole NFL thing doesn’t work out, freshman receiver Justice Shelton-Mosley is looking to concentrate in economics.
One day, the rookie out of Sacramento would love to work in San Francisco. Speaking last fall, he explained that he’s also hoping to travel the world, assuming he has the time and money to do so.
But if the six NFL prospects in the Harvard class of 2016 indicate anything, it is that professional football is a very real possibility for Ivy League Rookie of the Year Shelton-Mosley.
The numbers speak for themselves. In his first season with the Crimson, Shelton-Mosley tallied 589 receiving yards on 40 catches, the second-highest mark on the team. He also recorded 521 return yards, and his 19-yard punt return average was the highest single-season mark in school history.
“Standout player,” senior quarterback Scott Hosch said. “[He] came in from the start as a hard-worker [and] earned the respect of all of those guys, especially the upperclassmen. Kid just went out there and made plays.”
On the whole, Shelton-Mosley had by far the most all-purpose yards on the team with 1,140. For comparison, the next highest total was 872 yards.
But he’s more than just a receiver and a runner: He also threw a 28-yard touchdown pass against Penn.
However, Shelton-Mosley’s start to the season was hardly so glamorous. Through the first five games, he averaged barely more than a reception a contest.
“The first practice I was on scout kickoff,” Shelton-Mosley said. “I just got the opportunity to do some great things. The best thing about college [is that] you’re going to get an opportunity no matter what, and I just wanted to take advantage of those opportunities.”
Take advantage he did, as his production increased dramatically during the back half of the year. Over 400 of the freshman’s receiving yards came during the closing five-game stretch, along with four of his touchdowns, 121 of his 190 punt return yards and nearly two-thirds of his kick return yards. His lone punt return score came in the homestretch of the season during the Nov. 7 contest against Columbia.
In perhaps the most important game of the year, Shelton-Mosley was instrumental in the Crimson’s victory. Playing against Dartmouth on October 20, the freshman tallied 71 receiving yards.
His most important contribution came in the closing seconds. Down 13-7 with less than three minutes to play in the fourth quarter, Harvard started its drive at midfield. The Crimson drove the ball to the five-yard line with 38 seconds to play.
Then, on third and goal, Hosch rolled out of the pocket. With a linebacker closing in, the senior signal caller fired a pass into the endzone. Despite heavy traffic, Shelton-Mosley came down with the ball.
One extra point and 38 heart-pounding seconds later, Harvard claimed victory.
“There were a couple of games were we really needed a big play,” Hosch said. “He just found a way to pull through. It just speaks to his work ethic, his ability on the field. The way he carries himself is tremendous.”
In terms of sheer production, Shelton-Mosley’s biggest game came against Columbia. The freshman recorded two touchdowns, one through the air and one on a punt return.
The first score came late in the first half. With the ball at the 26, Shelton-Mosley ran a short slant route about five yards downfield. Stopping on a dime, he dropped his defender and ran up the sideline before diving into the endzone.
His punt return, however, was most indicative of his athletic ability. Receiving the ball at the 14 yard line, Shelton-Mosley ran up the left sideline before getting stopped in a pile. Breaking tackles from what seemed like the whole Columbia roster, Shelton-Mosley somehow slipped out and ended up in the endzone.
The electrifying perfomance added up to 270 all-purpose yards, including 131 receiving and 121 on punt returns.
But Shelton-Mosley was not done. Two weeks later, in the country’s oldest college football rivalry game, the Sacramento, Calif. native torched the Yale secondary for 119 receiving yards and two touchdowns.
“A lot of times I’m throwing him a slant route, he’s catching the ball five yards down the field, and he’s turning it into a 40- or 50-yard gain,” Hosch said. “When the ball is in his hands, he’s spectacular.”
Shelton-Mosley’s impact was not just felt on the field, however. Throughout the year, teammates regarded him as a mature, humble player.
“A lot of times, you would expect when a freshman has that much success [that] they would...feel entitled,” Hosch said. “He was not like that. He came to work everyday and accepted his position.”
Certainly, in reverse Shelton-Mosley has felt the influence of upperclassmen like Hosch, one of six seniors to have been contacted in some way by an NFL team.
For a rookie such as Shelton-Mosley, these veterans serve as role models to emulate—or, perhaps, as a foretaste of what is to come.
“I think the standard is set for me” Shelton-Mosley said. “I know what they did. I know how they acted on the field and off the field and how they carried themselves. If I’m able to replicate that, I’ll be able to get that chance one day…. I know what I need to do to get to the league.”
—Staff writer Wade G. Player can be reached wplayer@college.harvard.edu.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“We won’t die for the price of gas; Uncle Sam go kiss my ass!”
In December of 1990, covered in scarves and hats to battle freezing temperatures, students and other activists protested the United States’ military presence in the Persian Gulf, chanting this slogan while marching down Massachusetts Avenue, blocking traffic and placing stickers on an armed forces recruiting station as they went.
“It was a bunch of people, enough to shut down Mass. Ave. traffic, singing and chanting,” John G. Neffinger ’93 said. “The anti-war protesters were an interesting mix of town and gown… We engaged with the broader community.”
One month after the protest, war erupted in the Gulf as U.S. troops invaded Kuwait, commencing Operation Desert Storm against Iraqi forces. For the first time since Vietnam—a full generation earlier—the United States was involved in a major foreign military offensive, this time on the side of Kuwait and against Saddam Hussein’s authoritarian regime.
Understanding that negative perceptions of American military operations were largely shaped by the war against the northern Vietnamese two decades earlier, then-U.S. President George H. W. Bush promised that the action in the Gulf would “not be another Vietnam.”
“I have said this before and I repeat this here tonight, our troops will not be asked to fight with one hand tied behind their back. Our troops will have the best possible support,” Bush said in a televised address that January.
Bush was right; his strategy of using overwhelming force worked, and the actual combat lasted barely more than a month, ending February 28, 1991.
For almost all the members of the Class of 1991, the Gulf War was the first major U.S. military operation in their memory, coming just after the end of the Cold War, with the U.S. as the leader of the new world order.
To some students, the war was like a flash in the pan, seemingly over before it started. To others, the intervention was an important event that signaled what role the U.S. would play in world affairs in the coming years. Two groups—Students United for Desert Storm (SUDS) and Students Against War in the Middle East (SAWME)—followed the war closely, organizing protests and counter-protests.

The Vietnam War ended in 1975, nearly 16 years before the Gulf War and while most members of the Class of 1991 were barely entering primary school, the shadow Vietnam cast remained a salient issue in determining how students and the public viewed the Gulf War.
“My generation, when we were students, we never experienced the Vietnam War; that was our parents. So, we were kind of deer in the headlights,” Lyle J. Goldstein ’94 said. “The 1980s—there was the period of Reagan, we were kind of marinated in the Cold War, there was this resurgence of American power—so there was some excitement about the idea that there was this new world order… and we had to make sure that this new world order got off on the right foot.”
In fact, a 1990 Crimson article entitled “War Worries” pointed to this comparison between the Vietnam and Gulf wars.
“The comparisons were inevitable,” Jonathan S. Cohn ’91, the article’s author, wrote. “As soon as President Bush ordered troops to the Persian Gulf this summer, some critics said the engagement would be another Vietnam. And as soon as activists started their campus protests this fall, some would-be historians hailed the '90s as a revival for the New Left.”
“There was a very large proportion of the student body paying attention [to the Gulf War]. First, it was the first major conflict for the country since Vietnam,” Harry J. Wilson ’93, SUDS co-founder, said. “Second, it was the first major conflict on modern cable news.”
Adam D. Taxin ’93, the other co-founder of SUDS and a former Crimson editor, described popular concern that the Gulf War “would be like the ‘60s, eventually” in that some feared the U.S. would be dragged into a long conflict like Vietnam.
In addition to the Vietnam War, other 20th century wars also set a precedent for U.S. military endeavors.
“You have the great war, World War Two, as the war we’re always striving toward, but then the other huge one is Vietnam. Korea is sort of a non-event in there, and there were some other skirmishes,” Neffinger said. “There’s the good war and the bad war, and the bad war was much more recent.”
Harvard’s Institute of Politics hosted a debate between SUDS and SAWME on the U.S. presence in the Gulf War on February 26, 1991.
Two days before the conflict’s end, the event “was packed to overflowing, with people standing up and yelling,” Neffinger, one of SAWME’s representatives in the debate, said.
“There were also some students from Kuwaiti royalty or aristocracy,” he said. “They stood up in the audience and they were shouting at us, at SAWME, and I just remember finding that so outrageous that they felt self-entitled to have basically high school-age kids from around middle America go to the Middle East and put their lives on the line to give these oligarchs their riches back.”
In addition to formal debates and organized events such as teach-ins, students also organized pro- and anti-Gulf War demonstrations.
“We had hundreds of people come to our rallies and the other side had hundreds of people, as well,” Wilson said.
However, in a 1991 Crimson article, Mica Pollock ’93, who was a member of SAWME, emphasized that SAWME, rather than protesting the soldiers who are fighting in the war, was opposed to the “concept of war” and the policymakers who supported U.S. military involvement.
"In this anti-war movement, people see a clear division between soldiers who are fighting the war and the people who sent them there," she said at the time. "We are protesting against people who sent them."
“[T]here was general sentiment to ‘support the troops’ and avoid making targets of military service providers,” Thomas I. Savage ’91 wrote in an email. “People were sensitive to rough treatment some Vietnam war vets experienced upon returning home and wanted to treat the Gulf war vets better.”
While some students were outspoken in supporting their respective causes, some Harvard affiliates, such as former City Councillor Kenneth E. Reeves ’72 criticized students for their “tepidness” and acceptance of the U.S. power structure.
In a different Crimson article, Cohn wrote that activists who lived through the 1960s were often “not impressed with this recent show of student force” and that students during the Gulf War had “far to go before they [could] meet the standards set by their flower-child parents.”
“While there were some people expressing either support or opposition to the war, demonstrations were muted,” Savage wrote.
Some attributed lackluster student response to the brief time span of the U.S. intervention in Kuwait.
“We didn’t know it was going to be such a short war,” Taxin said. “In retrospect it seems silly given how short the whole thing was… Everything occurred so quickly that there wasn't a chance to do anything other than to say ‘support the troops.’”
Furthermore, before war broke out, “people were concerned there would be a lot more killed” in military action, according to Goldstein.
Yet, the number of U.S. casualties in battle during the Gulf War was the lowest of any major U.S. conflict. According to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, 148 American soldiers died in combat compared to over 47,000 deaths during the Vietnam War.
“If you go back to that time, the issues that everyone was talking about were the collapse of the Soviet Union and the unification of Germany and the Berlin Wall,” Goldstein said. “Those were the issues that were on everybody's mind. This one was kind of a flash-in-the-pan moment.”
—Staff writer Nathaniel J. Hiatt can be reached at nathaniel.hiatt@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @nathaniel_hiatt.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
For Harvard students who want to pursue an internship in finance, the Office of Career Services’ On-Campus Interview program has typically offered the clearest pathway to Wall Street. Recruiters from banks both big and small come to campus with open slots for undergraduates and a schedule of interviews lined up, courtesy of OCS. Banks must then simply winnow the stream of applicants and select whom to hire.
But this year, the carefully-planned pipeline did not work as promised.
Banks allowed to participate in the On-Campus Interview program—primarily for sophomores and juniors seeking internships—must agree to a set of guidelines that protect students from aggressive hiring practices and undue interference in their academic schedules. But this year banks circumvented OCS and began recruiting students earlier, before official On-Campus Interviews for  finance internships started in January. Some students who underwent the recruitment process with banks outside of OCS-sponsored channels lost the protections the On-Campus Interview system provides, and those who participated in the traditional system were left with fewer potential internship slots.
The tug-of-war and resulting breakdown caused OCS to move up its interview schedule by several months next year to avoid contending with the banks.
‘THE WILD, WILD WEST’
The On-Campus Interview system is designed to be mutually beneficial, providing convenience for banks and protection for students. The banks benefit from a system that allows them efficient access to potential interns, while students are granted assurances that the process that aims to be as fair as possible and interfere minimally with their academics.
“We’re just coordinating [an employer’s] visit to campus and their space and their scheduling,” OCS Director Robin Mount said. “We’ll do that for anybody who wants to come and do it; it’s an open system.”
The winter interview program is one of the principal opportunities for undergraduates seeking careers in finance to land an internship. OCS boasts that more than 25 industries participate in the On-Campus Interview program, and finance is among the most highly represented. In the 2014-2015 academic year, more than 600 juniors participated in the program, which also includes industries such as engineering.
Raine R. Mackey, director of recruiting for investment banking firm Peter J. Solomon Company, said her firm chooses to participate in the On-Campus Interview system because of its structure and efficiency.
“The reason we go through the On-Campus recruiting department as opposed to doing off-site is that it’s very civilized, and it’s very organized,” Mackey said. “It just works.”
While offering benefits to employers, the campus interview program tries to be helpful for students. OCS restricts banks’ interview start dates, ensuring that students have a specified amount of time to decide on an offer, limiting when second round interviews can occur and when students can be asked to travel for extensive interviews, and setting a deadline for employers to give students return offers.
“For students, it’s great because [OCS] works out deals with the employers where you don’t have to accept an offer right away and generally protects the students,” Vincent K. Ong ’17 said of the On-Campus Interview program.
Traditionally, the bulk of internship interviews in the OCS system occur in the winter—the first-rounds this year occurred between January 19 and February 18—with no off-campus, second-round interviews allowed until after a certain timeframe. This schedule avoids the majority of the semester’s midterm season, and many interviews occur before classes even begin, during Wintersession.
This year, however, many banks sidestepped OCS to begin the recruitment process in the fall. Those who applied directly to banks earlier in the year went around the system and did not receive OCS protection. Those who waited for the On-Campus Interviews in the winter had to compete for fewer spots because many had already been filled.
OCS associate director of employer relations Deborah A. Carroll, who helps coordinate the On-Campus Interview program, called the 2015-2016 cycle “a funny animal.” Not only did the banks move up their own recruiting timelines while OCS’s stood still, but the issue was made worse by other universities,that had also moved up their recruitment schedules, leading to a decrease in the amount of jobs available later in the year.
“I don’t even know how to describe it,” Carroll said. “Since some of the other schools started moving earlier… honestly some of it was our own alums saying ‘Hey, they’re hiring all the Michigan students. We need to get the Harvard students hired.’ So they would start doing some things on campus outside of our process, which the employers kept assuring us was a smaller process, but it sort of snowballed a little bit.”
Mount, stronger, called this year’s cycle “the wild, wild West.”
‘A SEISMIC SHIFT’
In response to firms’ decisions to begin recruiting earlier, OCS has shifted next year’s internship recruiting schedule up several months, Mount said. Instead of the bulk of interviews for finance happening in winter, most will take place in September. This way, students can participate in earlier recruiting but still receive the protections the On-Campus Interview program affords.
“This will be the very first time for Harvard. A few of our peer institutions moved in that direction last year,” Mount said.
Carroll emphasized that OCS made the move to the earlier time frame with students’ interests in mind.
“A lot of other schools moved last year. We had a lot of conversations. We loved the January timeframe, students loved the January timeframe,” Carroll said. ”But we really felt that we couldn’t put our students at a disadvantage and not allow them to be competitive with other people who are interviewing for these positions.”
“We’re a little heartbroken because we’re not in the Wintersession period. That was so convenient because there were no classes for students,” Mount said. “We positioned our interviews to be early in September because we don't want juniors in the middle of midterms to be flying off for second round interviews.”
OCS wasn’t the only organization that was forced adapt. Mackey, the recruiter from Peter J. Solomon, said her firm also felt squeezed from other banks’ earlier recruitment.
“We used to recruit both in the fall and the spring, but now since everything has gotten so aggressive we do most of our recruiting in the fall,” Mackey said. “You want to play by the rules when you can but you also don’t want to end up with egg on your face.”
Other universities’ career service offices have also navigated a changing landscape, with many moving their schedules up in response. The University of Pennsylvania, like Harvard, only recently switched to an earlier schedule. Both made the switch for similar reasons.
“Employers have made it clear that they wish to conduct on campus interviews—or many do—in the fall, and our students were frankly at some disadvantage if we continued to restrict internship recruiting to the spring,” Patricia Rose, who oversees the University of Pennsylvania’s career services, said. “Students were anxious to talk with employers and were reaching out on their own and employers were reaching out to them… and so the interviews were happening anyway.”
STARTING SOONER
The earlier time frame will give Harvard students a better chance to land competitive internships, but it also means they will have to prepare earlier for recruitment. With a September start date, students who wish to prepare effectively must study during the summer and the beginning of the school year.
Alex F. Kaufman ’18, who participated in finance recruiting over the winter, said he worries that less time to prepare could make for a stressful start to the year.
However, other students were supportive of the change—albeit with some reservations.
Ong said that while students are generally “super busy” in the fall, the decision by OCS to bump up their timeline was beneficial for undergraduates.
“Now you have a longer horizon to decide what you want to do,” Ong said. “If you don’t get anything through the campus interview program or don't find anything that you like, then you still have a longer period to find something that you do like.”
Geoffrey B. Kristof ’17, who has previously held finance internships, was also supportive of shifting the On-Campus Interview program up, as it provides structure to the recruitment process that can be helpful for students.
“OCI tends to be pretty well organized and definitely more convenient as opposed to having to fly out to New York or wherever every time you want to interview,” he said. “On balance, I would say that this is good for students. Just for convenience reasons, it’s more clear what’s going on. I know a bunch of students who knew that there was recruiting going on in the fall but didn’t have time to stay in the loop with it… and were sort of caught off guard by firms who had filled their classes by the time of the winter OCI.”
OCS is trying to prepare students for the change with more programming and orientation, Mount said, adding that “it puts a lot of pressure on the current sophomores who are going to be juniors in the fall.”
—Staff writer Nathaniel J. Hiatt can be reached at nathaniel.hiatt@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @nathaniel_hiatt.
Sections
Outstanding. Momentous. A force to be reckoned with. These are all words and phrases that have been used to describe this year’s Harvard women’s track and field team, the most successful in Crimson history.
But perhaps no superlative describes the team better than “record-breaking.”
The team broke nearly 20 school and Ivy records this year, part of a campaign that saw the squad win both the indoor and outdoor Ivy League championships.
The team’s success this year is a continuation of the dominance the Crimson has had over the past few years. After retaining the Ivy title this year, Harvard has taken the past four indoor crowns as well as the past three outdoor titles, the first team to do so for consecutive years since Cornell from 2002-2007.
This year, however, the team took the next step. After sending four athletes to the NCAA Outdoor National Championships the past couple of years, the Crimson had five athletes qualify in six events for the USA Olympic Trials in July—senior co-captains Paige Kouba and Autumne Franklin, freshman sprinter Gabby Thomas, sophomore distance runner Courtney Smith, and junior sprinter Jade Miller.
“What this season has shown is that when enough people are listening and tuned in on that wavelength, you get a really amazing team performance,” Kouba said. “One that will continue to grow.”
The success starts with the short distance athletes, where Franklin and Thomas headline a group that includes standouts like freshman sprinter Ngozi Musa and Miller.

Franklin, who will be heading to the Olympic Trials in the 400-meter hurdles, has been the Ivy League’s top hurdler this season. For her, the wins began in the indoor season, where she scored victories in the 60-meter hurdles and 400-meter run at the indoor Ivy Championships. With the title in the hurdles, Franklin finished her indoor career at Harvard as a four-time Ancient Eight Champion in the event.
The success continued in the outdoor season, during which she won the 100-meter hurdles and 400-meter hurdles at the outdoor Ivy League Heptagonal Championships. Franklin owns the school record in the 100-meter hurdles and has taken the Ivy crown in the event all four years as well. Franklin also has the second-fastest time in school history in the 400-meter hurdles, second only to Olympic finalist and NCAA champion Brenda Taylor ’01.  Franklin soon hopes to add her name alongside Taylor in the Harvard Olympian record books.
“The goal is definitely to make the [Olympic] team,” Franklin said. “If I don’t, and I have a great time, and I run a great race—that’s one thing, but I’m definitely going to be shooting for as high as I can go.”
Thomas has been Franklin’s counterpart in the short-distance sprints. At the Indoor Ivy Championships, Thomas won the long jump, 60-meter dash, and 200-meter dash and was able to replicate her success at Outdoor Heps, winning the 100-meter and 200-meter dashes by significant margins and placing third in the long jump. The rookie also teamed up with Musa, Miller, and Franklin to take home the 4x100 meter title, an event in which Harvard has the Ancient Eight record.
Already, Thomas owns the Ivy and Harvard records in the indoor 60-meter, outdoor 100-meter, and indoor and outdoor 200-meter dashes. In the 100-meter and 200-meter races, Thomas will be joining Franklin at the USA Olympic Trials, where she figures to be a considerable threat.
Musa, meanwhile, has been a force of her own after claiming top-ten all-time marks in the 60-meter dash, indoor and outdoor 200-meter dash, and 100-meter dash. The star power of rookies like Thomas and Musa has been a pivotal aspect of this year’s success, particularly after the loss of All-Ivy sprinters Danielle Barbian ’15 and Ashley Collinsworth ’15 last year.
“It’s been unbelievable—watching freshmen like Gabby Thomas and Ngozi Musa start their careers with the kind of elite performances that I’m just now working on,” Kouba said. “I’m so excited for them and so thrilled with what they’ve brought to the program.”
Miller has also excelled this season, finishing second—just behind Franklin—in the 60-meter hurdles, 100-meter hurdles, and 400-meter hurdles at the Ivy Championships. Like Franklin, she will also be running the 400-meter hurdles at the USA Olympic trials in July and hopes to return to NCAA Outdoor Nationals—where she was a first-team All-American last year.
“On any given day, either one of us can win,” Franklin said. “I’m excited to see who’s going to push the team forward next year, and I think [Miller] is gonna do great. She’ll have me as a training partner and as a mentor forever.”
The dominance continues with the middle and long distance runners, headlined by Kouba and Smith. Kouba had a stellar outdoor season, where she at different points held the top time in the country in the 3000-meter steeplechase and 1,500-meter run, including a 9:50.21 time in the former, just under three seconds below the qualifying mark for Olympic trials.
Kouba placed first in the former event and third in the latter at Outdoor Heps, despite running the second race less than an hour after finishing the first. The Eugene, Ore. native also took home third place in the mile at Indoor Heps.
“It’s so inspiring to see how fierce [Paige] can be,” Franklin said. “To really leave everything on the track is really admirable.”
Along with Franklin, Thomas, Miller, and Kouba, Smith is the team’s final USA Olympic Trials qualifier, having secured a place in the 10K. Her time of 32:08.32, set at the Stanford Invitational in April, is the second fastest time in the country this year and one of the top-ten fastest times in NCAA history. The sophomore’s mark is particularly impressive given it was just short of the times that qualified for the 2012 Olympics. Smith was also an indoor first team All-American in the 5K, finishing eighth overall in her first taste of NCAA Nationals competition.
In the field events, the Crimson boast another outstanding lineup, including junior Nikki Okwelogu and senior Madison Hansen, the Ivy League record holder in the Heptathlon.
Okwelogu, recipient of The Crimson’s Female Performance of the Year award, won third place at the indoor NCAA nationals in the shot put by throwing an Ivy record 17.66 meters after taking home her third consecutive indoor Ivy title in the event. She followed that up in the outdoor season by cruising to victory at the Ivy Championships in the discus throw and shot put—her third consecutive victory in the latter.
“Every time she throws, she’s writing the record books,” Kouba said. “It’s just how things work now.”
With such a stacked lineup, the team cruised to Ancient Eight titles in February and May. Now, the team has its sights set beyond the Ivy League, hoping to perform well on the national stage.
“We’re looking to score top five as a team at the meet, which is unprecedented for Harvard,” Franklin said. “It would be just amazing, and I know we can do it. We’ve worked really hard and had our eyes on it for a long time.”
Such a placing is not completely out of the question according to the USTFCCCA’s national rankings, which consistently place Harvard in the top 20 teams in the country. As of May 16th, the Crimson ranks No. 17 in the nation, and at its peak in April, Harvard was ranked tenth—the first time any Ivy League team has ever been ranked in the top ten.
Kouba credits much of this year’s upsurge in success to the team’s head coaching staff, led by head coach Jason Saretsky.
“[The coaches] have kind of just committed themselves and their philosophy to being great,” Kouba said. “Being great sounds so simple and so cliché, but it means so much more; it’s about the lifestyle and confidence and the desire to do your best that you possibly can and not take compromises.”
This summer, Kouba and Franklin, who plan to run professionally, will be graduating along with all the other seniors on the team. But under the guidance of Saretsky, and with such freshmen standouts as Thomas and Musa, the team looks set to continue its dominance for years to come.
“The women’s track and field team now is going places,” Kouba said. “We’re doing things that have never before been seen in the program’s track and field history, and we’re working harder and smarter than the team ever has.”
—Staff writers Julio Fierro and Phillip Yu can be reached at julio.fierro@thecrimson.com and phillipyu@college.harvard.edu
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the second-straight year, the Harvard women’s volleyball team found itself one game away from reaching the NCAA Tournament for the first time in team history in late November.
Last season, the Crimson saw its dream go unrealized. In an Ivy League title tiebreaking game, Harvard dropped three straight sets to archrival Yale in front of a full capacity crowd at the Malkin Athletic Center in what would be its last contest of the season.
This season, the Crimson stood in the same spot—the Ancient Eight conference tiebreaker in the Malkin Athletic Center, this time against Princeton. After Harvard opened the contest by conceding its first set, the tiebreaker was starting to look more and more like last year’s heartbreaking defeat to the Bulldogs.
But this time, Harvard wouldn’t let the opportunity slip through its fingers.
Powered by double-digit kills from junior setter Corie Bain and senior outside hitter Kathleen Wallace, the Crimson went on to win the next three matches to finally get over the hump and earn Harvard’s first NCAA Tournament bid.
“Making history, that feeling of excitement doesn’t go away with time,” Bain said. “The fact that we made history for Harvard volleyball is the most special part about the whole experience because we’ve worked so hard to make this program what it is today, and the program has given us a lot.”
While NCAA title aspirations were never in the picture for the Crimson, the team made its presence known during its short stint on the national stage. In a first-round matchup against eventual national champion Nebraska, Harvard won the first set of the match, one of only three that the Cornhuskers would drop over the entirety of the tournament.
But Harvard’s story was not as simple as a team making one final step towards reaching the pinnacle. The Crimson had lost former co-captain Kristen Casey ’15 and Caroline Walters ’15—who had notched 226 kills in her last year with the squad—to graduation.
Graduation was not the only thing to steal players away from the team. Senior middle blocker Jennifer Shults, who finished her junior year sixth in kills and fourth in total blocks, was not able to return to the team this season after suffering an injury at the end of last year.
The conference season did not start well, either, as Harvard lost its first Ivy League match to Dartmouth at home in a league in which no team since 2004 had won a share of the title with more than two losses.
“It was definitely a wake-up call,” sophomore outside hitter Paige Kebe said. “Teams had it out for us because we were one of the Ivy League champions last year. It definitely forced us to get our heads on straight.”
Adding injury to insult was the team’s decision to shut down junior Grace Weghorst for the season due to back ailments, which left the Crimson without two of its three leaders in kills from the year prior. The loss of Weghorst meant that the team would have to rely more heavily on its senior leaders and freshmen newcomers.
“We were sort of expecting her not to play,” Kebe said. “It was very unfortunate, even if it was expected.”
Entering the season, the senior core-four—co-captains middle blocker Caroline Holte and setter Hannah Schmidt, alongside libero Sindhu Vegesena and outside hitter Kathleen Wallace—had played a combined 250 matches. In the last years of their careers, their performances reached a pinnacle.
Holte became the program leader in career blocks assisted, helping to solidify the middle of the defense for a team the led the Ancient Eight in total blocks. Vegesena was second in the Ivy League in digs per game, while Schmidt tallied a career high in total assists. By season’s end, Wallace ranked fifth in the conference in kills per set, which helped fill the void left by Weghorst’s absence and earn her first team All-Ivy honors.
“For me, they are Harvard volleyball,” Bain said. “They were there when I came in and they were closest to me in friendship, as teammates, and age. Not having them anymore is very noticeable. It’s definitely bittersweet.”
Between the seniors and Bain, the Crimson had the parts in place to be title contenders. But contributions from new sources—ones that hadn’t been a large part of the previous season—helped push the Crimson over the top.
Freshman middle blocker Christina Cornelius caught the attention of the Ancient Eight, leading the conference in blocks per game on her way to notching Ivy League Rookie of the Year and First-Team honors.
“Christina was a recruit all of us were very excited about getting,” Bain said. “She came from my club, so …. I had heard things from my old coaches about her competitive drive, which is my favorite part of her as a teammate….I trust her, regardless of age. She’s my wingman in terms of stepping up at the end of the game.”
Kebe doubled her kill total from last season—ranking third on the team—while rookie Jocelyn Meyer finished sixth having only played 18 games on the season.
“Just having a year of college experience under your belt will help anybody,” Kebe said. “It really just gave me a boost of confidence and my teammates were so supportive of my growth as a player.”
Meyer’s impact was felt most in her game-high 11 kill performance against Yale in the team’s fifth game of the season. A loss would have dropped the squad to 3-2 on the season, but Harvard rolled through the Bulldogs at home in straight sets.
The team did not get through the season without its low points—a 3-1 loss at Columbia and a 3-0 defeat at Princeton. But, with increased parity throughout the league, the Crimson still had a shot at a share of the title entering its last game of the season with four losses. Wallace’s 13 kills drove the Crimson past Brown in the season finale, keeping pace with the Tigers at the top of the conference standings.
Harvard indeed ended with two more losses this year than last. But it also ended up one with one more NCAA Tournament bid.
—Staff writer Kurt T Bullard can be reached at kurt.bullard@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Following an event win at the outdoor Ivy League championships, most track and field athletes might celebrate by kicking back and relaxing. Then again, most of these athletes are not Paige Kouba, co-captain of the Harvard women’s track and field team.
Kouba took home the 3,000-meter steeplechase gold medal at the outdoor Ivy League championships with a time of 10:05.30. But rather than winding down following the win, Kouba buckled up and prepared for her next race—the 1,500-meter final, less than an hour later.
Kouba came home with a bronze medal.
The double podium-finish is representative of this year’s new and improved version of Kouba, who led her team to dominant wins in both the indoor and outdoor Ivy League championships.
Along the way, Kouba set personal bests in multiple events—most notably the 3,000-meter steeplechase and 1,500-meter run, both distances for which she held the top collegiate time in the nation at different points.
“I’m thrilled with [my performance] this season,” Kouba said. “I’ve wanted to be great at running in a serious way for a year and a half now. That process has been long and arduous, but it’s absolutely paid off a thousand fold.”
Paid off, it has. Kouba’s most impressive performance of the season may not even have been her duo of medals at the outdoor Ivy Championships.
Instead, that honor of best performance might belong to a 9:50.21 Kouba ran in the steeplechase back in April at the Stanford Invite. That mark set a new personal best by more than 25 seconds and rewrote the Harvard record books; it was also the nation-leading time in the event back then (now the performance ranks seventh).
Or maybe the honor of best performance belongs to a 4:16.46 in the 1,500-meter run just a week earlier in March—again a Harvard record and the nation’s top time at that point.
So what’s been the secret to Kouba’s success this year? She credits a mixture of experience and renewed fire this season, her last in a Harvard jersey.
“I’m way fitter than I’ve ever been before,” Kouba said. “That’s not only from time and collective improvement over the years but also from buckling down this year and resolving to treat my body right. Improvement is still coming.”
Besides her stellar on-track performance, Kouba’s off-the-track contributions as a co-captain and veteran leader have been important in their own right.
“It’s been a pretty remarkable run [this year], and it certainly starts with leadership,” coach Jason Saretsky said. “[Paige] has done an outstanding job being a leader by example but also speaking up when needed.”
Along with senior Autumne Franklin, Kouba has spearheaded the most successful Harvard women’s track and field team in history—a program that, at one point, was ranked tenth in the nation, the highest ever for an Ivy League team.
“It’s been so awesome to be along Paige,” Franklin said. “We have such similar perspectives, outlooks, work ethics, dedication, commitment. It all made it really easy for us to agree on things and lead our groups to similar paths.”
Both Franklin and Kouba will both be heading to the 2016 Olympic Trials this July, along with junior Jade Miller, sophomore Courtney Smith, and freshman Gabby Thomas. There, Kouba will be running her favorite event, the 3,000-meter steeplechase.
For Kouba, the Trials—held each year in her hometown of Eugene, Oregon—has a special significance.
“You couldn’t ask for a better cheering section than the one I already know I’m going to have,” Kouba said. “I’m coming full-circle. I’m coming home, but as a better version of myself.”
What better way to cap off a breakthrough season than by returning to the place where it all started?
“My life is a movie right now,” Kouba said. “Everything’s almost too perfect—I can all but hear the soundtrack underneath.”
–Staff writer Phillip Yu can be reached at phillipyu@college.harvard.edu.
Two years ago, current freshman Andy Zhou was not on coach Dave Fish’s recruiting radar for the Harvard men’s tennis team. But Zhou’s rapid development as a player in his junior and senior year of high school attracted attention. By the time he arrived on campus, Zhou shouldered high expectations, along with the usual bags and athletic gear.
His freshman season did not disappoint.
In the final match of the year against No. 38 Dartmouth, Zhou claimed the lone victory for Harvard, ending a rocky season on a high note with a five-match win streak and a team-high 17-11 record under his belt.
“Andy came in as a player we knew and hoped would be a real contributor to the team,” Fish said. “He didn’t let us down.”
With high hopes riding on the team entering the season, the Crimson endured a bumpy campaign where every match counted, and Zhou’s consistency on the court was an important asset. As the team struggled as a whole to clinch doubles points, Zhou consistently managed to pull through in contested matches.
Zhou performed particularly well in dual-match situations. In January, Zhou clinched the deciding point in a 4-3 victory over William & Mary before crushing his Boston College opponent the same day. Zhou had a repeat performance in March, claiming the deciding point against Old Dominion before sweeping Amherst.
But the season wasn’t always smooth sailing for the freshman, and it took a particularly trying contest for Zhou to adjust to the dual-match structure of college matches. After going down in a particularly tough battle against his Memphis opponent in February, Zhou found himself needing a moment to reset and evaluate his mentality.
“I went out there and just was not in control of myself,” Zhou said. “My opponent was a decent player, but I really felt like I discounted my performance that day…. I just felt like I had no spirit. I gave up on myself that day.”
Zhou didn’t give up for good, however.
Two days later, with a new mindset, Zhou went on to overcome a more experienced Vanderbilt opponent in a tight match. That result provided a confidence boost, setting up the rookie for his late-season success.
“It really felt like I was resurrecting myself a little bit,” the freshman said. “Even though I didn’t win all my matches from that day on, I definitely felt like there was a turnaround from the way I was approaching my matches. I was finally getting used to the dual-match culture of tennis, and that was a really a key moment for me.”
That mental toughness stems from Zhou’s upbringing in tennis-crazy California. He played for the rival high school of co-captain Nicky Hu, and this experience surely primed him for the rigors of higher-level competition.
From a coach’s perspective, Fish attributed much of Zhou’s success on the courts to Zhou’s exceptional drive and mental determination.
“He’s brought a huge amount of energy and ferocity,” Fish said. “A lot of the time freshmen are a little bit awkward about how hard to go, but that’s never been a question for Andy. He dives into every match, every practice match, with the mentality ‘I just want to win.’”
For Zhou, building the competitiveness that gives him an edge in his matches has taken time and training. He pointed to the fact that, as a kid, he lost a lot of area matches—and that such short-term failure paved the way for long-term success.
But it is also Zhou’s ability to improve his game and translate his skills in practice onto the courts that gives him an edge, from his development in high school to his improvement throughout freshman year.
“Andy has a really high ceiling,” Fish said. “We’ve been pushing him to develop his forehand as a weapon, to dominate a little more. He’s a very hard worker, and he’s made really significant improvements. At the end of a year, he was really on a tear.”
Finishing with the win over the Big Green, that tear technically continues into the offseason, as Zhou enters summer training on a five match win streak. Whether he can pick up where he left off, extending the streak to six, is a question that will have to wait until next season.
But after watching Zhou’s strong first season, Fish has high hopes for the freshman over the next three years.
“We think that he’s going to continue to be a real contributor in singles and doubles in the future,” Fish said. “There’s no limit on what we see for him.”
–Staff writer Jamie Chen can be reached at jamiechen@college.harvard.edu.
Co-captain Kit Metoyer drove hard into the lane, putting her shot a little too hard off the glass. Senior forward Shilpa Tummala, however, was there to clean up, catching and laying the ball back in one, smooth motion. It wasn’t pretty, but just like that, the Harvard women’s basketball team had completed one of the greatest comebacks in collegiate women’s basketball history.
That basket, part of a 72-69 win on the road against rival Yale, capped off a program-record 23-point comeback that also marked the fourth-largest comeback in NCAA Division I history.
“I’ve never experienced so much emotion, so much passion, so much grit, so much toughness in a single game,” Tummala said. “That game is a testament to who we are as a team and our ability.”
After Yale guard Whitney Wyckoff sank the second of two free throws to put the Bulldogs up 40-17 with just over two minutes left in the first half, the situation seemed bleak. Metoyer and Tummala looked at each other with dazed expressions; Harvard was down 23 and its two sharpshooters were shell-shocked.
“[Coach] Kathy [Delaney-Smith] had pulled me and Kit out and yelled at us, saying, ‘Where are you guys? You look like you’re playing like a deer in the headlights,’” Tummala said. “Me and Kit were standing there, thinking, ‘We’re down 23. This is awful,’ so we sit down and don’t say anything for those thirty seconds.”
Delaney-Smith drew up a play called San Jose, which is meant to isolate a three-pointer shooter along the arc. The ball was first inbounded to Metoyer, who rotated the ball over to Tummala, who was covered and swung the ball over to freshman guard Sydney Skinner. With her defender overcommitted on Tummala and the help-defense too far away, Skinner set herself, rose, and sank the three that stopped her team’s proverbial bleeding.
That three-pointer would ignite the Crimson on a 14-0 run to end the half. That shot was followed up closely by a three-point play from co-captain AnnMarie Healy and another Skinner triple to cut the deficit to 14. A Metoyer three and pair of Skinner free throws later, the whistle sounded with Harvard down just nine heading into the halftime locker room.
“It was unreal,” Tummala said. “This kid had come out of nowhere, had hit threes back to back. No one could stop her, and we locked down of defense and hit shots on the other hand. Going into halftime it was a manageable deficit, and the momentum was all in our favor.”
The game, however, could not have started any more poorly for the visitors. The Bulldogs began red hot from the field, shooting 57.1 percent in the first quarter and making 8-of-11 first-half three-pointers. The Crimson, meanwhile, were sloppy, committing four turnovers in the first quarter to the Yale’s one.
“No one showed up in the first half,” Delaney-Smith said. “The players out on the floor were unrecognizable to me, in their demeanor, in their connection with each other, in the system…. The combination of us having a bad night and them playing a phenomenal game of basketball was bad.”
After Skinner’s shooting brought Harvard back into the game, there could only be one outcome for coach Delaney-Smith’s squad. A pair of Yale layups stretched the Bulldogs’ lead to 13 to start the second half, but Crimson runs of 11-3 and 14-6 quickly erased that advantage.
Ice cold free throw shooting from Tummala and freshman guard Madeline Raster pushed Harvard’s lead to five after the go-ahead Tummala putback, but a triple from Yale’s Nyasha Sarju and a missed Metoyer free throw gave the Bulldogs the ball, down three, with five seconds left.
Poor communication and hesitation prevented the hosts from even attempting a shot, however, and the Crimson were left to celebrate one of the most exciting nights in program history.
—Staff writer Manav Khandelwal can be reached at manavkhandelwal@college.harvard.edu.
Sections
On Nov. 18, around 400 Harvard Law students piled into a ballroom for the student government’s annual charity Thanksgiving dinner, taking spots on the floor when seats ran out. Some had spent the day marching with students from Tufts and other local universities in a national day of activism organized by the Black Lives Matter movement, returning to the Law School to join peers for turkey and mashed potatoes.
Marcia L. Sells knew when she assumed the position of Law School Dean of Students in September that students had concerns about diversity and inclusion. But that Thanksgiving dinner seemed to her to be a hopeful sign of synergy among the student body. 
“It was amazing, vibrant, diverse—JDs, LLMs, international students, black, white, Asian, Latino, everything in between—it was fabulous,” she said, reflecting on the day months later. “I thought, ‘Wow, we can work with this.’”
“And then,” Sells said, “November 19th happened.”
Law School students and faculty walked into Wasserstein Hall, a main campus thoroughfare, on the morning of Nov. 19 to discover pieces of black tape across the faces of portraits of black faculty members. That morning, Sells found herself at the center of a circle of impassioned Law students demanding answers. The contrast between that scene and the Thanksgiving dinner the night before was stark, Sells said.  
“After something that was so great, and you have a high of that, and then to be hit by [the black tape]—it was just staggering,” she said. “And that began sadly to shape the whole rest of my year.”
The incident set off a wave of activism at the Law School that would spark months of escalating confrontation about issues of race and diversity.
The harmony Sells had observed gave way to tension, which reached a crescendo by mid-spring. Sells was tasked with balancing conflicting concerns of students, deciding with Law School Dean Martha L. Minow when to intervene as school administrators faced criticism from all sides.
 The year challenged administrators, brought racial tensions to the fore, and subjected the Law School to national media scrutiny. Most of all, though, the year was marked by a rising tempo of divided voices—students from opposing sides, debating freedom of speech at the Law School.
“Those voices have been brought to the forefront by perhaps a polarizing—but I would call enlightening—year,” activist and third-year Law student Bianca S. Tylek said.

Race-related activism pervaded the Law School before Nov. 19; the group Royall Must Fall began in October what would become a months-long call for the school to discard its controversial seal—the coat of crests for the formerly slaveholding Royall family.
But the black tape incident was what shook campus, galvanizing activists and gradually fragmenting the student body.
By the first week of December, activists had coalesced into the group Reclaim Harvard Law and made forceful demands of administrators: change the seal, hire more minority faculty, and establish a critical race  theory program, among others. 
Opposition also materialized quickly. By Nov. 24, an unidentified group who said they were students had launched a blog called “Royall Asses,” labeling the black tape incident a hoax and targeting prominent activists. And William H. Barlow—who would become  one of the activists’ most vocal opponents—publicly criticized their demands at a series of community meetings in the weeks following the incident.
Leland S. Shelton, a member of Reclaim Harvard Law and the outgoing president of the Black Law Students Association, was not surprised that activists encountered opposition over the course of the year.
“It’s a movement that’s trying to dismantle privilege at the Law School and change the curriculum,” he said. “There are a lot of people who have bought into the Law School and its pedagogy and they’re not going to want to let that go easily.”
Until the end of March, though, Barlow was one of just a handful of students who publicly spoke out against activism. Only the activists and administrators showed visible signs of  discord, while most Law students quietly observed.
In February, members of Reclaim Harvard Law began occupying the school’s student lounge, which they called Belinda Hall after a former slave of the Royall family. Minow and Sells, meanwhile, announced a series of initiatives that month aimed at improving diversity and inclusion at the school, which included hiring a Director for Community Engagement and Equity, conducting a campus-wide climate survey, and launching a mentoring program. 
And in early March, a committee Minow had appointed to reconsider the school’s seal recommended that the Harvard Corporation remove it. The Corporation quickly approved the recommendation, but activists continued to criticize administrators and push the school to address the rest of their demands.
The larger Law School student body was divided about the activism. A February poll, conducted by the Harvard Law Record, indicated that a majority of respondent supported changing the seal and making the school more financially accessible to disadvantaged students, while students were less unified on activists’ proposals to reform the school’s curriculum, create an Office for Diversity and Inclusion, and establish a critical race theory program. 
A plurality of students in those cases, however, supported the proposals. Students across the school consistently characterize the school as a liberal environment—a political leaning that works in activists’ favor—and say that divisions between students, at least at first, were overblown.
“The silent majority supported [activists]. That was my feeling. The likes of Bill Barlow are generally very rare in our law school,” masters of law student Marlen Thaten said. “It went on like that for a long time—three or four months— and they slept in Belinda Hall and occupied the place, and I think most of us were okay with it and thought that the place was nicer for it.”

Soon, that sentiment changed. During the last week of March, Barlow mounted posters in the lounge accusing Reclaim Harvard Law of censorship, and activists swiftly removed them, resulting in fierce debate over the right to speech and space at the school. 
The poster controversy proved to be a turning point in relations between activists and the rest of the Law School, as some students and administrators said they felt activists had crossed an ethical line.
Activists argued Barlow’s posters were offensive. Because they were occupying the lounge and said they had transformed it into a “safe space” for students, they claimed they had discretion over signs in the room and said they must approve all signage. Barlow accused the movement of censorship, complaining to administrators that activists were violating his right to free speech.
Until then, administrators had passively observed the occupation—which Minow called a “considered approach” in a statement—allowing activists to remain in the lounge and hold events in the space—many of which Sells attended.
“We did allow that to go on and engage, partly because it was also animating and creating conversations… it created great teaching moments,” Sells said. “But once it crossed the line where they were stopping other students from accessing the space, and even speech—that is a moment where it had to be that we are a law school, we allow for the exchange of ideas, even when it’s challenging and hard.”
Administrators intervened, declaring the lounge a de facto free speech zone open to all students, and threatening to take disciplinary action against anyone who took down posters in the space.
“I think [administrators] were stuck in a hard place between respecting free speech and angering students of Reclaim,” Shelton said. “It was a lose-lose situation for them.”
The controversy brought tensions to new heights, and students turned to the pages of The Harvard Law Record in a flurry of written commentary. The publication has also featured op-eds from faculty members, who were likewise divided on the issue.
Thaten—who said she supports Reclaim Harvard Law’s reform agenda—penned an op-ed in The Record arguing that activists’ actions had reached an unacceptable extreme. “What really tipped me over the edge was when they made a declaration that you can only hang up something in the lounge if their speech committee has approved it with a majority,” Thaten said. “That’s just deeply wrong and disturbing.” 
She was met with fierce backlash from some activists, who accused her of “defending the already powerful.” Thaten said that response, however, was dwarfed by an outpouring of support from like-minded students, who thanked her and said they had been afraid to speak up.
“By attacking me and basically everyone who was supporting my view on free speech they had turned against what I would call the silent majority—the people who supported them before,” she said.
Sells said she heard from students who felt alienated by Reclaim Harvard Law’s tactics and what they perceived as its exclusionary rhetoric.
“The challenges are for students who I think politically agree with many of the ideas that students from Reclaim brought up but felt that the tactics weren’t the right approach,” Sells said. “Some students in Reclaim… were dismissive of those students who had a different viewpoint.”
The free speech debate took a turn when activists discovered a recording device in the lounge that had been surveilling their private conversations for days. The incident triggered a police investigation and further entrenched divisions between students, as activists considered the device an attempt by their opponents to intimidate them. An investigation into the device’s origin remains ongoing.

Sells considers it her job as Dean of Students to reconcile conflicting groups and what she calls each student’s “vision and shape” of the Law School.
“I hope we can keep saying to students, it is indeed your law school,” Sells said. “At the same time, it is your law school along with other students, who also are here, and it is their law school too. You have to accept that there are differences.”
Balancing students’ concerns and responding to incidents like the discovery of the recording device has proven difficult, and administrators have faced criticism from students across the ideological spectrum.
“They’re kind of put in a really tough spot,” said third-year Law student Kurt C. Krieger, who opposes Reclaim Harvard Law. “If they do anything that’s really going to make things worse, so their best bet is to try to weather the storm.”
Barlow characterized administrators’ response as reactive rather than proactive—an approach students he said mostly consists of emailed statements attempting to ease tensions.
“I think a lot of people think that the administrators don’t really have a handle on this,” Barlow said. “That’s kind of their role at this point—just to send out emails to the student body telling us to be nice to each other.”
Activists, meanwhile, complain of communicative delays and discrepancies in the degree of reaction to different students’ concerns, maintaining that the extent and pace of change at the school is insufficient.
Minow wrote in an emailed statement that administrators have proactively met with students and worked to recruit diverse faculty and staff. According to Sells, the school is also in the midst of the interview process for hiring a Director for Community Engagement and Equity.
Sells said she thinks activists’ sense of urgency stems partly from the transient nature of universities. “Students change and I think that is just the reality of academic institutions,” she said, noting that some changes, such as hiring processes, take significant time. “They see their three-year period as kind of finite and don’t recognize always the continuum.”
Sells said she enlisted the help of alumni to talk to activists over the course of the year to testify to the school’s progress over time and highlight the timeframe change requires.
Activists have taken steps of their own to overcome the perennial problem of institutional memory. They have documented their actions this year through online posts, videos, and photos in an effort to preserve the movement and ensure that administrators’ response to their calls for change does not end with the removal of the school’s seal.
“There’s not one reformer at Harvard Law who believed that changing the shield would solve racism at Harvard,” Tylek said. “It is critical that people don’t forget that, and that the institution doesn’t rely on this one gesture as a response to all the reform activism happening since 1965.”
The Law School is much calmer now. Third-year Law students are preparing for Commencement and activists have paused their protest efforts for the summer. But Reclaim members, dissenters, and administrators agree next year will likely see continued activism and opposition. While many prominent activists, as well as Barlow and Krieger, are graduating, they said that younger students are preparing to take their places.
“Criticism and debate are part of what it means to be a law school.  This is neither the first nor last time we will see protests or counter-protests,” Minow wrote in the emailed statement. “On balance, even with disagreements over goals and tactics, and moments of less than ideal exchanges, this year generated some important and valuable conversations that will help us as we all work together to find ways to continue strengthening our community.”
   The next wave of students will ride on the momentum of a year that Tylek said has “re-energized” the school, as students with a wide array of perspectives have found their voices.
“I think it can hardly be said that there’s any level of silence at the institution,” Tylek said. “In fact, it’s louder than it’s ever been.”
—Staff writer Claire E. Parker can be reached at claire.parker@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @ClaireParkerDC.
All eyes were on freshman Sabrina Sobhy as she stepped onto the court to face off against Penn’s Reeham Sedky at the Collegiate Squash Association National Team Championships. All were watching to see if she would live up to the expectation of the Sobhy name.
In this match, as in all of the matches that she played in this season, Sobhy rose to the occasion and won, and, in doing so, won the team championship for the Crimson.
For Sobhy, joining the Harvard women’s squash team had double the pressure to perform well—not only was she joining a strong team that had been dominant the last few years, but she was also looked upon to continue the legacy established by her older sister, Amanda Sobhy ’15. The elder Sobhy dominated collegiate play and won the CSA Individual Championships all four years as a member of the Crimson, and is currently the ranked eighth in the world by the Professional Squash Association.
“I definitely felt a little pressure but I went into the season knowing that my sister graduated already and I’m on the team now, so whatever happens, it’s basically just me playing,” Sobhy said.
Determined to leave a legacy of her own, Sobhy has responded to the pressure well.
By the time the Sea Cliff, N.Y. native arrived at Harvard, she had already amassed prestigious titles, including victories at the the U.S. Junior National championship and the Women’s Nationals in 2014—becoming the youngest to ever win the Women’s Nationals title.
She showed no signs of slowing down in college, making her collegiate debut at the No. 1 spot in Harvard’s match against Penn. Facing off against fellow first-year Reeham Sedky, Sobhy rebounded from a loss in the first game to get the best of Sedky, 3-1.
Sobhy went on to dominate in regular season play, going 7-0, with most coming in 3-0 sweeps, in the top spot to help her team to its 20th Ivy League championship.
“There was a bit of trial and error, there was some nervous energy, but the one thing she could always fall back on is she is the most remarkable athlete,” Harvard coach Mike Way said. “She can hold herself up, and be compared to any athlete. There is no one in the women’s game in our sport that moves like she does.”
The peak of Sobhy’s freshman season, though, was in the postseason. In the final match of the CSA team championships, she played once again against Sedky for the tiebreaker that would result in the championship title. Each of the games was extremely close, with the two players trading points in each of the four games.
By the fourth game, emotions were running high and tensions were mounting. Sobhy was up 2-1, but Sedky was not going down without a fight. The Penn freshman traded the lead with her Harvard counterpart right up to the end of the match, when back-to-back “no let” calls gave Sobhy the game, match, and tournament win for Harvard.
“I think this season was a really good one for the team, because we won the Ivies and the Nationals,” Sobhy said. “[Winning Nationals] was another huge moment.”
Although she was unable to finish off the season with a CSA Individual title, Sobhy finished on a high, receiving honors for her hard work on the courts. She was named to the CSA All-American 1st team and was the Ivy League Player and Rookie of the Year.
“I think what we saw was her evolving and beginning to understand what does it take to keep in charge of herself,” Way said. “I think she did learn a lot from herself. She’s thoroughly enjoying Harvard in her first year. She’s a very happy athlete and I think she’ll come more into her own next season for sure; as good as this one was, next year is going to be better.”
—Staff writer Katherine H. Scott can be reached at katherine.scott@thecrimson.com.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Steven S.K. Hao ’18:
Waking up after yet another five-hour night of sleep (sleeplessness is an overarching theme at Cannes, as one might have discerned by now), I arrive at the line for Russell Crowe and Ryan Gosling’s new film, “The Nice Guys,” over an hour in advance. Unfortunately, the Cannes overlords have deemed it appropriate to screen the buddy cop comedy in Salle Bazin, one of the two smallest screening theaters at the Palais des Festivals. It is the size of an independent neighborhood theater and as a result, the deluge of higher-ranked press badges fills the room almost to capacity. By the grace of the film gods, however, I am admitted in the last minute, sneaking into one of the last available seats.
Read more in Steven’s review of “The Nice Guys”: “If you’re expecting a daring and paradigm-shifting maverick of a film, this is not the movie for you. At the same time, the world needs films that simply make audiences laugh, and ‘The Nice Guys’—superbly executed and blissful to the point that it refuses to take even itself seriously—is just that.”
After the screening (which was simply a hoot), I rush to the press conference line for the most important day in my hunt for industry autographs. It is a good day, to say the least—I leave with selfies and/or signatures from Shia LaBeouf, Marion Cotillard, Matt Bomer and Ryan Gosling. Russell Crowe was a little cold to the line and refused to sign for more than one or two people, but I would only expect that much from Maximus Decimus Meridius.
Tianxing V. Lan ’18:
While Steven heads to “The Nice Guys,” I watch the competition movie of the morning, “From the Land of the Moon.” It ends up being a fairly mediocre romantic drama with pretty cinematography, famous actors, and little more. The good news, however, is that since two of my favorite stars, Marion Cotillard and Louis Garrel, are in this film, I am able to get autographs from both at the press conference afterwards.
Vincent’s review of “From the Land of the Moon” is coming soon.
Following a “get the autograph and run” policy, I am able to make it to the re-screening of “Mademoiselle,” the competition film from the day before. While “From the Land of the Moon” is merely mediocre, “Mademoiselle” simply annoys me for how ingenuine it is, devolving into a voyeuristic spectacle void of sympathy for its characters and objectifying women in the name of feminism.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “Mademoiselle”: “‘Mademoiselle (The Handmaiden)’ impresses with its eye-catching cinematography, daring sex scenes, and plentiful plot twists. However, it fails in its most fundamental aspect: It possesses no genuine emotion or believable story. Beneath its beautiful veneer, the film is hollow.”
In the evening, Steven and I cannot get into the screening of Jim Jarmusch’s much-anticipated “Paterson,” so we call it a day. Given the film’s glowing reviews, we are looking forward to seeing it tomorrow.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
None of the five Harvard alumni who ran on an outside ticket—dubbed “Free Harvard, Fair Harvard”—for Harvard’s Board of Overseers were elected to the body, the University announced Monday.
Instead, the five elected Overseers are P. Lindsay Chase-Lansdale ’73, Helena Buonanno Foulkes ’86, Ketanji Brown Jackson ’92, Alejandro Ramírez Magaña ’94, and J. Kent Walker ’83. Harvard alumni elect members of the Board of Overseers, the University’s second highest governing body, for six-year terms to help deliberate on University decisions and affairs. Usually, Harvard announces the results of Overseer elections on Commencement day—this year, the results came a few days early.
Earlier this year, five alumni, led by Ron K. Unz ’83, launched a long-shot bid for the governing body on a two-pronged platform: abolish undergraduate tuition at the College and make public more data about Harvard’s admissions processes. After successfully petitioning for a spot on the Overseers ballot, the Free Harvard, Fair Harvard ticket, which also included five-time presidential candidate Ralph Nader, quickly became the subject of controversy. 
University President Drew G. Faust denounced the ticket’s tenets, and one alumni group began a counter-campaign against the five outside candidates, arguing that their admissions proposals were mean to threaten race-based affirmative action. The Crimson also reported that Unz had donated thousands of dollars to a white nationalist organization and a number of extremist thinkers.
“It’s quite disappointing that we didn’t get on the Board of Overseers with our effort, but the truth is no petition candidate has sat on the Board of Overseers in about 25 years,” Unz said. “So I guess we should have considered [losing] being something that was likely to happen, though we obviously hoped otherwise.”
Alumni cast 35,870 ballots in the election, a marked uptick from previous years; in 2015, 26,400 ballots were submitted.
“We’re of course thrilled that the petition slate was defeated, and I think the voting turnout... just showed that the alumni were motivated to vote and to support diversity,” said Jeannie Park ’83, a founder of the alumni group formed to oppose the “Free Harvard, Fair Harvard” campaign.
The newly-elected Overseers—selected from a field of eight Harvard Alumni Association-nominated candidates, along with the five outsider candidates—represent a variety of professions.
Three come from corporate backgrounds: Foulkes is the president of CVS/pharmacy, Magaña the CEO of Cinépolis, and Walker a senior vice president and general counsel at Google. Chase-Lansdale is a provost at Northwestern University, while Jackson is a U.S. District Court judge for the District of Columbia.
—Staff writer Andrew M. Duehren can be reached at andy.duehren@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @aduehren.
—Staff writer Daphne C. Thompson can be reached at daphne.thompson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @daphnectho.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Steven S.K. Hao ’18:
On day four of the Cannes Film Festival, Vincent and I switch things up. In the morning, we attend a screening of Cambodian film “Diamond Island” in one of the festival’s sidebar series: Semaine de la Critique (Critics’ Week). While Vincent is off interviewing Alain Guiraudie, director of “Rester Vertical,” I proceed to the Lumière to catch a screening of Steven Spielberg’s newest film: an adaption of Roald Dahl’s “The BFG.” Since Roald Dahl was my favorite childhood author, I had high hopes, and you could even say that it was the film I was looking forward to the most at Cannes. As it does for many things in life, however, my reckless lack of expectations management did me in—the film failed to reach the lofty standards I had unfairly set for it. Charming but not quite on par with the classic that was Dahl’s novel, “The BFG” is yet another entry in a recent line of serviceable but middling Spielberg films (looking at you, “Bridge of Spies.”)
Read more in Steven’s review of “The BFG”: “‘The BFG’ is a charming and captivating spectacle with strong performances to boot, but unfortunately it is unable to strike a balance between unadulterated fantasy and computer-generated wonder.”
I sneak out of the theater just before the credits begin and run to the press conference floor on a bit of a personal quest. I had promised myself that I would not leave Cannes without Spielberg’s autograph. After failing to secure anything from the cast of “Money Monster,” I’ve honed my craft. For anyone who is lucky enough to attend Cannes as a member of the press someday, there are two golden rules to getting your favorite celebrity’s John Hancock (provided you are not high enough on the press ladder to actually get into high-demand press conferences). First, arrive early and find a spot close to the corridor where the cast and crew pass by before entering the press room—the closer to the dividers, the better.
The second rule is to not be the first person that the VIPs walk by, but also not the last. Sometimes festival officials will decide it prudent to inform your idols that they are running late, causing them to stop signing autographs. Try not to be the last one waiting for an inscription for that reason. The first person “in line” for an autograph also has a tough gig, though, because they set the tone for the rest of the line. Actors and directors are not obliged to sign anything, so you’d better have an amiable, non-crazy face if Brad Pitt is going to feel safe approaching you. For me, that’s simply too much responsibility to bear. Once you’ve found your spot, be prepared to stand your ground. Caught between you and their favorite stars, even professional media folk will get a little feisty. Following my rules, I am able to bring home a Steven Spielberg autograph. Next up—Ryan Gosling and Russell Crowe.
I wrap up the evening waiting in line for the competition film, “American Honey.” Unfortunately, while Vincent is able to get a seat, I am not fortunate enough to gain entrance. I am resigned to catching another screening tomorrow.
Read more in Vincent’s review of “American Honey”: “Instead of telling a story, ‘American Honey’ tells of life itself.”
Read Vincent's review of "Endless Poetry": "If every Harvard student were required to watch Alejandro Jodorowsky's “Endless Poetry,” one imagines that the number of students pursuing art might triple."
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Some of us are athletes… and some of us just kinda aren’t. And I guess that’s okay too.”
In the wrong setting, these words might have been viewed as arrogant, even contemptuous. Said with an Australian accent and a disarming smile at Mather Senior Dinner, they caused the room to erupt in laughter.
Thinking back on the joke later, the words carried special significance for me. At a school that prides itself on being accepting, the athlete/non-athlete binary looms large. Sometimes it is explicit—this publication, after all, has a persistent habit of questioning the purpose of varsity athletics. Other times it is implicit: it’s no secret that being in a single-sex organization across the River helps you get into the single-sex organizations on Mount Auburn.
The culture of the school reflects this disconnect. With more varsity sports than any other school in the country, nearly a fifth of Harvard students are varsity athletes; throw in club sports and that number rises to about a quarter. Yet, for such an athlete-heavy student population, athletics is a small part of Harvard’s culture. Sure, school pride takes off during The Game but attendance at non-Yale football games is pitiful. When BC and UMass come to Lavietes, I’ve watched Harvard play road games in its own arena.
The nasty byproduct of this is a perception of athletics as “the other.” The sentiment could not be more misplaced: whether we play sports or not, sports have a profound effect on the way we live our lives.
Let’s start with the way we speak, which has been shaped over time by athletic anachronisms. In all walks of life, we talk about success and failure in the language given to us by sports: to come up with nothing is to “strike out,” to have a massive success “a home run.” Dealing with a setback in stride is “to take it on the chin,” to do well on an assignment is to “ace” it. A tough interviewer might be seen as playing “hardball”—if they relent, they likely tossed you a “softball” question.
It’s not just the language that permeates our daily lives. Anyone paying attention to the 2016 presidential primaries might have noticed the preponderance of sports terms in political coverage—it takes little for a “bounce back” primary win to become “momentum,” a statistically farcical idea in sports that has been ubiquitously adopted by the political media cognoscenti. It’s easy to see the influence of sports in these narratives, which use primaries as consistent updates to the “score.” Those who bemoan the media’s focus on polls instead of issues have sports to thank.
Sometimes, the influences are even more subtle. To me, being a sports fan is fundamentally about arguing as much as it is about watching games; derived from this is an obsession with rankings. Is LeBron better than Tim Duncan? Can Phil Rivers be a top-40 all-time quarterback without winning a ring? This has extended far beyond sports—out culture has become obsessed with the ideas of “underrated” and “overrated.” In addition to ranking the obvious (films, singers, etc.), we have an obsession with ranking the esoteric; put these terms into Google and the algorithm will suggest searching for “overrated lyrics” and “underrated clothing.”
To be sure, athletics can have more explicit impacts on our lives. I have my own version of the classic Parting Shot story: told in the months leading up to freshman year I’d have a chance to walk onto a varsity sport, I was devastated when the coach told me he’d decided to take a smaller team (read: no walk-ons) that year. Like many a disaffected former athlete, I found my way to the Crimson Sports Board, a source for unforgettable memories, college-defining friendships, and irreplaceable personal growth.
Dwelling on my personal story would take away, however, from the way that I see sports. In my eyes, sports are inescapably communal. To be a sports fan is to take part in a series of communal rituals; while rooting for the Cubs is the ultimate exercise in personal masochism, every fan can relate to the experience of watching their team fall short. Watching a game from the student section is as much about the people around you as the events on the field. Many of the values society aspires to instill in its children (diligence, teamwork, cooperation, sacrifice, etc.) are best communicated through sports.
It’s perhaps for these reasons that the quote has stayed with me. We may not all be athletes, but whether we play sports, write about them, or simply ignore them, their imprint on our society—in how we talk, in how we think, and in what we value—is indelible.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
If you asked 10-year-old me what my favorite hobby was growing up, folding laundry, oddly enough, was near the top of the list. Before you judge me, let me explain. For me, laundry day meant much more than getting clean clothes—it meant Sunday afternoons with my dad watching Tiger Woods sink a putt, Roger Federer crush an ace, or my favorite: Tony Romo tossing a touchdown pass.
Unfortunately, my Texas high school was no Dillon High—no Coach Taylor, no football team, and thus no Friday night games. So as a diehard football fan, imagine my disappointment grow even further when my parents nixed the idea of my applying to USC, my childhood dream school and location of my favorite college football team. Apparently, as my mother says, “liking a football team is not a good enough reason to apply to a school.”
I decided that wherever I ended up, I would try to go to as many football games as possible, to make up for the lost high school years. When I ended up at Harvard, where CS50 office hours are better attended than football games, I realized I had two options if I wanted to religiously attend games without fielding too many questions on why I was there—the first was joining the cheer team; the second, writing football for the Crimson Sports Board.
When I missed cheer tryouts for, ironically, office hours, my choice was made for me. Despite hating all forms of writing (#science), the first email list that I signed up for was the one that led me to 14 Plympton many days (and nights) freshman fall.
Two beats and countless stories later—women’s crew (Liz O is still my favorite coach I’ve ever covered, augmented even more so after I joined her team senior spring) and women’s basketball—I could finally add “football” before my beat writer title.
I thought I knew what it would entail. I knew that being football beat writer meant going to games and writing articles. I knew it meant long nights the week football-related supplements were in production and the requirement of staying (mostly) sober on the day of Harvard-Yale.
What I didn’t realize was everything else that came along with the football beat—long (and sometimes nausea-inducing) drives up and down the East Coast, the necessity of four puffy coats, gloves, and a few scarves at the Yale Bowl, the struggle of tweeting with the non-existent WiFi at most stadiums. But the hardest aspect for me to come to terms with was something I thought already knew how to do—stay objective.
One of the first rules we hammer home in our sports compers (other than the oft-missed one that Crimson is singular!) is the importance of objectivity. No conflicts of interest, no favoritism in writing, and absolutely no cheering for a team you are covering. With no previous ties to the team, I thought this would never be a problem for me—surely, I would never feel the inclination to cheer at a touchdown or yell at a ref for a bad call at Harvard Stadium.
It’s an unsurprising fact that it’s much more fun to cover a good team, but by the end of my second season covering football, I found myself surprised to be feeling pangs of disappointment at the triple-overtime loss to Princeton, and internally cheering with every victory. It seemed that after spending hours talking to, watching, and writing about this team, it was hard not to get attached.
My ability to stay objective was pushed to the limit in the 2014 version of “The Game.” With the potential of Harvard to win an Ivy title and go undefeated for just the third time in a century, and ESPN’s GameDay crew present, there was an additional layer of hype and a growing part of me that yearned to be in the stands as a fan, wrapped up in Crimson gear. And then, when Harvard won on a touchdown pass with 55 seconds left, I wanted more than anything to be able to jump up and cheer in Harvard Stadium, on the one day of the year that the seats are packed.
But then, if I were simply a fan, I wouldn’t have covered the jubilation of victory over Princeton after two years of heartbreaking loss; I wouldn’t have had the chance to pen a vet-infused column comparing Yale’s team to its mascot, the bulldog; I wouldn’t have seen this squad fight through the adversity of injury to claw its way into the record books.
Fast forward three years from my first day at The Crimson, and I still wouldn’t give up Saturdays driving through the northeast, treks up eight flights of stairs to Harvard Stadium’s press box, and countless hand warmers in uncovered press boxes of stadiums in desperate need of a renovation, for anything. Because though I still kind of hate writing, joining this family on 14 Plympton Street has let me share with others my love for football, kindled 12 years ago on a Sunday afternoon.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
“Hi Crimson Sports editors, I’ll be a freshman this fall at Harvard, and I’m planning to comp for the sports section. Next week I’ll be in Omaha for the U.S. Olympic Trials to watch my sister swim. Would you like me to help cover the Harvard athletes at Trials? Best, Michael Ledecky. “
I like to joke that I’m the longest-tenured member of The Crimson’s 142nd Guard. With my 15-year-old sister, Katie, slated to compete at her first Olympic Trials, I saw a chance to get a two-month head start on my comp of The Crimson’s sports board. Martin Kessler and the Brothers Samuels warmly received my reporting proposal on June 19, 2012, and the rest is history. Over the next two weeks, I wrote my first two stories for The Crimson’s website, met my future roommate on the opposite side of a post-race interview, and watched my sister take the first step toward Olympic gold.
My Crimson experience was inseparably intertwined with my sister’s rise to the top of her sport. As I watched her smash world records and rack up wins, she not only inspired me as her number one fan but also placed in perspective the stories I’ve had the chance to tell in these pages.
Conveniently for Katie and me, bachelor’s degrees and Olympics are quadrennial. I imagine the next four months or so will bring some of the most confusing and exciting days of our lives. After the summer’s competitions and any attendant fame those bring, Katie will enroll at Stanford next year. Meanwhile, I’ll be trying my hand at the full-time job thing back home in D.C.
I’m probably not in the best position to offer Katie college advice. She’s the most mature and well-adjusted 19-year-old you’ll ever meet. She has nerves of steel and works harder than anyone I know. And if all goes well this summer, I suspect she will be a slightly more popular freshman than I was when she starts classes this September. If she were willing to listen to me, though, I’d have a few tips:
1. Push yourself. You know, Katie, that thing you do when you’re 15 meters ahead of the field at the end of an 800-meter freestyle? Yeah, make sure you’re doing that outside the pool as well.
I never thought when I moved into Canaday C that I’d step behind a radio mic during my time here. I wasn’t a particularly confident public, extemporaneous speaker, and I hated the sound of my own voice. But I realized junior year that I could do more as The Crimson’s hockey beat reporter. I figured going on air as a color commentator would push me to improve my knowledge of the team and the game.
I never quite mastered the art of radio, but it got me out of my comfort zone, and I’m glad it did. I became more confident in my voice and what I had to say. The crossover also helped forge a multimedia coverage team that might not have otherwise cohered. Jake, Kurt, Matt, and Savanna—it’s been a pleasure working with you. That leads me to my second point…
2. Find friends who care. Katie, this probably shouldn’t be a problem since you’ll have 25 sisters waiting for you on the Stanford swim and dive team, but it’s worth thinking about.
When I say friends who care, I’m not just talking about the people who take a passive interest in your life. I’m talking about the people who help you push yourself.
I’ve found many examples of this type of person at 14 Plympton Street. My fellow editors have helped make me a better writer, a better reporter, a better student, and a better friend. They’ve been open and honest about my flaws and weaknesses. They’ve been a source of support and strength. And they’ve believed in me when I’ve doubted myself. For that, I thank them.
3. Ask questions. I visited the registrar’s office a few weeks ago to view my admissions file. It contained a copy of my common app essay, which was a reflection on my experience as a high school journalist framed around the idea of asking the right questions.
As a journalist, student, and person, I’ve possibly asked more questions over the last four years than over my first 18. These questions have fed my curiosity and personal development and have determined what I’ve learned and what I can teach others.
Overall, my perspective on the subject has changed slightly since I wrote that essay. Sure, the quality of your questions matters, but it’s dangerous to dismiss the importance of the quantity you ask as well. Whether it’s picking up the right detail for an article or making an important life decision, I’ve found it’s necessary to stumble around in the dark for a bit. I disagree with the notion that there are no bad questions, but even the bad questions can lead to helpful answers, however circuitous the path in between.
That, Katie, just about does it for my spiel. Exciting days are ahead. To cover the bases with Mom and Dad, I’d also like to encourage you to avoid various forms of collegiate debauchery during your time on the Farm. You can save that for Senior Week.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
