Sections
On Saturday night the College Events Board partnered with the First Year Social Committee to throw a school-wide silent disco party. In case you're living under a rock and aren't familiar with the concept of a silent disco, it's an event where everyone is given headphones and jams out to the same music. It basically has all the perks of being at a dance party without risking getting noise complaints from the neighbors.
We here at Flyby couldn't pass up on the opportunity to attend our very own silent disco at Harvard. Upon arrival, event coordinators greeted attendees with Bluetooth headphones that allowed everyone to tune into two separate DJs. Descending into the depths of the Northwest Labs, Flyby found a one-of-a-kind experience to review:

Music:Fantastic. The green DJ covered your average basic white girl music featuring Taylor Swift and Miley Cyrus, while the red DJ was spinning dope tunes like Fetty and the Weeknd. Looking around in the sea of headphones, it was clear that everyone was enjoying the beats. A+ CEB, I’ll give you this one.
Food:Where art thou? Flyby was under the impression that there would be food at the event. However, after extensive rummaging, none could be found. We’ll give organizers the benefit of the doubt by assuming that everything had already run out. But, take note – college kids on a Saturday night are some of the hungriest creatures you will find. So if you promise food, it's best to deliver.
Atmosphere:One of a kind. When walking in, guests were greeted by a throng of people dancing in silence. Adding to the vibe were cool glow sticks and rings that flashed different colors. Overall a very trippy, but cool experience.
Turnout:Average. Northwest Labs is a huge space to fill and although a good number of people showed up, the dance floor wasn’t jam packed. People actually preferred this, however, because 1) you didn’t have to wait for hours outside the door (flashback to first chance dance) and 2) there is nothing worse than being squished by hundreds of sweaty bodies (#mumps?)
Overall:Success! Thank you to the CEB and FYSC for planning a sweet event open to everyone at Harvard. We cannot wait to see what is in store for Yardfest!
