News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I like Netflix’s show “Narcos” quite a lot. Many other viewers also like “Narcos”—so much so that it’s already been renewed for at least another season. For its three seasons so far, the Netflix drama has depicted the cocaine trade in Colombia from Pablo Escobar’s Medellin Cartel to this season’s Cali Cartel. Yet as much as I enjoy watching “Narcos,” the problem is that people see the “Narcos” depiction of Colombia and take it to be the only reality of the country.
As a Colombian American, I grapple with the history of drugs in Colombia. I realize that in a country that has extreme poverty that often seems inescapable, making money from the drug trade appears to be many people’s only option. However, the Colombian people don’t excuse the cartels for the violence and suffering that they have inflicted upon us and others. What “Narcos” portrays and deals with, though sometimes fictionalized and dramatized, is a real part of Colombian history. It’s just not the only Colombian history. Colombia is so much more than a “cocaine capital.” It has arguably the world’s best coffee beans, the beautiful music known as salsa, soccer, and creative geniuses like Gabriel Garcia Marquez. Except that’s not the Colombia that excites and sells.
Audiences devour the drug-ravaged Colombia, which shows Colombians at their absolute worst, and only at their absolute worst. It’s extremely important that Colombians never forget the history of cocaine that has hurt and still is hurting the country, and having shows and movies about Colombian cocaine isn’t the problem. The problem is that we only ever have international megahits about Colombian cocaine. Colombians know the beauty and wonder that is our country and its people, but not everybody gets to see the good parts of Colombia.
When people’s only exposure to Colombia and its history is through shows like “Narcos,” they come to think of Colombians as only poor people who traffic cocaine. They love to watch Colombia’s pain, and then refuse to help and look down on Colombians. Oftentimes when I tell people I’m Colombian, I get jokes about cocaine and Pablo Escobar, the only Colombian that many people can name off the top of their heads. His name is so well-known because the U.S. entertainment industry has grabbed a hold of him. Whether its Wu-Tang Clan, Fabolous, Nas, or Gucci Mane (and the list goes on), entertainers love dropping Pablo Escobar’s name.
Dropping Pablo Escobar’s name everywhere hurts Colombians more than it helps. I admit that I’m guilty of listening to and liking songs where Escobar is idolized, but I have come to realize how Escobar has become synonymous with all Colombians. Sure, Pablo built many things for the people of Medellin when the Colombian government didn’t, but that doesn’t even begin to make up for the suffering he’s inflicted on the Colombian people. Airplane attacks, cartel wars, countless deaths, and days and nights of endless terror on the streets while he was alive. Suddenly, Pablo Escobar doesn’t seem so great anymore.
The problem is that many people don’t know the deeper truth of Escobar’s effect on Colombia and how he lost the support of the masses with his excessive violence and terror. What’s worse is that people don’t know how badly Colombians want to get out from the shadow of Escobar and move on as a country. But the international world of entertainment is having problems letting go.
I know that watching the violence and craziness is entertaining, but believing that all there is in Colombia is violence and cocaine craziness disrespects the entire country and its people. The fundamental problem about the view of Colombia as only being a cocaine capital is its lack of respect. There’s an inherent condescension towards Colombia, maybe because we’re Latino or maybe because we’re not particularly wealthy. Whatever it is, there’s just an air that Colombians are just less than. People are so quick to buy into the idea that everybody in Colombia is poor and is a drug trafficker.
While there is intense poverty in Colombia, it is an increasingly socioeconomically diverse country, and most people aren’t involved in the drug trade. Colombia has produced brilliant people like Gabriel Garcia Marquez—and yet he’s never the first person that jumps to mind when one thinks of Colombia. Until people begin to view Colombians with more respect and pay due homage to those who are the true Colombian talents, Colombia will never be able to truly leave behind its darkest hours and move on in the world.
So go ahead, watch “Narcos” and like it, but remember that the Colombia portrayed is not the only Colombia that exists.
Kim Arango ’20, a Crimson Editorial editor, is a Visual and Environmental Studies Concentrator in Eliot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Last Thursday, United States Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos announced that she would be rescinding the Obama administration’s directives regarding Title IX law and sexual discrimination in higher education, which informed a set of policies and guidelines for sexual assault and sexual harassment cases. In its place, she aims to implement a set of guidelines that will level the rights of survivors and the accused, despite vigorous objections from many women’s groups.
This is not an unforeseen development; Harvard student activists have been concerned about how DeVos will handle the Title IX directive since the day she was confirmed. Harvard’s acting Title IX Officer responded to DeVos’s proposal swiftly, remarking that he was “confident this will not mean a course change for Harvard at all.”
Now push has come to shove, and Harvard needs to stand by that statement. We hope the University will take decisive action to protect the safety and rights of its students.
The dismantling of the Title IX guidance affects a wide range of Harvard students and has far-reaching implications across campus.  The reinterpretation disproportionately affects the LGBTQ community, who are targeted at higher rates than others. It is therefore important that Harvard’s administration focus especially on protections for LGBTQ members.
At the heart of the former Title IX policy were the survivors of sexual assault, and without the federal infrastructure in place, Harvard must review and reinforce their standing policies on sexual assault. The Obama administration’s interpretation of Title IX established systems for survivors of sexual assault to seek help and justice, and now Harvard must take on the responsibility of preserving these important systems on campus, such as the Office of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response as well as Counseling and Mental Health Services.  Harvard must combat the narrative of DeVos’s decision—automatically doubting survivors’ allegations of sexual assault—and, instead, fully attend to students involved in sexual harassment cases.
The University must also be aware of how this reversal might affect its student population, especially those who may have been previously inclined to forgo sexual consent.  Classes and seminars on sexual education, consent, and University resources are more important now than ever. Harvard must continue to increase its attentiveness to issues of sexual assault on campus and reassure its students that there are still systems of protection in place.
However, the reinterpretation of Title IX will not only affect Harvard. Other universities will also be forced to jostle administrative allocations and resources to compensate for this loss in order to continue protecting their students from sexual assault. We do not believe the onus of this financial burden should be placed solely on the shoulders of these other universities (as well as our own). It then becomes as issue of chance; one student may attend a school dedicated to this issue but another might not be so lucky.  Standardization is key, and we hope that education of and protection from sexual assault and harassment is a priority overall.
In tearing down the Obama administration’s efforts to protect students through Title IX, we hope that the intentions of DeVos and the current administration were not to simply overturn every action under President Obama.  Winning a political war does not justify endangering young Americans. Survivors of sexual assault deserve better than that. Going forward, the desire to carry out due process for both parties must inform the replacement of this program in order for the policy to truly protect students from sexual harassment and assault on college campuses.  We hope Harvard and other universities around the country address will address this issue and protect their students.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I wonder if Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana likes “Dead Poets Society.”
At my Convocation three long years ago, Dean Khurana presented a dichotomy that has overshadowed my college experience. Standing before us on that sweaty day, Khurana forecast that we could follow one of two paths to graduation: One would be “transactional,” in which we would chase material goals, taking easy classes and residing within a homogenous circle of friends, on our way to comfortably receiving our Harvard degree with minimal contemplation. The other was “transformational,” in which we would challenge ourselves in our coursework, in diverse extracurriculars, and in our intellectual discourse with our classmates, leading us to some sort of radically enlightened and non-materialistic perspective on life. For me, the speech evoked a group of inspired prep school boys standing on desks reciting Walt Whitman, the Dead Poets Society valiantly fighting back against the impending concrete reality of the real world. Could such an idealistic college experience really exist?
I have always thought of transformation as an admirable goal, but I have learned that, whether I like it or not, there are many transactional elements that are inseparable from a Harvard education. Matriculating Harvard students generally want to be successful in some way, which requires building up an impressive resume, making connections with recommenders, and seeking help from peers on that problem set you waited until 2 a.m. the night before the deadline to get started on. I have learned, in short, that a transformative, fulfilling college experience need not, and should not, come at the expense of giving up my worldly ambitions and thus my transactional actions.
That being said, Harvard undoubtedly has a problem with an overwhelmingly transactional culture. As each semester unfolds, grabbing meals with friends transitions to “grabbing meals with friends,” changing from a joyful reality to a meretricious promise uttered in passing on Mount Auburn St. Walks along the Charles or impromptu ultimate frisbee games are traded in for the daily grind of problem sets and job recruiting. Planning trips to Boston with the blocking group or watching basketball with the roommates proves increasingly impossible to schedule between club activities and midterm studying. The fast pace of life, driven even faster by our near-ubiquitous competitive natures, leaves many of us feeling lonely, depressed, and even suicidal at times, as we scurry from our 4 o’clocks to our 5 o’clocks to our 6 o’clocks, hemmed in by our regimented lives. This transactional culture is rarely desired, and most Harvard students actively fight back against it. Yet this culture has proved intractable, despite most of our best intentions.
Harvard has never been, and will never be, only about group readings of Chaucer or wildly different people sharing life stories into the wee hours of the night. As long as Harvard is one of the best schools in the world, the truth is that students will fill a good portion of their time with productive, even transactional, activities. But the transformational moments matter, too. They challenge our perspectives. They teach us how to connect with others and engage with the world. They help us become good people. They are the memories that will remain with us when we are old and shriveled. So how can we simultaneously pursue our legitimate material aspirations while also living fulfilled lives?
The first thing we can do is recognize that transactional and transformational experiences are not arch-nemeses, locked in some sort of Manichaean struggle between good and evil. Padding your resume or attending recruiting events (even for the oft-derided consulting jobs) does not make you a bad person, just as whimsically taking that Theater, Dance, and Media class as a STEM concentrator does not make you a good person. Pretending like we must choose between the noble life of transformation or the sullied path of transaction puts impossible expectations on us to shun our career aspirations all the while being inundated by a sea of opportunity. Instead, it is not as much about the fact that we are sometimes transactional, because we all are. Instead, it is about how and why we do those transactional things we choose.
When I took my first Computer Science 50 midterm my freshman fall, I was so nervous that I didn’t even put my name on the test. After leaving the lecture hall, I remember bawling before calling my mom to tell her that I was going to fail the class (I didn’t. P.S.A., freshmen: Curves exist.). In that moment, I did not have some sort of epiphany that “there is no such thing as failure.” In fact, I had failed myself, and that was precisely why it had hurt. But, in the aftermath of the course (which continued to be a bloodbath for me, mind you), I realized that that particular failure was not one that I really cared about. In fact, getting a good grade in CS50 was not a transactional experience that I really needed; no one for the rest of my life has asked me what my grade was in that class, and that midterm, which at the time felt like a Super Bowl loss, has faded into an obscure memory.
Before, I had thought that I needed to do transactional things for the sake of the transaction. But, with time, I have learned that transactions feel more fulfilling when they are the means to an end that actually makes me happy. With that mindset, applying to jobs and research grants still feels like a chore, but a trivial one, because the jobs and fellowships I have applied to are things that would truly give me satisfaction. And by being targeted in my transactional actions, I have been able to make more time for the transformational aspects of my life, from literally debating the meaning of life with my roommates until the weekday dawn to sneaking out with a friend to camp on the Harvard football field on an autumn night.
Harvard presents a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for the world’s smartest people to pursue the world’s most ambitious aspirations, but with that status comes a deluge of stress. However, that stress doesn’t have to come with loneliness or ennui. By learning from the positive experiences of our peers, Harvard students can help transform the culture here to make it more amenable to self-pride and companionship, and we can learn to better balance our ambitions with our happiness.
Reed T. Shafer-Ray ’18 is a Social Studies concentrator in Quincy House. Their column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Tim Devin is a technology librarian at the Somerville Public Library—at least for his day job. In his spare time, Devin researches and speaks about Cambridge’s historic counterculture movement.
Devin also leads  a walking tour of Inman Square based on his recently published book, “Mapping Out Utopia: 1970s Boston Area Counterculture.” The 80-page volume describes over 100 places of note to the countercultural movement. Replete with illustrations and hand-drawn maps, the guide takes readers through an array of sites in Inman, Central, and Harvard Squares.
Inman Square lies at the junction of Cambridge, Hampshire, and Inman Streets, several blocks west of Harvard’s campus. As the counterculture movement picked up steam in the 1970s, many organizations based in Inman played important roles in advancing progressive causes.
At noon on Saturday, a crowd of over 60 people gather outside Practice Space, a storefront design studio on Cambridge Street in Inman, awaiting the start of Devin’s tour. First stop: 186 Hampshire Street.
“Two generations of owners have rented it out below market value to progressive groups,” Devin says. That kind of practice helped progressive organizations thrive in the square at the time. One notable occupant of 186 was the Boston Feminist Credit Union: Devin says the square was a “focal point” of feminism in the ‘70s. Today, he says, the building is valued at at $1.2 million.
As Devin speaks to the crowd, his three-year-old son teeters on a parking stop, holding his father’s hand and smiling. It’s important to Devin that his walking tour is kid-friendly, and he says he tries to welcome families with young children to all his events.
“I know that as a parent, I feel kind of excluded from a lot of events and spaces,” Devin says in an interview before Saturday’s tour. “It’s not like there’s a sign, but there’s a vibe where you’re not really supposed to bring your kid.”
He says that culture—where inclusion of young children is frowned upon—limits the types of adults that are able to attend progressive-oriented or activist-type events.
“If you want to bring up your kid being exposed to all sorts of culture and progressive ideas, then you need be able to bring your kid to those things,” Devin says. “How do you raise a kid who doesn’t just ingest mainstream culture if you don’t make things kid-friendly?”
At the tour’s second stop, Devin turns the speaking over to Greg W. Hill, a community member who was involved with Trout Fishing in America and the People’s Gallery, two organizations which occupied 188 Broadway St. in the ‘70s.
Hill says that Trout Fishing in America—named after a novel written by Richard Brautigan—was an “alternative school” where locals gathered to teach free classes during the countercultural era. The school helped pave the way for a “People’s Gallery,” which leased space in the building with an environmental group called Ecology Action. While some groups moved in, and some collapsed, the organizations all became linked by cooperative use of the space.
Now, the building that was once home to an alternative school and photo cooperative society contains a set of quiet condos. Condo units sell for over $1 million each, according to Devin. He cites the rising cost of housing in Cambridge and the lack of affordable spaces devoted to art and progressive causes as a concern for him and an impetus for his tour.
Thinking about the current political moment and the legacy of Cambridge during the counterculture movement, Devin says that it is “inspiring” how organizations came together and advocated for change.
“It’s an interesting lesson for contemporary groups to see how all the organizations supported each other,” Devin says. “It’s inspiring to think that there were thousands of motivated people in the Boston area that cared enough to volunteer their spare time to advance a cause.”
Sections
With Winthrop’s $100 million renovation complete, many non-Winners (read: losers) are clamoring to peek inside the new buildings. But you don’t need to enter Winthrop to see its most striking feature: its doors. There are big doors and small doors. There are all sorts of doors. There are too many doors. Without further ado, FM presents the 15 most interesting Winthrop doors.
1. Doorothea Lange: This door’s plain appearance belies the complex photojournalist within. Maybe it’s offering us a statement of solidarity with the stoic unadorned masses of the Depression. Who knows
2. Door of Perception: Legend has it that this door opened when Aldous Huxley first tried mescaline in 1953 in the American Southwest. William Blake famously wrote that, if this door were opened, “Every thing would appear to man as it is, Infinite. For man has closed himself up, till he sees all things thro’ narrow chinks of his cavern.”
3. The Front Door: This is the front door of Standish Hall. Pretty nice
4. Reggie: This is Reggie. Reggie really, really likes Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki.
5. The Door to My Room: This is the door to my room. Notice the rug. Please don’t come in.
6. Jim Doorison: Poet, monster, prophet, and lead singer of revolutionary ’60s rock band The Doors. Taken from this world too soon by his own hubris, inner demons, the wild rebel fire that raged inside and spilled out of him, and a nice layer of wood finish.
7. Double Door: Hey man, it didn’t CHOOSE to be the door to the kitchen. And it’s got big bones. Lay off.
8. This Door: I asked this door for its name, but it was in a rush and just said “no comment.”
9. Driver’s Side Door of Starscream: Seemingly an ordinary door, this baby is in fact the driver’s side door of the vehicle form of Starscream, the Transformer, and notoriously sycophantic Decepticon second-in-command.
10. Doris: This is Doris. Doris is really good at bridge and always generous with a smile.
11. The Door to Knowledge: Yes, these are books. It’s called “making a point.”
12. Grand Door: This door, with its dope wood structure and regal clock, is a very popular hangout for mice in children’s books.
13. Archdoor Franz Doordinand: Self-explanatory.
14. Reginald: Reggie’s twin brother. Their parents were lazy. NOT THE SAME DOOR!
15. The Best Door: This is the best door.
Sections
Danielle S. Allen seems to have found the perfect job. Her various hats include University Professor, Director of the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics, author, Principal Investigator at the Democratic Knowledge Project, mom, and more. Her schedule would be overwhelmingly hectic for most but Allen says it allows her freedom and space to explore a wide range of interests. Allen’s latest book “Cuz,” part family narrative and part critique of America’s prison system, was released on September 5. FM sat down with Allen on the day of her book’s release. 
Editor’s Note: this interview has been edited for length and  clarity.
Fifteen Minutes: Let’s talk “Cuz.” I saw it in the Coop today. How was the big release?
Danielle Allen: It’s always busy when a book comes out, but this is obviously a different kind of book. It’s not a straightforward scholarly book. There’s some scholarship in it especially the last third of the book is more sociological and less narrative but it’s a trade nonfiction book. That means there’s work to be done: sharing it with people, making sure people know what it’s about and have a reason to read it.
FM: What’s unique about studying ethics?
DA: You can’t do without it. Everybody says that about everything, but you can’t do without it. We had a group here the other day that was talking about ethics pedagogy in computer science and engineering, and there was kind of collective recognition around the table that one of the hardest parts of teaching ethics is teaching people to recognize when an ethical dilemma confronts them. And then you also need to teach people to have the resources to reason their way through an ethical dilemma, but in the first instance, just plain recognizing an ethical dilemma is a challenge.
FM: What’s something you wish people would stop talking about?
DA: I’ve been doing a lot of work on the concept of equality lately, and one of the reasons I did is because I got really tired of everyone always talking about inequality, and never taking the time to say: “Well, what’s the thing on the other side of the balance?” So I have been trying to shift the conversation from inequality to equality. What are we positively after?
FM: On campus, you’re involved in a lot of projects. What current project has you the most excited?
DA: I’m super excited about a coalescing conversation on campus about civic education. Over the summer I sat down with David A. Moss at the Business School who teaches a democracy class. I have also had some conversations with Martha L. Minow about civic education, and with Jan W. Rivkin at the Business School. I think lots of people are experimenting with how to teach courses on the history of democracy and American political thought and political institutions. There’s just a huge opportunity for innovation in the curriculum in that area, and not only that but a huge opportunity to connect what we learn teaching civics here at Harvard, to support for K-12 educators who themselves are trying to educate through civic education. So I’m really excited about the way a lot of different pieces about that conversation are coming together.
FM: You’re very busy and very involved. What’s your favorite way to recharge?
DA: Play with my kids.
FM: What’s something you’re curious about that you’re not researching in any way right now?
DA: I spent eight years at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, which is a place where things like theoretical physics and astrophysics are really front and center. I was there when the Large Hadron Collider was turned on and they made their discoveries there, and I’m really curious about what’s come from that more recently.
FM: Which has better food—Harvard Square or the town of Princeton?
DA: Cambridge, definitely—it’s just bigger. I’m a huge fan of Loyal Nine in East Cambridge. We like the quirky, gourmet, colonial things
FM: If you could switch lives with one member of the Harvard community for a day, who would you choose?
DA: I’d probably pick Doug A. Melton. I would really love to be inside natural sciences in a deep way.
FM: What would you be if you weren’t a Professor?
DA: I wouldn’t pick another job. This is the best job in the world. It’s impossible to pick another job– there’s nothing better than being a Professor. It’s truly the world’s greatest privilege. It’s a picture of freedom. You set your own agenda, you decide what you’re going to think about, what you’re going to write about, what you’re going to teach. Obviously you do that with a sense of responsibility to the community that you’re a part of and so forth, but I think it’s a job that’s based on the concept of freedom and permits a true experience of freedom.
Sections
Katherine K. Merseth, a senior lecturer on education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, says that teaching is her lifeblood. Even though she has bachelor’s and master’s degrees in mathematics, Merseth has devoted her life’s work to studying and reforming education. Merseth is the creator of Harvard’s Teacher Education Program and the Harvard Teacher Fellows Program. Additionally, she teaches the wildly popular undergraduate course USW 35: “Dilemmas of Equity and Excellence in American K-12 Education,” which hundreds of Harvard students lottery for each semester. Currently, Merseth is in the midst of creating an Education Studies secondary. FM sat down with her to learn more about her work and life, her view on the American education system, and more. Editor’s note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: How has your background in math influenced your current work? 
KM: In trying to come up with a solution for things, I think I learned as a mathematician to analyze the space. It gave me an opportunity to think about challenges in education, perhaps in a new way, in a creative way. It gives you another perspective, different ways of solving problems
FM: Do you think education as whole in our country is going to undergo change with the arrival of the Trump administration?
KM: What Trump’s presidency has taught us is that we have failed as an education system to teach our children how to think, how to ask questions, how to probe behind the 20-second sound bites. We have been so smitten by the testing movement and standardized tests. I feel that we have failed many of our young people in their ability to analyze and criticize and understand policies. When I look at what people do with kids today in schools, all I see is, “What was your test score?” or, “What was your SAT score?” instead of, “Can you think?”
FM: Do you think that the standardized testing movement will continue?
KM: I’m working hard to make sure it isn’t! We have high standards now with the Common Core, but we have tests that pale in the face of analyzing critical thinking or problem solving ability. It’s so hard to figure out thinking, that we don’t measure it. We measure the easy things.
FM: Are there any major factors that you think contributed to the inequality in the education system that exists today?
KM: There’s a huge correlation, not causal, between income and academic achievement. The income disparity in this country is driving the academic disparity we see between children in schools. A child from a low-income family enters kindergarten having heard 30 million fewer words. We have huge social problems in this country that I’m hoping education can begin to address.
FM: Would you say income disparity is the most pressing issue in education right now?
KM: Yes. It is one of the influences that creates this academic gap. I would say the big issue in education today is both equity and excellence. We do well in excellence for some students, but not all students. I’m working to see if we can raise both excellence and equity. That is my life’s work.
FM: Imagine that you have complete power over reforming the education system. What would you start with?
KM: There are so many things. I would focus on very young children, ages 3,4, and 5. I think if we can give all children a better start, nutritionally, socially, economically, in all aspects of their lives, then they will do better in schools. So, early childhood education would be a focus. I would focus on age 3 to grade 3, because we know if a child is not reading on grade level at grade 3, their outcomes are horrible—they’ll likely not graduate, get pregnant early, or be on welfare. So, that simple six years, from age 3 to grade 3, or from age 3 to age 9, we need to put our resources there, so everyone gets a solid start. The second thing I can’t not mention is teachers. Teachers are the lifeblood of schooling. But they’re not respected, they’re not paid well, they’re not treated well in schools, so I would elevate the teaching profession, I would help teachers teach more effectively, and throw myself, which I have, into the preparation of teachers and their support.
FM: What are some of your favorite hobbies or pastimes?
KM: I have a farm tractor, and I have a farm up in Maine. I work on the tractor myself, I fix the valves, change the oil. I love being up there, out in the country. I also used to hike a lot; I’ve hiked all over the world. I’ve hiked in Patagonia, in Chile, in Guatemala, Yosemite, the White Mountains, in Montana, in Colorado. I’m an outdoor person; I love when I’m outside.
FM: If you could be any vegetable what would you be and why?
KM: Here’s one that the math people will get. I’d like to be an ear of corn, because they have multiple kernels.
Sections
A squat, chest-high hunk of metal sits in the corner of David Charbonneau’s office. It’s a telescope he cobbled together out of cheap parts while he was at graduate school, where he discovered his first exoplanet: a planet that orbits a distant star. Since then he has become an astronomer at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center For Astrophysics, a Professor in Harvard’s Department of Astronomy, and a recent recipient of the Blavatnik Award For Young Scientists. He keeps the telescope around not as a trophy, but as a reminder: don’t take shortcuts or you’ll spend all your time fixing cheap telescopes. Editor’s note: this interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: How did you originally get interested in cosmology and space?
DC: I remember in high school, in the summer, I was sitting out in the driveway and I was trying to read “A Brief History of Time” by Stephen Hawking. If you’ve ever read this book it covered all the big ideas–all the magical parts of physics and cosmology–like special relativity and quantum mechanics. Looking back now I realize that I didn’t really understand all of that. It was more sort of a form of poetry that really was speaking to something in me that I wanted to get out and explore.
FM: Could you walk me through how you got to making that first discovery?
DC: I moved from Canada and came to grad school here at Harvard. I was absolutely certain I knew what I wanted to do: theoretical cosmology. I got here and the first exoplanet had just been discovered a few months before. I got very excited. I was offered a project by a professor here named Bob Noyse. It just seemed so practical to me. Everyone was working on cosmology.
With exoplanets, nobody was working on it, and so it seemed like there was an opportunity to make a big contribution as a student. I decided to jump in. For my thesis project I went out to Colorado. I was working with a guy named Tim Brown in Boulder. We were looking for planets by transit. When they pass in front of a star, they block some of its light. We struck gold, and took the first measurement of a transiting planet. That was in 1999, and I never looked back.
FM: What projects are you working on now?
DC: The big thing that I want to help bring about is to proceed as quickly as we can to try to look for life on other planets.
There is a knock on the door.
I’m going to stop to get some coffee.
A pause as Charbonneau’s coworker pours him some coffee.
FM: How do you take your coffee?
DC: Black. Black as a moonless night.
Okay. So what I want to do is to try to help humanity figure out if it’s alone. The specific project I run is the MEarth project. It’s two robotic arrays of telescopes, one in Arizona, and one in Chile, so that we can see the whole sky. We’re searching all the very closest stars, and we’re looking for these eclipses of planets that are like the Earth. Then after we find them then the idea is that we’ll use future telescopes to look at light that passes through the atmosphere of the planet and imprinted on that is basically a little signal that says: “Hey! There’s life on this world.”
FM: Do you view life elsewhere in the universe as an inevitability?
DC: I’m truly open minded about it. I think that there’s great optimism that there is life on planets orbiting nearby stars because ten years ago we didn’t know if there were such planets, and now we do, so we’ve made enormous progress. My contribution as an astronomer is to constrain whether [life] is common or not.
FM: Do you enjoy sci-fi media?
DC: What do you think?
FM: I would imagine yes, although I have met some scientists who are very “I just do science.”
DC: But are they happy? Happy scientists?
FM: I think less so.
DC: Of course I love it!
FM: What’s some of your favorite sci-fi?
DC: When I was growing up, “Star Trek: The Next Generation” was the thing. If you look at some of the recent sci-fi that’s come out, if you look at “Interstellar”—it’s an enormous story, and I’m a dad with daughters so there’s a relationship there. The future of humanity being tied to the ability to find and get to distant planets. So yes, I love science fiction. I hate it when science fiction movies turn into car chases. I don’t mind car chases, but that’s not really science fiction.
FM: If commercial space flight ever takes off, do you see yourself wanting to go to space one day?
DC: There’s a big problem there. I’m not allowed to be an astronaut because I’m too tall.
FM: Oh no! Wait, how tall are you?
DC: I’m 6’4”.
FM: Oh good. I’m only 6’1”.
DC: I think the cut off is 6’3”.
FM: Phew.
DC: But if it’s commercial maybe those limitations won’t be there. I would be very interested in going. Who wouldn’t be? I guess there’s the element of danger. I’m sure you’ve heard this quote before, but I just saw this recently so I’ll say it. “A ship in the harbor is safe, but that is not what ships are for.” So yes, nobody will die in space if we don’t go to space. But that’s not what we’re here for. We are explorers, surely.
FM: What are some of your non-space interests?
DC: Well I have four daughters, and I’m a Girl Scout Leader. I also play a lot of hockey and I coach my daughters in hockey and they’re all on different hockey teams. Ice hockey, just to be clear. Having grown up in Canada that was a big part of my life, so all the kids are learning to play a lot of hockey. I brew my own beer and cider.
FM: Do you think your daughters are going into the sciences after you?
DC: They’re young. The oldest is 11 and the youngest is four. So they don’t all have to be astrophysicists. Some of them could be astrobiologists maybe. Really branch out. They’re at this age where they say: “I’ll be a firefighter!” “I’ll be a farmer!” Or, “I’ll be a doctor!” I really think one of them should be the president. I think that would be a very good thing.
Sections
As Steven C. Wofsy finished his Ph.D. in the “purest of pure chemistry” At Harvard in the early 1970s, he hit a roadblock – the Nixon administration suddenly cut funding for his chosen area of science. So Wofsy, inspired by the first Earth Day in 1971, switched to environmental chemistry for his postdoctoral work. He promptly became a leading scholar in the field, joining the Harvard faculty in 1975; today he is the Abbott Lawrence Rotch Professor of Atmospheric and Environmental Sciences. Wofsy and his team maintain a worldwide network of ground and airborne instruments dedicated to monitoring changes in the climate and the atmosphere. They are currently preparing to fly 70,000 km in order to measure pollution in the remotest areas of the world. 
Editor’s Note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity. 
Fifteen Minutes: Tell me a little about your airplanes.
SW: Our mission is designed to study what happens where pollution goes to die. If you have the right instrumentation, you can clearly measure chemical compounds that originated from human activities in the most remote parts of the atmosphere. We want to understand how far we have moved from an environment that has pristine places. We’ve found the human influence to be very pervasive. The atmosphere is not pristine anymore. We want to know exactly how not pristine it is.
FM: You have the colorful title “Associate of the Forest,” because of your long-running research at Harvard Forest. What do you do out there?
SW: In 1989, we were the first people to measure exchanges of gas between forests and the atmosphere. We set up a research station that measures this exchange every second of every hour for almost thirty years, because we learn how climate is affecting the forest when we observe over large timescales.
We’ve found the forest is growing faster and faster, and we don’t really know why. Some of that could be due to beneficial effects of higher CO2. Some of it could be due to the warming climate. Massachusetts is a cold environment. When you start to warm it up a little bit, the plants start to do better. When you warm it up a lot, they die. But right now they’re doing better.
FM: A hot topic today is geoengineering – modifying the Earth’s surface or atmosphere to reduce incoming solar radiation. What are your thoughts on this kind of project?
SW: I don’t think it’s a road we should go down.
When you come to geoengineering you’re talking about making global changes that are very difficult to predict. That will surely involve chemistry and physics that we don’t know about. Putting stuff in the stratosphere to reduce solar radiation couldn’t be better designed to produce a surprise. I think it’s a really bad idea.
There’s another feature of climate change in general, and of geoengineering in particular, that bears very careful consideration. When something major happens in the environment, some people will be hurt and others will benefit. If you’re one of the ones that benefits, you’re quite happy. You’re less happy if you’re driven from your home or you die in a flood. That inequity is likely to be the outcome of any kind of geoengineering project.
The only type of geoengineering that makes sense is to take CO2 out of the atmosphere. I would be very happy with that. But I don’t think it’s going to happen anytime soon.
FM: Is there anything about your research that keeps you up at night?
I think it’s certainly possible to adapt from a cold climate to a warm climate, but it’s not clear how you adapt from a hot climate to a hotter climate. You may just have to leave. There are a lot of poor people living in the hot climates. It’s not clear where they are going to go. The other day I was speaking to the director of the Harvard Center for African Studies, and he was saying that Nigeria will have one billion people by the end of the century. But that’s not sustainable. If the climate shifts around, some areas of tropical and subtropical Africa may become uninhabitable. Where are all those people going to go?
Those are the kind of things I worry about. I worry about the impact of climate change on vulnerable populations. I think if the United States didn’t have to worry about those “poor people,” we would be fine. It’s a temperate climate. It’s a large country. The climate may shift and some crops may not be grown anymore, but the US is a wealthy country and people will adapt. But we’re part of the whole world, and in the rest of the world it’s not clear that can happen.
One thing people don’t appreciate is it takes a while for the climate to respond to what you’ve done to the atmosphere – decades and longer. That means we’ve already committed to more climate change than we’ve seen. So even if you suddenly stop emitting CO2, or started to emit CO2 at a rate that would keep the level constant, the climate would continue to warm. We’ve already set into motion changes that we don’t understand, and we can’t take them back.
Isn’t that something to worry about?
Sections
Michael J. Puett’s course boasts the third-highest enrollment at Harvard College. Can you guess what it is? No, not Ec10, and no, not CS50—it’s ER18, Classical Chinese Ethical and Political Theory. Puett is also an accomplished author, having published dozens of academic papers and several books. His most recent work, “The Path,” discusses what the world today can learn from ancient Chinese philosophers. Despite his popular success, he always keeps his office door open—during his time at Harvard, Puett has received several awards for his dedication to teaching and advising undergraduate students. After meeting Puett, it’s easy to understand why his course is so popular. Editor’s note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: ER18 is up there in enrollment with CS50 and Ec10, two very practical, skills-based courses. Could you give a pitch for your class, and explain how an ethical reasoning course can give us concrete skills?
MP: Usually when we think of practical skills, we think learning the skills of economics or computer programming—which are incredibly important—or we could expand that to a musical instrument or a sport. [With] all of those, we think about training ourselves to be good at those particular activities. We tend not to always think of our lives that way. Part of my course is teaching you to think about your life that way. You don’t want to simply live in the world and become a certain person because you’re told to be that person by social standards. That’s what the course is about: It’s a practical course about guiding your own life and building a world where we can flourish.
FM: What do you think is the biggest misconception we have about our lives today that is corrected or challenged by Chinese philosophy?
MP: The single biggest misconception is that we like to tell ourselves to look within ourselves, find ourselves, and be true to ourselves. We like to think that we can liberate ourselves by doing what we want to do and what’s best for us—and that’s the way to be a great individual. One of the best things Chinese philosophy texts teach is that, in doing so, we are actually trapping ourselves. With that rhetoric, what we are really saying in practice is that we should keep all the patterns and ruts we are falling into—because they are us. We entrap ourselves in this very limited vision of who we are. If we take the challenge of saying we fall into ruts and patterns but we can break out of those, you think of yourself and the world around you as changeable—and something you can devote yourself to changing. What we think of as a liberated life is actually chaining us.
FM: What are three pieces of advice that you would give to Harvard students, based on your course?
MP: Number one: Do not try to look within and find yourself. Think of the self as something you will create from the way you live your life. If you take it seriously, you can create an extraordinary life for yourself and those around you.
Number two, kind of related: Don’t ever think the world we’re living in is somehow just natural, the way things are. The world we’re living in has been created by human activities, and if we’re not happy with the world we’re living in, it’s up to us to change it. Never fall into the danger of thinking this just is the way things are. The world is always changing.
The third is kind of just putting those two together—giving myself the challenge of saying that among the things I’m going to devote myself to while I’m on this planet is to create an extraordinary life for me and those around me, a world where I and those around me can truly flourish. The fact that there’s no way now to know in advance what that’s going to mean in 30, 40, 50 years, is part of the excitement, because it means you are constantly working to create that kind of world without knowing what it’s going to be. It means you are constantly asking yourself, have we really created the world where people can flourish? If not, how can we change it? That way, we can construct an extraordinary life for ourselves, and an extraordinary world where people can flourish.
Sections
UPDATED: September 16, 2017 at 5:43 p.m.
Timothy P. McCarthy ’93, Lecturer on History and Literature, Education, and Public Policy, has been up since five this morning; he’s a busy guy. He hosts the ongoing series of public events “ART of Human Rights,” a collaboration between the American Repertory Theatre and the Carr Center for Human Rights that invites speakers to open up conversations about how the arts and humanities can be used to address human rights issues. He directs the Carr Center’s Culture Change & Social Justice Initiatives and founded its Emerging Human Rights Leaders Program. His courses, “American Protest Literature” and “Stories of Slavery and Freedom” among them, are consistently some of the college’s highest rated. His fifth book, “Stonewall’s Children,” is slated for publication in 2018. Despite a busy schedule with minimal time for sleep, McCarthy is full of exuberant energy: His gesticulations are sweeping, his laughter booming, and his sneakers a brilliant red. Editor’s note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: Sweet kicks! Will you tell me about them?
TM: I’ve developed what I like to think of as a really great sneaker game over the past couple years. These shoes in particular are my Resistance School shoes. Last year the Kennedy School students who were reeling from the Trump election came up with Resistance School [an online training course on resistance and political advocacy], and I gave its first lecture. I wore these shoes because they were revolution red, and I thought, what better way to mark resistance than with fashion? It turns out that the podium I was standing at was only waist-up, so you could see my shoes on the video, which was watched on Facebook Live by hundreds of thousands of people across the globe. My #fierceredshoes became a thing for a little while.
FM: When was the last time—to use your mantra—you were “in the belly of the beast and gave it indigestion?”
TM: In the last year I’ve been to the Women’s March, I’ve been to actions around DACA, against white supremacy…Last night I was at the panel critiquing the presence of Charles Murray on campus. But I’m going to give the beast serious indigestion about two hours from now. There’s a rally to speak out against President Trump’s repeal of DACA and to express support for our students here who are undocumented or from mixed-status families, so I’m going to walk my resistance shoes up to Mass Ave. after this and participate in that action. I don’t want to make too much of the sneakers—I suppose I have already, haven’t I? I march and I rally, but I also teach and write. I do a lot of things that are in service to a larger resistance. I’m never particularly willing to accept the status quo. I’ve always been a rebel, a protestor, a rabble rouser.
FM: “Hamilton,” the musical. Yea or nay?
TM: I loved “Hamilton” when I saw it on Broadway. I listen to the soundtrack. I have one of the cups with the star on them. On the sheer level of entertainment, I thought it was phenomenal. From the historian’s perspective and the political perspective, I have to wonder: Does it just use black and brown performers and bodies to reenact what is a fairly traditional narrative about the founding of the country? The female characters have their turn in terms of center stage, but this is a very masculine play, and the traditional reading of the founding is not just white but also male. The two characters that are most queer include Thomas Jefferson, who is widely criticized as a slave owner and a hypocrite and this Prince-like, purple-clad dandy who returns from Paris and asks, “What did I miss? What did I miss?” and prances across the stage. The other queer character in “Hamilton” is King George III, who shows up every once in awhile to bring a little sass and strut his stuff, and then leaves. What does it mean to “queer” Jefferson and the King of England as these twin villains, black and white? So when you think about gender and sexuality and race and the intersection of those things with respect to power, privilege, class, politics—well, I’m not sure “Hamilton” is as radical as some people have said it is. But I still love it. There are lots of things I love that aren’t really radical.
FM: Will you tell me the story of how you first met Quincy House? Was it really love at first sight?
TM: You know, it was. This is the first year that I can say this: I’ve lived in Quincy House longer than I’ve lived anywhere else. It’s been a long-time love affair with lots of people involved because I’ve seen thousands and thousands of students come through here, and hundreds of tutors and three sets of Faculty Deans. I’ve lived here in every iteration that I’ve had at Harvard—as an undergraduate, as a graduate student tutor, as the [senior resident dean] early on in my faculty career, and as a faculty affiliate since getting engaged and married to my husband. The Mayor of Cambridge married us in the courtyard of Quincy House. Yeah, it was pretty awesome. It really has been a love affair, literally, figuratively, and long-standingly.
This story has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: September 16, 2017
A previous version of this story misstated Professor McCarthy's title.
A previous version of this story incorrectly indicated that "Stonewall's Children" will be published in November. It will be published in 2018.
Sections
UPDATED: September 16, 2017 at 5:40 p.m.
Roberto G. Gonzales is a Professor of Education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and a sociologist who researches inequality. Gonzales has done extensive work focusing on undocumented immigrant youth and young adult populations in America. He conducted a 12-year study to determine what happens to undocumented youth as they transition to adulthood, a study culminating in his book “Lives in Limbo: Undocumented and Coming of Age in America.” Gonzales followed this with a five-year study of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Since the Trump administration announced its plans to end DACA, Gonzales has received an inundation of media requests.  
Editor’s Note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Fifteen Minutes: What led you to this field of research?
Roberto Gonzales: I had worked as a youth organizer in Chicago for 10 years, and I had lived in the same community where I worked. It was an immigrant community, largely Mexican and Polish, and I had the experience of seeing many kids in our community hit dead ends at around fourteen, fifteen years old. As their friends were getting drivers licenses, taking after school jobs, and starting to think about college, many of the young people I was working with in the community, because of their immigration status constraints, were not able to join their friends at a really critical time.
Then when I got to graduate school, I was working with some prominent immigration scholars who were my advisors and some of them were studying undocumented immigrants as adults and as workers, but hadn’t yet thought about the circumstances of children in these families, especially kids who have undocumented status. I had very first hand experience with a growing demographic of kids in our communities and in our schools that wasn’t being reflected in the academic literature. I saw a big gap there. So I started this research very early on in my graduate studies.
FM: What sort of factors influence DACA’s accessibility to young undocumented immigrants?
RG: One of the requirements is an education requirement—so, to be in school, to either have graduated from high school or have success with a completed GED program, or to be enrolled in GED, workforce development or literacy programs.
Someone could enroll in a program and that would get them eligibility, but there are other issues, like being able to find those on-ramps back into education for young people who, for the last several years, have been working in low wage jobs, trying to support their families.
Place matters a lot. To have DACA in New York City, for example, where you have access to in-state tuition, a very strong public higher education system, reliable public transportation, and you live in a city that supports immigrants is very different than growing up and having DACA in suburban or rural Georgia. You’re excluded from public education, even with DACA, where public transportation is not so vast and so available, and where there are local agreements between immigration enforcement and local police. Where one lives today is dramatically determinative of the level of access that young people with DACA have.
FM: What kind of impacts has DACA had on young undocumented immigrant populations?
RG: We’ve seen DACA beneficiaries take giant leaps, off the margins and towards the American mainstream.They have certainly seen investments in higher education pay off, in the form of high paying jobs and also access to graduate school.
But in my opinion, and from our data, arguably the biggest success stories of DACA have been those young people who prior to DACA had been funneled out of school. DACA has provided really important incentives for young people to go back to school and really important on-ramps to workforce development.
FM: Have there been any unexpected impacts of DACA?
RG: Beyond education and employment, DACA has also helped boost feelings of belonging and improve mental health. In my LA study, this was one of my biggest surprise findings. What I found very early on is that the young people I met were describing physical and emotional manifestations of stress: chronic headaches, ulcers, sleep problems, eating disorders, depression, thoughts of suicide. This link between undocumented status and strained well being became clear early on, and DACA has worked to alleviate a lot of these pressures.
FM: What could the end of DACA mean for eligible young people?
RG: Thinking about current events now, I think with the very real possibility of this program ending, especially if there is no legislative solution in the next six months, then all of this that we’ve been talking about is in jeopardy. This is a program that has provided a nontrivial number of young people access to the American Dream, and for it to be taken away, I think we’ll have really tremendous ripple effects. I think we can imagine some of them, but I think there are many more that will emerge over the weeks and months ahead that we haven’t even anticipated.
This story has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: September 15, 2017
A previous version of this story misstated Professor Gonzales's title. 
Sections
Jim Sidanius has studied political psychology in two countries for more than half a century. Today, he is the John Lindsley Professor of Psychology in memory of William James and of African and African American Studies. He wants Harvard students, however, to know that even he is “still struggling to figure out what is going on in the world.” In the era of Trump and white nationalist demonstrations, Sidanius and his team are working to understand present day segregation and racism not only in the United States, but around the globe. Editor’s note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: Can you tell me a little bit about your childhood and where you grew up?
JS: I grew up in New York City in Manhattan in the mid-twentieth century and lived in several different places around the city and in the South Bronx for a while. Since my father was dead and I was the only child of a working mother, she would handle childcare by farming me out to various friends and relatives for five days a week, and then on the weekend I would spend the time with my biological mom.
FM: What about psychology inspired you to pursue a doctorate?
JS: I’d always been interested in psychology, ever since I was a young lad, and originally I was interested in clinical psychology and psychological illnesses, and that prompted me to direct my attention to that area for a good long while until I became a second-year graduate student and sort of became disillusioned with the state of our knowledge in clinical psychology. I left the field and decided to study political psychology. I’d always been politically active in the civil rights movement and the black power movement, and it seemed a good way to wed my two interests: psychology and politics.
FM: Can you please explain the social dominance theory?
JS: Social dominance theory is something I came up with when I had returned from Sweden to the United States in the 1980s. One of the things I noticed while I was in Sweden was that even though the level of prejudice and discrimination in the culture was much less than I experienced in the U.S., it was still the case that there seemed to always be a group of people who were discriminated against, and oppressed society would always divide into dominants and subordinates. In reading through history it seems to be the case that it was a constant phenomenon in all societies regardless if they were democratic or authoritarian. They all consisted of systems of group-based inequality, and it was an attempt to try to understand why that was.
FM: The Sidanius lab focuses on the social psychology of intergroup relations. Why did you make this the focus of the lab, and what are you and your team working on right now?
JS: We are working on a variety of things. One of the things I am in the middle of writing at the moment is looking at some data from South Africa, in terms of the relationship between ethnic and national identity. In the United States, there’s a positive correlation between feeling American and identifying as white, but for African Americans, the relationship between those two identities is negative, so the more African American they feel, the less American they feel. From my perspective, an improvement on “inter-ethnic” relationships would be if each member of each ethnic group could feel equally associated with the nation as a whole and with their ethnic sub-identities, which would be an ideal state of pluralism.
FM: Recently, there have been highly visible displays of white nationalism in the United States. Do you think that these views have always been alive and well in the US and President Trump made it acceptable to express these views, or do you think that President Trump has inspired a new group of individuals to take on white nationalist mindsets?
JS: No, I don’t think there is anything new in what happened in Charlottesville. He did not instigate anything new, he simply touched a nerve in a phenomenon that was always latent in American culture and as far as we can tell about a third of the population was all sort of latently fascist oriented and relatively racist. He simply made it acceptable to express those feelings and emotions. So that is the only real difference between the past pre-Trump and the post-Trump era.
FM: In your 2008 book “The Diversity Challenge,” you tracked 2000 students at the University of California, Los Angeles, and you were unable to detect any effect, positive or negative, of the university’s extensive multicultural programming. Why do you think that is?
JS: The thing I find most interesting in the results, is that the longer students were exposed to ethnic organizations, the more intolerant they became of other ethnic groups. So, you can think of fraternities and sororities as a kind of white or ethnically-oriented or identity-oriented organization, and the same thing happened to the minority students. So these ethnically oriented student organizations had a tendency in our findings to exacerbate tension between the various ethnic groups, rather than to alleviate it.
Sections
Professor Charmaine Nelson, an art historian from McGill University, joined the faculty of Women, Gender, and Sexuality this autumn as a visiting professor. Nelson’s work examines art and visual culture from across America, Canada, Europe and the Caribbean. Her research at Harvard concerns fugitive slave advertisements in Canada, challenging the myth that Canada was always a refuge for enslaved people in North America. Nelson’s course, “Exploring Race, Gender, and Sexuality in Historical Art and Visual Culture,” introduces students to the styles and social forces informing visual art. Editor’s note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: How is the conception of race in the US different from Canada?
CN: The colonial or imperial histories of both nations are similar and overlapping. This year, Canada is celebrating its 150th anniversary. But the nation formed, large parts of Canada and what became the United States were considered British North America or New France. Parts of America were considered New Spain. Territories were changing hands quite a bit. When the border formed, discrete national and regional politics entrenched themselves and Canadians quickly forgot their colonial histories.
I’m here at Harvard researching slavery in the regions that became Canada. The average Canadian doesn’t even realize transatlantic slavery happened in Canada. Canada has this misperception of racelessness or racial blindness and positions itself as being extraordinary racially tolerant, but this is based on a fiction that colonialism and racism never happened in Canada. Canadians got to that point through an erasure—we offload it onto the United States.
There were fewer slaves because you needed fewer, not because white people were any nicer or kinder. If you forget the history and legacy of black people in Canada, you can erase what happened to them and erase that slavery ever transpired. For me, the stark difference is that Americans are more honest with their racial traumas than Canadians.
FM: What is the most interesting, surprising thing you’ve come across in your archival research or reading?
CN: I found a fascinating person in the Quebec fugitive slave ads. Part of what I’m looking at is creolization, or how Africans became African American or African Brazilian and so on, and what that meant culturally. This one man—Joe—was particularly haunting. I found five different ads for him, and you can actually map Joe’s creolization across these ads.
In the first ad, Joe is described as a “negro lad”. His owner, a man named William Brown, owns the newspaper—he’s putting an ad for Joe in his own paper. The ad says Joe was African-born, which is significant because a minority of enslaved people are people born in Africa. Slave ships always stopped in South America or the Caribbean first. So, Joe survived two middle passages: one from Africa to somewhere in the American South, and then one to Halifax, Quebec City, or Montreal. William Brown also says Joe speaks English and French tolerably.
By the fifth ad, Joe is a man. He’s fluent in English and French, and he was working as a pressman—he was running the press! Joe must have known exactly what a runaway slave ad was. He had probably been made to formulate, print, and edit ads for his fellow enslaved people. The newspaper he was helping to print, the Quebec Gazette, was owned by the guy who owned him. He must have known Brown would come after him.
But, ads can’t tell you if a person was caught or not. So, how do you finish Joe’s narrative? You can go to other archives and personal letters. But, the real obscenity is that you go to the will or the state inventory of the person who owned the slave. The thing is—William Brown would have had to die before Joe in order for him to be in the will. If Brown dies, Joe is passed down or sold, which was likely because enslaved people had shorter life expectancies. So, my question is: How do you read fugitive slave ads against the grain? They sought to criminalize stealing yourself. How can I use the ads to re-humanize people who were dehumanized?
Sections
 Jamaica Kincaid, a Professor of African and African American Studies in Residence, originally planned to pursue photography, but ended up becoming a writer instead. Her writing has taken her far: Kincaid, a long-time novelist who is known for blending autobiographical narratives with fictional characters, wrote for The New Yorker for 20 years and recently won the 2017 Dan David Prize in Literature, 33 years after she won her first literary award. Born in Antigua, she has recently been pondering the beauty of landscapes as she studies John Milton’s “Paradise Lost”, which she says reminds her that one of her main hobbies, gardening, is a great privilege. Editor’s note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: What does the word “home” mean to you?
JK: Oh, it’s funny. When I’m here in America, I think home is Antigua. When I’m in Antigua, I think home is in Vermont. But I would choose Vermont over Antigua, for very peculiar inner reasons. Vermont is landlocked, and you can’t see the sea. You can see rivers and so on, and in Antigua, the only thing you can see is water all the time. I actually am terrified of water. I have a deep fear of water, so I would choose to live in a landlocked place where I can dream of water but never actually be threatened by it.
FM: Is there any event or incident in your life that caused you to become afraid of water?
JK: Probably something to do—as with so many things in my life—with my mother. You could read any book of mine and find this. I think that once, my mother and I were swimming, and she disappeared, and I couldn’t find her. I thought I wouldn’t see her again. Of course, she was just diving or something, and she reappeared. But the time between her disappearing and reappearing seemed an eternity. There are other times where she was in the same room with me but was a bit away from me, and I was never sure we would ever be back together again. But I think the water one that I just told you was particularly memorable. I think my fear of water must stem from that….I’m the sort of person who goes to the beach and never gets wet. I like looking at water, but I don’t like to be in it—unless it’s a bathtub.
FM: Your original name is Elaine Potter Richardson. What’s in a name? In what ways do you feel like your changed name has affected your life?
JK: I changed my name, as you can see online, because I started to write and I didn’t want my parents to know that I was doing something I would clearly fail at. No one from my background ever wrote, and I didn’t think I would succeed at it. But I didn’t care about failing. It never occurred to me that there was something called failure. I still don’t know what it is to fail—not that I’ve succeeded at everything, but what do you mean when you say, “failed”? You didn’t get into Harvard? Is that a failure? I suppose, if you were swimming and you were drowning, and you didn’t reach the shore, that would be a failure. But the rest, I don’t know. I don’t really have any expectations. I’m doing something, I don’t know how it will turn out. Maybe for some other people doing the same thing, it will turn out better for them than for me. But I wouldn’t consider myself a failure because I didn’t get as much as they did. I suppose I didn’t grow up in that way of expectations and failure and so on. I was brought up to do the best that I could do, in whatever I was doing.
FM: Now, this is a big question, but between childhood and adulthood—what would you define to be the turning point of your life?
JK: Oh, I don’t think I’ve ever become an adult. It’s very odd because I have two children and I raised them. I’m someone who believes that something significant happens to you by the time you’re seven. And then that’s the rest of your life. At seven years old, whatever it is that happens, you find ways of recapturing, reliving, refining, or reinventing it. It’s a pattern that you have. It’s something significant. Sometimes I think I know exactly what it is, but there are so many things. If being an adult means paying your bills and so on, I can do that. My essential nature is that I am still seven years old. At seven years of age, I loved reading the dictionary. I still love reading the dictionary! I have a collection of dictionaries of all kinds. My world was formed by reading “Paradise Lost at seven. I think I’m stuck at seven, and I’ve never become an adult. I try: I have mortgage, I have children, they’re going to college, I was married, I traveled—I do all sorts of adult things, but really, I’m seven.
FM: What have you been working on this year? A New Year’s Resolution, a simple goal, a project, a piece of writing?
JK: I never talk about what I’m writing. But I’ve been working on my garden a lot because, as every gardener knows, a garden is never set….My garden has at least 10,000 daffodils because I wanted to redeem Wordsworth. It’s a story about being forced to memorize his poem, “I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud.” So I decided that to pay homage to Wordsworth, I would plant at least  10,000 daffodils. That’s just on the lawn. Around and around, there are also sort of little homages to other things, sometimes historical. You would say a garden is a nice little thing, but I think of a garden as plant-hunting in Nepal. Sometimes, I have friends come over and we have a daffodil party, and we recite Wordsworth and drink champagne. It’s not Wordsworth’s fault that colonial education forced us to memorize a poem about a flower that we had never seen.
Sections
Shiv S. Pillai spent his childhood acting in theater productions—a fact that won’t surprise anyone who has encountered the lively, charismatic professor. Later, he shifted his focus to the laboratory, where he emerged as a pioneer in the field of immunology. Today, Pillai is a Professor of Medicine and Health Sciences and Technology at Harvard Medical School. He researches the determinants of disease in hopes of finding better ways to treat and prevent illness in humans. In the classroom, Pillai considers himself not just a teacher, but also an entertainer and a storyteller. Editor’s note: this interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: How did you become interested in a career in medicine and eventually immunology?
SP: I think that when I was about 14 or 15 years old, I read a book called “Microbe Hunters.” It’s a book which described Pasteur, Koch, and all the pioneers who discovered that microbes cause disease and things like that. And it got me interested in medicine.
I grew up in India, and there you go to medical school straight out of high school, so I applied to medical school. Everybody was going to engineering school, and you weren’t considered a real person unless you went to engineering school, but I decided to go to medical school. I was interested in science and research, and medicine seemed the way.
FM: Could you briefly describe your current research?
SP: There are a couple of aspects to my current research. One angle really concerns disease.
We’ve tried to take a couple of diseases and figure them out. So we’ve been looking at two fibrotic diseases where you get scarring basically in your tissues—[they’re] called fibrosis. And we’ve been trying to find clones of lymphocytes, those immune cells that go into the tissues, because of the powerful tools you can use nowadays with next-gen sequencing. You can take a million cells and find out which are most expanded using this technology. It’s possible we could answer these questions. So we’ve actually made some progress in understanding why people get fibrosis.
FM: As head of a laboratory, you are in charge of a team of researchers working in close coordination. What type of work environment do you hope to foster in your lab?
SP: Fun. The reality is that science is actually hard. Medicine, for me, was much easier in the sense that you went in the morning, you did your job. Even if you stayed late, when you were done you were done. If the patient survived, you did everything; if the patient didn’t make it, you had done everything. That was it. In science, you are never done. There is always something that’s not finished. The only way to survive in this type of field is to really enjoy the stuff you do, and to have fun with whatever comes out of it. This is a different kind of fun. It’s not the partying kind of fun, but it’s enjoying what you do. So I hope in my lab, it’s a friendly group. My office door is always open. People come in and go out. We eat a lot. We have fun.
FM: What is your favorite part about teaching, and how do you keep students excited and interested?
SP: I have a formula. I always tell stories. Immunology is filled with stories. Some of the stories are about people I know, things I’ve witnessed happen, and discoveries I’ve seen being made, with some personal aspect to it perhaps. I like to tell stories and then go to the board to explain what’s going on. And since  I’m this pretend poet, I always end with a summary in rhyme. The rhyme can be 10 minutes long; it can be two minutes long. It’s what I’m known for. There are people who write to me sometimes, not for the science, but because they’ve seen something on Youtube.
FM: What is your process of writing these rhymes?
SP: Long flights when I’m bored—flying to Japan. I’ve got to pass the time, so I sit, think, and write a rhyme. It always has science in it, and I try to explain something. It’s kind of fun for me.
FM; In your field, breakthroughs are being made at a rapid pace. In your opinion, what areas of research related to immunology are most promising right now?
SP: The thing that most people are excited about in recent years is tumor immunology. That’s because the only way to cure a cancer today is to react to it with the immune system—all the other treatments are not cures or are generally not cures. You can have a remission and never know when it will come back, or have a partial remission. But with some of the new immune treatments, which are only a few years old, people have had tumors where they should have died in three months, and they didn’t. The first patient was in 2001, so people have lived for sixteen years already. Jimmy Carter had a melanoma three years ago. If he’d had it five years ago, he would be gone, but now he’s probably cured.
You can imagine what will happen that one day when we understand enough. It took us a long time to find cures for cancer. Before you knew that streptococcus causes arthritis, before you knew that it was a microbe, there were no treatments—it was all empirical. Right now we’re in that stage for many diseases. We know in diabetes that blood sugar goes up and insulin goes down, so we give you insulin. But why does that happen? What exactly is the mechanism? I think a lot of that is going to come from immunology.
Sections
Recovering from surgery and battling pneumonia, Professor Joshua W. Buckholtz stands at the front of a room full of eager student who are awaiting the first lecture of PSY18: Abnormal Psychology. The class focuses on structures and mechanisms of mental illness. When he isn’t teaching, Buckholtz runs an experimental psychology lab that conducts research primarily centered around the human capacity for self-control. His team uses a variety of methods including brain imaging, personality testing, and genetic approaches to better understand the neurobiology of behavioral regulation, and uses that knowledge to devise potential treatments for disorders such as antisocial personality, psychopathy, and substance abuse. Despite his current condition, Buckholtz is enthusiastic about teaching this semester. Editor’s note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
JB: What I lack in the ability of my body, I make up for in the enthusiasm of my mind and spirit. I picked out volunteers for who was gonna call the EMTs if I lose consciousness. Truthfully, I love this class so much. I couldn’t imagine not doing it, so here we are.
FM: What do you love most about the class?
JB: The thing I love about this class is that mental illness touches everyone. There’s no one that we know who doesn’t have someone that they love, someone that they care about, or maybe even themselves, that is affected in some way by psychopathology, right? But there is so much myth and legend and voodoo and misunderstanding about what mental illness is and what it isn’t, and what disorders are and what they aren’t, and how to treat people and what’s garbage. And I feel like these things are so important because they affect real people in real time. And not like I’m the only qualified person to do it, but I have an opportunity to tell a bunch of people things that they can carry with them for the rest of their lives, and maybe make their lives and the lives of the people around them a little bit easier. What more could a professor ask for?
FM: Where and how does your research apply to your everyday life?
JB: You know, there’s a saying in science, “All research is me-search.” And the research component for me is that as a kid, and as an adolescent, self-control was really hard for me. I made a lot of mistakes, and fortunately, my capacities for self-control did eventually kick in. But I really remained fascinated by this set of abilities that was so foreign to me and caused me so much distress, and that feeling of not understanding why I was making these bad decisions all the time as a teenager really made a significant impression on me. So, that’s sort of what I want to understand.
FM: Double Stuf Oreos are what make me lose my sense of self-control. What is it for you?
JB: Umm… you mean my self-control kryptonite? Mike’s cannolis. Mike’s cannolis will reliably do that.
FM: What is your all-time favorite movie and why?
JB: Can I ask my wife? “Trading Places” and “The Big Lebowski.” I like “Trading Places” because there’s a strong moral justice element to it, and the plot centers around using the intelligence of very smart, but very bad, people against them. “The Big Lebowski” because it just feels like settling into a very old and well-worn chair. I would say it’s like the cinematic equivalent of mac and cheese. It’s like comfort food, visually.
FM: If you could manipulate one part of the human brain, what would you change and why?
JB: It’s an interesting question and a difficult one to answer. We already manipulate a part of the brain called the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex using a technique called transcranial direct current stimulation—it’s a type of non-invasive brain stimulation. And so, I’m going to artfully duck that question and say, see also: brain, comma, complexity thereof.
FM:Artful ducking indeed. So let me rephrase…. If you could have one superpower what would it be?
JB: I’d say, it’d be perfect Theory of Mind: the ability to perfectly read the intentions, motivations, and goals of other people.
FM: But then you’d have no research left to do and you’d be out of work.
JB: The way I think about it, there’s obviously an evil side to it. But you know, people are complicated and I have this childhood dream that if I could just figure out what’s going on with this person, I could figure out a way to help them better and figure out what they need.
Sections
Alex Krieger, a graduate of and professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Design, teaches and practices architecture. As an architect at the local firm NBBJ, a teacher at the College and the GSD, an author, and architectural advisor, Krieger has emerged as a leader in his field over a career that spans four decades. Editor’s note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: How did you first get interested in architecture and design?
AK: Neither of my parents finished high school. Actually, they didn’t finish grade school. I’m the son of Holocaust survivors. Somehow, despite that, when I was about 10 or 11, living in Chicago, I just said I wanted to be an architect. I’m not sure I even understood what that was supposed to be. But it kind of stuck.
FM: What do you like about architecture? Do you view it as something of an art form? Is it more of a science for you?
AK: As an architect, there’s a combination of both. There are certainly a lot of pragmatic, technical considerations involved. But there’s also the act of creating something that doesn’t exist…You feel pretty darn good about seeing something realized, something tangible that didn’t exist before. And of course the fact that many people—the promenade in Shanghai is used by probably half a million people every weekend. So it’s kind of nice to know that you helped improve the well being of a bunch of people, whether it’s a health care building, or a promenade, or a modest center for a private school in Cambridge.
FM: Do you have an all-time favorite architect from the history of architecture and art history?
AK: I would say, Frank Lloyd Wright. Growing up in Chicago, being aware of Frank Lloyd Wright, and visiting some of his houses—many of them were built on the outskirts of Chicago. I suspect he had something to do with my desire to become an architect, even if it was subliminally.
FM: What do you think Boston can be doing to improve its urban life? What is your wish for the city?
AK: At the moment, I think there’s too much emphasis on private development. The city’s undergoing a boom—an economic boom. Of course, one of the negative aspects of this is that the city’s becoming less affordable. I would say that there’s not an equivalent commitment by the public sector—the city of Boston —to enhance the shared environment, [either] through streets or bike lanes or additional parks or other aspects that serve society as a whole, as opposed to individual developers.
FM: Do you think that there’s a value in maintaining the aesthetic that was started in the 1600s, or do you think Harvard, in its future buildings, should be going for a more modern aesthetic?
AK: Every era of humanity needs to build in ways that seem most appropriate and sensible and aesthetically interesting to them. That does not mean that you can do anything at Harvard. You should still follow, you should still learn from the traditional architecture at Harvard. But you don’t necessarily have to mimic it.
Sections
Calling Carla D. Martin ’03 a ‘chocoholic’ is a bit of an understatement. Martin, a lecturer in the Department of African and African American Studies and the Executive Director of the Fine Cacao and Chocolate Institute, has dedicated her life to studying all things chocolate, from the culture of cultivating cocoa beans to the politics of picking a chocolate bar off the supermarket shelf. Martin’s work for the FCCI has taken her all over the world to create common understanding among global chocolate distributors, teach cacao growers how to better evaluate their products, and promote collaboration between producers and consumers in the chocolate market. Editor’s Note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: When did you realize that chocolate was the subject area that you wanted to study?
CM: I lived in West Africa for a period of about three years over time when I was doing dissertation research. I was living in a small archipelago called Cape Verde, and the family that I came to consider my Cape Verdean family had had family members who were indentured by the Portuguese government under colonialism. They were sent to work on cacao and sugar plantations in Sao Tome, another small group of islands off the coast of west central Africa. As I looked into this, I learned that many of them had lost touch with their family members, and in fact, they had been working in conditions of slavery up until 1962. I was shocked to learn that that had been going on for that long. I thought to myself: how is it possible that chocolate, this thing that I’ve always wanted, this luxury that I had always been able to enjoy, has such a problematic labor condition of production and that so many of us are unaware of that?
FM: How do the classes you teach at Harvard and the work you do for the Fine Cacao and Chocolate Institute inform each other?
CM: What I’ve found is that all of my academic work has set me up to be effective as the leader of a non-profit organization. There is always overlap in what I end up doing. I’ve especially found that it actually improves what I’m able to do with students when I come back into the Harvard classroom. I’ve taught this chocolate class, for example, for about five years, and there were times last spring semester when I thought to myself: how is it possible that I’ve taught this before when I’ve only learned what I’m saying now over the last six months? It’s constantly keeping me fresh, and it’s constantly updating my knowledge and enriching what I’m able to do with students.
FM: You also have a large public following on social media. Have there been times when you felt your online presence has made a big difference in the world of chocolate?
CM: There have been a variety of different scandals in the chocolate world over the past several years. Whenever a new report comes out about, say, child labor in cacao production (which is very popularized by the media), I’m able to have a real, immediate impact in terms of how people interpret and understand that report on Twitter. Although, what I will add is that it comes with some negative sides. I have had various neo-conservative groups attack my work via social media or via email in creepy ways. They write in and they say, ‘you’re trying to ruin M&Ms for everyone!’
FM: How much of your work deals with the production of chocolate, and how much deals with the end product?
CM: Because I work in the field of anthropology, my work is very holistic, so I’m really trying to see all of these different levels of production and consumption and how they connect with one another. What I find most useful—especially through the social engagement that I do with the nonprofit organization—is that I try to make decisions from the ground-up. And typically, the way that we as North Americans view chocolate is from the top-down, because we’re at the end stage of the supply chain. We have very little connection to the producers who make those raw materials without which chocolate wouldn’t exist.
FM: Has tasting the best chocolate in the entire world essentially ruined Tootsie Rolls and Snickers Bars for you?
CM: [Laughter] I was raised by a couple of hippies, and I was not allowed to have a lot of sweets. For me, any time I was bribed, I was bribed with candy because people knew I never got to have any. So, to this day, I love Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups, M&Ms, Hershey’s Kisses... I will never turn those down. I think that it’s important that we understand them as a category of chocolate that’s available to us. Hershey’s Kisses are eleven percent cocoa content. The rest is sugar and milk and milk fat. But, I’m aware of the fact that when I have a Hershey’s Kiss, it’s nostalgic for me and has a very particular flavor profile. I think about childhood.
Sections
Over the course of her four-decade career, Marjorie Garber has written about a lot of things, including real estate, dogs, and bisexuality. She’s best known, though, for studying Shakespeare, a subject she’s taught in Harvard’s English department since the early 1980s. Once called “one of the most powerful women in the academic world” in the New York Times, Garber has put on plays in the streets of Philadelphia, chaired the Department of Visual and Environmental Studies, and published 18 books. She is fascinated by the history and future of reading and revels in watching texts take on new valences “every decade, every semester.” When she’s not reading the Bard, Garber loves to sit down with a good detective novel. Editor’s note: This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
FM: You recently published a book on the future of reading. In the time that you’ve been teaching, have you noticed any trends or differences in the ways your students engage with literature?
MG: By and large, it seems that Harvard gets wonderful students. I’ve found that students are incredibly responsive to literature: I’ve taught Renaissance literature; I’ve taught a lot of Shakespeare. I’ve found that pretty much students are consistent in their interest. Teaching a course is a matter of trying to find out where students’ interests are and presenting the material so that it catches fire for them. That’s the thrill of it and the risk of it.
FM: What’s the trick to getting it to catch fire?
MG: Listening. You can hear when students are listening; you can hear when you’ve lost their attention. I like the liveness of teaching; I like the fact that it’s every day something new. Every time I read a text, whether it’s a novel or a play or a piece of criticism, it comes alive for me in a different way.
FM: Do you have a dream course you’ve never gotten to teach but always wanted to?
MG: I’m close to that with the Bloomsbury Group. When I was in college I was actually a modernist, and I read Shakespeare as a modernist.
I really think it’s the best job in the world to teach Shakespeare. And to teach at Harvard is extraordinary. But I’ve always wanted to go back to the early 20th century, and the turn of the century, and now I’m having a chance to do that.
Houghton has fabulous things. The theater collection has fabulous things. They have the papers, for example, of Edward Gordon Craig, who is a great theatre designer and actor. Someday I’d like to teach a course on Craig and theater design. I’m interested in theatre as a practical activity as well as a literary activity.
FM: What makes teaching Shakespeare the best job in the world?
MG: Every age invents its own Shakespeare. Every decade, every semester, the plays change. A play has three time periods: the time in which it’s written, the time in which it’s set, and the time in which it’s performed. For me, it’s an endless pleasure.
I taught a course and wrote a book called “Shakespeare and Modern Culture,” about a series of plays and the concepts they gave us that we have been using ever since. “Romeo and Juliet” and youth, for example—the notion of youth actually is a fairly new notion. I looked at a 10 plays and how they were being talked about today in the newspaper, how they’ve been turned into other arts like ballet, how Shakespeare lived on in adaptations.
FM: What makes a good Shakespeare adaptation? I think it’s easy to just take the play and put it in a different setting.
MG: Well, that’s the first step. And it’s a step that has become more common. But there has to be a point of that juxtaposition. You’re comparing two time periods, the technologies of two time periods. Michael Almereyda made a wonderful film of “Hamlet”—with Ethan Hawke as Hamlet—and he was an indie film director. He would stop and start and stop and start his images, and “to be or not to be” was played with that. And this wouldn’t work if “Hamlet” the play weren’t also about modes of failed communication, letters that don’t get where they’re supposed to be getting or letters that get written. The filmmaker understood something about the subtext of the play and worked with it.
FM: In the past, you’ve talked about the divide between the “high-brow” and the “low-brow” not being a productive or helpful way of thinking about cultural objects.
MG: Shakespeare was a popular playwright from the beginning until maybe the beginning of the 20th century. Thomas Bodley set up the Bodleian Library at Oxford and he said, “There are to be no play scripts in my library. They are baggage books, they are riff raff.” It was the equivalent of pulp fiction. Shakespeare was performed in America in the 19th century by traveling troupes of people, and there was not a hush when the curtain went up. It was not the opera. It was like a sporting event, it was open air, they were shouting for programs, there were people selling oranges. We very often mistake the high and the low.
When I first came to Harvard, seniors in the English department could not write their theses on living authors because—I think—you didn’t know how they would be valued by posterity. That seems so incredible now. The idea that somehow a literary career was a closed artifact before it could be something you could study is a very different notion from understanding that we live in language, that poetry and art and images are all around us. The humanities are humanity. It’s not a specialized study, it’s where we are.
Sections
As attendees quietly shuffled into the lecture hall where conservative political scientist Charles A. Murray ’65 was preparing to speak, the impassioned cries of 50 protesters overtook the silence: “Black, brown, Asian, white, Harvard unite for human rights!”
On September 6, the Open Campus Initiative, a student organization that seeks to “test” the limits of free speech on Harvard’s campus, invited Murray to discuss his work and contemporary American politics. Murray is best known for his controversial 1994 book The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life, which presents variance in intelligence between classes. His work has drawn backlash for attributing variance in intelligence, in part, to racial and ethnic differences.
For many students, Murray’s presence on campus was unacceptable. But just how to express that disapproval was a point of debate for protesters. Ultimately, the Open Campus event inspired a number of protest strategies.
Unlike the protesters who became violent during Murray’s visit to Middlebury College in March, members of the Undergraduate Council’s Black Caucus and Harvard Black Students Association decided to organize a nonviolent rally outside Murray’s lecture, followed by a faculty discussion panel in the Northwest Labs called “Speak Out Against White Supremacy.”
Police officers on bicycles separated the people in line for Murray’s lecture from the protesters. Participants in the counter-event, who said they did not intend to divert attendees from Murray’s lecture, nonetheless made their position clear: Ezekiel P. Benshirim ’19 held an explanatory sign to debunk Murray’s intelligence theories, while Sofia C. Shapiro ’19 held a  cardboard sign reading, “DISCUSS REVOLUTION, NOT EUGENICS!”
The student organizers of the protest said they were careful to avoid accusations of intolerance. Nicholas P. Whittaker ’19, one of the organizers, said the rally and panel enabled students to hold “a disruptive but peaceful event that led to a really stimulating, intellectual discussion.”
A faculty panel discussion next door focused on Murray’s presence on campus, rather than on the stated topic of his lecture. Sociology and African & African American Studies Professor Michèle Lamont, WGS Director of Undergraduate Studies and Lecturer Caroline Light, and History and African & African American Studies Professor Walter Johnson offered opening remarks before fielding questions from the student organizers and audience members.
“This performance art of white instigation and impunity—it will probably make Charles Murray hundreds of thousands of dollars this year. And it will give the campus penny loafers who invited him something to brag about to their parents,” Johnson said.
Hakeem O. I. Angulu ’20, another student organizer, hoped the event would help reframe the concept of free speech “to include speech against hate speech” and “to take it back from people who are provocateurs.”
Angulu said he appreciated how faculty dismissed Murray’s scholarship. “We don’t think these ideas are okay or worth engaging with, because they’ve already been denounced so many times, Angulu said. “So let’s talk about that and move forward.”
While the student organizers, along with many audience members, were pleased with the rally and panel discussion, some people called for other protest strategies.
For Anselm Kizza-Besigge ’21, success would have been preventing Murray from speaking. “It’s my intention to spend the next four years here in solidarity with the people who want to reclaim this space—I mean, claim it at once—for people who are marginalized here. And I think the most effective way to have done that today is to reclaim the space that’s being given to a scientific racist and not allow him to speak.”
The goal of the protest was not to suppress the right to free speech. Instead, the panel offered a different mode of engagement—one that many participants thought to be a success.
“This was very much about the facts and how we can access them,” Kristina N. Neal ’19 said. Leaving the lecture hall after the event, she said she felt “invigorated and ready to fight.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: September 14, 2017 at 11:40 a.m.
Sean Spicer, the former White House Press Secretary, will join the Institute of Politics this year as a visiting fellow, the IOP announced Wednesday.
During his six-month tenure as press secretary in the Trump White House, Spicer achieved an unusual level of notoriety and fame. His often-contentious exchanges with White House reporters at press briefings were criticized and controversial, even inspiring a number of portrayals on “Saturday Night Live.” Spicer resigned from the post in July.
Chelsea E. Manning, a transgender activist and former U.S. Army intelligence analyst who was imprisoned for disclosing classified documents, will also serve as a visiting fellow this semester. Manning was released from prison in May 2017.
Robby Mook, who managed Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign, will be a visiting fellow at the IOP and a residential scholar at Kirkland House this year. Mook also leads the Digital Democracy Project at the Kennedy School, which aims to better protect the U.S. electoral system from cyberattacks.
Spicer, Mook, and Manning join Sylvester James Jr., the Mayor of Kansas City, Mo., as the latest additions to the IOP's roster of visiting fall fellows.
Earlier this month, the Institute announced that Corey R. Lewandowski, Trump’s divisive former campaign manager, would also be joining as a visiting fellow. A prominent and early aide to Trump, Lewandowski was dismissed from the campaign after he was charged with misdemeanor battery of a reporter.
According to the press release, the Institute's Visiting Fellows program “brings distinguished veterans of public life to campus for a limited, yet comprehensive number of events.” The fellows will each host several events for students on campus throughout the fall semester.
“This expanded group of Visiting Fellows will be able to fulfill the Institute's mission of engaging students in discourse on topical issues of today,” said Emily M. Hall ’18 and Jason Ge ’18, co-chairs of the IOP Fellows and Study Groups Program, in a press release.
—Staff writer Luke W. Xu can be reached at luke.xu@thecrimson.com.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
CORRECTION: September 14, 2017
A previous version of this article incorrectly indicated that Sylvester James Jr. was the former mayor of Kansas City, Mo. In fact, he is the current mayor.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: September 17, 2017 at 2:47 p.m. 
A new fitness group on campus offers Harvard students the ability to work out at luxury fitness studios around Cambridge at a discounted rate.
Harvard Fitness, formed this semester, partners with private gyms like HandleBar to offer discounted classes to its members. Students can pay either a semester fee of $25 or a year-long fee of $45 to join the organization.
A single class at indoor cycling studio SoulCycle normally costs $30, and class at HandleBar costs $16 for those with a student discount. For members of Harvard Fitness, these classes would be offered free of charge during group outings.
The club’s co-founder Raven Richard ’20 said that she did not think the price of joining would discourage potential members.
“I don't think it's that much of a hurdle because if you do want to go to that kind of cycling class, most people know it's kind of expensive,” Richard said. “It's very cost-effective to join us.”
Richard said that she began planning the group over the summer when she and co-founder Amy E. Zhou ’20, an active Crimson editor, received free SoulCycle passes through working at Harvard Student Agencies. After they had used their passes, Richard said she and Zhou realized it would be expensive to continue going at the full price.
“We were like, we could probably figure out some deal where we could get students in—or a group of people in that have some kind of connection—for a much more discounted rate,” Richard said.
In contrast with most private gyms, Harvard Fitness will place a larger emphasis on building friendships within the group, according to Richard. She said she hopes the social aspect of the club will make getting in shape seem less daunting.
“I think a lot of people are lost in a gym setting. Like, if I go to the gym, I'll just run on the treadmill or do the elliptical. It's just very boring overall,” Richard said. “You're just by yourself. At a gym, people have their headphones in. They're just by themselves exercising.”
Although there are several other fitness organizations on campus ranging from the Harvard Outing Club, a group that organizes outdoor trips for members, to the Harvard On the Move campaign, a University-wide initiative that sponsors weekly walks and runs, Richard says that Harvard Fitness is different because it focuses on “fun fitness.”
“By cycling or yoga, we're picking places that have the kind of environment that builds more of a team and is actually enjoyable versus just getting a workout or just having an on-the-move initiative,” Richard said.
Harvard Fitness has already organized an outing to HandleBar and will later schedule trips to Wellbridge Athletic Club, a fitness and aquatics club in Cambridge, later this semester.
—Staff writer Angela N. Fu can be reached at angela.fu@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @angelanfu.
—Staff writer Dianne Lee can be reached at dianne.lee@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @diannelee_
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This fall, students in Chemistry 17: “Principles of Organic Chemistry” will have one less thing to worry about as they take on the notoriously difficult course: the problem sets will not be graded.
Chemistry professor Eric N. Jacobsen, who teaches the course, wrote in an email that the weekly problem sets will instead be graded on a check minus, check, or check plus scale to reflect students’ effort—a return to a system last used in 2014. The marks, however, do not count towards a student’s final grade in Chemistry 17.
Jacobsen added that he decided to abandon a traditional grading system on problem sets to help students better understand course material. It will also both students and teaching staff to identify potential areas of weakness for exams.
Problem sets “were not a useful assessment tool because they did not really reflect the students’ understanding of the material, and they were not a useful teaching tool because we couldn’t tell what the students did and didn’t understand based on their answers,” Jacobsen wrote.
Jacobsen also wrote that he wants students to truly learn the material rather than look to maximize grades.
“My sense from talking with students about it was that they were more concerned about getting the answers 'right' than with taking the time to understand the underlying concepts,” he wrote.
For some students in the course, the shift is a welcome change.
Noah A. Fanous ’19, who took an intensive version of Chemistry 17 this summer, said he found completing problem sets to be more helpful and enjoyable on the check-based system.
“I really enjoyed not having the psets graded because I could focus on completing the assignment and understanding the material instead of focusing on what the grade would be,” Fanous said. “I felt like it was a very collaborative community and they really wanted us to learn the material.”
But others, like Zeyn U. San ’18-19, said that the shift may cause students to worry about their grades ahead of exams. By not grading problem sets, the course’s midterms and final exams count for a larger part of a student’s final grade.
“I think I will be very anxious leading up to [the midterms],” San said. “But for now, I’m just grateful because I think using psets as a tool to learn is really, really good.”
—Staff writer Madeleine R. Nakada can be reached at madeleine.nakada@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The controversial faculty motion that could decide the future of Harvard undergraduate social life will go before the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at their monthly meeting on October 3, but will not be voted on until November, according to Faculty Council member David L. Howell.
Computer Science professor and former Dean of the College Harry R. Lewis ’68, who filed the motion in August 2017, attended a meeting of the Faculty Council—the highest governing body of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences—to briefly discuss his motion and take questions Wednesday morning. The motion states that Harvard College shall not “discipline, penalize, or otherwise sanction students” for joining “any lawful organization.”  Classics Professor Richard F. Thomas, one of 21 professors who signed the motion, accompanied Lewis to the meeting.
“I thought it was a good and productive discussion,” Lewis said.
Lewis filed his motion over the summer after a faculty committee made an initial recommend to ban membership in undergraduate social groups. That recommendation, which is still subject to revision, is an expansion of an existing set of penalties in single-gender social groups. Starting with the Class of 2021, the existing policy bars members of single-gender social groups from holding club leadership positions or athletic team captaincies and from being recommended for certain post-graduate scholarships.
If Lewis’s motion passes in November, it will directly contradict both the original sanctions and the suggested social group ban.
Music professor Suzannah E. Clark, who co-chairs the committee that recommended the social group ban, also spoke at Wednesday’s Faculty Council meeting. Clark, accompanied by Dean of Students Katherine G. O’Dair, talked “a little” about the committee’s process, Howell said. In particular, Clark and O’Dair mentioned a July 2017 story in The Crimson reporting that just seven of the 27 faculty committee members voted in support of the proposed social group ban.
“That was a leak of information in July; they didn’t go into a lot of detail about that,” Howell said.
Until recently, the exact timeline for voting on Lewis’s motion was unclear. Lewis had requested that his motion appear on the docket of the October meeting.
But some professors initially thought that the motion might also come to a vote at the October meeting. By the rules of faculty procedure, new “substantive” motions cannot be both introduced and voted on in the same meeting. But there was some question as to whether Lewis was introducing a new motion or re-introducing a previous motion—also designed to kill the College’s sanctions—that he filed in May 2016.
Lewis withdrew that first motion in January 2017 after FAS Dean Michael D. Smith announced the creation of the faculty committee and tasked it with revising the penalties. According to Howell, because Lewis formally withdrew the motion, the most recent motion must be considered a new piece of legislation.
At Wednesday’s meeting, Lewis—who has long been a vocal critic of the sanctions—spoke for roughly 20 minutes and distributed a one-page handout that gave the text of his motion and summarized the reasons he believes the College’s social group policy must be abolished. In a bullet-point list, the former dean asserted the penalties encroach on students’ Constitutional right of free association and that undergraduates must be punished for “their acts, not their memberships.”
“It is time for the full Faculty to debate and decide the question of principle: should students ever be punished for joining private organizations?” reads the handout.
It is currently unclear what will happen if the Lewis motion passes. Additionally, Howell said there could be another avenue for the Faculty to voice opposition to or support for the social group sanctions—the College student handbook.
Howell said that if there is a change in policy “as momentous” as the one suggested by the committee’s interim report, that change will likely be included in the student handbook—which must ultimately be approved by the Faculty each May.
–Staff writer Mia C. Karr can be reached at mia.karr@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @miackarr.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Construction on Harvard’s long-delayed Allston campus is on schedule, with the planned seven-story steel framework of the $1 billion Science and Engineering Complex due to be completed in December, according to a University spokesperson.
Above-ground construction commenced on the site in July, and the University plans to have classrooms and laboratories ready to welcome SEAS students, staff, and faculty in the fall of 2020. Other projects in the Institutional Master Plan—Harvard’s 10-year development plan for the Allston neighborhood—are also well underway: The Lavietes Pavilion, home of the Harvard basketball team, is on schedule for renovations, as is Klarman Hall at the Business School, according to University spokesperson Brigid O’Rourke.
“There’s a lot of activity in the Allston space that we want to make sure to keep at high momentum in the year to come,” University President Drew G. Faust said in an interview with the Harvard-run Gazette, published Monday. Faust also noted that the grocery store Trader Joe’s will open a post in the Allston neighborhood of Barry’s Corner will open this fall.
In addition, Harvard may build an “arts lab” on North Harvard Street parallel to the iLab, an entrepreneurship center, University representatives said at a meeting of the Harvard-Allston Task Force in June. If this building is added to the Allston development, then it will undergo a public hearing process and be added as an amendment to the Institutional Master Plan.
With all the construction, Faust said, the University is still seeking donations for the Allston science complex, one of the unfilled “buckets” remaining in Harvard’s record-breaking capital campaign. While the campaign has surpassed its goal and raised over $8 billion with months to go, the Allston project has not met its individual fundraising goal, and the Science and Engineering Complex remains without a donor’s name.
University officials updated Allston residents on the progress of the development and presented an annual report, filed to the City of Boston in late August, at a Wednesday night meeting of the Harvard-Allston Task Force. Established in 2006, the Task Force serves as a channel for Allston residents to give feedback to both Harvard and Boston’s urban planning agency during what has been a drawn-out and frequently contentious redevelopment project.
Following the 2008 financial crisis, Faust halted construction of the Allston campus. As construction crews vacated the work site, they left behind the completed foundation of the 500,000-square foot building and uncertainty about Harvard’s future plans for the site.
During that time, many Allston citizens pushed for Harvard to be more transparent about its development plans. The University has regularly met with residents and government officials through the Task Force, and committed $43 million in a community benefits package to fund neighborhood programs and infrastructure improvements.
At its meeting in June, the task force discussed potential plans for the currently-unused 176 Lincoln Street property owned by Harvard. Since then, Harvard has issued a request for proposals for mixed-use development and indicated preference for proposals with a greater number of affordable housing units.
—Staff writer Lucy Wang can be reached at lucy.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @lucyyloo22.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard students hoping to watch Daenerys Targaryen and the Lannisters battle for control of the seven kingdoms in the final season of “Game of Thrones”  free of charge are out of luck.
As of September 15, students will no longer have free access to HBO Go and Philo, two online television streaming platforms that had been available for free as part of a package deal Philo had with Harvard. But the agreement became expensive enough that Philo has decided to end it, leaving some students upset they’ll be without prestige television dramas and streaming services.
“Cable network programming does not come cheap, and Philo has covered those costs for all Harvard undergraduates since the beginning,” reads a release on the company’s website. “This year, prices increased beyond our control at a rate we could no longer sustain, so we found ourselves having to make the difficult decision to cease operations at Harvard.”
Nikki M. Daurio ’20 said she was “livid” when she first received a message earlier this year that her subscription to Philo would eventually be cancelled. Daurio said that watching television has become a way for her to escape the “Harvard bubble.”
“Being on campus, you’re away from your home, and being able to watch shows from middle school and high school makes it feel homier,” Daurio said.  “It’s nice to get away from the chaos of Harvard.”
According to College spokesperson Rachael Dane, Harvard will not pick up the bill for the services.
“Unfortunately, the only way to continue to provide the service was for Harvard College to now pay for a service for students (and potentially pass that cost to them in additional fees) that was only taken advantage of by a fraction of them,” Dane wrote in an emailed statement.
Students uninterested in the fate of the Iron Throne were less worried about the change. Rini Halder ’19 said it would not substantially impact on her because she did not use the services when they were originally offered.
“I feel like it’s more of a distraction, and do we really need more distractions?”  Hannah J. Humes ’21 said.
Still, Cara O’Connor ’18 said that Harvard could have easily picked up the bill for a service many students use and appreciate.
“We just have so much money, so I don’t understand,” O’Connor said.
In its press release, Philo wrote that it has new “exciting projects” in the works.
—Staff writer Edith M. Herwitz can be reached at edith.herwitz@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @edith_herwitz.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

James Brown ’73, a former star on the Harvard men’s basketball team and current host of NFL Today on CBS, returned to campus Wednesday for events sponsored by the Harvard men’s basketball team and the Institute of Politics. Brown was joined by Dr. Harry Edwards, Professor Emeritus of Sociology at UC Berkeley.
Wednesday marks the second year in a row that the basketball team has joined forces with the IOP to welcome influential athletes to speak about social issues surrounding sports. Last October, NBA Hall of Famer Kareem Abdul-Jabbar spoke at a coaches’ clinic hosted annually by Harvard coach Tommy Amaker. Later that day, Abdul-Jabbar appeared at the IOP alongside Professor Henry Louis Gates, Jr., the Director of the Hutchins Center for African and African American Research at Harvard.
The event kicked off with both Brown and Edwards attending Amaker’s “breakfast club”, a meeting of influential African American Harvard professors and professionals from the Boston area. Boston Mayor Martin J. Walsh was also on hand for the breakfast, which typically occurs each month at Henrietta’s Table in the Charles Hotel.
Brown and Edwards then held an hour-long press conference in the Murr Center Hall of History. Both men discussed their college experiences as African Americans during tense periods of American history (Edwards attended college during the civil rights movement, while Brown attended during race riots and the Vietnam War).
“I’m not sure that I had a voice, other than my parents’, that I was aware of, like Dr. Edwards, who put it all in the context,” Brown said. “I like to think I benefitted from those experiences in terms of staying grounded and how that defines my worldview and the influence that I try to have on society at large.”
After having lunch with Amaker, his staff, and members of the men’s basketball team, Brown and Edwards spoke at the IOP on Wednesday night for an event entitled “From Robinson to Kaepernick: The Evolution of Athlete Activism”.
Both men are familiar with Harvard, as Brown earned his degree in Government and lived in Leverett House. Meanwhile,Edwards’ daughter, Tazamisha Heshima Imara, graduated in 1993, and his goddaughter is currently a freshman.
The conversation shifted to African Americans on college campuses across the country and the social impact that athletes can have. Edwards, an expert on the sociology of sports, has served as an adviser for professional sports franchises and authored several books, including The Revolt of the Black Athlete. He is perhaps most famous for organizing the Olympic Project for Human Rights, an effort that resulted in the protest by John Carlos and Tommie Smith at the 1968 Summer Olympics. On Wednesday, Edwards described the Black Power protest by Carlos and Smith as one of the most iconic sports images of the 20th century.
Edwards detailed his experience working alongside Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., Malcolm X, and others during the civil rights movement. He highlighted many parallels with current affairs, calling Colin Kaepernick—someone with whom he has worked extensively—as “the Muhammad Ali of this generation.”
“The issue of white supremacy and the patriarchy is so pervasive in America,” Edwards said. “This problem is everywhere, and if you do not recognize it at Harvard, it’s not because it’s not here; it’s because there’s a trending version of it that’s broken out someplace else, whether it’s the University of Missouri or the San Francisco 49ers or the Seattle Seahawks or the Eagles or Ferguson.”
Brown’s journey to CBS began in Bethesda, Md., where he lives today, not far from his alma mater, DeMatha Catholic. There, he played high school basketball under legendary coach Morgan Wooten, a man that Brown described as a powerful teacher.
“He walked the talk,” Brown said of Wooten. “He was always rooted in respect. He suggested that the collegiate experience ought to be an extraordinary one—academically, socially. ‘Go to a school where there’s a diverse population because that’s the world you’ll be working in—and in basketball.’”
Brown knew that he wanted to attend an Ivy League school, preferably Princeton. Around that time, the Tigers basketball program revolved around future US Senator Bill Bradley, who is eight years Brown’s senior.
“Had I gotten a letter from Princeton, I would’ve tried to go there first,” Brown said. “Harvard was the first letter I saw on my coach’s desk, and I said, ‘If I can get into Harvard, that’s where I want to go.’ While we didn’t realize our athletic dream, in its totality, the Harvard experience was awesome for me…. If I have any influence on my four grandkids, if they can get in, they’re coming to Harvard.”
With the Crimson, Brown was a three-time All-Ivy selection. The team went 45-33 in his three seasons with the varsity but never qualified for the NCAA Tournament, something that Harvard did not do at all between 1947 and 2011. On Wednesday, he lauded Amaker for turning Harvard into a perennial Ivy League and mid-major powerhouse.
“I have the biggest cheer for Harvard whenever I see them because I know the foundation upon which Tommy stands and that he never accepts the compliments—he always defers them,” Brown said. “That’s because he was a point guard in basketball, and he’s a point guard in the game of life.”
Brown worked for FOX NFL Sunday for 13 seasons before joining CBS for his second stint with the network in 2008. He alluded to a trip he took to Israel in 2015 with 19 NFL stars and Israeli Ambassador to the United States Ron Dermer as an example of the impact that athletes can have outside of the realm of sports.
“It’s interesting to me that people have the attitude ‘stick to sports,’” Brown said. “Athletes are very much a part of the community, absolute citizens like anybody else. People say, ‘Well, why don’t they take their advocacy to another arena?’ Are you kidding me?...No, don’t stick to sports, just be informed and articulate it properly because sports is continually used as an arena that moves the needle forward in society.”
Edwards has put much of his life’s work into using sports as a platform for African Americans to speak out on issues of race. While much of his work centers around basketball and football, he has worked alongside Major League Baseball to address the sport’s lack of African American players.
“Basketball is still considered the quintessential black sport, and so anything happening in the African American community and Boston generally, anything happening among African American students on this campus, potentially can interface with basketball,” Edwards said. “You want to always be aware of that broad community connection and that ethnographic political history of basketball and its emergence as the quintessential black sport.”
Edwards ended the press conference with a call for students at Harvard to make their voices heard.
“You talk about the number of African American kids who come in this fall and so forth,” Edwards said. “Don’t fool yourself into thinking that they are not at some point going to say, ‘What is our disposition toward Black Lives Matter? What is our disposition toward the latest police killing? What is our disposition toward the DACA situation? Are we in one of those things where they come for DACA, and then when they come for us, [and] there’s no one left to say anything? What do we do? What stand do we take?”
—Staff writer Stephen J. Gleason can be reached at stephen.gleason@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In any sport, it’s important for teams and individual players to dig for results even when they’re not playing their best.
The Harvard women’s soccer team found itself in this situation at Jordan Field on Wednesday afternoon, but thanks to the grit provided by its veterans and a couple of well-placed crosses, it still managed to earn an overtime win.
The Crimson defeated a hard-pressing Quinnipiac team on Wednesday afternoon, 2-1, taking just under five extra-time minutes to seal the victory, while the Bobcats (3-4) lost their third straight despite a competitive second half. Harvard improves to 5-2-0 on the season and now prepares for road trips to Villanova and Seton Hall this weekend.
“I think it was not our best performance this year, by probably a long way,” Crimson coach Chris Hamblin said. “[Quinnipiac] had a more physical approach, and we wanted to try and keep the ball moving away from them. I don’t think we did a good enough job of doing that.”
Despite the gameplay leaving something to be desired, Harvard came up big when it counted.
Senior midfielder Dani Stollar provided the game-winner, heading in the golden goal in the 95th minute over the outstretched hands of Quinnipiac goalie Devan Malcolm to seal the win for the Crimson. Freshman forward Murphy Agnew had a stellar game as well, chipping in two crosses that found teammates for scores.
Agnew’s two assists were the first of her career. Stollar’s goal was her first of this season, the fifth of her career, and her first since her four-goal freshman campaign.
“Credit the team,” Hamblin said. “You’re not always going to play your best soccer and you find a way to win.”
The Bobcat’s hard-pressing defense managed to disrupt Harvard’s timing in places, leading to uncomfortable play on the ball, but to its credit, the Crimson never let the strategy get under its skin to the point of giving up goals.
“It was a physical battle and we knew we had to step away from that kind of game,” senior co-captain Caroline Chagares said. “We definitely were not happy with how we played overall…we know we have to play better when we’re going into Ivy League play.”
Chagares provided Harvard with an early 1-0 lead, redirecting a cross from Agnew in the 31st minute to find the back of the net. The captain’s goal was the second of her career.
“We wanted to try to get wide because they were playing a lot of defenders,” Chagares said. “Murphy crossed the ball and I saw the back post was open.”
The lead stood past halftime, but the Bobcats struck back in the second half, scoring off the playmaking ability of junior forward Nadya Gill, who ran down the right side in the 64th minute and fizzed in a cross as she slid past the box. The ball found the foot of sophomore forward Ally Grunstein, who poked it into the back of the net to knot the game at one apiece.
The Crimson turned up the pressure in the final ten minutes of regulation but were not able to come away with the decider.
“We took the lead, and that settled us down a little bit, but [Quinnipiac] was always looking to counterattack,” Hamblin said. “We gained a little bit more momentum, but I don’t think it was good enough momentum—I don’t think it was quality as we have been demonstrating.”
On the other side of the pitch, sophomore goalie Kat Hess made three saves in 49:43 to finish out the game, which was started by junior goalie Danielle Etzel. Etzel recorded two saves. Hess got the win and is now 4-1 on the season.
Harvard took 16 shots on the game compared to Quinnipiac’s nine, but the Bobcats took more quality shots, recording six shots on goal, one more than the Crimson’s five. Junior forward Leah Mohammadi took two of those shots on goal.
Harvard is now 3-0 at home this year and hasn’t lost two in a row since September 7th, 2016, over a year ago. It also extended its series streak over the Bobcats to four in a row, having last defeated them in 2012.
—Staff writer Bryan Hu can be reached at bryan.hu@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
In what may be the greatest collab since Nelly Furtado and Timbaland, Spotify and Hulu have made a joint deal for students, in which you can get BOTH subscriptions for $4.99 a month. 
That means not only will your shower jams be blissfully commercial free with Premium, but you can finally binge-watch acclaimed Hulu originals like the Handmaid’s Tale and the Mindy Project. If you already have Spotify Premium for Students, you’re good to go just by activating Hulu. Same goes for vice versa: if you have Hulu, you can merge it with your Spotify account.
Happy streaming!
P.S: Now you don't have any excuse. Subscribe to Flyby's Spotify account and look out for our next playlist!
Sections

With campus recruiting gearing up, Harvard's juniors and seniors (and a few forward-thinking sophomores) are wondering which consulting firm will be the best fit. We might be able to help you narrow it down. We're obviously big fans of consulting! 
What’s your concentration?
A) Econ/Statistics with a Gov secondary
B) Applied Math
C) Gov/Social Studies
D) Folklore and Mythology

What attracted you to the consulting career path?
A) Power and prestige of the high-end lifestyle
B) "I just really enjoy the problem solving."
C) The crushing burden of parental expectations
D) "I died inside a long time ago."
What do you like to do in your free time?
A) Have raucous dining hall debates with my blockmates about which punch events to attend.
B) Engage in titillating intellectual discourse at the fifth networking lunch I've attended this semester
C) Lie to my legacy dad about making the first round of cuts of the Advocate comp
D) Binge-drink instead of attend my Ec 1011a section because 20% on a final is a B+ anyways, am I right?
What dream did you abandon after comparing industry starting salaries?
A) Running for office
B) Curing cancer
C) Making your family proud
D) Maintaining a decent level of self-respect
What is your special skill?
A) Convincing people to take the high road so there’s more room for me on the low road
B) Endlessly spinning my objectively brilliant common app essay that got me a likely letter
C) Name-dropping Exeter
D) Wasting my potential by indulging in self-destructive tendencies like pre-gaming so hard I never make it to Harvard-Yale.
Results:
Mostly As - McKinsey & Company 
Congratulations, you’re a bona fide winner who’s probably at the top of the socioeconomic food chain already! Your idea of “meritocracy” likely consists of having good friends in better places. Your favorite movies are “Wolf of Wall Street” and “American Psycho.” You probably defended the men’s soccer team and the Delphic despite being a “feminist” who’s totally for “letting hot chicks” into the Fly. You realize your charm is in your privilege and you’re not afraid to use it to strive for greatness! Good for you!
Mostly Bs - The Boston Consulting Group 
You’re a really smart sellout destined to apply your knowledge and skills to making the world a better place for people like you . You were the only freshman at the HBS panel and the only sophomore in your Ec 1126 section. You research cases for fun and got into HFAC and HCCG. You closed your nonprofit (which provided free copies of the New Yorker to underprivileged waiting rooms) the second you got into Harvard. You know you could be the next Einstein or Hawkins but your money fetish still got the best of you. So here you are, raising your hand section kid-style at a recruiting event.
Mostly Cs - Bain & Company
You hate yourself because your dad never hugged you but you still force a smile and try to maintain the facade of success. Although you're doing pretty well, you know you’ll never be good enough for your Mayflower family and overachiever friends, so you settle for being 3rd best.
Mostly Ds - Deloitte Consulting
