News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: August 19, 2017 at 11:24 a.m.
The College will pilot a new pre-orientation program for freshmen “from historically marginalized communities” in 2018, according to an email sent to students by Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana Friday afternoon.
The program, intended to help these students transition to life at Harvard, could resemble a proposed summer program for low-income and first generation students that Khurana rejected in January. In his email Friday, Khurana wrote that he wanted to “share some news” about a topic discussed on campus last spring—an apparent reference to the earlier, failed program.
“We hope that this program will be especially effective at building community and fostering a sense of belonging among students from historically marginalized communities,” Khurana wrote in the email.
He added that the decision to establish the program was based on “thoughtful feedback” from students—especially members of the First Generation Student Union—and that the Freshman Dean’s Office, the Advising Programs Office, and “student leaders” will work together to develop the program going forward. Khurana included no further specifics in his email.
College spokesperson Rachael Dane wrote in a statement Friday that “that is all the detail we have at this time.”
Students and administrators had previously suggested two separate versions of a pre-orientation program for low-income and first generation students. In spring 2015, Savannah N. Fritz ’17 proposed a “Freshman Enrichment Program” to the Undergraduate Council.
Through that program, Fritz hoped to invite low-income students to campus a few days prior to the start of the fall term to share meals with College administrators, attend panels with academic counselors, and speak with representatives from the Office of Career Services and the Financial Aid Office. But the idea met with “resistance” from Khurana, Fritz said.
After plans for the Freshman Enrichment Program fell through, Freshman Dean’s Office employee Katie W. Steele helped develop and propose a second program—the First Year Institute—which also called for freshman pre-orientation sessions to help low-income students adjust to Harvard. The First Year Institute was closely modeled on Fritz’s original program.
But the second program got no farther than the first. In late January, Khurana informed Steele he was not interested in the First Year Institute, prompting Fritz to publish an op-ed criticizing his decision.
“In lieu” of the First Year Institute, the College announced plans in March 2017 to create a new, part-time “First-Gen Low Income Student Advocate” position in the Freshman Dean’s Office to advise first generation and low-income students.
Sa-Kiera T. J. Hudson will be the first person to fill that position this year. A fourth-year Psychology doctoral student, Hudson will have drop-in hours three times per week to help freshmen navigate the “road blocks and setbacks” that low-income and first-generation students experience, according to the Freshman Dean’s Office’s website . Hudson is also a freshman proctor in Mathews Hall.
For some students, though, the new adviser was not enough. After Khurana’s dismissal of the program became public knowledge, undergraduates spoke out against the rejection—in person and in posts on social media.
With public pressure mounting, Khurana and Dean of Freshmen Thomas A. Dingman ’67 decided to hold an open question-and-answer session with members of the UC about the program in April 2017. During a tense 45-minute exchange, Khurana and Dingman attempted to defend their decision, fielding criticism and questions from concerned students. Just two days later, UC members—apparently unconvinced—penned and signed a letter vowing support for the rejected First Year Institute.
Khurana and Dingman further defended their decision by publishing an op-ed in The Crimson on April 12, arguing that the First Year Institute—and programs like it—would be unable to meet the needs of Harvard’s low-income and first generation students.
In his email Friday, Khurana acknowledged that the new pre-orientation program comes after “much respectful dialogue.”
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson can be reached at hannah.natanson@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @hannah_natanson.
—Staff writer Derek G. Xiao can be reached at derek.xiao@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @derekgxiao.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
This is part two of a Flyby series with advice for the Class of 2021. Part one can be found here and part three can be found here. Check back for future installments on cheap eats, Boston excursions, the best coffee spots, and so much more.
Harvard Square is brimming with food options, particularly in comparison to most college towns. But you’ll find that unless it’s someone’s birthday or you’re going on a date, many of the restaurants will be out of your price range. Luckily, the affordable food scene is vibrant and nuanced. From speedy lunch fare to late-night grease binges, Flyby has you covered.
So what are your choices? Think of it as a pyramid: The key food groups of the Square are burritos, pizza, burgers/breads/meats, ice cream, and The Kong. The pyramid is not designed to tell you what you should eat (it’s all basically unhealthy), but more of a breakdown of what you will eat.
If you’re worried about the Freshman (or Sophomore, Junior, or Senior) 15, don’t despair—consuming this food isn’t required. But you’ll probably get bored of the dining hall every once in awhile, and the pyramid will get you up to speed quickly.
PIZZA
Cheap pizza in the Square is an ongoing battle between the Sicilian-style king of the hill and a number of thin-crusted foes.
Pinocchio’s, more commonly known as Noch’s, is the Goliath of the pizza scene and has been serving up thick square slices of pizza to inebriated college students for decades. Tomato basil and pepperoni are popular, classic choices, and the subs are a stealthily good option for a lunchtime meal. Until a few years ago, Noch’s reputation was such that it held a near monopoly on speedy and inexpensive slices in the Square. Competition is always good, though, right?
The Just Crust lives up to its name with tasty ultra-thin and massively wide slices. You’ll balk at the $3+ cost per slice, until you see one. Let’s just say four of them would probably make a very good sized pizza. This award-winning chain is picking up steam across the Boston area, and for good reason. The ever-rotating slice of the day provides nice variety from the standard cheese and pepperoni, and you can get full pizzas delivered in case you’re concerned you might burn off a hundredth of the calories in your meal on the walk over.
Oggi is another entrant in the thin crust category. It’s basically the Qdoba to the Just Crust’s Chipotle—not quite as good (but good enough), and closer. You won’t go wrong eating here, but it won’t blow anyone out of the water.
Otto Pizza, which snagged one of the best pieces of real estate in Harvard Square, features 24 specialty pizzas. Some have potatoes. Some have squash. But all of them have too much of one thing: grease. Otto is no replacement for Noch’s, but it certainly presents a good alternative when you’re tired of Noch’s characteristic thick crust.
Cambridge 1 is probably the best first-date restaurant in the Square, and it serves a mean thin-crust pizza to boot. It won’t break the bank despite its gourmet, fairly healthy toppings, and it has that perfect fancy-but-not-too-fancy ambiance. The grilled chicken and lobster are particular favorites, and you can share two half-pizzas with a lucky lady or gentleman. If you landed a dinner date with that cute girl from class, go here. Trust us.
THE KONG
The Hong Kong Restaurant is the only eatery to get its own layer, and with good reason. Harvard’s social scene practically mandates weekly 2 a.m. Kong visits, and you will probably go here more than most of the restaurants on this list combined.
Picking “your dish” at the Kong is an essential decision to be made early this summer, as you will likely stick with it for years (and perhaps decades) to come. Scallion pancakes, crab rangoon, and egg rolls are popular “smaller” dishes, but those who play to win go for one of the massive combination plates.
You’re not really a pro until you know the number of your order at the Kong and can recite it coherently in slurred speech. An unfriendly visit to the Kong bathroom—often brought on by the lethal “Scorpion Bowl” brew—is a Harvard rite of passage.
—Cecilia R. K. Barron and Grace R. Ramsdell contributed to this piece.

