News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
To the Editor:
Now that the 2017 Harvard football campaign has thankfully come to a conclusion, my initial letter was to have been one of strong condemnation towards Harvard’s experimentation with the player’s uniforms this year. Hideous color combinations of black shirts, red pants, and helmets the color of faded cranberry were to have been my targets, but my disgust at this season’s on-the-field haberdasher eyesore has been reduced to a mere grievance when learning that the 135th playing of The Game had been re-located to Fenway Park.
Whether actual renovation or just architectural studies will take place at the Stadium in 2017 and 2018 is immaterial. The storied Yale Bowl is always under construction, yet it somehow never misses a beat to host when it’s Yale’s year to do so. Perhaps this travesty was cooked up by the marketing teams of both the Red Sox and Harvard well in advance, with the result of an anticipated sold-out crowd at Fenway not the only sell-out that will occur.  Brushed aside will be history and tradition—but more to the point, that which the playing of this game means to so many.
The 2018 Harvard-Yale game was to have been accompanied by a monumental celebration of the 50th anniversary of what might be the greatest gridiron comeback in collegiate athletics: Those 42 magical seconds at the Stadium when Harvard rebounded from a 16-point deficit to beat Yale, 29-29. Alumni, family, and friends on both sides have been planning for several years to reconvene to relive that incredible turn of events.
Let’s hope that the planning of The Game in 2019 will find Yale resisting any need to counter Harvard’s misstep. Can you imagine playing at Yankee Stadium? Personally, I’m busy re-writing some of the lyrics to our famous football fight songs to coincide with next year’s visit to Kenmore Square. So far I’ve got “Fight Fiercely Fenway,” “Fenwaydiana,” and “Fair Fenway.” But for today, I can’t help singing, “Ten Thousand Men of Harvard Scream Blasphemy Today.”
Marc G. McHugh is a graduate of Harvard Divinity School.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections


Part III in a series. Read Parts I and II. 
While the thought of trekking to Northwest Labs is enough to strike fear in even the bravest of hearts, think about it this way: how bad is a measly final when you have just overcome a hike of such proportions? Other advantages include burning enough calories for you to stress-eat an additional gallon of ice cream and being able to study in complete solitude because who else is desperate enough to travel to this distant land for the purpose of studying? Hit up 52 Oxford St Monday through Friday from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. if this is a compelling enough argument.
Sociability: The basement has tables that are meant for collaboration (but are often just occupied by lone students scrambling to finish their work) as well as red comfy couches. It has a good balance of white noise where you can work independently if you want, or work on a group project with your friends.
Crowds: Few people dare to travel this far, so the chances of running into a friend or your d-hall crush here are slim to none. Chances are, the only people you will encounter here are loners doing their best to utilize their fleeting bursts of productivity while waiting to attend their next class in the building, or fellow students who have decided that they have had enough and have chosen to doze on the couches rather than shed another tear over their impending doom.
Ambiance: This vast expanse of space has comfy red couches tucked away in a corner (that are perfect for nap breaks), but the center of the room is filled with tables and chairs for you to toil away on.  The airy atmosphere and sleek design of the building is almost enough to make you think that the trek was worth it.
Bonus: With one of the nicer bathrooms on campus, convenient access to water fountains, and its own café for your  caffeine needs, you might as well make the most out of your trek and just stay here from open to close.
So if you’re one who likes to take the path less taken, someone who is willing to do what it takes to find a quiet spot where not a single soul can bother you, someone who keeps telling themselves that they’ll go to the gym as they eat candy bar after candy bar in a stressed-out frenzy, someone who knows that the time they spend walking to a location would have been spent procrastinating anyway, then Northwest Labs Basement is the study spot for you.
Sections

Part II in a series. To read Part I, follow this link. 
The Weld Solarium is the study spot you didn’t know you needed, and is especially convenient for anyone who’s in the Yard and reluctant to go to a library. It's literally always open, so take the elevator in Weld up to the 5th floor and then walk up the last flight of stairs to reach this hidden gem.
Sociability: You can totally go up to the Solarium just hang out with your friends on the couches, but since it’s a pretty small room, it’s also easy to get some solid work done by occupying the sole table in the room.
Crowds: We’ve never seen more than one other person up there, but hey, it could happen. Since it is a dorm, we imagine it gets more crowded in the evenings with people looking to hang out, but it’s usually empty during the day.
Ambiance: Since all four of the walls are windows, the Solarium not only has some killer views of the Yard, but also an artsy and well-lit vibe that will definitely help you struggle over your Math 21A notes. There are also two couches, which you can conveniently lie on to despair about the impending doom that is finals. That being said, at least you’re despairing in bright natural light.
Amenities: There’s nothing up here, but there aren’t rules either, so you can definitely bring whatever food/drink your heart desires to ease the burden of your studies.
Bonus: Since the room is usually deserted, there is no one to judge you for playing music out loud, watching Netflix instead of studying, or having a good old fashioned breakdown. Walk up the last flight of stairs with caution late at night though, we heard a rumour once that couples make out up there.
Sections

Part I of a series. 
Reading period may be in its dying moments, but the studying doesn't end there. If you have exams that run all the way to the end of the semester, Flyby's compiled some off-the-beaten-path study spots where you can hunker down to concentrate. Check back over the next few days for new installations to the series.
First up: the basement of Wigglesworth
When it comes to late night studying on the weekends, freshmen are hopelessly limited on options. If you’re sick of your dorm or just need a space for collaborative work past 10 p.m., Wigg Basement is always available. It's open 24/7. 
Sociability: Wigg Basement is a social environment where people are free to talk and work with others. For quieter work, there are usually isolated tables or quieter rooms within the network of basement hallways. As a dorm basement goes, Wigg’s can get very social, which offers both a refreshing break and potential distractions. This study space is suited for those with collaborative work and the ability to work in white noise.
Crowds: Because this study spot is technically a common basement in a dorm, Wigg students get first priority in any space, and it may be difficult to find a quiet spot in a typically social environment. Noise level typically decreases the later the night gets, but just in case, be ready to block out the noise of passionate ping pong matches while studying. Nevertheless, people will probably raid the libraries, leaving this basement a potential gem for discreet study spots.
Ambiance: Ambiance is not the highest priority in a basement, to say the least. Although Wigg provides one of the only late night, publically accessible study spaces for freshmen, a basement was not designed to be a library, so expect stuffy rooms and warmer temperatures. With fluorescent lighting, bleak walls, and wooden, ancient tables, Wigg's basement has a subtly despondent atmosphere that can either raise stress levels or be just the vibe one needs to be focused.
Bonus: Objectively, a basement is a last resort for a study space. Wiggs basement’s greatest—and perhaps only—appeal is that it is the nearest public space open for freshmen. Basements may be bare and hot, but if it’s 3 a.m. during cuffing season and midterms are tomorrow, no one can really afford to complain.
