News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: May 7, 2017 at 8:14 p.m.
Scott A. Abell ’72 will serve as president of Harvard’s Board of Overseers, the University’s second-highest governing body, for the 2017-18 academic year.
Elected to the body in 2012, Abell—who founded Abell & Associates, Inc., a financial services company—has been active in the alumni community. He served as president of the Harvard Alumni Association from 2000 to 2001 and led fundraising efforts for the Faculty of Arts and Sciences as its dean for development in 2004.
Tracy P. Palandjian ’93 will lead the Overseers alongside Abell as vice chair of the executive committee. Palandjian worked in the investment and nonprofit sectors and currently works as co-founder and CEO of Social Finance, Inc., a Boston-based nonprofit.
Both Abell and Palandjian said that they feel honored to be selected. Abell said the board’s nominating committee considers all of the names available individually, and then decides who will be the next leaders of the board.
“You’re always surprised because there are a lot of very capable, wonderful people on the Overseers,” Abell said. “You’re always flattered and a bit shocked when you are chosen.”
Abell said he is looking forward to working with Palandjian, who he described as “hugely collegial.”
“We kind of ‘grew up together’ on the Board of Overseers,” Palandjian said, since she and Abell were both elected in the 2012 class.
In a statement to the Harvard Gazette, University President Drew G. Faust said she looks forward to working “even more closely” with Abell and Palandjian next year.
“Scott Abell and Tracy Palandjian each embody the qualities of good judgment, devotion to higher education, constructively critical perspective, and appetite for service that our most valued alumni bring to the work of the University,” Faust said.
Abell and Palandjian will succeed Kenji Yoshino ’91, a constitutional law professor at NYU, and Nicole P. Haughey ’93, the chief operating officer of Mimeo.com.
The Board of Overseers is comprised of 30 Harvard affiliates who advise University leaders and approve decisions made by the Harvard Corporation, the University’s highest governing body. Alumni elect Overseers to six-year terms on the body.
—Staff writer Leah S. Yared can be reached at leah.yared@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @Leah_Yared.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We know what you’re thinking. A Harvard mixtape? Must be all about CS50, sanctions, and our elitist 1% memes. But, my friends, that’s where you’re wrong.
Living just a hop, skip, and a jump away from civilization in a mythical place called The Quad is Kenny Okagaki ‘18, otherwise known as Trapanese. By day, he's a stereotypical Harvard student. By night, a skilled Soundcloud mastermind producing funky, fire beats  from his humble Cabot dorm room. For his latest project, he linked up with six Harvard rappers to produce a Flyby Certified Fresh™ mixtape titled Lil Tokyo.
The mixtape explores themes of success, love, and happiness, and includes a lot of that contemplative, somewhat existential reflection that we see from artists like Kendrick and J. Cole. The production is a smooth combo of hip-hop beats laid over groovy samples, with all tracks featuring a different Harvard vocalist. “All the samples for the beats are from Japanese soul and funk music that my parents like,” says Okagaki. The result is an authentic collection of tracks that feel both nostalgic and contemporary.
Albert Choi ‘19, featured on the mixtape under the name ACSK, reflected on what it was like to work with Okagaki on Lil Tokyo: “Kenny is a fascinating person to work with. He somehow maintains the chillest vibes while being one of the most diligent and meticulous people I’ve ever worked with.” Anthony Ridgley ‘19, who raps under the name Twon, echoes Choi’s praise. “Kenny’s a genius,” Ridgley told Flyby. “He has so much range in how and what he can produce, he’s really driven and has fun with it.”
All Flyby snarkiness aside, we have to agree. It shouldn’t be a surprise that a group of Harvard students could put out such a clean compilation, but at a school where creative passion often gets forgotten in favor of Goldman Sachs internships, something like a mixtape is pretty rare to stumble upon.
What’s more, Okagaki is completely self-taught. Over the past year he mastered the art of sampling and producing, grinding out original beats and mixes all from his makeshift dorm room recording studio. “He’s borderline obsessive” admits Choi. “He’s knowledgeable yet not pretentious about what he knows, genuinely asking for our opinions of the project. It was awesome to be a part of it.”
Stand out tracks include “Hey Bardi I Made A Song ft. Dominique” and “Shine ft. Rico Alice”, the first a funky R&B-influenced reflection on love and life and the second a feel-good tune that samples a Japanese soul track from the 70's. “I wanted to incorporate part of my culture and identity into my music for the first time,” explains Okagaki when asked about his influence. “Just embrace it and make something fresh and new that only I could make!” Fresh, indeed.
So, continue procrastinating on that final paper you’ve “totally started" and head over to Soundcloud to check out Lil Tokyo. If you dig it, check out more from Trapanese and the rest of the Lil Tokyo collaborators, all listed below:
@trapanesebeats (Trapanese aka Kenny Okagaki ‘18)
@dominique_packer (Dominique Packer ‘17)
@holyfieldflow (ACSK aka Albert Choi ‘19)
@anthony-ridgley (Twon aka Anthony Ridgley ‘19)
Spaceman Sammy - (Samuel Ekanem ‘17)
@yungdubois ( Yung DuBois aka Christian Lee ‘17)
@ricoalice (Rico Alice aka Darien Carr ‘17)
