News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Saturday, Jan. 21, millions of people took to the streets for the Women’s March on Washington to protest against President Donald Trump and his bigotry. Women’s Marches were also organized in cities across the United States and in other countries, making it the biggest one-day protest in United States history. Millions of people from all around the world came together to fight for equality and justice.
And yet, something doesn’t feel quite right.
Many of the marchers wore pink “pussyhats,” donned pink vagina costumes, carried the signs that depicted uteruses holding up middle fingers or saying things like “Pussies Against Fascism”, and also held posters that said things like “Bow to My Magical Vagina,” “Vaginas Brought You Into the World, Vaginas Will Vote You Out,” “Leave it to the Beavers,” and “Viva la Vulva.”
The message being sent here is that being a woman is not only synonymous with, but also contingent upon, having a vagina. The pussy hats and vagina costumes were intended to bond women together, because they operate under the assumption that womanhood is defined by genitalia.
But this biological essentialism is nothing more than cissexism, because it conflates gender with genitals and reinforces the idea that there are only two genders. And, by upholding the gender binary in this way, the pussy hats and uterus signs are also transmisogynistic, because they discriminate against trans women and gender nonconforming people. They tell transgender women that they are not “real women” because they do not have vaginas.
Unfortunately, cissexism and transmisogyny are nothing new within allegedly “feminist” circles. Many of the most renowned feminist scholars are TERFs—Trans Exclusionary Radical Feminists. TERFs define womanhood solely in terms of vaginas, wombs, periods, and pregnancy. And, in doing so, they enforce the gender binary, perpetuate structural violence against the transgender community, and essentially “do the patriarchy’s work while calling it feminism.”
I doubt that most of the marchers realized they were participating in gender essentialism and violence against transgender people. But if your feminism is not inclusive of transgender people, if your feminism does not acknowledge that women who have penises are also “real women,” then who are you fighting for?
Furthermore, the vast majority of marchers were white women. White women came out in droves for the Women’s March—it would have been an inspiring sight to see, if it wasn’t for the long history of white women choosing to side with whiteness rather than side with their womanhood. Ninety-four percent of black women voters cast their votes for Hillary Clinton, while fifty-three percent of white women voters chose to vote for Donald Trump. When faced with choosing between their womanhood and their whiteness, they chose to uphold white supremacy, by voting for Trump.
It also would’ve been more inspiring if white women had shown up in such large numbers for other social movements as well—or even shown any awareness of them. But when activists at the Women’s March on Washington held up portraits of black women who had died at the hands of police and chanted “Say Her Name,” a middle-aged blonde woman was puzzled and asked, “Say her name? What does that even mean?”
Some white marchers even wore suffragette costumes and signs that said “Same Shit, Different Century,” disregarding the fact that the women’s suffrage movement was deeply racist, putting black women at the back of their marches. Susan B. Anthony, for example, once          said, “I will cut off this right arm of mine before I will ever work or demand the ballot for the Negro and not the woman.”
If your feminism is not inclusive of women of color, if your feminism doesn’t include protesting racialized violence against black women, then who are you fighting for?
White feminism prioritizes the experiences and voices of cisgender white women, while marginalizing the experiences and voices of women of color and transgender people. White feminism is not intersectional. And in this way, white feminism is not revolutionary. Feminism without intersectionality is just another manifestation of white supremacy and patriarchy.
This is the reason why the atmosphere at the Women’s March was so jovial and light-hearted. It felt more like a charity 5k than a protest. People were dressed up in elaborate costumes, singing and dancing, chanting about love and unity, and chatting with each other over cups of iced coffee. There were barely any police officers around. Some of the officers were even wearing pussy hats themselves. Protesters thanked the police officers for protecting them.
This protest looked nothing like Black Lives Matter protests, where large numbers of police officers patrol in riot gear, deploy pepper spray on protesters, and forcibly arrest peaceful protesters. This protest looked nothing like the Standing Rock protest, where police departments from 24 counties and 16 cities swarmed to confront the protesters and used water cannons, tear gas, and even rubber bullets against the protests. This protest looked nothing like the peaceful demonstrations during the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s, where “the police [used] high-pressure fire hoses and police dogs on men, women, and children alike.”
The Women’s March was largely white, it was largely cisgender, and it was largely content with the status quo. Millions of people were mobilized all over the country and the world. But at the end of the day, millions of people—mainly white cisgender women—finished sharing their photos on Instagram, dropped their posters on the ground, and went home feeling satisfied with the good work they did.
The Women’s March failed the women who are most vulnerable under Trump’s administration—women who are not white, women who are not cisgender. And unless white cisgender women can dedicate themselves to protecting those communities of women as well, then they have failed all women.
Nian Hu ’18 is a government concentrator living in Mather House. Her column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
A University subcommittee recently floated a proposal to change the College’s current housing model, opening up the discussion to opinions from student Peer Advising Fellows at two recent town halls. The proposed model would potentially imitate the system at Yale: Instead of waiting until the spring of their freshman year to learn their residential college, a dorm analogous to a Harvard House, freshmen in New Haven are assigned to one before they even arrive on campus.
Though we commend the University’s continued brainstorming and efforts to shift social life toward the Houses, we do not support this proposed wholesale revamp of the residential system. The freshman experience is integral to the Harvard experience as a whole, and instrumental to that is the distinction between freshman and upperclassmen years. Freshmen should not have so large a component of their identity preordained before they set foot in the Yard. Moreover, while the new system may strengthen student ties to their Houses, it would worsen a student’s transition from high school to freshman year—a critical time to adjust to college life.
That said, the College continues to face a dearth of House social life, and the University should continue to seek means to fix and fortify House communities. These prospective improvements, however, do not necessitate an overhaul of our current housing model. Rather, efforts to strengthen existing House infrastructure and social activities can produce the same desired effects and help revitalize House culture on campus.
Efforts to streamline the party-registration process and revamp existing social spaces on campus are good first steps. Additionally, tutors in the Houses can do more to facilitate a sense of belonging in their respective Houses by organizing more community-building events, akin to how first-year Proctors and Peer Advising Fellows organize weekly study breaks for their freshman entryways.
The Yale housing model would also mean the loss of many freshman year traditions that we have grown to cherish as a community. Freshmen will no longer be able to experience the excitement of Housing Day, for example, with the tantalizing mystery of where their blocking groups will end up for the next three years.
Connections between members of the freshmen class may weaken, as students begin to develop stronger ties to their Houses rather than their class at the start of the year. Without a House affiliation, first-years are currently encouraged to branch out and interact with a larger pool of their year in freshmen-only spaces such as the Annenberg Dining Hall. A predetermined Housing assignment may therefore shift freshmen towards spending more time in their respective Houses rather than in these inclusive first-year spaces.
Harvard should continue to enliven residential social experiences for its students, but the College should explore existing avenues. We've opined on many of these before, including increased funding for social events, expediting party registration, creating more community-building events within Houses, opening up social spaces, and considering student feedback in future House renovations.
But Harvard is not Yale, and the model from New Haven fails to take into account the experiences that are central to the Harvard first-year experience. We're proud of our traditions, and undoubtedly many first-years have come to know and cherish them. We can do better without throwing those all away.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
In the fall of 2005, I opened a copy of my undergraduate college’s daily paper, the Duke Chronicle, to find a debut editorial by Stephen Miller, now Senior Policy Adviser to President Trump.  In it, Miller derided Duke as a “Leftist University,” taking aim at everything from Duke’s efforts at multiculturalism to the dearth of registered Republicans among its faculty.
One of his targets of stood out in particular: Maya Angelou. Miller detested that Angelou was invited as a regular speaker at Duke’s freshman orientation. “I can imagine you must have been very excited to hear her speak, especially since the orientation pamphlet lauds her ‘legendary wisdom’ (known outside of academic circles as tired, multicultural clichés.),” he seethed. Claiming that she was consumed by “racial paranoia,” Miller felt Angelou did not deserve a standing invitation.
Who was this white kid from Santa Monica who was going out of his way to belittle a civil rights icon in his initial public foray? I found it hard to believe a classmate could be so obtuse.
It soon became clear that Miller was actually quite deliberate in his attacks, routinely seeking to offend and provoke, often at the expense of his arguments. “Miller Time,” the moniker given to his series, took aim at many groups: the Black Student Union, feminists, LGBT people, Muslims, and immigrants, among others. Above all, he despised political correctness, devoting an entire article to lamenting how Christmas was “being banned,” and exclaiming that “America was settled, founded and pioneered by people who celebrated Christmas.” (Miller is Jewish.)
His vitriolic words became ammunition against what he perceived as the politically correct leftist agenda. With each inflammatory, dehumanizing diatribe, Miller became more visible and more widely detested on campus―becoming the ultimate campus troll.
Miller has since gained much greater notoriety, having earned the dubious distinction of writing significant portions of Trump’s inaugural address as well as some of his recent executive orders, including the so-called “Muslim ban.” While disappointed, I cannot say I am surprised based on everything he said as an undergraduate.
In lambasting Duke’s Black Student Union for a protest they’d organized against a conservative pundit, Miller offered the group “some advice” on “how to help black people”: “The real problems facing the black community are not-gasp-conservative commentators but the fact that, as some studies have shown, about 194,300 black men between the ages of 20 and 29 are sentenced federal or state prisoners-compared to 126,600 white men and 103,300 Hispanic men; two-thirds of black children are born out of wedlock; and 12 percent of black students in the eighth grade are at or above a proficient reading level.”
Regarding feminism and the question of the “pay gap,” Miller brought out many tired arguments before devolving into a puerile jeremiad on the loss of gender roles: “The truth is, even in modern-day America, there is a place for gender roles. I simply wouldn't feel comfortable hiring a full-time male babysitter or driving down the street and seeing a group of women carrying heavy steel pillars to a construction site.”
“It's these differences that make the opposite sex so wonderful, so compelling, so attractive,” Miller embraced, asserting his heterosexuality.
But, of course, Hollywood was out to convert us into sexual deviants: “Shows like Queer As Folk, The "L" Word, Will & Grace and Sex and the City, all do their part to promote alternative lifestyles and erode traditional values,” he lamented in another piece.
Muslims were an easy target. “Islamic terrorists have declared holy war on the United States. They have declared a death sentence on every man, woman and child living in this country,” Miller explained, after calling Ted Kennedy an unpatriotic “traitor” for denouncing Bush’s torture program.
In a separate article on the fifth anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, he set his sights on undocumented immigrants in quite the rhetorical leap: “We give driver's licenses to illegal aliens. Meanwhile our enemy yearns to attack with all the force of Sept. 11 multiplied a hundred times.”
Miller has come a long way professionally from his biweekly college editorials in a college paper. But he doesn’t seem to have grown much in the decade since “Miller Time.” As he continues to attempt to impose his radical alt-right agenda (to which a majority of Americans voted in opposition) from within the White House, we would all do well to heed his own column’s parting words:
“And if the American nation is to survive, and the cause of freedom along with it, then her people must love and protect her. History is filled with great nations now long gone. Tomorrow is promised to no one.”
C. Nicholas Cuneo, MD is a resident physician at the Harvard-affiliated combined program in internal medicine and pediatrics at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Boston Children’s Hospital. He graduated from Duke University in 2008, where he was an undergraduate.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Sections
If you’re reading this, it’s too late. You’ve already missed out on one of the best annual college athletic events of the year. You only get one chance every February to buy a hockey ticket for less than the cost of a salad at Tatte. Depending on your class year, you might be royally screwed (looking at you, class of 2017). If you haven’t been to the Boston Beanpot Tournament during your Harvard career, I hope your thesis is fan-freaking-tastic. You have nothing else to show for your time here.
For the uninitiated: The Beanpot is a 65-year-old hockey tournament between Boston College, Boston University, Northeastern University, and Harvard. Other regions have attempted to replicate the intensity and glory that the Beanpot upholds, but have always come up short. This tournament is such a huge freaking deal that the New York Times recently covered it.  The point: People much more important than you care.
Let’s break this down. Each year, only four schools get to participate in this nationally-covered tournament. You, a student at one of these four schools, can get a ticket at a discounted rate of $15, which includes a t-shirt so that our fan base looks fresh AF.  People from all across the country fly to Boston to watch the Beanpot and pay at least $42.50 to cheer along side you. But wait, you’re not there. You chose to treat your discounted ticket like toilet paper, wiping your ignorant butt on what other people paid out the ass for. I’m sure the little kids in the stands appreciated the metaphorical middle finger the empty student section gave them.
Bear in mind that this is a college tournament. Northeastern, Boston University and Boston College students all manage to find the three hours necessary to support their respective teams.
Your homework and extracurricular activities are invalid excuses. So turn off Scandal, finish your goddam problem set, and go to Beanpot. If you have a club meeting that day, reschedule it and turn the tournament into a group outing. Sing along with Harvard’s band and berate the other student sections with chants of “safety school.” It’s a great bonding experience!
Another important thing to keep in mind: No one cares whether or not you like hockey. No one is going to ask you who the Harvard forward’s mom’s grandma’s brother is, because this is not a professional sports game.
The people who normally ask those douchey questions won’t know enough about this game to ask. But you know what everyone probably does know? A hockey player! Whether it’s a random guy in your section, a rare-seen entryway-mate or a friend of a friend’s datamatch, you would definitely vaguely recognize at least one of the men with H’s on their chests.
Usually we’re good, but this year we’re ~really~ good, like fourth in the nation good, so go! Be supportive! Get your 15 seconds of fame on the Jumbo-tron! Spend way too much money on a shitty baked pretzel! Wear all of the stupid swag you’ve accumulated with an H on it! Actually go into Boston like the Harvard tour guides say we do! Except wait. You can’t. It’s already over. We won without you.
TLDR: Go watch our boys in Crimson bust some heads at the TD Garden next year. I can guarantee you won’t regret it.
Sections
The U.S. Department of Agriculture classifies the Harvard Square area as a half-mile, low-access food zone, or “food desert.” While Harvard Square is chock-full of restaurants, specialty stores, and—for Harvard undergraduates—dining halls, a comprehensive grocery store with fresh food at affordable prices is noticeably lacking. FM asked experts about what this designation means for Harvard Square area residents and visitors, and how Harvard Square might address the issue. Robert J. Sampson is a Professor of the Social Sciences. His research interests span a variety of topics, including neighborhood effects and urban structure. Caitlin Daniel is a graduate student in Sociology. Her work on food purchasing intersects the fields of public health, behavioral economics, and sociology.
FM: What are the sociological implications of Harvard Square’s status as a low access food zone?
RS: It’s a problem I hadn’t really thought about. I live in Brookline near Coolidge Corner, and I can walk to several food markets and so on, and I guess I took that for granted and shouldn’t. Thinking about Harvard Square and the idea of a food desert–the official designation takes into account the location of the markets and then the income of the population. The main thing I would say is it’s important to realize that Harvard Square is very unique. For one, the area has a high ratio of college students to the population. The graduate students, I think, are the ones most affected. They’re not on the plans, they’re also, at least in terms of income compared to the population, not a poor population as traditionally defined but nevertheless incomes aren’t so high. I think that’s probably a real issue in terms of graduate students, in particular, looking to buy groceries. The other thing is that Harvard Square, unlike most residential neighborhoods, has a heavy contingent of tourists and non-residents who come every day—for work, to visit. That bears on demand because for the most part they’re not looking to buy groceries. Shops, restaurants—those sorts of activities really drive the commercial sector.
FM: How do you think being in a low access food zone affects the culture of a community?
RS: I don’t think we know. I think the research on food deserts is recent, but there’s a lot going on. I don’t know if there’s studies that particularly look at culture—most of the research I’m familiar with looks at relationship with health. For example, the extent that it’s hard to get access to fruits and vegetables and other healthy foods as direct links to the health of a population. In terms of the culture, in an area that’s unique like Harvard Square, I don’t know that we have a lot of answers. I think one thing that should also be done is to compare Harvard Square to other similar areas. For example, what’s it like in New Haven, or near Penn, or Morningside Heights in New York City? Those are more analogous to a typical residential neighborhood, where food deserts are considered problems. Typically, poverty areas are where scholars really look at this, and Harvard Square isn’t considered a poor population, even though again students are temporarily poor in the sense of being below the average income. Again, it’s a bit of an outlier, but other college neighborhoods should be looked at.
FM: What are the sociological implications of Harvard Square’s status as a low access food zone?
CD: I was curious to see the original study showing Harvard as a food desert. I was somewhat struck that there is no grocery store right in Harvard Square or even close to Harvard Square, but it does have places like Broadway Market. I think the issue there is one of cost, not one of objective availability, and a lot of the quotes in the article spoke not so much about the actual, physical lack of places to buy food but of their prices. Some people would say, ‘I live near Star Market but it’s expensive,’ or ‘I live by Whole Foods but that’s too much.’ Note, there are three farmers’ markets that meet in the Harvard Square area every week. But then again, the issue of price becomes probably an active question for students whose budgets may not be able to accommodate that kind of price point. I think that the question of Harvard Square being a so-called food desert brings up cost as much as it does accessibility.
FM: Do you think this is an issue that needs to be addressed, or do you see it as a more minor problem?
CD: There are studies showing that even people living in the same neighborhood can experience access very differently, depending on where their daily routines bring them...depending on whether they have reliable access to a vehicle, depending on what their budget is. You may live next to a Whole Foods and have objective food access, but it might in practice be beyond your budget. So I think an important thing would be to assess if this is truly a problem, this issue of food access, would really require talking to different segments of people who live in the Harvard Square area to ask them: Do you have access? What does it mean to have access? How convenient is it for you to get to a store? What are your strategies for getting to a store? What other barriers to access do you experience?
FM: Do you think this could have lasting impact on the public health of the area?
CD: Any time there’s a barrier to accessing healthy food it can have implications for one’s present health and future health as well. I would say that this is an empirical question that would be interesting to study—how the lack of food retailers in Harvard Square might shape the dietary practices of students, and whether these effects are temporary or lasting. That’s an empirical question that would require further examination, and I hesitate a little to hypothesize too much. The other interesting thing about the college population is that in theory students are on meal plans. There may be an interesting interaction between the ready access students have to food in the dining halls during the semester and the fairly limited options around them. Again, that would warrant additional exploration.
Sections
The spirit of New England has never seen a more fitting showcase than the Patriot’s fifth Super Bowl victory parade last week. On that bitterly cold, blustery morning, hundreds of thousands of Pats fans lined the parade route stretching from Boylston Street to City Hall. The weather seemed to deter no one. Even after a 45 minute delay, snow-covered New Englanders were lined up, five to ten bodies deep, along the parade barricades. They brought their Patriots hats, fanmade signs, and more Brady jerseys than Brady has passing yards (around 61,582).
Fans leaned out of windows and thronged along sidewalks from Berklee College to Boston Common. Although this is the fifth Super Bowl ring for Brady and Coach Belichick after 16 years of consistent divisional and conference dominance, the excited fans mucking about in the slush didn’t seem to take their 21st century football dynasty for granted.
The parade kicked off with Boston’s famous duck boats, vehicles that carry tourists around the city by land and by sea. Cannons mounted on the sides of trucks fired heaps of red, white, and blue confetti, which descended joyously onto the throngs of elated Bostonians. The players rode decorated truck beds, and each passing group of heroes inspired more and more frenzy from the fans. Tom Brady, referred to on many signs as the “G.O.A.T.” (Greatest of All Time), hoisted the Lombardi Trophy, eliciting wild cheers. Wide receiver Julian Edelman, who made The Catch that saved Patriots Nation in the fourth quarter, also easily riled up the crowd. Tight end Martellus Bennett and running back Legarrette Blount blasted Migos’ smash hit “Bad and Boujee” as they danced in celebration. Injured tight end Rob Gronkowski was acting like classic “Gronk,” catching the many beers the crowd threw to him.
The bad blood between New England fans and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell over Goodell’s disciplining of Tom Brady in the 2014 “Deflategate” scandal simmered openly. Brady handled himself maturely at the Super Bowl, shaking Goodell’s hand despite the quarterback’s four-game suspension at the start of the season. Patriots Nation, however, was more keen to relish their vengeance than to let bygones be bygones. After Pats Defensive Coordinator Matt Patricia wore a shirt depicting Goodell as a clown on his flight home, the floodgates were opened.
“Fahk Rawgeh!” “Brady, Brady!” and “Fire Goodell,” they yelled, holding signs that read, “One last finger for Roger,” “Deflate these!” and the subtle, “Roger That.” While this conflict may seem a little childish to outsiders, the fairy-tale nature of Brady’s redemption story is hard to ignore.
At the parade’s nadir in front of City Hall, team owner Robert Kraft addressed the throngs of teeming fans. “We have the G.O.A.T. when it comes to players in Tom Brady,” he said. “We have the G.O.A.T. when it comes to coaches in Bill Belichick. We have the G.O.A.T. of fans on the planet!” Kraft’s slang attempt incited the horde of happy, snowy, semi-intoxicated fans to loud applause.
After the festivities ended, wet confetti and hundreds of empty nib bottles were the only lingering reminders of the parade. Of course, there’s always next year, and Brady does have a whole other hand for more championship rings. Ready the duck boats!
Sections
I walk into the Kendall Square Landmark movie theater. A young couple waits in line, holding hands. Two elderly women clutch the staircase banister for support. A mom tries to shepherd her two small children—they seem uncooperative. I hold out my phone to the theater attendant. He scans the digital barcode. “Theater four,” he says. I thank him and make my way past theaters one, two, and three. I stop to buy a small popcorn, light butter. When I get to theater four, I enter and survey the room for a seat. I pick one towards the back, middle of the row, and sit on a questionably-clean, formerly-red, faux-velvet chair. I start to eat my popcorn. Reaching into my bag, I take out my phone and put it on Do Not Disturb.
In high school, my classmates and I were required to take the Myers-Briggs personality test. The survey asks an assortment of multiple choice questions about personal habits and responses to hypothetical situations. The test is long, but in spite of all your work, it reduces you to four letters. Each one describes a part of your personality. At age 16, I was not surprised by the first letter of my defining quartet: an overbearing “E,” for extrovert. I had a lively bunch of friends, never thought twice about leading classroom discussions, and ate lunch with the same, dependable group every day. “Annie’s an extrovert? Shocking,” my friends laughed after we got our results.
Though at school and on weekends, I thrived while constantly surrounded by people, there was something I did not realize about myself: I actually spent a lot of time alone. My siblings, all much older than me, had moved out, and my parents worked late most nights. Each day after school, I had time for recovery, time at home to regroup. I read books, marathoned “The West Wing,” and hung out with my Labradoodle. These moments were indispensable for my sanity. For several hours each day, I didn’t have to be funny or sociable or “on.” Those moments were mine.
When I came to college, I was excited for more opportunities to socialize. It would be like a sleepover with my best friends, but all the time! After just a week at Harvard, though, I was exhausted and anxious. I didn’t understand why. I even tried to convince myself that my symptoms were caused by an iron deficiency. A few weeks later, my roommate managed to convince me to take a run along the Charles, as she did every morning. The term “running” might be too generous—athleticism is not my strong suit. But, during that “run,” I felt like I could breathe again.
Halfway through my second year at Harvard, I now question the accuracy of my overbearing “E.” I no longer treat school like one big social event. Instead, I try to carve out moments to emulate the part of high school I enjoyed less: my time alone. I plug in my headphones and walk aimlessly along Memorial Drive. The cool wind blows through my hair as Mick Jagger croons in my ear. I sit at coffee shops, reading the New York Times on my laptop. Sometimes, I just people-watch.
Today, as the lights in the cinema dim, I put my feet up on the empty chair in front of me. Conversation among the other movie-goers lulls to a hush. I breathe in the familiar smell of imitation butter and listen to the animated clip telling us to turn off our cell phones. The voiceover makes some more announcements, then the FBI warning dissolves into the opening of the feature film.
“We hope you enjoy the movie,” he says.
I will.
Sections
A sudden winter storm has emptied the Science Center Plaza, causing food trucks to roll out earlier than their scheduled departure times—except Bon Me, where workers wearing wool hats and thick sweatshirts brave the cold in order to sell their signature rice bowls.
Bon Me was one of the first businesses to partner with Harvard in 2013, when the Plaza was renovated. Now a mainstay on campus, Bon Me provides advice to newcomer trucks like Stoked Pizza Co.
Stoked Pizza Co. started out as a food truck three years ago before opening a restaurant last April. Last October, looking to expand food options in the Plaza, Harvard invited Stoked, as well as other food trucks, to participate in a trial run. Stoked employee Race Ricard says it felt “almost like a contest.” Harvard students, faculty, and staff sampled food from different trucks, and the three most well-received companies were invited to return to campus on a regular schedule determined by the Harvard Common Spaces Team.
Despite the competitive nature of the trial period, Ricard says the rivalry has since died off among Plaza food trucks, largely because their cuisines don’t overlap.
“We try to offer a range of inclusive dietary choices to ensure that those who are vegetarian, vegan, gluten-free, kosher, and halal have options,” says Director of Common Spaces Julie Crites. For Ricard, the diverse community of food trucks feels “almost like a family.”
Stoked Pizza Co. relies on more senior Bon Me for advice. “They’ve been doing this a lot longer than us, so we kind of go to them, and go, ‘During this time, we know school’s not in session. What do you guys do?’” Ricard says. “‘Do you guys even come down here? Do you guys shorten your time? How’s the business?’” Stoked uses that information to determine whether to reduce its hours, or come to campus at all, on wintry days.
Ricard’s favorite part of working on the truck is “when [they’re] busy and [they’re] really, really cranking out pizza.” The worst is when business is slow: “We can only clean so much.”
In addition to advice, Stoked Pizza Co. employees also look to Bon Me for meals. When not eating pizza, Ricard says he gets salad from Bon Me “always.” The two companies routinely trade food after long days. Interactions such as these stand out to Bon Me employee Jack Fahey.
Besides trading food, Fahey looks forward to “the dog that comes by, like, every other breakfast and has one of our devil tea eggs.” Turning to a co-worker, Fahey asks, “Do you remember the name? It’s something like Troy. An epic name.”
Sections
It started with a dame, as it always does. I had just finished brewing my afternoon pot of joe when I heard the message arrive with a ping in my inbox. I swatted at the haze of cigarette smoke that filled my tiny office and wheeled my chair over to the computer. The computer in question sat on my desk next to my finest possession, an embossed bit of metal that stated succinctly, “Private Detective.” I woke up the screen. “Instructions on Obtaining 2017 Datamatch Results,” it read. I’ll bite, I thought, clicking on the link. It seemed too good to be true. My perfect match? If I’ve learned anything in my years on the job, it’s that love is never what it seems to be.
I tapped out my ashes and did some further digging on the ‘net. These Datamatch fellows seemed to have really cornered the market on campus love. I’m not one to take a job without any pay in sight, but this kind of thing just begged to be looked into. Only one way to start: Right in the mess of things.
***
I met with my “soulmate” on a Tuesday afternoon. The staccato pitter patter of rain punctuated our conversation.
“So you’re telling me that your name isn’t Ben Cort, you aren’t six foot one, you aren’t a Virgo, you didn’t want to be the red Power Puff girl when you were five, and you don’t have “MOM” tattooed on your left butt cheek?” I asked, slouched back in my chair and peering out from under the drooping corner of the brim of my hat.
“No?” my date replied, chewing nervously.
I chuckled softly to myself. Soulmate my backside. The two of us had as much in common as a chair did with a chickadee. I kicked back the table and swung to my feet. “Don’t worry, doll—the waffles are on me.” I had everything I needed.
“Aren’t they free?” my date started to ask, but I had already disappeared into the rain.
***
Datamatch was a sham, that much was clear. But why? How deep did it go? How far up did it go? Did it extend horizontally? I threw my trench coat to my secretary and slammed the door to my office. My secretary yelled something about being my roommate.
I pulled open my desk drawer and poured myself a glass of my old friend. PBR and I go way back. He helped me quiet the voices in my head and get to work. Voices that said things like, “Dude, you have several midterms this week. Maybe start studying?”
I pinned a photo of Zinneken's to my corkboard, next to the printout of the email I had received. Michael’s was having a buy-one-get-one-free sale on yarn, which was just what I needed to start connecting the threads of this case.
I gave my pal Steven Catalano a ring. He still owed me a favor, after all the help I gave him on that Gov 1310 take-home scandal. But when I mentioned Datamatch, Stevie got the sweats. He told me he didn’t know nothing. Then he hung up in a hurry.
As I was chewing that over, I heard a commotion from the other room. I slipped open my door and found a pair of goons giving my secretary the once over. Datamatch! I must have gone too deep. Deep enough that it would be easier to shut me up for good.
Before the goons could notice me, I slid my hand to my holster and introduced the big one on the right to my dear friend. His name’s Magnum, and he’s got one hell of a right hook. I must be getting old, though, because before Magnum could acquaint himself with the second bruiser I found myself flat on my back seeing stars. I guess it’s true what they say: Love hurts.
***
I woke up in the boot of a car. From the way I was getting tossed about, it seemed like we were doing 90 on a country road. I set to work getting the ropes off my hands and feet. If the cops were being bought off, I supposed it was up to me to sort this out.
The car stopped a few minutes later. I waited, coiled up like a rattlesnake, for them to pop the trunk. The blinding glow of headlights flooded my little prison. Whap-bam! I dropped the first two goons with the ol’ one-two. Still got it!
“Whoa there. Easy big fella,” a voice boomed out. It was the kind of voice that made you stop and listen.
I shielded my eyes against the glare and looked up. My jaw dropped. “Dean Lassonde?” I stammered. My head reeled, connecting the dots. The conspiracy had been right in front of me the whole time.
His eyes gleamed like ice. “I’m just Mr. Lassonde now. Datamatch has become so large it demands my full attention.”
“But why?” I asked.
He smiled, his teeth white as snow. “The Dean of Student Life is in charge of all facets of student life, not just snow days and placemats. Datamatch is calibrated to mismatch our students just enough that they can get a tantalizing taste of love without wasting too much of their precious time on ‘dates’ and ‘relationships.’”
“You’ve set us up to fail,” I breathed out.
“Exactly. We’ve found that our students are more productive when they’re complaining about how no one at Harvard wants to date, than when they’re substituting studying nights with romance. It goes without saying that this is your first warning. Discuss any of this with your peers, and you’ll find yourself forcibly transferred from the college.”
I gulped. The implied “to Yale” hung in the air. Lassonde was not the kind of man you argued with. I was escorted back into the trunk and decided that going peacefully was the best route to keeping my diploma in working order.
***
Back at home, I tidied up my office and took down the corkboard. My secretary was a bit shaken up, but but that was nothing a quick visit from my friend PBR couldn’t fix. I opened up my computer and deleted every email from Datamatch, just in case. At least I had gotten some answers. Still, this had been one of the worst kinds of cases: I never got paid.
Sections
If the 7 p.m. train pulls into the station when the clock on the wall strikes 7:01, was the train a minute late or the clock a minute fast? How do we know that “our” time is the correct time? Since the invention of GPS satellites and quartz clocks implanted in modern devices, the idea of doubting the digital numbers on our iPhone displays is blasphemous.
But if we journey back to the 1800’s we can follow the evolution of time-keeping and clock syncrasy as it progressed through Harvard and the greater Boston area, eventually culminating in the establishment of the American “time zone” today.
The year was 1839. William Cranch Bond was a clockmaker and astronomer living in Dorchester, Mass. Bond had been commissioned by the United States government under Captain Charles Wilkes to conduct measurements of longitude and “other scientific purposes” for the Navy’s Exploring Expedition of the Pacific Ocean.
Bond’s home, where he lived with his wife Selena Cranch—also his first cousin—was furnished with a large, granite telescope pier upon which he could configure his collection of scientific instruments.
For many years, Harvard had been actively seeking the necessary funds and proper arrangements for the construction of an astronomical observatory. After gaining permission from Congress, Harvard University President Josiah Quincy facilitated the relocation of Bond’s observatory to the Dana Estate, which is the current site of Lamont Library. There, Bond was appointed “Astronomical Observer to the University,” and continued his work for no salary.
By 1843, the public had acquired an incredible fascination with the observatory at the Dana House. Donations poured in, and Harvard decided to purchase its highest quality, most magnificent scientific instrument yet: the Great Refractor.
A 20-foot-long wooden tube and 11-ton granite block made up the device. Years later, Bond and his son, George P. Bond, would be the first to observe Saturn’s eighth moon and innermost ring through this very lens.
Bond maintained his role at the College, while also managing his father’s Boston-based watchmaking business, William Bond & Son. The Bonds’ company’s original purpose was to build and repair marine chronometers used by the Navy and other commercial maritime companies along the Boston port.
By 1848 Bond’s chronometers continued to be recognized for their unparalleled precision, but the next step was solving the problem of clock syncrasy. How could he ensure that all of his clocks were displaying the same exact time?
Bond was entranced by his extensive research and experiments. During one project, in which Bond, in his observatory in Cambridge, communicated with an Observatory in Peter Stuyvesant’s garden in New York City, he had a sudden realization.
Two clocks would synchronize almost perfectly if he attached a metal tab, acting as a break circuit device, to the escapement of the clock, which would automatically transmit the beat of the first clock electrically through a telegraph wire to the second.
Bond and his sons developed a prototype of an instrument known as a drum chronograph using a rotating paper-covered cylinder. They called it the “Spring Governor.” By 1851, they had perfected the technology and were able to send electronic signals from the clocks in the Cambridge Observatory to clocks in Boston through telegraph wires.
The issue of synchronizing became especially problematic for the New England railroad companies. Even the smallest, seemingly insignificant inaccuracies often led to devastating crashes. Between 1831 and 1852, 32 train wrecks kill 73 passengers.
In 1853, however, these numbers skyrocketed as the country witnessed another 65 accidents injuring 333 and killing 176. A famous switch mishap and head-on collision between the Boston and Providence Railroads caused them to reach out to Bond & Son and the Harvard Observatory for help.
Bond’s technology revolutionized the timekeeping industry, as railroads and other Boston businesses set their clocks according to “the true time at Boston as given by William Bond & Son.” Pleased by the public’s fascination with his obsession—exactness. Bond was happy to supply the electric pulses to Boston companies as a free service.
Bond and his sons had passed away by 1866. Throughout the 1870s, however, the Observatory transformed into one of the major “mother clocks,” sending time signals throughout the Boston area. The demand for this time rose, as watches and clocks telling Bond’s time become status symbols.
Between 1872 and 1892, the Harvard Observatory began making a profit of $2,400 a year from selling the time. By then, more than just railroad companies relied on Bond’s time. Wires snake through the streets of Boston, connecting the Observatory to private individuals as well as manufacturers.
By 1892, the Observatory faced steep competition from time-selling companies such as Western Union. It earned its last profit of about $3,000, before time standardization was taken over first by the U.S. Naval Observatory, and eventually the Interstate Commerce Commission. The “American time zone” was officially established in 1918.
The late 19th and early 20th centuries introduced Einstein’s theory of relativity and Poincaré’s maps, both of which challenged all recognized timekeeping and cartographic methods. While Harvard’s Observatory discontinued its signals, it expanded immensely and continued to conduct observations and research.
Today, in 2017, some of the original collection of Bond chronometers, clocks, and other chronographs are on display at the Putnam Gallery. Though modern time-telling no longer relies on celestial observations or telegraph wires, it’s clear that William C. Bond was ahead of his time.
Sections
Shopping week is a “bureaucratic headache,” say Stephanie Kenen, the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Education and Administrative Director of the Program in General Education.
Though many undergraduates love the week for the flexibility it provides, for Harvard administrators, shopping week means not knowing the size of each course until the Course Registration Deadline. “First, we sit down the spring before... and we look at enrollments and Q scores, and we try to take an educated guess at predicting how big a class might be,” Kenan adds, “and then we assign a certain number of sections for that class.” The system’s accuracy is “all over the place.”
This semester, enrollment numbers were unusual due to changes in the Gen Ed program that meant many upperclassmen returned to campus with fewer remaining requirements.
Unsurprisingly, Kenen says, these changes meant that student enrollment in Gen Ed classes was “way down overall.” On the other hand, Kenen notes that sometimes “there are certain courses that just go viral, and they explode, and we never see it coming.”
Kenan believes that this year is “the worst year [regarding enrollment variations] since we switched from the old program to the new Gen Ed.” Compared to previous years, Science of Living Systems 20: “Psychological Science” and Societies of the World 24: “Global Health Challenges,” for example, had drastic decreases in student numbers, while Science of Living Systems 19: “Nutrition and Global Health,” Culture and Belief 35: “Classical Mythology,” and United States in the World 34: “The Civil War from Nat Turner to Birth of a Nation” showed spikes in enrollment.
Teaching fellows say that they bear the brunt of these variations. Typically, teaching fellows are assigned to classes at least a month in advance, but, when course size fluctuates, TFs often have to be relocated at the last minute. “Those TFs [who are moved] have generally had lower Q scores because they’re not prepared,” says Kenen. “It’s very stressful for graduate students to not know what their teaching appointments are going to be, or look like.”
In SLS 20, student numbers dropped from around 225 to around 70. As a result, half of teaching fellows initially assigned to the course were moved to different courses. One of those TFs is Caterina Magri, a graduate student in Psychology. After being assigned to teach SLS20 this December, she was switched into Psy 1002: “Evolving Morality.” “It was a bit stressful at the beginning of the week, because it wasn’t clear how many classes were going to be available for the TFs,” Magri says.
James Bursley is a TF who remained on the SLS 20 staff. “The reassignment of teaching fellows from SLS 20 to other courses was carried out very chaotically and with little regard for the needs of TFs from the Program in General Education” he says.
Magri and Bursley were worried that they wouldn’t be able to teach courses within the Psych department at all. “[Celia Raia, the Graduate Coordinator for the Psychology department] was sending out the options to teach classes that were in other departments, completely out of my area of expertise,” Magri says.
Bursley agrees: “This semester, we were being offered teaching positions in courses that were totally unrelated--say philosophy courses and anthropology courses and a course on game theory or something.” He worries that “many [TFs] were assigned to courses they never would have volunteered to teach, to the detriment of both the TFs and their students.”
Bursley and Magri also note that the strenuous reassignment process lasted beyond the end of shopping week. Magri says, “I was only able to attend the meetings of the class I had to teach at the end of the second week of classes, which is a bit late.”
“Because so many TFs only learned what course they would be teaching well into in the semester, they had to catch up on the material of the new course,” says Bursley, “They in effect performed the TF duties of two courses for part of the semester.”
Ultimately, though, both Bursley and Magri are pleased with the outcome. Bursley is glad that he doesn’t have to learn to teach a new course on top of research commitments; Magri is glad to be teaching Psy 1002. “I can imagine,” she says, “there are other people where the solution hasn’t been so positive.”
On the other hand, some courses far exceeded their enrollment measures, creating a completely different set of problems. Keating McKeon is the head TF for CB35: “Classical Mythology,” a class that tripled in size from the Gen Ed estimate, reaching a count of 191. “It’s certainly been a very time-consuming, and at times, stressful process,” he says. “We were looking at maybe ending up with 4 classrooms, suddenly we’re looking at 12-13 sections.”
Similarly, Joshua Petimar, the head TF for SLS19: “Nutrition and Global Health,” says that Gen Ed predictions had allotted 17 sections to the course, but they ultimately ended up with 23.
This left both McKeon and Petimar scrambling to hire and organize more TFs. “It was stressful in the sense that we only had a weekend” says Petimar. “For me, that was a very stressful time, because we had to come up with the teaching staff and then we had to figure out sectioning for all the students.” Like McKeon, he also hired more TFs than usual who were new to the course.
The General Education office has considered solutions to the problems that shopping week poses for TFs and enrollment. “We’ve had different ideas thrown around,” Kenen says. “There was an attempt probably about 10 years ago to have a hard pre-registration, but that failed. Then, for a while, we did what we called preterm planning... but it was pretty useless because people didn’t take it seriously.”
“Without some sort of pre-registration, I don’t see how we’re going to fix this problem,” Kenen says. “[TFs] can be extraordinary teachers with and for you,” she says, “but again, not if they can’t prepare… A prepared teacher is a good teacher, and when we shove them into another class, they’re not going to be prepared, and they’re not going to be able to teach you as best they can.”
Sections
Every weekday morning at 8:40 a.m., the bells of Memorial Church call the Harvard community to morning prayers. Over a century ago, when attendance was mandatory for students, the chapel would have been packed with restless Harvard men. Today, on a wintery Monday morning in February, just a couple dozen people, mostly with silver hair, sit meditatively in the pews.
The 15-minute ceremony appears to follow a Protestant framework. A Memorial Church seminarian leads a call-and-response reading of the Bible as sunlight streams in through the expansive windowpane behind her. Minutes later, the choir, dressed in flowing formal robes, chants a haunting interlude from the 16th century.
Then a third-year Masters of Divinity student at Harvard Divinity School rises from his seat and walks to the pulpit. Abhishek Raman offers a sermon that stands out in a Christian church: Instead of a Bible lesson, he reads from the Bhagavad Gita, using it as a springboard to teach about corporations, social justice, and Super Bowl ads through the lens of Hindu ethics. The service ends in a group singing of a Protestant hymn before the seminarian comes back for a final blessing.
Morning prayers, frequently led by Divinity School students, have come to reflect a complicated tapestry of religious traditions and beliefs within the School. Much like that Monday’s service, the Divinity School is full of contradictions. Its mission is in part to train religious ministers, but it is not a seminary—it is a nonsectarian graduate school in a secular university.
The Divinity School, located at the far northeast corner of campus, is composed of an eclectic mix of imposing Gothic stone buildings, a red-brick hall, and contrasting modern architecture. On a typical afternoon, you might find students practicing Tai Chi in front of Andover Hall or monks checking their email in the theological library.
Though the Divinity School was originally founded to educate Christian ministers, today a majority of its roughly 400 graduate students opt not to pursue careers in religious leadership after graduation. Only 40 percent of 2015’s incoming class chose to pursue a Masters of Divinity, a theoretically pre-professional three-year degree that prepares students for ministry. The rest study for a Masters of Theological Studies, a two-year academic track that serves as a stepping stone to a PhD.
Paths after the Divinity School are diverse. “They do some further training; they go into law school; they go to medical school; they become writers, journalists; they get involved in NGOs; they go down to the State Department,” says David N. Hempton, dean of the Divinity School, “So in other words, any career in which religious literacy is a real advantage.”
In recent years, that literacy has become more complex. Over the past several decades, the Divinity School’s offerings and curriculum have shifted to accommodate a diversity of religions.  Bolstered by the University’s extensive foreign language and cultural programs, the increasing representation of world religions at the Divinity School has fostered new communities and directions for alumni.
Dudley C. Rose, associate dean of ministry studies at the Divinity School, oversees the Masters of Divinity program. Rose, who spent 30 years as a Christian minister, is responsible for the education of all ministerial students at the school, whether they are Buddhist lamas, Christian pastors, or Muslim imams. He has a booming pastoral voice, which is somewhat undercut by his frequent laughter.
“I think of creation as God’s gift to itself, and the diversity within it is a part of that gift,” Rose says, “When we move to exclude, almost always we’ve seen that we’re on the wrong side of history.” Inclusivity at the Divinity School has allowed  the representation of beliefs like Native American religions and humanism and has given queer students and minorities a place on campus.
Hempton’s upbringing in Northern Ireland—where Catholics and Protestants have clashed for years—has made him deeply aware of the dangers of religious intolerance. He founded the Religions and the Practice of Peace program at the Divinity School in 2014, with the goal of “fostering sustainable peace in our world.” Photos on a table in his wood-panelled office show him with Jimmy Carter and the Dalai Lama. “The vital thing at HDS is not where one comes from, necessarily,” he says, “but the willingness to engage with the other.”
This open-mindedness has also fed the long tradition of social justice activism at the School. “Groups of our students come to work on NGOs and become social activists,” says Ahmed Ragab, a professor of science and religion at the Divinity School. “This is one of the things that makes me proud of the school and the work that we do.”
Yet the Divinity School’s evolving identity has not been without conflict—some fear the school has lost its ideological core. Just past its 200th year, the Divinity School must now grapple with questions of identity as its faculty and student body move ever further from its original Christian purpose.
Until 2005, the Masters of Divinity program at the Divinity School was nominally Christian, although students of any faith were eligible for admission. Course requirements fell into three categories, the first two of which focused on Christianity: Scripture and Interpretation, Christianity and Culture, and Religions of the World. Even that system, says Rose, was quite radical. Christian ministers were required to take three courses in world religions, “which was highly unusual for a theological education,” he says.
But non-Christian faiths, says Stephanie A. Paulsell, professor of Christian Studies at the Divinity School and an ordained minister in the Disciples of Christ, were “sort of ghettoized in one little section of the curriculum.” In 2005, those requirements were broadened so that students could focus on any tradition. While the changes were broadly applauded, some thought the new direction represented a loss of the values that had made the Divinity School what it once was.
Jon D. Levenson, a professor of Jewish Studies at the Divinity School, is one skeptic of the new curriculum.
“For a long time, the Divinity School was primarily a Protestant seminary,” he says. “Those liberal Protestant denominations are underwater demographically—they have a negative birthrate, below replacement level. Their cultural influence has declined markedly. I think it was inevitable that a curriculum that spoke to the older identity of the school would have to change.”
The loss of a Christian framework, says Levenson, coupled with increasing numbers of students focused on academia and other non-ministerial careers, has left the school reeling without a sense of identity.
“It’s extremely diverse, but with diverseness comes diffuseness, or a lack of a center of gravity,” says Levenson. “In many ways, it’s a religious studies department that for historical reasons is constituted as an independent faculty rather than part of [the Faculty of Arts and Sciences].”
Others, including Rev. Peter J. Gomes, the former minister of Memorial Church who passed away in 2011, were skeptical of the change, according to Ann D. Braude, director of the Women’s Studies program at the Divinity School.
But many see the changes as unambiguously positive—a reflection of the evolving demands of a diverse student body committed to service.
“Religions don’t shoot through history in pneumatic tubes—they move through history, they accrue things to themselves, they interact with other religions, and bits and pieces of them get stuck together,” says Paulsell, still dressed in robes after preaching a Harvard Sunday service. “A lot of religions—Christianity, Buddhism—they’re all about waking up and being more alive to what’s going on around you.”
Paulsell believes in religious plurality for its own sake, but also believes it advances the training of Christian pastors at the Divinity School. “Education and Christian ministry have gotten stronger, because everyone has to take some classes together and think together about being in this very diverse context,” she says.
While he is also a proponent of pluralism, Hempton is sympathetic with Levenson’s concerns. The Divinity School, he acknowledges, doesn’t have a center of gravity in the same way that a single-denomination seminary would. Instead, he says, “The center of gravity has generally been more on the progressive side of religious issues… Many of our more recent alums have been involved in all kinds of progressive NGOs. I think that’s where the center of gravity is.”
The Divinity School Racial Justice and Healing Initiative, one of many activist groups on campus, embodies that center of gravity. Trading pulpits for picket signs, they organized a “Week of Resistance” at the start of February, complete with workshops and protests.  That social justice focus was part of what drew Rod L. Owens to the Divinity School. A black man raised in Rome, Georgia, Owens, who identifies as queer, felt out of place in the South because of his sexuality. After he began practicing mindfulness to combat depression, Owens converted to Buddhism, and entered the Divinity School to become a lama in that tradition.
“At Harvard, it’s a privilege to be in an environment where identity is so celebrated and embraced,” says Owens, who has found a home among a group of BGLTQ Buddhists at the Divinity School. “I felt that HDS had a space for my interest in religion, as well as my interest in social justice.”
Yet some students say the Divinity School could do more to work with students of diverse faiths. For example, Muslim leaders, according to Celene N. Ibrahim, a Divinity School graduate, have unique needs that are not fully addressed. “[You] really have to combine whatever you’re getting at Harvard Divinity with some kind of outside training in things like incantation or recitation of the Koran, things like learning how to give a Khutbah,” she says.
“I think in the future if we want to be a truly multireligious school that values pluralism, changes need to be made to reflect that diversity and that pluralism,” says Kristofer S. Rhude, a Divinity School student. “I think that the student body is becoming ever more diverse, and in some ways the school will need to catch up with that.”
Braude acknowledges that it is difficult to serve the diverse needs of ministers in a variety of faiths. “It’s true that we assume that a certain amount of students religious formation comes from their faith community,” she says. “But there is an intellectual component to a vocation, and that’s what we can support.”
The Divinity School is no longer united around Protestantism. Its alumni are no longer connected by their work in religious ministry. But it is centered around service and community organizing, often for progressive causes, and has been since its founding in 1816.
Stirred by 2005’s reorganization, questions about the Divinity School’s direction abound—but debates about religious pluralism and identity are nothing new.
Harvard itself was established in 1636 to “season” the men of New England with “the principles of divinity and Christianity,” according to its founding statement. Early leaders of the University believed that “the well-being of the New England experiment depended on a learned ministry,” according to Divinity School Professor Dan P. McKanan ’89, who teaches the history and theology of liberal religion in America.
“What that meant in practice was that young men who wanted to be ministers in the Puritan churches of New England would pursue a liberal arts education at Harvard College,” he says. In the beginning, there was no need for a separate Divinity School—the entire University effectively functioned as one.
Over the next 180 years or so, Harvard grew much more liberal in its Christianity. Tensions exploded in 1805, when Henry Ware, Sr. was selected to fill the prestigious Hollis Professorship of Divinity.
“[Ware] was well known to have absorbed Enlightenment ideas so fully that he rejected the doctrine of the trinity,” says McKanan. Furious conservative Christians founded a rival school, Andover Seminary, in Newton, Mass. About ten years later, in 1816, Harvard followed suit, founding the Divinity School with a “big tent understanding of church in which a variety of theological positions were possible,” according to McKanan.
“The founding of the Divinity School is at this moment of liberalism, and it is very much a Unitarian institution,” says Braude, who is also an expert on Divinity School history. As the Unitarian denomination became more encompassing, Braude says, so too did the Divinity School.
Throughout the 19th and early 20th century, the Divinity School continued to liberalize. Ralph Waldo Emerson introduced Transcendentalism, a philosophy almost entirely beyond Christianity, at the Divinity School, to much controversy. “[The Divinity School] became more open to humanistic forms of religion, forms of religious practice that don’t posit any form of divine being,” says McKanan, who keeps a bust of Emerson on his desk. “It was certainly not at the forefront of any of that, but it gradually moved along.”
The Divinity School also has a long tradition of social justice activism. “Many of our early alums were abolitionists,” says Hempton. Divinity School alumni have also been active in movements from women’s suffrage and the Civil Rights movement to Black Lives Matter today.
This pattern of liberalism continued until the 1950s, when the Divinity School grew more conservative under then-University President Nathan M. Pusey ’28, who appointed a number of mainline Protestant theologians to the faculty. The Center for the Study of World Religions (affectionately dubbed “Gods’ motel” by virtue of its low-slung mid-century architecture), was founded in the late 1950s across the street from Andover Hall.
But soon the Divinity School began to evolve into the pluralistic space it is today. Bringing a Catholic onto the faculty in the late 1950s prompted an identity crisis. After the Stillman Chair for Roman Catholic studies was filled, the appointment of Jewish, Muslim, and Buddhist scholars was not far behind. “There was never a decision that Harvard should become a multireligious divinity school,” says Braude. “It just kind of happened, faculty appointment by faculty appointment.” 2015’s incoming class is affiliated with over 20 different religions.
“Our school was founded as a nonsectarian, nondenominational institution,” says Hempton, who is not surprised by its pluralistic turn. “It’s literally in our DNA.”
Rosalyn R. LaPier, a visiting scholar from the University of Montana, knows a thing or two about plants. Her office is in a small house at the northeastern edge of campus, the desk placed so the garden outside is easily visible.
LaPier spent 20 years in an apprenticeship with her aunt and grandmother, both members of the Blackfeet Native American tribe, in order to understand the ritual use of plants in her tribe’s religion. She considers this “traditional ecological knowledge” as important to her work as her education at traditional universities. (She holds degrees in physics, religious studies, public policy, and history.) Today, she unites the two modes of knowledge in her work as an ethnobotanist, exploring “religious connection that people have to both plants and places.”
Western scholars have studied Christianity for thousands of years. Applying that same tradition of theological study to indigenous religion is much newer, but LaPier, conducting her research at a school that was founded in part to convert Native Americans to Christianity, believes that it is critical to include native beliefs at the Divinity School.
“You could ask most Americans, and they could tell you a little about Christianity, about Islam, about Judaism,” says LaPier. “But they would not be able to tell you about the religions that evolved here in North America, and that have been here for thousands of years.”
For example, LaPier sees a lack of understanding in coverage of the ongoing protests at Standing Rock, where many Native Americans from a Sioux tribe are opposing the construction of a pipeline near their land, some of which is considered sacred. Journalists “don’t have the religious literacy to be able to discuss why this particular tribe in this particular place thinks that [the Dakota Access Pipeline] is a religious issue, that it’s not just an environmental issue,” she says.
Faculty like LaPier believe that deep understanding of a variety of religions can lead to social change. Their scholarship at the Divinity School has given them an opportunity to explore intersections of faith and social issues.
Taylor G. Petrey, who received his Doctor of Theology at the Divinity School in 2010, is a theologian on a mission—to reinterpret Mormon texts and histories to allow for the full expression of BGLTQ and gender identity within the church. Petrey is a visiting scholar from Kalamazoo College, and his austere, book-filled office, directly above LaPier’s, feels like the home of a monk.
Feminist and queer theology, like indigenous belief, is relatively new in the field of religious studies. Harvard has been at the forefront of this movement, and Petrey hopes to capitalize on that momentum.
“One of the reasons that Mormonism has politically and theologically found itself in opposition to homosexuality is that it understands the heavens to be built around heterosexual families,” he says. Mormons believe that God is married to a Heavenly Mother, and that Jesus is their son. This divine example, among other things, makes it hard to accept nontraditional families in the church. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints does not condone same-sex marriage, for example. Petrey doesn’t buy that argument. “I’m studying resources in Mormon history and Mormon theology that destabilize the idea that heterosexuality is the only way Mormons can think about God or the universe,” he says. For Petrey, this argument is critical not only to the inclusion of all Mormons, but for the survival of his church.
“I’m persuaded that one of the reasons why younger people are turning away from religion does have to do with the way that religion got branded as conservative over these last couple of years,” he says. He hopes that this work, based on radical new ways of reading and study, will change the attitudes of millions of Mormons.
The study of a diversity of religions, according to LaPier, is essential to making this kind of shift in belief. “It’s important to think of religion as a key part of human society and human culture,” she says. “If you can at least begin to understand the different types of religion around the world, it helps us understand the people.” For both Petrey and LaPier, that understanding can lead to societal change.
Other Divinity School affiliates have used their studies to build communities outside of traditional religion. Greg M. Epstein is the humanist chaplain at Harvard, and serves atheists, agnostics, and humanists in the student body and the greater Boston area.
Epstein runs the Humanist Hub, a meeting space accessible through a miniscule elevator off JFK Street. The Hub hosts groups on race relations and mindfulness, among other things. On Sundays, there are gatherings of humanists featuring music, speakers, and open discussion. Kids from the Boston area gather in the E.O. Wilson Big Question Lab, “where they ask and answer all the big questions in life,” according to Epstein, culminating in a coming-of-age ceremony. It’s something of a fusion of a Bar Mitzvah and Sunday school—minus religion.
Sunday’s talk, which addresses ways in which the humanist community can combat the stigma associated with mental illnesses, is given by Omar S. Haque, who has degrees from both the Divinity School and Harvard Medical School. Haque frequently uses his Divinity School education in his work as a psychiatrist. “In psychology and psychiatry, there is a huge disconnect between the kinds of things that patients are interested in, such as existential, moral and religious questions, and the kinds of treatments we’re trained to give people,” Haque says. He thinks that communities like Epstein’s Hub—grounded in ethical teaching but divorced from traditional faith— have something to offer those who suffer from mental illnesses.
“I arrived at the Divinity School thinking I would be unique, and I was,” says Epstein, sweeping aside a pile of protest signs to make space for his bag. “There are many humanists at the Divinity School, but I was the only one at the time who was training to be the leader of a humanist community.” He has the resonant voice and frenetic energy of a fiery evangelical preacher.
The social philosophy of the Divinity School lends itself to new kinds of community organizing, like what Epstein has done. Others at the school are reaching out to groups that aren’t normally seen as religious. The Ministry Innovation Fellows study groups like SoulCycle and CrossFit for their emphasis on community, and consider if they function like a religious group. Casper R. ter Kuile and Vanessa M. Zoltan, both alumni of the Divinity School, host the popular podcast “Harry Potter and the Sacred Text,” which considers whether devotion to Rowling’s books could be a form of online religious community.
Ragab—director of the Science, Religion, and Culture program at the Divinity School—has a slightly different focus, using religious community as a starting point for building new, non-religious connections. He wants to take existing religious organizations and put them into action through an initiative called “Aware Communities,” which is designed to work with underserved and minority groups in Boston and around the country.
“It’s going to work with religious institutions in these places to provide training and education on a variety of issues related to science,” like creating green spaces, STEM education for girls and minorities, and better understanding of medical ethics.
In an increasingly secular world, Divinity School students have responded by expanding the definition of what a religious community comprises.
For many students, the Divinity School’s lack of a single religious identity is a major benefit. In her day job, Divinity School graduate Kerry A. Egan cares for terminally ill patients in a hospice in South Carolina. She is the chaplain there, but her job is not to preach any one set of beliefs or teach any one doctrine—Egan is simply there as what she calls a “spiritual midwife,” whose role is “to help [the patient], sit with them, and say to them, ‘What do you already believe?’”
Egan is a Christian, but that does not change the way she cares for patients: “One of the things you learn as a chaplain is you walk out and say ‘I want to be all of the religions!’ You love them all. They all have so much beauty in them.”
Last fall, Egan published the book “On Living,” telling the stories of her patients and the lessons she’s drawn from them. To Egan, writing is a form of ministry, one that speaks to a much larger audience. This fits with the Divinity School’s mission to rethink how religious leadership works: “We’re broadening, in a way, the meaning of ministry to include other vocations besides congregational leadership,” says Rose.
“We know that 84 percent of the world’s population declares that religion is a primary organizing principle of their lives,” says Hempton. “A place of real excellence where religion can be studied, without it being driven by a confessional or proselytizing agenda, I think is a good thing for the world.”
In a way, then, perhaps this is the difficult-to-define center of gravity of the Divinity School: Egan, like Epstein and Petrey, has taken the teachings of the school and broadened them into a new kind of service.
Gomes, the former minister of Memorial Church, said in a 2004 convocation address to the Divinity School, “Silence is death, and we with our skills and talents have never been more needed than now.” At the Divinity School, his words still ring true.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The higher fees external managers will charge Harvard Management Company as it shifts away from an internal management system are justified, University President Drew G. Faust said in an interview last week.
HMC—which manages Harvard’s $35.7 billion endowment—announced sweeping changes to its investment strategy in late January, indicating it would cut its internal staff of 230 in half by the end of 2017 and outsource the investment of most of its asset classes to external managers by the end of the fiscal year.
The changes come on the heels of years of lackluster returns for the University’s investment arm. In fiscal year 2016, Harvard posted negative 2 percent returns on its investments—the lowest returns since the height of the financial crisis. The firm has struggled to keep pace with peer institutions in recent years.
Typically, experts say, firms pay more for the services of external managers than they do if they maintain in-house staffs.
Faust said Harvard “balance[d]” the increased cost of dealing with external managers with the possibility of growth in returns.
“The sense was that the fees that would be charged by external managers in relationship to the insight and success of external managers was worth undertaking,” Faust said. “I think what we want to see is that we have the most effective means of generating the resources for all the wonderful activities that Harvard undertakes.”
Charles A. Skorina, who heads a financial executive headhunter firm, said Faust’s assessment is accurate. Because Harvard will have the freedom to hire and fire any external managers it wants based on their performance, it should expect to see an improvement in the management of its assets, he said.
“What [Faust] means by that is up until now the costs were high and the benefits were low. Had Harvard been producing the kind of returns that Yale has been producing, the cost-benefit would have been very different,” Skorina said. “Then they would’ve said, ‘gee, what a deal we’re getting for paying these folks in house.”
Faust added that the personnel cutbacks are more of a “transfer of staff” than a standard wave of layoffs, mostly because some of the firm’s internal managers are likely to spin off to form hedge funds that will continue to manage some of Harvard’s assets.
“One of the issues here is that some of the reduction of staff is groups of investors spinning off and starting their own investment firms,” Faust said. “That’s not really a layoff—that’s a reduction in staff but it’s a movement to an independent status,” she continued.
HMC’s new CEO N.P. Narvekar hinted at this type of relationship in a message in January, writing that the firm’s highly-successful real estate team is likely to strike off on their own to form a hedge fund, but still work with Harvard’s real estate assets. Three managers will reportedly leave the firm to start their own funds.
On top of the cost of retaining outside managers, though, firms sometimes hire a consultant to serve as a “third-party custodian,” when selecting external managers and settling on a retainer fee, according to Skorina. Skorina said this consultant could cost anywhere from as low as $5,000 a month to upwards of $100,000 a month, depending on their responsibilities.
“It’s all over the map, but they’re all open to negotiation,” Skorina said.
Bradley R. Balter, the managing partner of the Boston-based advisory firm Balter Capital, said it is very unlikely HMC would hire a middleman to mediate relations with newly-formed hedge funds that break off from HMC.
“There should be no middleman,” Balter said. “The middleman would just increase everyone’s cost. If you need to hire a middleman to handle your own spin out, of someone of a firm you dealt with, that doesn’t give me a lot of faith in your ability to execute and negotiate with sufficiently complicated investment vehicles.”
Experts predict that any investment teams that branch off from HMC will likely negotiate a lower price than market value for their services with the firm as a sort of kickback to their former employee.
—Staff writer Brandon J. Dixon can be reached at brandon.dixon@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @BrandonJoDixon.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Harvard Square is picking up Good Vibrations from a new sex shop at 52 JFK St.
Good Vibrations, a San Francisco-based business, held its grand opening in January after a “quiet” opening in October. The Harvard Square location is its second in the Boston area, joining the seven branches in the California Bay Area and one in Brookline.
In addition to selling a wide variety of sex toys and other products, Good Vibrations holds educational workshops on sexual health and pleasure. According to the store’s website, staff members are all trained sex educators, and the store focuses on providing information and answering questions about products.
In an emailed statement, Lita D. Peña ’19, co-president of Sexual Health Education and Advocacy Throughout Harvard College, said the store’s arrival will help mitigate the stigma surrounding sex toys and sexual pleasure.
“Students deserve to have a place where they can go and seek safe and reliable information about something that you don’t normally learn about in a sex ed class, and that’s why I think it’s great that Good Vibrations has moved into the Square,” she wrote. “I know of many Harvard students who have gone to the store and been very pleased with their experience there!”
Good Vibrations has been a corporate partner with the advocacy group for Harvard’s Sex Week for years, holding sex education workshops during the event. Kristen G.  Cotter, manager of the Brookline and Cambridge stores, said she looks forward to reaching out to more students through the Harvard Square store.
“Our plan is to get more involved with students,” Cotter said. “We’re trying our best to reach out to the community to make sure that everybody has the information, knows that we’re available to talk, and provide just the best info that we can, mostly for the community, but also just to kind of make this world a little more sex positive and a little less shameful about sexuality.”
Peña wrote that she also appreciated that the store is inclusive to all.
“They are also a non-judgmental group who welcome all genders, sexual orientations, and identities into their stores,” Peña wrote.
Denise A. Jillson, executive director of the Harvard Square Business Association, said that when the building owner told her that the store was coming to the Square, she did not know what type of shop it was.
“The first thing that I thought of was the song ‘Good Vibrations,’ that’s just what I thought of,” Jillson said.
Despite potential differing opinions about the company, Jillson said, she welcomes Good Vibrations into Harvard Square like any other business.
“I think that sometimes they arrive in communities and people have opinions about that. But you know something? This is Harvard Square and we have a very large umbrella. Everybody fits under our umbrella,” Jillson said. “This is a microcosm of society, and we have to be respectful of people, their opinions, and their desires.”
Cotter said that Good Vibrations has received positive feedback so far and thinks the store will stay in Harvard Square for a long time.
“We’re excited to kind of bridge the gap between people who know that we exist and don’t know that we exist,” she said. “It’s been a really rewarding experience so far being in Cambridge, and we’re excited to continue our time here.”
–Staff writer Alison W. Steinbach can be reached at alison.steinbach@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @alisteinbach.
—Staff writer Katherine E. Wang can be reached at katie.wang@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @katiewang29.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
City officials and bike safety activists explored ways to make Cambridge a more bike-friendly city at a meeting at City Hall meeting Wednesday.
City Councillor Nadeem A. Mazen opened the meeting by applauding Cambridge’s efforts to make bicycle travel safe in Cambridge.
“The city has made such great commitment to looking at the bicycle master plan,” Mazen said. “There has been a great commitment to proactively reaching out to leaders from all modes of transportation advocacy.”
Following calls from residents to develop new infrastructure like bicycle lanes and parking stations, City Manager Louis A. DePasquale and Director of the Traffic, Parking & Transportation Department Joseph E. Barr spoke about previous bicycle initiatives in Cambridge and outlined changes to improve bike safety going forward.
“We are making significant adjustments to the five year plan,” DePasquale said. Cambridge’s “5 Year Street and Sidewalk Plan” looks to “design streets for all users,” including cyclists and pedestrians, and rebuild the city’s streets, sidewalks, and bike paths.
At the meeting, attendees spoke about creating separated lanes for cyclists throughout the city. Previously, Cantabrigians have argued that the separated lanes reduce the risk of cyclists being hit by the doors of parked cars and having automobile drivers park in bike lanes.
Attendees lauded successful installations of separated bike lanes along portions of Massachusetts Avenue and in Lafayette Square and encouraged the development of more. Construction of Cambridge’s current lanes came after several bicycle accidents in the city; some of the accidents were fatal.
The updated plans also city efforts to improve “urban mobility” around Cambridge, including improving signage and traffic lights, painted bike lanes, and new turning restrictions to protect cyclists in Inman Square and Porter Square.
Another change to the five-year plan includes collaborating with the Department of Public Works and the Cambridge Police Department on bike safety. A Department of Public Works official said that Cambridge will place more focus on properly maintaining bike lanes, even in colder months, while police department officials suggested putting forth a system to ensure that drivers and pedestrians refrain from obstructing bike lanes.
The new “focused enforcement” efforts are based on recommendations from a recently-hired “crash analyst,” and enable officials to track areas of the city where accidents are more likely.
City Councillor Dennis J. Carlone supported the efforts to ensure safety across the city and encouraged officials to continue enforcing traffic regulations, on drivers and cyclists alike.
“We have to really do something about this, because the end result is a disaster,” he said.
Also at the meeting, city officials asked residents to be lenient when demanding deadlines for future bike safety developments and requested they look at improvements already in place.
“We want to make sure that these improvements are a win for everyone.” DePasquale said. “We are asking for a little good faith.”
The meeting was held by Cambridge’s Neighborhood and Long Term Planning, Public Facilities, Arts and Celebration Committee.
—Staff writer Nicholas W. Sundberg can be reached at nicholas.sundberg@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @NickWSundberg
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
As the search for a new Harvard Law School dean enters its second month, students at the school continue to demand further involvement in the selection process and have started to hone in on their priorities for the search.
The search began after Dean Martha L. Minow announced in January that she plans to step down from her position at the conclusion of the academic year. University President Drew G. Faust and University Provost Alan M. Garber ’76 will will work with a 12-member Faculty Advisory Committee to select the next dean of the school.
After some students raised objections about having a limited role in the search, the Faculty Advisory Committee organized two open-mic forums for students to share concerns directly with members of the committee. Last month the Law School Student Council sent Faust a letter with specific requests for student involvement in the search process.
Law School professors Carol S. Steiker, Kristen A. Stilt, Randall L. Kennedy, and Gabriella Blum represented the committee at the second of the two forums, held Tuesday. Dean of Students Marcia L. Sells also attended, according to Law School student Amanda Lee.
Lee said about 30 students attended the wide-ranging discussion. Law School faculty at the meeting told students that Faust would be most receptive to emailed feedback.
“The faculty were very open to working with student concerns,” Lee said. “ A large take away seemed to be that they would be amenable to do more forums, but they emphasized that to reach [Faust], the best way to do that would be by letter.”
Peter D. Davis ’12, a second-year Law School student who attended the forum, said students focused primarily on three issues at the event. Students at the forum said they were interested in the selection of a dean who will bolster public interest career training and financial support for those careers. They also discussed better  integrating international students into the Law School and said the next dean should prioritize transparency with students, according to Davis.
Davis thanked faculty committee members for hosting the forum, but he added that he thinks Faust should take a more active and personal role in soliciting student concerns and opinions.
“I think that if President Faust was very serious about student input, President Faust would hold routine, direct meetings with her and open forums of law students,” Davis said. “Not pre-selected forums, but open-mic forums of law students, multiple times throughout the coming weeks to have an opportunity to hear from us directly.”
Following the first forum last week, the Law School’s student council submitted a 10-point questionnaire to Faust, requesting that candidates complete it during the search process.
University spokesperson Melodie L. Jackson wrote in an emailed statement that Faust will consider the questionnaire as the search continues and that Faust and Garber have sought feedback through many avenues.
“As is common in dean searches, the President and Provost have been pursuing various ways to solicit advice and nominations from many members of the HLS community, including students,” Jackson wrote. “Representatives of the HLS student government have recently submitted a set of questions proposed to be directed to candidates for the deanship, and President Faust has let them know that she’ll keep those questions in mind as helpful indicators of students’ interests and concerns as the search progresses.”
In an interview last month, Minow said she expects Law School will find a new dean before the end of the academic year.
—Staff writer Jamie D. Halper can be reached at jamie.halper@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @JamieDHalper.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Khizr M. Khan charged that President Donald Trump and his administration lack a "moral compass" at the Institute of Politics Wednesday night, criticizing the president months after Trump's comments about Khan's family drew widespread controversy.
Khan gained famed when he spoke at July’s Democratic National Convention and denounced Trump’s attacks on the “character of Muslims.” Khan’s son, Humayun S. M. Khan, fought in the Iraq War and was killed in 2004. Khan called Trump’s campaign platform of a Muslim ban unconstitutional, and publicly endorsed Hillary Clinton in his speech.
“Let me ask you, have you even read the U.S. Constitution?” Khan asked Trump at the convention. “I will gladly lend you my copy.”
Trump drew criticism when he said that Khan's wife had not spoken at the D.N.C event because she had not been "allowed" to. Trump wrote shortly after the convention that he thought “Khan who has never met me, has no right to stand in front of millions of people and claim I have never read the Constitution, (which is false) and say many other inaccurate things."
At Wednesday’s event, Khan stood in front of an audience of dozens and further criticized Trump and his policies.
“We are faced right now with an administration without moral compass,” Khan said. “There is no distinction between lies and untruths and honorable military officers are misleading my country, misleading the administration.”
Khan also denounced Trump's recent executive order suspending immigration from seven predominantly Muslim countries as antithetical to the United States Constitution. Khan also said that Michael T. Flynn, Trump’s former national security advisor who resigned on Monday, was “undeserving of his military rank” and that he “jeopardized lives” by lying to the administration,
Both in his DNC speech and on Wednesday, Khan came out in passionate support of the Constitution.
“I fell in love with the Constitution of the United States not recently—long ago,” Khan said. He added that his upbringing in Pakistan made him appreciate the civil rights he was denied under Pakistan’s government.
“I have lived without them, therefore I appreciated them more than anyone else,” Khan said.
At the event, Khan read the Constitution's 14th amendment, which prohibits the government from depriving U.S. citizens’ the rights to “life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.”
Khan said he though the Amendment is “so relevant… because of the moral compass-less White House.”
He also read a passage from a 1998 book called “Achieving Our Country,” which many say predicted Trump’s rise to the White House. The passage spoke about mobilization of working class Americans against government status quo.
Khan concluded the event on an optimistic note, again evoking the Constitution.
“The Constitution of the United States aspired to endure time. For it to endure time it must live in the hearts and minds of people,” he said.
—Staff writer Lucas Ward can be reached at lucas.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on twitter at @LucaspfWard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Scientists at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution are developing an underwater robot that analyzes ocean chemistry and biology, discovering insights on the role the ocean plays in global climate change.
In a lecture Wednesday at Harvard’s Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, Woods Hole senior scientist Dana R. Yoerger presented the team’s latest work on the Mesobot, which will be used to explore the ocean's mesopelagic zone—a depth of 200 to 1000 meters sometimes called the "twilight zone" because of the little light it receives.
The Mesobot is the fourth in a series of robots that Yoerger has worked on. Yoerger said that unlike the previous models which mainly mapped and photographed the ocean floor, the Mesobot will videotape and analyze the chemical and biological makeup of the shallower mesopelagic zone.
Yoerger and his fellow researchers are particularly interested in salps—small, previously little-known fish inhabiting this zone—and how they enable the ocean to process and store carbon.
“When conditions are right, and no one knows what that means, they can reproduce sexually... and they multiply at fantastic rates and then they all die and there’s literally a blizzard of dead salps hitting the sea floor,” Yoerger said. “It’s a tremendous flow of carbon to the sea floor and we don’t really understand that much about it.”
According to Yoerger, in recent years, growing salp populations—which link together to form long chains—have interfered with commercial fishermen by destroying their nets. Fishermen are also interest in harvesting salp as a replacement for krill to be used in nutritional supplements, he said, and this commercial interest is alarming to scientists who are just beginning to understand salps’ potential to store carbon.
"It’s urgent because now that people understand this biomass is there, you can bet people are figuring out how to exploit it," Yoerger said. "If that’s going to happen, it should be done in an informed, reasonable way."
Although the harvesting of salp is a critical issue, the Mesobot is still two years away from ocean testing, Yoerger said. In order to track and film salp, the Mesobot has to be able to move up and down with the salps’ migratory pattern while not scaring away the fish.
Attendee Javier Estrada, a postdoctoral student at Harvard Medical School, said he was enthusiastic about possible future revelations from the Mesobot.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Bearing banners and chanting “pharma greed kills,” student protesters—as well as a false fire alarm—disrupted a speech given by controversial ex-pharmaceutical executive Martin Shkreli at Harvard’s Science Center Wednesday evening.
The Harvard Financial Analysts Club invited Shkreli, who has been indicted for securities fraud and is awaiting trial on $5 million bail, to speak at the University. HFAC limited the event to only Harvard undergraduates and closed it to the press.
Shkreli—dubbed “the most hated man in America” —was scheduled to begin speaking at 8:30 p.m. But before he could start, someone set off a fire alarm in the building, according to Harvard University Police Department officials.
HUPD officers at the event said that the fire alarm was set off intentionally but could not confirm who was responsible. Following the alarm, officers escorted protesters and attendees outside, where they waited for nearly half an hour in the rain before re-entering the building.
As attendees settled back into their seats in the lecture hall, HFAC President of Finance W. Connor Roberts ’18 read a statement outlining the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’ “guidelines on free speech” that he said would govern the event.
Protesters, however, did not refrain from disruption. Around fifteen minutes into Shkreli’s speech, approximately 25 students in the 250-person audience stood up and exited the hall, encouraging attendees to move to a “teach-in” panel on AIDS treatment and unethical pharmaceutical practices  in the lecture hall next door. The Harvard College Global Health and AIDS Coalition organized the competing event.
“Nobody cares, goodbye,” Shkreli said as the first wave of protesters exited the hall. “Take an economics class while you’re at it.”
As Shkreli resumed his speech, the heckling continued. “Martin Shkreli is a sexual predator!” one student shouted.
“I have a tame sex life. I have a girlfriend, we have sex once a week, it’s consensual,” Shkreli responded, after trying to engage with the protesters.
“Martin Shkreli is a racist!” another student shouted minutes later.
“How am I racist? I’m friends with Lil Wayne.” Shkreli said as the audience applauded. “Maybe that was racist.”
Shkreli also made repeated references to his personal life and political views during his remarks. Near the conclusion of his speech, Shkreli showed a slide of journalist Lauren Duca, calling her “the love of my life.” Twitter suspended Shkreli’s account after he engaged in what a Twitter spokesperson characterized as “targeted harassment” towards Duca.
Several administrators, including Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana and Dean of Students Katherine G. O’Dair, were present at the Science Center as the protestors clashed with event attendees and staff. Khurana said he chose to attend the events unfolding at the Science Center to make sure students were “safe.”
A heavy presence of Harvard University Police Department, Securitas, and plainclothes police officers blocked off the Science Center for Harvard ID holders only, forcing some protesters to continue their demonstrations outside.
Darshali Vyas, a Harvard Medical School student, said she came to express her outrage at Shkreli’s actions as a pharmaceutical executive. As the founder and chief executive of Turing Pharmaceuticals, Shkreli hiked the price of Daraprim—a drug used to treat patients with compromised immune systems from diseases like HIV/AIDS—from $13.25 to $750 per pill, drawing widespread contempt.
“I am infuriated that this man has hiked up the price of one of the essential medications, one of the only drugs we have to treat toxoplasmosis, by 5000 percent, making it unaffordable for people who need it. This disproportionately affects people who are poor, patients of color, and patients who don’t live in the U.S.” Vyas said.
Shkreli, discussed the price hike during event’s question and answer segment; he said the drug had been previously underpriced, and that his primary reason for hiking the price was “obviously to increase profit for the shareholders.” He further defended the price hike by saying that the drug was 70 years old and in dire need for improvement, which required increased financial investment.
“It’s that everyone was getting a free ride before, not that this is price gouging,” Shkreli said during his speech. Adding that that 1,400 people currently receive Daraprim for free, “I wish no one got it for free, but the rules are they get it for free,” he said.
In a Facebook page promoting Shkreli’s appearance, HFAC wrote that the event was closed to the press, and at the event, security personnel initially tried to bar Crimson reporters from entering.
Attendees were asked to submit questions for the question-and-answer segment online prior to the event. “We welcome all questions with exception to those pertaining to Mr. Shkreli's personal life and his pending court case,” HFAC wrote in a Facebook post.
The Office of Student Life was in contact with organizers of both Shkreli’s event and the teach-in during the day Wednesday. In an statement emailed Wednesday, Assistant Dean of Student Life Alexander R. Miller wrote that the office helps students plan “events of all kinds, including both events tonight.”
“It is important that our commitment to freedom of speech is upheld and that conditions are set for ideas to be expressed and challenged through respectful discourse,” Miller wrote.
The Harvard Financial Analysts Club did not respond to repeated requests for comment.
—Staff writer Hannah Natanson contributed reporting.
—Staff writer Graham W. Bishai can be reached at graham.bishai@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @GrahamBishai.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Recent news that the Faculty of Arts and Sciences will admit 4.4 percent fewer graduate students next year has precipitated concern and disappointment among some current graduate students, who said they were not previously aware of the change.
In an interview with The Crimson last week, FAS Dean Michael D. Smith said that “the drying up of some funds” has forced the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences to reduce the number of students that it will admit next year. The value of Harvard’s endowment dropped by almost $2 billion in fiscal year 2016—a decrease that University administrators warn will “constrain” budgets in the future. 
Some graduate students said they worry that the admissions cuts will increase their workload if they have to teach larger undergraduate classes as a result.
“The real question is, how will the university respond to having fewer grad students? said Abigail Weil, a Slavic Languages and Literatures graduate student. “Will we be forced to teach larger sections?”
David A. Nee, a graduate student in the English department, echoed Weil’s concerns. “If they’re not admitting as many graduate students, my concern is that graduate students will have more responsibilities as teaching fellows,” he said.
In an emailed statement, Dean of Undergraduate Education Jay M. Harris wrote that section sizes will not change as a result of the cuts.
"We are not discussing changing section sizes as a matter of policy," Harris wrote.
Smith said last week that the cuts will not affect current graduate students and that FAS will direct resources to students currently on campus before extending admission to new students—a heartening possibility for some graduate students.
“If this allows Harvard to provide more benefits for students who are already in Ph.D. programs, I don’t think that’s all that bad because of concerns with the unions and benefits and pay and all that,” John Froberg, a Molecular Biology graduate student, said.
In an emailed statement, FAS spokesperson Anna Cowenhoven wrote that GSAS will improve the benefits available to students. “Most Ph.D. students now receive a generous financial aid package guaranteed for at least five years, which pays for tuition, fees, health insurance, and other benefits,” she wrote.
Still, some graduate students said they were disappointed with the funding cuts.
“I do find it unfortunate that potential future grad students are the ones paying for this mistake or high-risk investment or whatever actions resulted in the poor returns,” Jean Fan, a Bioinformatics and Integrative Genomics graduate student, said.
Harvard Management Company, which manages the University’s $35.7 billion endowment, returned negative 2 percents on its investments in fiscal year 2016. The endowment’s poor returns, along with decreasing federal research funding and other subdued revenue streams, pose a challenge to Harvard’s budgets for years to come.
“It’s unfortunate that more students won’t have the opportunity to get a Harvard Ph.D.,” said Froberg. “It’s unfortunate that the university is running into financial constraints even though we are the wealthiest university in the world.”
But Nee said that the job market for young academics is so crowded that fewer competitors might be helpful for current students.
“There are so few jobs for Ph.D. students coming out of these programs,” said Nee. “It’s become a regular feature of these programs that students put 6 to 8 years of work into these programs, which is a lot of work, a lot of effort, a lot of time, and then they come out of these programs and there are only 1 or 2 jobs for them across the country in their field.”
Some students said they did not know about the admissions changes before last week.
“They didn’t tell students,” said Wenlong Yang, a Chemistry graduate student. “The students don’t know anything about [admissions cuts].”
In her emailed statement, Cowenhoven outlined the process for setting admissions targets.
“GSAS, FAS, the Divisional Deans, Department Chairs, and Faculty work together to thoughtfully establish admissions targets each year,” she wrote. “These targets are then communicated directly to the Faculty Admission Committee chairs of each degree program.”
Each department calculates the number of graduate students it will admit differently, based on factors such as yield, the number of students, and the number of faculty members in the department. Yang said that he is concerned that the admissions cuts will have a more serious effect on some departments.
“If only a few departments have more reductions in incoming students, that’s a big problem but if everyone does, that’s not a big problem,” said Yang.
The University has not yet decided how many students to admit in future years.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered

Saturday night’s Ivy League matchup between the Harvard men’s basketball team and Yale pitted two potential Ivy League rookies of the year against each other in the Crimson’s Bryce Aiken and the Bulldogs’ Miye Oni. At the end of the night however, only one could come out on top.
No, the Rookie of the Year honor isn’t decided by one night or by head-to-head matchups, but in a rivalry game on the road, Aiken silenced a gym full of Elis both on the court and in the stands, ending Yale’s 22-game home win streak.
Aiken put on a show for the crowd at Payne Whitney Gym, just a show it didn’t want to see.  The rookie put up 27 points on 7-of-17 shooting, including 5-of-10 from behind the arc. He also added eight makes from the free throw line, a part of his game that Harvard was sorely lacking during the 2015-2016 season.
“We recruited him to do exactly what he’s doing for our team, have an impact,” Harvard coach Tommy Amaker said. “He’s capable of that and he’s capable of these kinds of nights.”
Saturday night wasn’t the only night Aiken made an impact. The previous night in Providence facing Brown, Aiken also had a career-night, tying his previous season high of 23 points, having previously achieved that feat against Howard in December.
While Aiken may be one of the smallest players on the Crimson’s roster—one of four players listed at six feet—he has no problem driving into a sea of post players and getting the ball over their hand, all while being bumped and often hitting the floor. With the contact he draws in the paint, Aiken has been Harvard’s best player at getting to the free throw line, a skill Amaker has previously noted the team was missing.
The New Jersey native is averaging just under four free throws per game, but this weekend he shot a combined 15 from the stripe. He is shooting at a 91 percent clip on the season, but missed only one all weekend.
Perhaps the most important foul that Aiken drew all weekend, though, didn’t come in the paint on a drive. After Yale went on a 9-1 run, Harvard responded with a 10-2 run, with Aiken scoring six of the 10 points. Four of those points came from one play. Fellow freshman Justin Bassey drove towards the basket with the intention of looking for a layup, but instead saw Aiken in the corner behind the perimeter. Bassey dished the ball to Aiken, who hit the three and was fouled.
“Terrific pass off [Bassey’s] penetration, he kicked it to me in the corner and I let it fly,” Aiken said. “At first, I wasn’t sure if the ball went in or not. I asked my teammates, they helped me up. But terrific pass and blessed enough to make that shot.”
Although Aiken is only a freshman, Harvard has looked to the rookie—a four star recruit in 2016—to take and make the big shots on multiple occasions this year. When he isn’t driving to the hoop through a crowd of defenders, Aiken is often found juking defenders for an open three, working to create his own shot off the dribble.
“Bryce played well this whole weekend, making timely shots, stepping up, being confident,” senior co-captain Siyani Chambers said. “For a guy like him it’s nothing new. For him to come in night after night and do it, that’s what we need. We weren’t really surprised by it because we know that’s how he plays but it was a big shot and we need those shots.”
One of Amaker’s mantras that he shares with his rookies is that by the time that Ivy League play comes around, they don’t have the excuse to say they are freshmen anymore. With more than half the season under his belt, Aiken certainly isn’t playing like someone who was in his first Harvard-Yale matchup on Saturday.
“It was fun. Our team had a tremendous team effort, 1 through 15,” Aiken said. “We were resilient tonight. I think we can out with a fire. We usually, we got some shaky starts but tonight we came out ready to play from the first minute all the way to the last.”
—Staff Writer Theresa C. Hebert can be reached at theresa.hebert@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
The last time the Harvard men’s basketball team played Cornell and Columbia, both New York teams had the Crimson on its heels. Against the Big Red, Harvard had to overcome a 12-point deficit to eek out the eventual five-point victory. The next night versus the Lions, Harvard fell just three points shy of digging itself out of a 19-point gap, handing the team its first loss of the Ivy season.
But the Big Red (6-17, 2-6 Ivy League) and the Lions (10-11, 4-4) should not expect the same Crimson (14-7, 6-2) when they come to Lavietes Pavilion this weekend.
In the two weekends since Harvard traveled to Ithaca and New York City, the Crimson is 3-1, but most importantly has started to play more consistent basketball. Last Saturday’s contest against Yale was the first time in the last six games that Harvard had not faced a double-digit deficit at some point during the game.
Some of the consistency has come purely as a result of more experience. With one of the youngest teams in the NCAA, Harvard coach Tommy Amaker noted that at times his team has lacked composure. With more games under their belt, however, the players have improved their ability to stay steady during pressure filled situations.
One example of this came in Saturday’s game against the Bulldogs. With 2:24 remaining in the game, the Crimson had a comfortable 10-point lead over Yale. A foul and a turnover, however, quickly pulled the Bulldogs back within six, with Yale freshmen Jordan Bruner and Miye Oni each scoring in the waning minutes to bring their team back within reach. Though the Crimson was still in the driver’s seat, flashbacks to the team’s collapse against Princeton the week before weren’t hard to conjure.
“I just thought sometimes when you go through that, you’re looking at the pain of that, you maybe have a little more resolve in that situation or moments like that,” Amaker said. “Maybe the next time, you’re better off for it. We went into [the Brown and Yale] weekend with a lot of emphasis on concentration, that has a lot to do with what we lacked so we really tried to hone in on it.”
Aside from the added experience in conference game situations, the Cornell and Columbia may also see new personnel from the large Crimson roster. While the big names—co-captain Siyani Chambers, freshman guard Bryce Aiken, or sophomore guard Corey Johnson—may remain the same, Amaker has continued to experiment with his lineups since the these teams last met.
Last weekend, and briefly against Princeton, that new face was sophomore forward Weisner Perez. Perez had not seen game action since Dec. 30 against Howard in which he played for one minute. Before Howard, Perez had seen seven total minutes in two games against MIT and Fisher, both Division II opponents.
But according to Amaker, Perez put in a string of strong practices that earned him a spot in the rotation, coming off the bench for 10 minutes against both Brown and Yale, tallying six points and 10 rebounds on the weekend. While it may not necessarily be Perez who sees game action this weekend, he is a symbol to Harvard’s lengthy roster that it’s never too late to earn playing time.
“Things can change so having options and getting these guys to continue to work, all being on the same page and if something presents itself for them, they can make the most of it,” Amaker said. “That’s Weisner right now, greatest example of all the things we’re talking about. He kept working and made an impression to us in practice. We had him in there and he performed well.”
Though Amaker noted that he doesn’t like using the term “role players”, having the depth that Harvard does allows the coaching staff to implement certain players on a more game-by-game basis, depending on the strengths and weaknesses of the team they are facing on a given day. One example of this has been the use of freshman forward Robert Baker to provide defensive length in the zone, with Baker having a better ability to stretch between defending the paint and the perimeter when the team forgoes man-to-man coverage.
Columbia has lost three of its last four games, while Cornell has lost five of its last six, but the Crimson isn’t taking either team lightly.
“You can never underestimate any Ivy league team and every single game they’re going to come at you with as much fight as possible,” freshman forward Chris Lewis said. “[E]very team, no matter which one in the Ivy League, every one is filled with competitors, everyone is always ready to play, knows your tendencies, your weaknesses, and if you’re not ready to come to the game prepared, they’ll exploit them.”
—Staff Writer Theresa C. Hebert can be reached at theresa.hebert@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We just discovered the weirdest mailing lists at Harvard, and we’ve been digging around for more strange Harvard-related web content. Of course, HOLLIS saved the day—as it so often does with our frantic last-minute paper research. The guides tab on the HOLLIS website reveals a few hundreds of research guides, with some hidden gems. They certainly make us wonder who wrote them—or who even uses them.
Canadian Official Publications
In addition to colder weather and better maple syrup, our northern neighbors get a guide to their official publications. We spent a while wondering what that might entail—dissertations on ice hockey? Studies about why Niagara Falls looks better from Canada? Research papers on why Canadians say sorry like they do? It turns out that Harvard is a depository for... Canadian governmental documents? Bet you didn’t see that one coming. If you ever feel like your American government classes just aren’t cutting it and you just have to know what it’s like to have a Prime Minister (shoutout to hottie Justin Trudeau), Harvard has you covered.
Smell
“What is smell?” Probably that funky thing emanating from the piles of unwashed clothes in your room, but we won’t judge (although your roommates will). For some reason, it has a section called ‘Scents and Sensibility’—okay, that’s actually a brilliant pun. We’ll give them that. But for some reason, it begins with this acid-trip picture…
The Joy of Cooking
Somewhere between Sex Work and Violence Against Women is this friendly, unassuming guide. What are its contents, you ask? Ah, the question on all of our minds. This guide has all the editions of a 1930s cookbook of the same name.
That’s it. That’s all it has. Thanks, we guess?
Gromphadorhina portentosa
What’s this weird-sounding guide about? That’s so interesting, let’s take a little peek at—they’re so big and terrifying send help!
Seriously, HOLLIS? We avoided clicking on the guide titled ‘Cockroaches’ for a reason, but it’s listed again by the scientific name. What kind of sick conman would do something like this? We were getting along so well. In fact, this entire guide is an affront. Cockroaches “are often quite attractive”? We’d like to meet the cockroaches they’re seeing. On second thought, we’d like to never see cockroaches again. Whoever wrote this can let these “symbols of love” know what we think of them. “Mostly harmless”? Yeah, right. Tell us how to kill them instead.
Sections
February 27th is quickly approaching, and you’re either looking forward to solidifying your perfect BFF blocking group with the fateful click or panicking a lot. All we know is a lot can go down in the next two weeks. Just think of how things have already changed from last semester to now. You thought that blocking was gonna be a breeze, but have learned your closest peers are unfortunately not past high school drama. As you scrutinize your past and current friendships and look forward to the next three years, you likely have or will experience the Seven Stages of blocking grief:
Freshman Week - Everything is Perfect!You meet your first handful of friends. Maybe you knew some of them from Visitas or high school. You feel complete with them. You can hang out with them at all hours of the day, without getting permission or a ride from mom, and you finally have the friend group that you’ve dreamt about since senior spring.
Harvard/Yale Weekend - True Friends Hold Back Your HairYou’re alive, somehow. But not without the help of your friends who kept you from practically dying on more than once occasion. You don’t feel too guilty, as you figure you’ll be tucking those same friends into bed sometime in the next three years. When y’all are roomies! For now, all you do is thank them and keep a mental note of which one brought you glass after glass of water—you’ll want them as your direct roommate.
Winter Break - Absence Makes the Heart Grow FonderYou didn’t think that you could miss people this much. You’re five days into break and you’ve Facetimed your core group of friends every single day. Your mom is actually quite confused by your ability to use a phone, given all of the calls you ignored from her first semester. At some point around New Year’s, you have your first real conversation about blocking. You may have even begun a blocking group Snapchat group. You and your friends are so excited to be 2gether 4ever (3 years). Nothing can tear you apart.
First Week of Spring Semester - Second Guessing Your ChoicesYou’re back on campus and overjoyed to reunite with your besties. But then the first week in, you’re realizing people have changed. Your friends reassure you that it’s all a New Year’s resolution phase. But you didn’t realize their resolutions involved stealing your snacks or leaving a pile of dirty dishes in your common room.
Mid-February - Shit Hits the FanPeople are starting to get serious about blocking. You’ve all received emails from your proctors and the Freshman Dean about housing, and this time you can’t just absentmindedly send them to spam. People who you didn’t think liked (or even knew?) you start asking if you have any room left in your blocking group. You’ve gotten a few carefully-worded texts from your core group asking if “that really nice kid from their entryway” can join. You thought you were gonna have a squad. Now you aren’t even Facebook friends with half of your supposed group.
February 27th - Hoping for the BestYou turned in your application last night with your blocking group. As you all sat around in someone’s common room, filling out the form together, you realized that you legitimately didn’t know the last name of your friend’s friend from section who could be your roommate. But, at this point, you’re just happy that you no longer have to avoid people in the Yard to keep them from harassing you about the size of your blocking group.
Housing Day - A Day to Remember (or if you’re quadded, Drink to Forget)There’s a 9/12 chance that this will be one of the best days of your college career. You’ve got your house and there’s no turning back now! Well, unless you’re totally miserable and decide to transfer. Otherwise, enjoy the day’s revelry and house pride. You made it through blocking! Now there’s only that teensy detail of figuring out who’s rooming with who…
Sections
We all remember scrolling through the online HUDS menu as wide-eyed pre-frosh and marvelling at the mouthwatering menu items (crumbled bleu cheese anyone?). Lack of parental supervision (hello two plates of sweet potato fries!) and free flowing soft-serve ice cream make Harvard dining halls seem like the last word in fine dining. However, after months—and years—of the same dhall food, we find ourselves eating in the Square often and craving home-cooked meals. To rekindle our interest in their offerings, HUDS seems to have stepped up their game recently by not only refreshing Annenberg’s decor but also the names of their menu items, and the results are...well, interesting. Here are the most hip (read: bizarre) HUDS menu item names:
Deconstructed Sloppy Joes To keep up with funky-fresh trends HUDS decided to add some hipster spunk to an already ridiculously named dish. Does our deconstructed Sloppy Joe come with a side of ~minimalist~ tater tots? Sorry HUDS, but if we hungered for mediocre against-the-mainstream food, we’d just go to Clover.
Crimson Vegan ChiliAlthough we may be biased when it comes to our namesake dish, Crimson chili has a more enticing ring to it than “semi-secret Sorrento Square social organization that used to occasionally publish a so-called humor magazine” chili.
Grilled All Beef Old Neighborhood Hot DogWhat was HUDS trying to relay in this lengthy name for a simple sausage? That they took concision lessons from Dean Khurana?
Harvard Granola and Harvard Fruit SaladYour resume isn’t the only thing the Harvard name can sweeten up. Apparently, HUDS will even slap the brand on its health foods, perhaps in an effort to make them seem more erudite and appealing.
Vodka Sauce(WARNING: does NOT contain alcohol) Is HUDS attempting to make dining halls better social spaces by trying to trick us into pregaming in the dhall?
Freekeh SaladFreekeh is an obscure grain we had to look up, but its obscurity isn’t exactly making us want to get “freekeh” with it. We’ll stick to tried-and-true Grill orders, thank you very much.
Next time, maybe HUDS should leave the naming to their fake twitter account.
