News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered


The announcement that University President Drew G. Faust will step down at the end of the 2017-2018 academic year has kicked off a months-long presidential search. The Crimson Editorial Board weighs in on what we hope for in the next leader of Harvard.
“The presidential search committee should look for a leader unafraid to risk Harvard’s pristine, politically correct persona to regain the ethical standards and intellectual rigor that first gave Harvard a name worth caring about. It will undoubtedly be tempting for the Committee to select a statement candidate whose appointment—by virtue of his or her race, gender, sexual orientation, background, or ideology—will reiterate Harvard as the world’s diverse, inclusive, and progressive bastion of higher education despite this year’s barrage of PR-wrecking whirlwinds. But for Harvard’s long-term advancement, the Committee should consider a candidate’s character, integrity, and commitment to students and staff over his or her media know-how or PR bonus. Harvard the institution, not Harvard the name, should take priority.”
	— Lauren Spohn ’20
“The presidential search committee must prioritize someone as politically engaged as Faust was during these difficult times. The next president will also have to deal with the Trump administration’s likely curtailing of research funding and policies against minorities. While I would personally love to see someone in a STEM-related field serve as president (Faust is a historian, and Summers is an economist), I think someone with a background in the social sciences would be better equipped to navigate the greater political role Harvard is posed to play during the fallout from Trump’s policies.”
—Allison P. Yan ’19
“Being the president of Harvard is certainly one of, if not the most, powerful positions in education, and so President Faust’s successor should be ready to tackle the challenges that will shape its future. There are three key areas which will be important to focus on: 1) integrating engineering into the liberal arts, 2) making a world-class education accessible to everyone, and 3) ensuring the government continues to support higher education and research. This means the next president should have an appreciation for engineering, especially how it works with other disciplines; a knowledge of how platforms like online classrooms are evolving; an understanding of how to continue raising money to continue funding financial aid; and a willingness to speak with those in Washington to make sure our voices are heard.”
—Akhil S. Waghmare ’20
“Over the 10 years of President Faust’s tenure, this country has become hyper-aware of race, so it’d be devastatingly disappointing if the search committee did not make a concerted effort to make their shortlist racially diverse. University presidents nationwide are almost exclusively white, so it’s critical that Harvard take extra steps to ensure their candidates reflect the student body they seek to serve. Our country elected a non-white president before Harvard has. That fact can’t be skimmed over in this year’s search.”
—Ruben E. Reyes Jr. ’19
“Coupled with the prioritization of research and research funding is the need for the next president to address the negative public perception of scholars as elitists and—especially scientists—disseminators of falsehoods driven by special interests. All these attitudes undermine the integrity of universities and the perceived value of a liberal arts education. It is Harvard’s responsibility to protect the institutions it represents—the liberal arts, research, scholarship, and the professions—and to ensure that they continue to be regarded as essential to society.”
—Siavash Zamirpour ’20
“The outgoing administration was, and still is, attempting to tackle problems of inclusiveness and culture, with specific approaches to altering the social scene. It seems to me that they are really trying to get at something much bigger—the fundamental flaw with Harvard College. Generally speaking, people are not that happy here. People are jaded. I’m not doing justice to this problem here, in the nature of the issue or at a potential solution, because I have neither the knowledge or the vision to do so. However, I am hoping that our next president will have both.”
—Jack Lane ’19
“For better or worse, Faust’s departure coincides with an incredibly turbulent time for Harvard as a community and as an institution. Questions of inclusion and freedom are becoming increasingly pressing with debates over free speech and the unrecognized single-gender social organization sanctions. Harvard’s socio-political standing is also in jeopardy as partisan attacks and anti-elitism attitudes erode the public trust in academic institutions. Solving the aforementioned problems—and more importantly, determining how they’re solved—will have a profound effect on what Harvard is and how much will the university, national, and global community will trust it. As cliche as it sounds, the next few years will be defining, and the presidential search committee must ensure that the University is universally seen as a beacon of truth and knowledge.”
—Hansy D. Piou ’18
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
BANGALORE, India—As an international student in my first year at Harvard, I only came close to feeling culture shock once. Not because someone said something ignorant and not because a new continent overwhelmed me. All it took was a short exchange with my roommates.
“My aunt’s getting engaged on New Year’s Day,” I told them, “I’m going to be so exhausted.”
They blinked at me. “How do you know your aunt is getting engaged?” one of them asked.
I had to wait until I finished laughing before I could explain. For starters, her marriage was arranged, but it’s common for Hindus to have engagement ceremonies even after the actual proposal. It’s such an ordinary thing to me that I hadn’t even thought about how un-Western it is.
I don’t know if my explanation helped. There’s nothing like an Indian wedding, whether it’s a one-day arya samaj affair or a three-day extravaganza. Six months after her engagement, my aunt was getting married over the course of three days. I’m her closest unmarried female relative, which made me the kalashgiti—also known as she who sits by the bride’s family and looks slightly out of place. The kalashgiti’s very important wedding task is holding a plate and being on hand at all times, the latter of which I’ll admit I’m not very good at. But the job chooses you, and not the other way around, so I accepted the burden—in this case, a plate—given to me.
With it came the occupational hazard of being in the rice zone. At South Indian weddings, the actual marriage of the couple is finalized with the guests blessing them with rice grains, and there is a certain amount of throwing involved. It’s a little like sitting in the splash zone at Sea World, except with, well, rice.
Once I was done surreptitiously getting the rice out of my blouse, though, I was free to go. My aunt was safely married, and my plate was put away. It was time for a less-traditional family function tradition that my brother and I have started to cultivate. At some point we’d get tired of the rich food served on banana leaves, and slip away to go to the nearest fast food place. So, yes, my aunt had just been married, and my brother and I were eating fries at Burger King.
Like I said, there’s nothing like an Indian wedding.
Stuti R. Telidevara ’20 is a Crimson Blog Comp Director in Cabot House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Fourth of July weekend can be pretty hard to follow. Whether you’re heading back to work or still in vacation mode, Flyby is here with ideas for easy-going activities in Boston and Cambridge this week.
Boston Public Library courtyard concert
Wednesday from 6-7 p.m. | The Boston Public Library (Red Line to Green Line to Copley)
What better way to wind down from your fourth of July weekend than relaxing at a concert in the beautiful Boston Public Library courtyard? BPL’s summer concert series is a good excuse to take the train into the city and explore the library—whether or not you’ve been before—and then grab a bite on Newbury Street nearby or wander around the Public Gardens.
Jurassic Park screening 
Wednesday at 7 p.m. | Coolidge Corner Theatre (Red Line to Green Line C train to Coolidge Corner)
If the Boston Public Library isn’t your scene, catch a classic back on the big screen at Coolidge Corner Theatre’s screening of Jurassic Park. Before the movie, you can also join a discussion at the theater with Ben Mezrich (author of the new book Woolly: The True Story of the Quest to Revive One of History’s Most Iconic Extinct Creatures) and geneticist George Church.
Freedom Trail “Walk Into History” tour
Any day of the week | Visitor Information Center, Boston Common
Fourth of July got you pondering the historic relevance of Boston? Fortunately, the Freedom Trail is here to guide your pursuit of that interest in the form of 90-minute walking tours from Boston Common to Faneuil Hall. Get some exercise, enjoy the sights of Boston, and then find something to eat among the extensive dining options offered in the Faneuil Hall Marketplace.
Outdoor performance in the Square
Thursday at 5:30 p.m. | Palmer Street at Brattle Street, next to the Coop
Closer to home, Club Passim is hosting their weekly outdoor concert on Thursday in Harvard Square. This week’s performer is singer/songwriter/violinist Kathleen Parks. Get some dinner to-go nearby and take advantage of free, live music in the Square.
$4 Falafel at Wrapro Falafel & Grille
Friday from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m. | 20 Eliot St.
This summer, Wrapro Falafel & Grille in Harvard Square is offering $4 falafel wraps on Fridays. Stop by to get some good food without blowing your budget for the whole weekend.
Boston Breakers home game
Friday at 7 p.m. | Jordan Field, right next to the Harvard Stadium
Catch the region’s professional women’s soccer team playing against the Chicago Red Stars this Friday. Take a stroll along the river and into Allston for an affordable evening of sports spectatorship. Tickets start at $18.
Matisse at the MFA
Saturday from 5-10 p.m. | Museum of Fine Arts (Red Line to Green Line E train to Museum of Fine Arts)
Saturday is the last day to see “Matisse in the Studio” at the MFA, the exhibit’s only U.S. venue. As a celebration of the shows last night, 21+ year-old visitors can also enjoy Night Shift Brewing’s “Matisse saison beer” at the museum.
Netflix
Anytime | Anywhere
If you’d rather not leave home this week, we here at Flyby have options for that, too. A bunch of TV shows and movies have been added to Netflix this month, including 2017 Oscar nominee Lion (as of July 9th), heartwarmers E.T. and Madagascar 2, and everyone’s favorite tearjerker: Titanic.
Sections
In the third and final part of our summer activities series, we’re bringing you suggestions for movie nights, music events, and other shows around town, because what would summer be without some good flicks, tunes, and food? (See part one on outdoor activities and part two on destinations in the area.)
Enjoy Boston Harbor Hotel’s “Summer in the City”
Looking for live entertainment—maybe some pop-soul music or blues? Or do you just want to watch a nice movie by the waterfront? The Boston Harbor Hotel is offering all of the above with their annual “Summer in the City” series. With a number of events, as well as sumptuous cuisine and cocktails, offered Tuesday through Friday every week, “Summer in the City” has something for everyone.
(Red Line to South Station.)
Watch a Sox Game at Fenway
Take me out to the ball game, but not if it costs too much money, amiright? You’re in luck, because Fenway Park is offering standing room tickets to high school and college students for just $9! This deal is a great way to get in on the peanut and crackerjack action without paying the big bucks.
(Red Line to Green Line to Kenmore.)
Relax at a free outdoor movie screening
If you couldn’t tell, we here at Flyby are all about preserving the contents of your bank account this summer. So why go to the movie theater when you could spend the night outside, watching classics for free? Open-air movie showings this summer include favorites such as Star Wars and a number of children’s movies—which, let’s be honest, we all enjoy—like Annie. Spend your Friday evenings at the Hatch Shell on the Esplanade and your Saturdays at the Prudential Center or Assembly Row for some free flicks!
(Hatch Shell: Red Line to Charles/MGH. Prudential Center: Red Line to Green Line to Copley. Assembly Row: Red Line to Orange Line to Assembly.)
Pair a dinner out with a live music experience
There are seemingly endless possibilities when it comes to music and dining combos in Cambridge, but the following restaurants are good options if you’re looking for an evening away from Harvard. In Inman Square, Ryles Jazz Club provides both a change of scenery and a change of pace. In Central Square, the Middle East Restaurant and Nightclub has a variety of performances lined up and a full-service bar, and The Plough and Stars offers Irish pub-style dining and live music every night of the week. No matter what kind of music you’re into, these restaurants are sure to make for a fun evening out.
Catch a show in the Square
It’s easy to forget that there are plenty of fun things to do in your own backyard: Harvard Square. This summer, the Brattle Theater will screen Jaws and the original Buffy the Vampire Slayer movie, among other rarities. Club Passim is hosting outdoor concerts on Palmer Street in the Square, at Kendall Center, and at Danehy Park, in addition to their many other shows. You also never know what street performers or hole-in-the-wall restaurants you might stumble upon if you’re open to new things this season. Now’s your time to make memories in the Square so that come September, you won’t be able to walk two feet without feeling a pang of nostalgia for the sunnier days of summer past.
