News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
People have complained about fans for about as long as people have been fans of things. From soccer hooligans to bandwagoners, the core of these complaints tends to incorporate discussions about who is a true fan, who has the greatest claim to their interest. While this can usually be dismissed as harmless squabbling, just like American society at large, fanbases and their subcultures have gotten increasingly polarized. As a result, the question of who truly belongs to our communities—be they fan or personal—is becoming increasingly ideological.
The question has recently been raised in two distinct fanbases. After fans of “Rick and Morty” harassed and released the private information—also known as ‘doxxing’—of female writers, Executive Producer Dan Harmon felt compelled to denounce them for attempting “to further some creepy agenda by ‘protecting’ [his] work” from those who allegedly were changing it for the worse. Eminem’s recent anti-Trump cypher during the BET Hip-Hop Awards similarly rejects his Trump-supporting fans, stating that they must pick between him and the president.
Both Harmon’s and Eminem’s responses seem to be attempts to mold the communities built around their work to reject reactionary ideologies, which both creators cast as toxic. If allowed to remain in the community for too long, those ideologies would degrade the community, making it hostile to certain individuals and ultimately pushing them out of where they once belonged. However, the efficacy of these statements in reducing toxicity is dubious due to the highly decentralized communities to which they were targeted. Given that democratic design, how can we decide where to draw ideological lines, and are those lines already drawn?
Upon closer inspection, Eminem is more willing than Harmon to reject Trump supporters in general rather than specifically those who hold the sexist belief that women were ruining “Rick and Morty.” During his freestyle, Eminem argues that Trump is racist for his “endorsement of Bannon/Support for the Klansmen/...[and] ignoring our past historical, deplorable factors,” and that those who support him are supporting racism, or at the very least, willing to turn a blind eye and enable it. Put more generally, this paradigm argues that if some ideologies are too close to toxic ones, then they should also be rejected.
However, Eminem could have looked to persuade his fans rather than reject them. Eminem has long been known for shocking and offensive themes and imagery, essentially spitting in the face of political correctness before the concept entered mainstream political discourse. It’s not surprising there is notable overlap between Trump supporters, who admired his willingness to speak against political correctness, and Eminem fans.
By making an argument which many Trump supporters view as hysteric, Eminem’s attempt to draw a line between these two identities may have backfired, causing some to reject him instead. If we’re too willing to reject others solely for ideological reasons, we risk removing the moderating influences from their lives and pushing them to more extreme spaces. It may therefore be better to discuss, challenge, and debunk toxic ideologies before they lead to action.
We seem to have cycled back to the beginning here—if we’re too ideologically strict, we label others as extremists, but if we’re too lax, we risk deteriorating our space. The question of “what ideologies are personally unacceptable” has become one of “what ideologies are personally too close to being unacceptable.” This granularity is crux of the question of where to draw the line. Whom you allow in determines what you enable, and if something is sufficiently toxic, is it worth rejecting anyone who is sufficiently associated with it?
If not, then one could argue that you lack moral conviction, that you also are turning a blind eye and enabling those toxic beliefs. If so, one could argue that you have also become extremist in your beliefs, overreacting to small infractions and unwilling to recognize the value those personal relationships had.
Finding a universal answer to that question is difficult and maybe even painful: I have only come to answers on a case by case basis. Regardless of the right to express and hold them, some beliefs are sufficiently toxic that we should excise those beliefs from our communities as best as we can lest they degrade them. A line has to be drawn somewhere. The tricky part is not only where but how.
Hansy D. Piou ’18, a Crimson Editorial editor, is an Applied Mathematics concentrator in Quincy House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Listening through Harvard residential housing’s razor-thin walls, a friend of mine, a freshman who we’ll call Sarah, was troubled by a conversation coming from the neighboring room. Referring to her boyfriend, a female voice proclaimed, “I like him, but I want to date an upperclassman that can get me into final club parties.” When Sarah confided to a friend that she was concerned by this sort of transactional attitude toward relationships, the friend abruptly told her to stop being so judgmental: “It is not your life, so it is none of your business.” In short, the friend judged Sarah for her judgment.
Sarah told me that she has encountered this “none-of-your-business” attitude incessantly since coming to Harvard. When she opines to her friends that corporate finance is a less honorable profession than the non-profit world or public service, she is jumped on for her heretical gall. When she questions the character of a friend who loves going to parties and mocks those who aren’t similarly inclined, she is branded a doctrinaire. Sarah’s defense of her ethical values is constantly rebuffed; in exercising her ideals through her opinions and actions, she feels alienated and ostracized by her peers.
When Sarah arrived at Harvard, she expected to be greeted by a deluge of passion, an array of people with rigid principles, admirable ambitions, and firm beliefs about what they wanted to do in life. Instead, Sarah was surprised by how rare such upstanding individuals seem to be. Sarah thinks that the wholesome passion these students gushed about in their Common App essays was either feigned, or transformed by the crushing social pressure to join the rat race of title-grabbing in lieu of making the world a better place. When Sarah tells fellow students that she aims to work in nonprofits in her hometown, she is contemptuously reminded that “there is no money in nonprofit work.” When Sarah does see her passion-filled classmates follow their dreams and succeed, she hears them perfunctorily dismissed as overly ambitious and undeserving of recognition.
Once, Sarah divulged to a peer that her life goal is to help others, and the peer bluntly advised her to “be a snake.” In a logical fallacy that would make Socrates blush, a peer proclaimed, “If you want to be successful, you need to be a snake. So if you are not a snake, you are doomed, and won’t be able to help anyone.”
What is a “snake?” According to Merriam-Webster, a snake is “a worthless or treacherous fellow,” and, according to Urban Dictionary, “a scamming backstabber.” At Harvard, I have heard the word thrown around more and more to describe people that feed off of classmates for problem set answers without offering anything in return, or skip a roommate’s birthday party for a final club event. To call someone a snake is a roaring insult, so to imagine that some people have justified their “snakery” by telling themselves it is necessary to thrive makes me shudder.
Not only is this behavior unethical, it's also rarely a winning strategy. In any game theory course, you learn that in a repeated Prisoner’s Dilemma game, it might be best to “defect” (or act selfishly) at first, but it quickly becomes much more beneficial to cooperate as the game goes on. This model translates nicely to real life.
For example, it might be better for you to do the minimal work in a group project and ride your group partners’ coattails to a good grade, but for the next group assignment, you can bet that your classmates won’t want to work with you. Moreover, by breaking your peers’ trust, your reputation as a bad group partner might spread to other areas of your life, and fewer people would be inclined to help you. Instead, by being reliable, your group partners, peers, friends, and even family will be much more likely to assist you, both in the classroom and in life. Beyond trustworthiness and kindness as virtuous, it seems that genuinely helping others can help you get ahead as well.
Even so, the snake ideology permeates Harvard’s campus, and because of its pervasiveness, it becomes very difficult to speak out against it. Those that truly come to Harvard with passion and principles are browbeaten into accepting others’ self-interest and double-dealing; if they judge this sordid behavior, they are judged for doing so. With all the talk of safe spaces, it might be that snakes, not liberals, are the most protected from dissent on this campus.
Most depressingly, Sarah tells me that she has already felt the effects of the snake-dominant culture change on her. Gaslighted by her peers, she is beginning to question her own ethical commitments. “Can I truly live on a non-profit salary?” “Is it wrong for me to judge my friend who made a furtive racist comment?” “Is the finance industry somehow ethically redeeming?” Sarah no longer expresses her ethical qualms out loud and is beginning to doubt whether she believes them herself.
When passion and principles are reviled, snakes can slither freely without reproach. While judgment clearly should remain within the bounds of respect, challenging the principles (or lack thereof) of our friends and peers when they treat others transactionally could put pressure on snakes to change their ways. To invigorate a communal and all-for-one spirit at Harvard, we must be not afraid to speak our ethics.
Reed T. Shafer-Ray ’18 is a Social Studies concentrator in Quincy House. Their column appears on alternate Thursdays.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
On Monday, supporters of Senator Bernie Sanders had the opportunity to relive “the Bern” when he was spotted at Tatte Bakery and Cafe in Harvard Square. Though seeing a former Presidential candidate may have been a memorable and exciting experience for a lucky few, his visit to Cambridge was for the purpose of something far less praiseworthy: the endorsement of Cambridge City Council candidates.
The Cambridge City Council race is nonpartisan and productively so. City councils are responsible for dealing with the practical needs of the community, and their services are invaluable for the everyday wellbeing of Cambridge’s citizens. Being nonpartisan allows city councils to make the necessary compromises and listen to the voices of their community without being embroiled in the increasingly polarized nature of our state and federal politics. As a symbol of leftist politics, the presence of Bernie Sanders in this local election is detrimental to the nonpartisanship that makes local government work.
Furthermore, Cambridge is, as a whole, already incredibly liberal. In an open letter, some Democratic activists provided profiles of the candidates to show how many deserving liberal candidates were not given an endorsement, revealing the unproductive and somewhat arbitrary nature of these endorsements. The letter also cited a lack of transparency in the selection process used by the Sanders-affiliated group, Our Revolution, as a problem. We agree with these sentiments and hope that the organization will be more transparent in the future, aware of the risks of choosing candidates for endorsements in liberal cities such as Cambridge.
While Sanders’s intentions are laudable, we hope that he will refrain from intervening in future local elections. Cambridge City Council endorsements cannot be compared to national- and state-level elections, which are part of a greater political dialogue and concern broader interests. The City Council is meant to serve Cambridge, and these needs will be best met when individuals who have lived in this area for an extended period of time are able to shape their own communities. It is inappropriate for outsiders to enter into unfamiliar areas and attempt to affect their lives in this micro-level manner; Cambridge in particular has already demonstrated its excellent capacity for self-governance.
Of course, this principle applies not only to Sanders but to our own student body as well. Most of us will be here for only four short school years, and many us fail to venture far enough outside the Harvard bubble to truly understand the city and appreciate both its strengths and problems. Therefore, despite our best intentions, we should exercise caution in our local political engagement and refrain from naive, uninformed interventions. While some of us may “Feel the Bern”, his actions in Cambridge are something that we cannot endorse.
This staff editorial solely represents the majority view of The Crimson Editorial Board. It is the product of discussions at regular Editorial Board meetings. In order to ensure the impartiality of our journalism, Crimson editors who choose to opine and vote at these meetings are not involved in the reporting of articles on similar topics.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Apple pie, baby back ribs, marinara sauce: each congeals on its own time. The smell is overwhelming—a seething mix of the foods sitting out, steaming into their plastic sneeze guards, all topped with a tannic hint of the industrial-grade cleaners they use on the linoleum. I hesitate, but there’s a line behind me and lines for the food, and my parents are already diving in.
The floors and booths and tables are sticky. I clear three heaped plates over the course of the meal. My parents and I are the only non-white people here. People stare as my mom and dad gab loudly in Chinese under a picture of John Wayne, one of the many retro-Americana tchotchkes unrelated to either the buffet’s theme (Italian) or history (opened in 2002).
***
Every buffet my parents and I frequented when I was in elementary school was littered with similar faux memorabilia. Each gave its own vision of a cornucopic America where less than $20 could buy the whole dazzling, vulgar, all-you-can-eat experience; where we balanced quivering Jenga stacks of steak and pancakes back to our table; where no one went hungry.
Not that we went hungry at home—almost every night, we’d shovel white rice and stir-fry into our mouths in that silent kitchen, yellow fluorescence sallowing our cheeks.
Good news from school or the office meant a special home-cooked meal, maybe a tray of dumplings. Buffet visits didn’t celebrate anything in particular. Rather, my dad would get a far-off look in his eyes, or my mom would grin mischievously and ask, “Who’s hungry?” on an unremarkable Tuesday night. Off we would go.
We went out for a treat at our local Cici’s Pizza or Golden Corral every month or two. After every visit, on the long drive home—we lived on the fringes of the suburbs then—I lay bloated in the back seat, having abused the soft-serve machine again, wondering whether my (nearly all white) classmates ate like this every night.
This was a constant mystery to me back then: What did white people have for dinner? What was American food? It certainly wasn’t what I was eating, judging by my classmates’ grimaces at the leftovers my mom packed me for lunch. Did they tuck into pizza and pasta every night? Did their houses have that distant familiarity I tasted at the buffet, where families joked and laughed around the table? Where you knew where everything was?
***
The habit died after we moved, and those buffet institutions became another aspect of the passing suburban landscape to stare at, dully, through a car window.
These days, I eat every meal at a buffet.
Despite Harvard University Dining Services’s best efforts, I end up eating pretty much the same meal every day: chicken, rice, vegetables, maybe eggs for breakfast. The routine is broken only by the occasional late-night treat at Noch’s or Felipe’s.
It’s past my bedtime. Some friends and I reach the inevitable 2 a.m. Chinese food decision. At the behest of my (non-Chinese) friends, I negotiate with the server in clumsy Mandarin for more broccoli, less beef, extra rice. Chicharron-shaped pieces of beef and pork swim in mysterious, dark-brown sludge, the broccoli is worryingly mushy, and everything stings with an alkaline aftertaste.
But still. I clean my plate. I crack jokes with the waitress. I ask for more tea. I remember where I am.
Sections
It’s that time of year again, folks! Time for television shows to attempt to increase their popularity. Some shows try to stay relevant by making a parent dab, referencing memes, and, perhaps worst of all, introducing a character of color with an incredibly problematic backstory. Nothing is safe from pandering television executives.
These elaborate schemes usually involve crucial information previously concealed from the existing characters, the audience, and probably the show writers themselves. And they are usually riddled with contrived attempts to tug at our nonexistent heartstrings. That’s why I was confused, nay, DUMBFOUNDED when I heard about the “Powerpuff Girls” reboot.
First of all, why are they making a comeback? Like Justin Timberlake’s ramen hair or bedazzled anything, some things should rest in the digital dustbins of history (i.e. Tumblr). Besides, the final nail in the coffin for “The Powerpuff Girls” was when they literally stuck the nail in the coffin of Bunny, the fourth sister, who exploded in Season 2 and took my innocence with her.
Despite all my misgivings, I gave this worn out TV show a shot.
The new reboot involves a new, fourth (technically, fifth!) sister, called Bliss. Bliss was created by the doctor before any of the current girls. Unlike the other girls, and most cartoon characters, Bliss was a dark-skinned hero who—at first—seemed pretty badass.
But remember those improbable, problematic backstories I mentioned? She’s got one! To add a little twist, a dash of whimsy, the showrunners made Bliss unable to control her emotions. She’s a hothead who literally explodes with emotion. After (literally) burning down their house because she didn’t get her milk on time, she flies off to “Bird Poop Island” and lives there throughout the show.
I’m all for making attempts to incorporate characters of color. Bliss, however, was written into “The Powerpuff Girls” with a slew of problems, a troubled history, and a garish color scheme that does not put her character on equal footing with Bubbles, Blossom, or Buttercup.
I’m going to buy three more paint-by-numbers kits to keep my stress about this down. Nothing is safe. Nothing is sacred.
In the meantime, I encourage you to keep your TV shows safe, and sometimes that means dead.
Sections
Halloween is a tradition constructed of sounds.
The kids swish their way to the front door. The doorbell ding-dongs. The latch clicks, the front door creaks open. The children shout “Trick or treat!” The candy rustles into bags. The parents clear their throats. The children mutter “Thank you.” The door closes, the latch clicks, the children make their way down the sidewalk.
And the whole thing repeats, child after child, house after house, year after year. The pattern is unchanging, symphonic in its perfection. Halloween, definitive.
It is an acoustic tradition passed down from parents, siblings, and friends, the way ancient Greeks perpetuated more profound oral histories. The cadence does not change, down to the minute details. “Trick or treat!” we say, habituated into the sturdy down-talk of exclamation.
Once, I assume, we did not say; we asked. “Trick or treat,” after all, is a question. We, the variously-costumed youths of America, asked the lording homeowners whether they would like to punish or reward. Stick or carrot. “Trick or treat?” An up-talk, a genuine query.
Early in my candy-collecting career, I learned about this etymology from my mother. I’d spent the evening trailing my brother, copying his every move as I took my place in the noble sugar trail so that I could perpetuate the sonic pattern that was Halloween. Swish, swish, swish. Ding-dong. Click. Creak. “Trick or treat!” Rustle. Ahem. “Thank you!” Creak. Click. Swish, swish, swish, on repeat, except that eventually I got bored by this cycle and started to think about what exactly I was doing. Here, I became confused.
So I asked my mother, the bearer of infinite wisdom: “What’s a Tricker treat?”
I had thought, of course, that we were asking for a certain kind of treat. A Tricker treat. And yet out of my plastic pumpkin, I unpacked Reese’s and Hershey’s and Tootsies and Nerds. I did not find any Trickers. “Tricker treat!” I had demanded. Where were all the Trickers? I had requested Trickers. Why did adults never listen to me when I asked for things? I was incensed.
And here, my mother provided a revelation: that “tricker” was in fact “trick or,” and that the sentence was not a statement, but rather a question.
This news was intended to conciliate, but it had the opposite effect. I have never liked tricks–not early in my Halloweening. Any sort of surprise, or prank, or manipulation of my grip on a situation; this kind of thing, historically, has not gone well for me.
There was the time a friend duped me into sitting beneath her plastic chair at the pool, stationing me directly beneath a cup of water she was sipping from. When she dumped said cup onto my shoulders, I burst into tears–despite the fact that I was wearing a swimsuit, and despite the fact that I was already quite damp.
There was also the summer camp fiasco, in which I walked into my cabin to find the bedding entirely stripped from my bed. The moment I heard a stifled giggle emerge from underneath the bunk beds where the group had hidden, I walked out of the cabin, called my mother, and begged to come home. Nevermind their endless consoling  that “we were just kidding!” or that my mother tried to spin the prank as a compliment, owing to the fact that they had chosen me for my sense of levity. I was entirely unwilling to tolerate this kind of tomfoolery.
Worst of all was the time my brother strapped my teddy bear to my ceiling fan, so that when I came into the room and flipped the switch, I looked up at the spinning spokes to discover I had unwittingly condemned my fluffy friend to a makeshift wheel of torture. I shrieked so loudly my parents thought I was injured.
Presumably, there are a whole host of humans who find the prospect of such machinations appealing. I cannot sympathize. The introduction of tricks into Halloween transformed a hitherto benign candy-laundering scheme into something infinitely more frightening. This was the All Hallows Eve our librarian had taught us about: A spooky surprise around every corner. Except that I wasn’t worried about ghosts; I feared someone might take me up on my offer of “Trick or treat?” and choose to deny my treat in favor of a big, fat trick.
For the rest of my time as a treat collector, I made a conscious effort to lean heavily into the smushed cadence that generations of down-talking exclamation had whittled the phrase into. “Trickertreat!” I shouted, as confidently as I could, trying to reach the end of the word before the first part had time to settle in the airwaves. And when I pass the holy sequence of sounds that is Halloween on to my children, I will make sure that they do the same. The phonetically correct up-talk and round o of “trick or treat?” is a secret I’ll carry to my grave.
Sections
“Happy Mother’s Day! How are you doing? It’s your special day today. You’re the big star. I hope you enjoy your Mother’s Day. I love you so much! You’re the best mom in the world. I hope that’s no offense to Mrs. Pepper.”
The renowned Crayola trifecta—crayons, markers, and colored pencils—finds its way out of the hollow of my cluttered desk only a few times a year. Once I’ve coated this Mother’s Day card with their waxy smear, crayons with names like “Purple Mountain Majesty” and “Carnation Pink” will never stand quite as tall as the rest of the immaculate, 64-strong array. This elusive and redundant cache of drawing stuffs that annually entrenches itself in the middle of a very lengthy back-to-school shopping list now finds itself unboxed, de-capped, and re-sharpened to imperfection.
Mrs. Pepper’s second-grade circus tent is abuzz with a satanic blend of construction paper scissor-snips and the sound of James Taylor’s “Your Smiling Face” on cassette. But I couldn’t have thought up a better soundtrack to saying ‘Happy Mother’s Day’ if I wanted to.
“My Mom is smart! She even knows how to add and subtract fractions.”
***
“Dear Mom,”
“Weekly News: Bits and Pieces of Our Week at School” requires no further description. This anthology of letters to Mom written throughout the school year includes no more and no less than exactly what its title suggests. I’m sure that if she had really had the urge, Mom could have fished statements like, “We do The Pledge every morning” and “We investigated water” and “We’re also learning about adjectives and nouns” out of just about any encyclopedic definition of “second grade” she could get her hands on.
“Hi Ben” appears on the back of each letter, followed by a short paragraph written in stylish, curly pseudo-cursive, once-detached letters that had merged through years of jotting things down too quickly. It’s beautiful handwriting, and it labeled every writer’s notebook, daily lunchbox note, calendar reminder for the dentist appointment, and post-it-noted telephone number that I used during elementary school. It’s not that I couldn’t have labeled these things for myself; I simply didn’t trust any hand other than Mom’s to label the entire suite of school supplies—from every three-ring binder to every 64-pack-crayon-sharpener-in-the-back Crayola box—with such panache.
What “Weekly News” lacks in content it makes up for in the call-and-response between my penciled-in regurgitation of Mrs. Pepper’s classroom schedule and Mom’s feigned interest in just about all of the items on that schedule. “I picked a tree” earned a hearty “What kind of tree did you pick?” “I had three substitutes this week, including the one today” prompted a “Wow! That’s a lot of substitutes!” If I grew caterpillars in a Dixie Cup, Mom wanted to know what I named them. If I made a thumbprint, Mom wanted to know if it was a whorl or a loop.
***
“2x2=4x2=8x2=16x2=32x2=64x2=128x2= ...”
At recess, I would multiply by two. The splintered wood-grain from the picnic table creates a stencil on each equation like a barcode that, if scanned, would tell you exactly how many of the joys of being seven years old had been squandered on this self-inflicted and definitively endless math exercise.
My goal was to reach infinity, and Ms. Rand was going to help me get there. Each time I multiplied by two-to-the-whatever, I would present my findings to Ms. Rand, the kind, middle-aged lunch aide who presided over my classmates and made sure they didn’t kill themselves on the monkey bars. And Ms. Rand must’ve really been good at math, because she would spend no longer than two seconds looking at my paper before affirming that I was indeed substantially closer to reaching infinity than when I had started.
***
“I hope I got an ‘A’ plus on my math test. It was challenging, but I think I managed.”
Math tests were a new creature in second grade, and I regularly reported them straight to Mom through “Weekly News” just as I would an experiment using Alka-Seltzer and vinegar, or the construction of a sundial out of a paper plate. The thought of crunching numbers under a time limit made me sick to my stomach, and even if multiplying by two seems rudimentary from the collegiate perspective, it was sheer rocket science to a seven-year-old.
“This week I had the math test. There was also extra credit. Hope I get it right!”
Mom’s responses to my letters belied her hope that I would write about any number of topics other than math tests, in which case her replies would deal with those topics and only those topics. When math tests eventually became the subject of every letter, she stopped responding altogether, save for the occasional, “I know that I haven’t been writing back to you. I guess I keep forgetting.”
***
Dear Mrs. Pepper,
Benjamin is a very interesting little boy. He, at times, presents himself as a ‘50 year old man.’ In fact, last year at recess, he rarely said that he played with the other children, and preferred to hang out with the lunch aide. … He spent his summer reading and learning his multiplication tables. He does become frustrated easily and strongly dislikes struggling over something he does not know. As always, you may contact me with any concerns, ideas, and comments.
Fondly,
Mom
***
“It’s not about the test. It’s about the learning,” says S. Paul Reville, professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and former Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. “If you can strike the right balance, that’s what you want.”
For Reville, test anxiety is built into a culture of high standards and high expectations. “A second-grader doesn’t just come to a phobia about testing; when you look behind it, it’s the environment. It may be the teacher, it may be the parent, it may be the school that has engineered a level of anxiety out of their own interests,” he says. Reville laments the “drill-and-kill” attitude that has characterized the teaching strategy in many schools over the last decade.
After second grade ended, “Weekly News” adopted many different forms. To this day, I call Mom after every test to let her know how it went. Our conversation is almost always the same: She always tells me that as long as I tried my best, that’s all that matters, and I tell her that I probably failed, and she tells me that she wants to hang up the phone.
“[Parents] want you to come home and say, ‘It was good, it was interesting, it was boring, I hated it, I’m not interested, I’m anxious and nervous,’” Reville says. “That’s a first-order metric that parents use.” Mom has been using it as a metric for 12 years.
I suppose nothing has really changed since second grade, but there’s something oddly sentimental about that, like a piano with an out-of-tune key you can’t imagine sounding any other way.
***
“Don’t worry about your score. I’m sure you did great. And if you didn’t I don’t care. Only a few more weeks left to school. Enjoy!”
Sections
In last summer’s hit film “Wonder Woman,” the eponymous Diana Prince fights her battles with a long, bright gold lasso. As the story goes, Prince’s weapon of choice, the “Lasso of Truth,” was forged by the Greek god Hephaestus and, when wrapped around a target, compels its victim to tell only the truth.
The rope is fantastical, but Wonder Woman’s creator, William M. Marston, takes cues from a real device. In fact, Marston’s Lasso of Truth is just a comic book depiction of an earlier creation of his: the systolic blood pressure test, a precursor to the modern-day lie detector.
In 1915, Marston was studying at Harvard as a dual graduate psychology and law student. According a study on the history of the polygraph produced by The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, one day, Marston’s wife, Elizabeth Holloway Marston, remarked that her blood pressure rose whenever “she got mad or excited.” Her offhand comment inspired in Marston an interest in the possible correlation between blood pressure and lying.
Marston began to research whether blood pressure could be used to expose deception. His experiments in the physiological effects of lying led to the invention of the systolic blood pressure test, earning Marston the title “father of the lie detector.”
The lie detector looks simple. A black and white photograph in Schlesinger Library shows Marston using the device in 1914. He’s wearing a white collared shirt and an expression of deep concentration, as a woman takes notes beside him. The two are standing next to a small pump: the lie detector, which looks more or less like a basic blood pressure cuff.
The theory is relatively simple, too. The systolic blood pressure test works using an almost comedic juxtaposition of questions: simple inquiries to detect the subject’s baseline blood pressure––“Were you born in Liverpool in 1987? Is your mother’s maiden name Dalton? Who is the current U.S. President?”––followed by a more blunt questions, like, “Did you murder the stockbroker?” Marston measured the difference in blood pressure to determine whether the subject was lying.
Years later, the invention’s verifiability was called into question. According to the same study, after the U.S. entered World War I, Marston contacted the U.S. Department of Science and Research with the hope that his invention could help detect espionage. A subcommittee, chaired by John F. Shepard, was established to evaluate Marston’s proposal and its potential for deception detection. Marston had claimed his device yielded “remarkable results” from “thirty deception tests under ironclad precautions.”
But Shepard was not convinced. “The same results would be caused by so many different circumstances, anything demanding equal activity (intellectual or emotional), that it would be practically impossible to divide any individual case,” Shepard wrote in one report.
Some evidence shows, however, that the device was put to use during wartime. The report from the National Academies Press states that John E. Hoover made actually made inquiries into the efficacy of lie detector tests, and Marston himself claimed that he administered systolic tests on spies.
Sections
Waving proudly in the crisp Cambridge breeze on 95 Dunster Street, the Kirkland flag is a happy reminder to many who have lived in the Harvard House. To Kirkland Tutor Kori O. Zorina, seeing the flag outside the building reminds her that she is home.
But to others, the flag bears an eerie resemblance to the Confederate flag.
The shield is comprised of a black cross edged with white on a crimson field with three white stars in a horizontal line through the center of the cross. Kirkland’s shield was designed by Pierre de Chaignon la Rose, class of 1895, who designed all of the House shields for Harvard. According to the Kirkland website, he derived the cross from the shield of the Diocese of Carlisle (“Kirkland” is Middle English for “church land,” and was a surname given to those who dwelled on the property of a church), the stars from the crests of various other Kirkland families, and the crimson for Harvard.
The House’s name is in honor of John T. Kirkland, class of 1789 and a former Harvard president who served from 1810 to 1828. The recognizable Confederate Flag dates back to the 1861 battle flag of the Army of Northern Virginia.
Although the official line is that the shield and flag are unrelated, some Harvard students feel uncomfortable with the mere resemblance. On a campus that has sometimes battled controversy over the hanging of confederate flags in dorm-room windows, it’s not surprising that even a passing resemblance to the stars and bars might stir concern.
Students have addressed that in a variety of ways. Michael L. He ’18 removed Kirkland stickers from his laptop and apparel from his wardrobe. “Multiple times, people have mistaken the sticker for a Confederate Flag, so I just took it off,” he says. “I didn’t want to deal with it.”
Karina J. Joiner ’20, a Cabot sophomore, isn’t so quick to brush it off. “It’s so problematic. They should change it,” she laughs.
But other students are strong advocates of the shield, even if it does sometimes draw confusion. Kirkland resident Alvaro I. Quintero ’19, is a staunch defender: “When I see it, I think Kirkland. I think home,” he says. “One person did a double take and said ‘That kind of looks like the Confederate flag.’ I said ‘No, it looks completely different.’”
Quintero says that he would strongly oppose any proposed alteration to the shield. “If they feel completely opposed to it, they should actually compare the shield and the Confederate flag and see that it’s different,” he says. “If they are just trying to change it based off the small similarity, then they are just being nitpicky at that point.”
For others, the Kirkland flag poses no controversy. “There’s a cross. Crosses are cool,” Adams resident Shyam S. Narayanan ’19 says. “I don’t see anything. It just looks like the Kirkland flag.”
Sections
Framed by violet light, Patric C.W. Verrone ’18 speaks as if to himself, or to something bigger. “Can you see me? Can you see me? Can you see me?”
Verrone is performing as Black Narcissus, the title character of his original play. “Black Narcissus” opens the first ever Harvard Black Playwrights Festival, a presentation of original theatre including unstaged readings of three student plays and one student screenplay. The festival also includes a Q&A panel with playwrights Kirsten Greenidge and Robert O’Hara, and an outing to Adrienne L. Kennedy’s “The Owl Answers.”
The idea for the festival stemmed from conversations in an introductory playwriting class taught by Sam W. Marks. As they worked to write their own plays, organizers Ian A. Askew ’19 and Madison  E. Johnson ’18 grew interested in showcasing original student work without the grandeur of a full-fledged production.
“I hadn’t seen many student readings that were just intended to be a workshop,” Askew says. “We wanted to open up a space where we could get a lot of ideas flowing, rather than having to put so much energy into one show, one creative work.”
According to Askew, the Theater, Dance, & Media department encourages students to focus on original projects, in addition to studying a theatrical canon. TDM, the English Department, and the Office for the Arts provided funding for festival expenses such as bringing Greenidge and O’Hara to the event.
Askew points to The Harvard Black Community and Student Theater Group (BlackC.A.S.T) as part of his inspiration for the event. He sees the festival as a platform to amplify the voices of an already vibrant campus community of black theater-makers.
***
Aislinn Brophy ’17 stands at center stage, eyes shut, lips parted in song. “I’m taking it back, taking it back, can’t deny me that…”
Brophy’s play “Passing Marks” focuses on her multiracial identity and the tension between her self-image and the racialized narratives forced upon her. In a patchwork of historical and present-day scenes, Brophy constructs and reclaims her narrative.
In general, the subject matter of the plays is serious, exploring themes of black beauty, religion, sexuality, and the relationship between history and identity. As the actors speak, the personal becomes not only political, but also shared.
“It’s hard to put yourself out there, put your vulnerabilities and everything into a piece of work like that,” Jessica S. Edwards ’21, a performer, says. “I think these kids really have something to say and people should come out and support that.”
The festival’s setup reflects the often experimental process of playwriting itself. Actors sit in a line, reading from scripts..
“It’s a form that doesn’t necessarily seem inviting at first,” Askew says, “because people think there’s a lot of rules to it. But especially once you read playwrights like Robert O’Hara—there aren’t that many rules, and you can kind of do whatever you want.”
Gabby S. Preston ’20, who premiered their first play “Platforms” at the festival, found themself writing, arranging and rearranging over the summer. Primarily a fiction writer, Preston had to adjust their process.
“A lot of the time I’d be reading, if not actually out loud, just reading it back to myself in my head,” Preston says. “Trying to put different inflections on it, really paying attention to the way phrases fit together.... That was weird and different.”
Both festival participants and performers came from disparate theater backgrounds—Askew says many of them are seasoned HRDC veterans, while plenty are new to theater and “haven’t touched it at all.”
Preston admires the process-oriented nature of the event, which allows the audience to focus on the work that goes into playwriting as opposed to the final production.
“It’s a vulnerable move, really,” Preston says. “It’s just been a ‘do your best’ process at every turn. And that’s cool, because a lot of stuff [at Harvard] isn’t really ‘do your best.’”
***
Silky R&B permeates the air in Farkas Hall 203. It’s SZA’s “Doves in the Wind”—audience members mouth the familiar words. Students arrange chips, pizza and cookies on a table by the door. Askew stands at the front of the room, welcoming guests to the workshop. Actors prepare to tell their story.
“With a staged production you can communicate a lot more specifically,” Askew says. “But with a reading, you can let the script breathe.” The bare-bones nature of the performance allowed for audience members to do some creative grunt work.
“It makes it more personal, I think,” Iva Markicevic, a spectator and student at the Graduate School of Education, says. “Like with a movie and a book—with a movie someone else is shaping the story for you, but with a book you get to internalize it. I think this reading gives you that same option.”
***
Shoulder to shoulder, actors stand in a line. Words pour out of them, tumbling in a self-embracing mantra: “Black is beautiful is I am black is beautiful is I am black…”
The notion of control over one’s personal narrative is a common thread in these plays. Students’ artistic freedom to own their stories may be to the credit of the festival’s DIY spirit. Askew says he anticipates another festival next year and more student-led arts events on campus.
“What’s really defined my arts experience at Harvard so far has been people trying to open up student-led or non-institutional spaces,” Askew says. “And it’s cool to see the arts administration supporting that. Hopefully more folks will continue to make their own spaces for whatever they don’t already see.”
Sections
“My time and dignity are worth more than cleaning bathrooms for $17.50 an hour.”
From across our two dining hall trays at lunch, he had asked me about Dorm Crew, and, as a captain of the program, I had been excited to explain: Dorm Crew provides wages to students working as custodial staff in the Houses, a job that ranges in responsibility from shoveling snow to coordinating move-out to cleaning bathrooms.
We mostly clean bathrooms.
My Dorm Crew career began during Fall Clean-Up, the pre-orientation program that pays soon-to-be-freshmen to bond over damp-dusting lamps and mopping floors. The first day, I was crammed into the bedroom of a first floor suite in Pennypacker with 10 other over-eager freshmen, most of us still rubbing our sleep-crusted eyes. The head of our group was demonstrating how to operate the clumsy purple backpack vacuums that would later become weapons in our battle against cockroach carcasses. I tried to keep track of all the different steps. But between my anxiety about my first day at Harvard, and that stifling heat that accrues when too many bodies squeeze into too small a space, I fainted.
The job isn’t nearly glamorous nor thrilling enough for the likes of my lunch partner. After all, explaining your janitorial job to a McKinsey recruiter does seem more difficult than explaining your involvement in one of the numerous finance or consulting-oriented clubs on campus. Wiping down sinks doesn’t fit neatly under the “Technical Skills” category on a resume. His concern is a valid one.
He urged me to consider the “auxiliary benefits” of so many other campus jobs that I was missing out on by spending my time scrubbing porcelain thrones, pointing to library jobs with minimal time commitment or research assistantships that would facilitate “connections.” Connections were on his mind often, it seemed.
But for many, “auxiliary benefits” are just that—auxiliary. My primary motivation in seeking employment is the guaranteed flow of steady income and the luxuries it allows me to afford: buying books for the semester, flying home for the holidays, or god forbid, the occasional Starbucks run with a friend. There is no room for considerations of minimum required work hours or potential access to faculty mentors. For me and many others, a job means money.
In my home state of Arkansas, where the minimum wage clocks in at a whopping $8.50 per hour, many people would jump at the opportunity to wipe down mirrors for $17.50, but here, students scoff at it. For those students, campus employment is about wants rather than needs, and the latter just doesn’t compute.
When I decided to continue working for Dorm Crew after Fall Clean-Up, I anticipated more long hours wielding grout brushes with rubber gloved-hands. What surprised me was the community I found there, the students whom I got to know while standing in a shower, scrubbing soap scum off the tile walls. All of us work for Dorm Crew for different reasons, but none of us mind sticking our faces closer to a toilet bowl than should ever be allowed for a sober person. One year removed from that day in Pennypacker, I’m proud to be a Dorm Crew captain. Auxiliary benefits, indeed.
If cleaning bathrooms seems like such a laborious and unsophisticated task, then I urge you: The next time a Dorm Crew member comes to clean your bathroom, tell them to skip it. You will save us the work and can keep your head held high, time and dignity preserved.
Sections
Aquarius (January 20—February 18):
You’re content with the highlight of your social calendar being the awkward eye contact you make with that one boy who walks out through the revolving doors of the Science Center every Wednesday just as you walk in. But don’t worry, we have a way you can participate in the Halloween festivities without having to communicate at all: Dress up as a ghost. It's the one day a year when you can drift aimlessly through the halls, staring vacantly at passersby without judgement.

Pisces (February 19—March 20):
Pisces are the most fish-like of all the signs. Finally, you have the chance to completely embrace the aquatic aspect of your personality: Dress up as a merperson. You may be tempted to test out the effectiveness of your costume by going for a quick dip in the Charles. Jump right in! People on the shore might think you’re drunk and/or  insane, but tonight’s your chance.

Aries (March 21—April 19):
Although normally known for your appetite for adventure, you’re going to be scared shitless this Halloween night. It’s gonna be really frigging spooky. Maybe sit this one out and barricade your doors. Those adorable trick-or-treating children could be serial killers out for your candy—or worse: your blood.

Taurus (April 20—May 20):
You’ve probably had your highly specific “Lord of the Rings” minor character costume planned for months and want to do every semi-fall-themed activity before the end of October, from pumpkin-carving to apple-picking. Your dedication to October festivities is as endearing as it is annoying. I’m sure your roommates would appreciate if you chilled a bit on that apples ‘n cinnamon-scented air freshener, and maybe kept the decorative gourds on your side of the room.

Gemini (May 21—June 20):
Halloween is the time when you get to express who you truly are: someone who enjoys pretending to be other people and lying about every aspect of yourself. Capitalize on this underappreciated quality of yours and enjoy the one day of the year that no one can call you a sociopath.

Cancer (June 21—July 22):
You are our last bastion against the encroaching tide of consumerism. This is your chance to broadcast your hatred for commercialized holidays and to launch a protest against the “modern” celebration of Halloween. Let’s bring Halloween back to its roots and set up a ceremonial witch-burning stake in the middle of the Yard.

Leo (July 23—August 22):
You’re a bit conflicted about Halloween. On the one hand, it’s one of your favorite days of the year: You get the chance to bask in the spotlight with your incredible costume. On the other hand, it’s not socially acceptable to dress up as yourself. Don’t worry, we have a plan: Start a movement to have everyone else on campus dress up as you, so that the school can finally recognize and celebrate its most beautiful student.

Virgo (August 23—September 22):
You want to like Halloween so, so badly, but the aftermath is just too much for your neat-freak tendencies. Decorations? Fun. Impossible-to-get-rid-of fake spiderwebs and rotting jack-o-lanterns? Ugh. Halloween candy bought in bulk that’s totally for all of the trick-or-treaters you’re going to have, and definitely not for your private consumption? Amazing. Sticky candy wrappers littered across your floor? Awful. Consider dressing as a dustpan so that you can clean up on the go.

Libra (September 23—October 22):You are filled with good ideas, but unfortunately, they rarely come to fruition. Remember last year when you were going to be a monarch butterfly? And then a LEGO man, and then a flying genie? And how on October 31, having pulled none of that together, you drew some black dots on a red shirt and called yourself a ladybug? Maybe there’s a reason why your parents stopped saving your Halloween pictures after a certain point. That’s why this year you need to decide on a costume now and commit to it. We’ve got an easy one for you: Dress up as your Leo friend.

Scorpio (October 23—November 21):
You are intense and competitive, and you take Halloween incredibly seriously. There’s nothing more exciting to you than the competitive sport of trick-or-treating, but you are getting a little old. It's time to rent yourself some younger siblings to do the dirty work for you—mugging children for candy seems to be going out of style. Let them do all the door-to-door work, while you reap the sweet, sweet reward.

Sagittarius (November 22—December 21):
Even though you tend to be a commitment-phobe, as the air gets a little colder, you find yourself wishing you had someone to cuddle up with on chilly nights. So how should you go about finding a bae with Halloween on the horizon? We’ve got two words for you: couples costumes. Pick a classic couples costume that speaks to you, and wear one half of it all of Halloweekend. You’ll know you’ve found your perfect match when you find your literal other half.

Capricorn (December 22—January 19):
You probably didn’t even realize it was October until now, you dumbass! Guess what, it’s already the end of the month. Too bad for you, you’ve missed your opportunity to do anything remotely festive. Just stay inside until you start hearing Christmas music.
Sections
Theodore Parson, Class of 1773, intoned above the crowd: “But how is it that in public you thus appear an advocate for freedom… when, or I greatly err, the deepest, rankest slavery has oft met in private conference your approbation.”
Eliphalet Pearson, Class of 1773, shot back a retort: “While the universal rule of right, the happiness of the whole, allows greater degree of liberty to some, the same rule necessarily permits that it should be enjoyed only in less degree by others.”
The subject of this debate: slavery. The event: Harvard Commencement, July 21, 1773. Freedom was the talk of the town, and Parson and Pearson were debating whether slavery was agreeable with the laws of nature.
At the time, debates were common at graduations, a way to prove that years of schooling and study were not wasted or squandered. It was more about performance than politics: For much of the college’s history until then, the debates had been in Latin and inaccessible to many. But in the years leading up to the 1773 slavery dispute, the format shifted, debaters began to speak in English, and suddenly their words became meaningful to the larger public. The transcript of the debate was published as a small booklet shortly after. It is one of the only debates for which the entire transcript is available in the Harvard Archives.
More than 250 years later, History of Science professor Peter L. Galison stumbled across this transcript. Long interested in the slavery debates of this era, Galison had previously doubted that records of any such debates from Harvard had been preserved. When the Harvard Art Museum invited him to create something for the 2017 Philosophy Chamber exhibit, he knew what he had to do.
Galison’s film, “No More, America”—which reenacts the debate using Harvard actors—was born.
Yet the film is more than a verbatim reproduction. “Having these two graduates debating slavery without any kind of moral witness or presence of the people who were in fact enslaved seemed kind of impossible to me,” Galison says.
Enter Phillis Wheatley, an enslaved 21-year-old, soon-to-be acclaimed poet. Though Wheatley wasn’t present at the debate—she was in England at the time, publishing her first book of poetry—Galison saw hers as the missing voice.
“She is just a badass woman,” Ashley M. LaLonde ’20, who plays Wheatley in the film, says.
LaLonde was drawn to Wheatley’s passion for language and the unflinching boldness in her writing. More than just a witness or presence, in the film, Wheatley intervenes in the debate.
“Phillis serves as that person to just stop in that moment and say ‘This is me, this is my life. This is what’s happened to me. This is what will continue to happen to humans,’” LaLonde says.
To co-direct the film, Galison turned to Professor Henry L. Gates Jr., director of the Hutchins Center for African and African American Research and author of a book on Wheatley.
“She’s the mother of the African-American literary tradition,” says Gates. “There are very few literary traditions that one can think of that were basically created by the work of a woman.” In the film, Wheatley speaks in the verse and prose of her writings, lending a impassioned and earnest contrast to the formal speeches of Parson and Pearson, played by Connor S. Doyle ’19 and Caleb Spiegel Ostrom ’19.
“No More, America” attempts to revive words that have been tucked away in the Harvard archives for many years, and elevate the words of one of the America’s poets. “I hope that it will inspire other colleagues to do things like this,” Gates says.
Sections
Historians call it a “gentlemen’s agreement:” Northern universities, including Harvard, would not field integrated teams while playing against all-white Southern sports teams.
Since the popularization of college sports in the 1890s, Southern universities had pushed to exclude black players from college teams. Segregation in sports went largely unchallenged until the end of the 1920s. One of the first to call for change was William Clarence Matthews.
Born in 1877 in Selma, Alabama, Matthews began his education at the Tuskegee Institute; later transferring to Phillips Academy in Andover. At Andover, he faced discrimination on the baseball team. In a letter to then Andover principal Cecil F. P. Bancroft, one influential alumnus sought to have him removed from the team, unhappy at “the captaincy of the Andover Ball team being held by a negro.”
Matthews subsequently enrolled at Harvard College, becoming the sole black member of the Harvard Baseball Team. Despite his clear talent, an article in the Journal of Blacks in Higher Education says, Matthews was benched in games against the U.S. Naval Academy and the University of Virginia. Eventually, Harvard called off the team’s 1905 tour of Southern schools in support of Matthews.
According to “The Black Matty: William Clarence Matthews, ‘Harvard’s Famous Colored Shortstop,’ and the Color Line”, it was widely rumored that he would become the first black player in the Major Leagues. While this title eventually went to Jackie Robinson, Matthews left Harvard before graduating and went on to become a successful lawyer and political figure in Washington.
Matthews eventually also used his clout to influence the segregated structure of the Major Leagues. “As a Harvard man,” he said to the Boston Traveler, “I shall devote my life to bettering the condition of the black man, and especially to secure his admittance into organized baseball.”
In 1919, Matthews wrote to the commissioner of baseball, Kenesaw Mountain Landis: “You will note that every other class of people are counted eligible to play in the big leagues. Why keep the Negro out if he can play the same grade of baseball demanded of the other groups?”
Despite Matthews’ trailblazing efforts, the same bias against black talent in professional and intercollegiate sports persisted.
Tensions on Harvard’s campus reached a boiling point in 1941, during a Harvard lacrosse game against the U.S. Naval Academy. Navy’s coach ordered the game off upon realizing Harvard’s team featured a black player, Lucien Victor Alexis Jr, class of 1942. Harvard’s lacrosse coach was unyielding, refusing to bench one of his best players.
Alexis showed up to play despite being warned that “anything could happen.” The head of the Harvard Athletic Department, William J. Bigham, class of 1916, ultimately made the call. Alexis caught a train back to Cambridge that night, alone.
The fallout was swift: Students mobilized, circulating petitions and sending telegrams to their congressmen, senators, and even the President, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, class of 1904. The Harvard Crimson ran a series of editorials titled “The Color Line-Up,” which grabbed attention from mainstream publications like the Boston Globe, the Daily Worker, and the Guardian with its bold stance on the issue of discrimination. “If the southern schools wish to meet the northern universities in athletics they should accept the standards of the north,” one article said. “It is not for us to accept their racial discrimination.”
The resounding response forced a historic concession from the Harvard administration: The Harvard Athletic Department pledged never again to bench a player based on race.
Sections
Raymond C. Traietti knows every inch of Memorial Hall. He can name most of the subjects pictured in stained glass and knows which types of wood make up each part of the building. (The benches in Sanders Theater are made of walnut, the stairs in the transept are mahogany, and the paneling in Annenberg Hall is American chestnut—a wood that’s now pretty much extinct.)
Traietti weaves through the building easily, unlocking back doors with a jingling set of keys. Every few minutes, he stops, marvels at the towering ceilings, and says, “Isn’t it magnificent?” He pauses in the transept, the marble-floored area between Sanders and Annenberg.
Amid black walnut paneling, 28 white marble tablets line the transept walls, bearing the names of 136 Harvard men who died fighting for the Union in the Civil War. Each entry lists a class year, a name, a date of death, and a location, if the soldier died in battle. Absent from the memorial, however, are the names of the  64 Harvard students who died fighting for the Confederacy.
Almost immediately after the end of the Civil War, a committee of 50 Harvard graduates began collecting funds for a grand monument to their peers who died in blue uniforms. A few years and more than $370,000 later, the cornerstone of Memorial Hall was lain.
“I think it’s trying to inculcate some set of values—the Union, sacrifice for your country, or just sacrifice for ideas—and I think those values are good,” Traietti says of the building where he has worked since 1996. He shrugs. “But I’m just a building manager.”
The University has honored its Union dead in stone and glass for more than a century. With a preeminent Civil War historian at its helm, Harvard has plunged into an effort to commemorate slaves who labored in homes on campus or in service of the University’s early benefactors.
But the stories of Harvard students who fought for the South remain largely unacknowledged: students who hailed from slaveholding families, students who wore uniforms for the causes of secession and slavery, students who once listened to the same lectures and lived in the same dorms as the people they would go on to fight in the Civil War.
For decades, Civil War monuments have been objects of controversy on both sides of the Mason-Dixon line. But the national discourse on remembrance has exploded in the last three years. In June 2015, Dylann Roof massacred nine people at a black congregation in Charleston with hopes of inciting a race war. Among other things, this led to the removal of the Confederate flag from the South Carolina capitol. In February 2017, Yale University stripped John C. Calhoun’s name from one of its residential colleges and renamed it in honor of computer scientist Grace Hopper. In August, hundreds of torch-wielding white supremacists swarmed the grounds of the University of Virginia to protest the removal of a monument to Robert E. Lee.
Harvard doesn’t have a Robert E. Lee, or a John C. Calhoun. Even so, questions of Civil War remembrance and Southern heritage crop up in Cambridge every so often. Harvard has seen monument proposals for Confederates and plaque proposals for slaves—Confederate flags in windows, and protests against those flags. In confronting its entanglements with slavery and the Civil War, Harvard walks the line between recording history and valorizing it.
More than 300 Harvard men went to war for the Confederate cause. Their names are not engraved on any campus buildings: Any record of Confederate soldiers from Harvard is, so far, the work of curious individuals rather than the larger University.
In 1911, the Harvard Graduates’ Magazine published an index of “sons of Harvard” who were “faithful unto death” to the Confederacy. Perhaps the most extensive and recently-updated list is Crimson Confederates, authored by Helen P. Trimpi in 2010. There is one copy of the volume in Widener Library, deep in the first-floor stacks. It cannot leave the library.
But in the decades after the war, the divides that it had created survived and expressed themselves in new ways. When Harvard found itself entrenched in a conflict about racial segregation in freshman dormitories, the Civil War had been over for 58 years. Still, the heated controversy was framed along a divide between the North and South.
Roscoe Conkling Bruce, class of 1902—the son of a senator and former slave—wrote to President Abbott Lawrence Lowell in 1923 to reserve a spot in the new freshman dormitories for his son, Roscoe Jr., an African-American graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy. Lowell’s answer was a resounding no.
“I am sorry to have to tell you that in the Freshman Halls, where residence is compulsory, we have felt from the beginning the necessity of not including colored men,” Lowell wrote in reply to Bruce. In a second letter, Lowell wrote, “We owe to the colored man the same opportunities for education that we do to the white man; but we do not owe to him to force him and the white into social relations that are not, or may not be, mutually congenial.”
The decision to exclude African-American students from the freshman dorms, some alumni at the time argued, was predicated on a desire to attract Southern students. One alumnus, Frank W. Hallowell, Class of 1893, wrote in the Alumni Bulletin that there were 67 Southern students enrolled at Harvard in a student body of nearly 4,000.
“To speak bluntly, this looks like a cringing attempt to draw more students from the South,” Hallowell wrote from Boston in 1923. “If Southern men cannot accommodate themselves to Harvard standards, let them stay away.”
A few Southern alumni had little appreciation for such an ultimatum.
“We in the South owe too much to Harvard—believe too deeply in her ideals—to withdraw before any such fictitious mandate,” William C. Coleman, Class of 1905, wrote from Baltimore. “It is the height of folly to attempt to revive the race question at Harvard. But if it is to be done, let no one forget that Harvard men in the South are going to have something to say about it.”
For months, alumni sounded off in the Bulletin, and feelings were not always neatly divided by the Mason-Dixon line. Some Northerners voiced support for Lowell’s stance, and some Southerners commiserated with the black students. “It is a fact that most white men, whether Southerners or Northerners, do not desire to enter into intimate social relations with negroes,” Tallmadge Conover, Class of 1920, wrote from Seattle.
One alumnus called the debacle a “resurrection of the ‘bloody shirt’ after fifty-eight years.” Another put it more bluntly, writing, “The Civil War is on again.”
On March 26, 1923, the Harvard Corporation—the University’s highest governing body— put ink to paper on a new, contradictory policy of race-based exclusion.“Men of white and colored races shall not be compelled to live and eat together,” the document read, “nor shall any man be excluded by reason of his color.”
Listed in the archives as an informal record to the decision, one document reads, “It is understood that arrangements shall be made to have any negroes who may be admitted to the Freshman Halls assigned to some one of the halls.” Many black students at Harvard were housed in Stoughton Hall, where the first African-American graduate of the College, Richard T. Greener, Class of 1870, lived.
It seemed to many administrators that the small handful of black students at Harvard—many of whom commuted to campus due to the high cost of rooms—were content in the decades after the decision. In 1939, only one black student was living in the freshman dorms. “I have heard no objections from anybody as to this arrangement,” then-Dean of the College A. Chester Hanford wrote.
The next dean of the college expressed the same sentiment. “Those we have appear to get on well at Harvard,”  Dean of the College W. K. Bender wrote in 1951.
But little over a year later, two freshmen burned a cross in front of Stoughton Hall, where many of the eleven black members of the Class of 1955 were housed. The administration deemed the cross-burning a “prank” and gave the perpetrators the light punishment of probation. The Crimson chose to grant them anonymity.
Describing the incident in a letter to The Crimson, James Bows, Jr. ’55 and J. Max Bond, Jr. ’55—two black students—wrote, “Minutes later a Negro student passing thru the Yard was hailed with remarks such as might be expected in the Klan-dominated States of the South.”
When Jon P. Jiles ’92 was a sophomore, he hung a Confederate flag in the window of his bedroom in Leverett House. He was one of several Harvard undergraduates to do so in the early 1990s. The flags predictably inflamed racial tensions on campus, but those hanging them framed the narrative as one of “free speech” or “Southern pride.”
Confederate imagery persisted throughout the 20th century, and came to take on a new meaning with the rise of the Ku Klux Klan. As one Crimson editorial writer put it in 1988, “Honoring the Confederacy would open up the wounds of the 1960’s, not the 1860’s.”
Jiles recently wrote in an e-mail to The Crimson that it acted as “a reminder of a familiar place” for a “small town kid in a new world,” more than a thousand miles from his home in Sallisaw, Oklahoma. Several House residents—including a teammate on the Leverett intramural basketball team—told Jiles they found his Confederate flag hurtful and racist. He estimates that the flag stayed up for about 45 days before he removed it from public view.  “I realized that my cause was neither heartfelt nor compelling compared to the greater damage the flag was causing,” Jiles wrote to The Crimson last week.
A year later, Brigid L. Thomas ’92—a transfer student from the University of Virginia and a proud Southerner—hung a Confederate flag in her Kirkland bedroom and roiled the campus in controversy for weeks. Thomas, once a vocal defender of her actions in the many Crimson articles that ran about her, declined to comment for this story.
“I wasn’t going to walk into the Kirkland quad and walk by the Confederate flag every day,” says Nigel W. Jones ’91, who lived in Kirkland House as an undergraduate. He was one of several black students who confronted Thomas about her window decoration. “I found it incredulous that anyone could make an argument with a straight face that the Confederacy wasn’t completely intertwined with and predicated upon slavery. How could I not be offended?”
At the time, Thomas, who is white, insisted that her window decoration “wasn’t an issue of racism,” but one of Southern pride and free speech. Amid fiery backlash to Thomas's display, other Confederate flags appeared—one in Quincy House, and one in Cabot. Dianne M. Reis ’93 says she hung hers in solidarity with Thomas. At the time, she saw it as an issue of free speech, but she says that she would not defend Thomas as strongly now.
“It’s hard for me to put my finger on it,” Reis, a self-described conservative, says. “And maybe it’s just that I’ve changed—I’ve changed my views on this. I no longer think that it really comes off as a free speech thing, it just comes off as a not-wanting-to-deal-with-the-racial-issues-of-the-current-time thing.”
In Cabot House, the offending flag appeared in the window of Timothy P. McCormack ’91-’92, who did not respond to requests for comment. In the years before House randomization, Cabot—like the other Quad Houses—was home to many students of color. Thomas, Reis, and McCormack’s actions stirred backlash, even from quieter students who had not been activists before.
Enter Jacinda T. Townsend ’92, a black Cabot resident from Kentucky. “I was just so not this firebrand person,” she recalls, laughing. “I was this kid in this Aerosmith t-shirt who never spoke in class and was just trying to skate by with a B+ average in Ec10.”
Townsend bought a bed sheet, spray-painted a swastika and the words “Racism, no” on it, and hung it in her window, hoping to illustrate the weakness of the “free speech” argument. “If that’s not racism, if that’s just ‘free speech,’” Townsend says of the Confederate flags in Cabot and Kirkland, “then I guess I can hang a swastika.”
Some supported Townsend’s actions, while other members of the community were outraged. A few individuals called the act anti-Semitic and insensitive to the Jewish community.
“For whatever reason people don’t understand what [the Confederate] flag means to me,” Townsend says. “Because in Kentucky, let me tell you what that means. That means lynching, and the Klan was coming, and bad things. So let me explain to you and lay it out—this is exactly the equivalent thing.”
When the police came to Townsend’s door asking that she remove the swastika, a group of black women came to her room in a show of solidarity. Townsend declined to take the sheet down. “I told them if they want me to take this down, they need to go visit these other two people first,” she recalls.
Nearly every day for more than a month, Thomas and Townsend’s names appeared on the front page of The Crimson. Impassioned op-eds flooded the editorial section, culminating in a full page emphatically titled, “No Más! Absolutely, Positively the Last Words on the Confederate Flags (We Hope).” Members of the Black Students Association, clad in black clothing, held an “eat-in” in Kirkland dining hall.
On March 9, 1991, 70 students marched in silence from Kirkland to Cabot to protest Thomas and McCormack’s displays of the Confederate flag. When the protesters reached the Quad, they sang, “We Shall Overcome,” a gospel song that became iconic during the Civil Rights Movement.
Although the flag debacle led to confrontations, eat-ins, marches, police intervention, and countless op-eds, Townsend remembers her undergraduate days as “less tense then than they are now, racially speaking.”
“It’s heartbreaking for me to realize this while speaking to you,” Townsend says. “I can’t imagine that happening now—I cannot even imagine the fallout that I’d get.”
Every so often, there is a “periodic upswelling” of the Confederate question, according to former Harvard Alumni Association president Robert N. Shapiro ’72.  The perennial question? Whether or not fallen Harvard men who sat in class alongside their Union enemies and fought for the causes of slavery and the Confederacy during the Civil War should be commemorated.
Harvard faced a particularly contentious “upswelling” in the 1990s.
Amid talks of a planned renovation of Memorial Hall, a group of students and alumni began calling for a memorial to the 64 Harvard students who died on the side of the Confederacy. Because Memorial Hall was designated a tribute to the Union dead, alumni turned their eyes to Memorial Church.
John P. "Jack" Reardon '60, who has worked at Harvard since 1965, had a front-row seat to the controversy as executive director of the Alumni Association. Shapiro chaired an HAA ad hoc committee designed to assess the plan.
One of the most outspoken proponents of the monument was the late Peter J. Gomes, then-Plummer Professor of Christian Morals and Memorial Church Minister, who also served on the committee. Invoking Christian values and his status as a descendant of slaves, Gomes penned a Crimson editorial in 1996 in support of a Confederate memorial.
“A memorial is not merely an artifact of the past,” Gomes wrote. “By its very nature it is a key to the future, a means of moving on from beyond the shadows of the past.” Those shadows, in Gomes’s view, had shrouded Harvard for some time.
Gomes, the committee, and the HAA board of directors were in agreement: something had to be done to honor the Confederate dead. The directors submitted a proposal to create a monument within Memorial Church to the Board of Overseers—the University’s second-highest governing body—for approval.
Meanwhile, the committee solicited input from alumni in Harvard Magazine and ended up receiving over 90 letters, Shapiro says, mostly in favor of commemorating fallen Harvard graduates who donned gray uniforms as well as blue ones. “The impetus has been—should we forget? Should we obliterate?” Shapiro says. “People who were going to school together went off to fight against each other, trying to kill each other, and succeeding at killing each other. That’s probably something worth noting.”
The recommendation predictably led to backlash, particularly from black students, although it did not stoke a “hotbed of protest,” Patience R. Singleton says. At the time, she was president of the Harvard Black Law Students Association. “It was pretty much a protest on paper.”
Singleton, along with many others, penned editorials in The Crimson and wrote letters to the Alumni Association in outrage. “Why does the University persist in stating that reaction to the proposal was overwhelmingly favorable when a large association of Black alumni wrote to the HAA and the President of Harvard objecting to it?” Singleton asked in a 1995 Crimson editorial.
In a recent interview, Singleton expressed incredulity at the original proposal.“They were fighting for opposing reasons!” Singleton exclaims. “If I were a descendant of a Union [soldier], why would I want my ancestor’s name to fall alphabetically behind a Confederate person’s on the same wall?”
Reardon says input from the community led the HAA to drop the project. “I talked more deeply at this point, and to members of the black community that I knew well, and they were, I would say, unalterably opposed to the idea,” Reardon says. “And I kept talking, and I came to the conclusion that it had been, let’s say, 140 years and we had done nothing, and therefore did I want to start our own little war over this?”
“I went back to the governing boards and I said, ‘I think that this is something we ought not to do until such time that the community could come together on it,’” he adds. “I didn’t know when that was going to be, but I thought we ought to drop it. And we did.”
For the time being, the issue of attempting to redefine Harvard’s Civil War involvement was shelved.
The conversation about Confederate remembrance at Harvard didn’t end in 1996. A full decade later, the Office of the Arts commissioned “Deep Wounds,” an interactive video installation in the transept of Memorial Hall.
The installation illuminated the white marble tile on the floor of the transept and invited visitors to walk across it. Prompted by the viewer’s footsteps, the projection would open and close “wounds” on the ground, exposing and obscuring blurbs of blue text that mirrored the commemorations on the walls: a class year, a date, and a location of death. These entries, projected in light, documented the deaths of Harvard Confederates.
“It just kept gnawing at me—that idea of unfinished healing,” says Brian Knep, the Boston-based media artist who created the piece.
But Knep purposefully left one piece of information out of the projected text: the names of the Confederate dead. “I want to tell you absolutely clearly the piece is not about commemorating the Southerners,” he says. Instead, Knep identified each of the fallen Confederates by his relationship to one of the Union soldiers honored on the wall: “classmate” or “friend” or “father,” for example.
“What do you do when someone who was your classmate or roommate is on the opposite side of history?” says Teil Silverstein, a public art consultant at the OFA who advised Knep’s project. “Reconciliation is not forgiveness or forgetting; it’s a reckoning of some kind.”
After its initial run in 2006, “Deep Wounds” returned to the transept in 2015, as part of the Harvard Civil War Project—a series of events hosted by several academic departments for the 150th anniversary of the war’s end. In its second iteration, though, the project drew stronger reactions.
“The political landscape had changed by then,” Knep recalls. “There was the Black Lives Matter movement, there was a lot more awareness of privilege and racial injustice, and the piece wasn’t quite addressing that and people wanted it to.”
Viewer reactions are documented in a comment book the OFA provided for visitors to share their responses. Many effusive visitors found the piece uplifting. But some thought its focus on “healing” obscured uglier truths about the Civil War.
Though Knep and Silverstein insist that “Deep Wounds” was not an effort to valorize the Confederate cause, some viewers saw it as such. “Absurd that people who fought to maintain slavery are being honored,” one visitor wrote. “Wildly offensive and insensitive.”
Caitlin G.D. Hopkins, a former lecturer in History and Literature, wrote in the comment book that Knep’s omission of Confederate names perpetuated the “reconciliationist narratives” spun in the late 19th century.  Those narratives tend to sanitize the memory of the Civil War by emphasizing the bravery of those who fought while minimizing any mention of slavery.
“Naming [Harvard’s Confederate dead] would draw attention to Harvard’s institutional complicity in the institution of slavery,” Hopkins wrote in the comment book at the time. “With no names, the installation is more about a ‘universal human truth,’ not a historical event, but I don’t agree with the artist’s perspective on that ‘truth.’ I would like to see an installation that names names. No reconciliation without truth.”
In “Deep Wounds,” reconciliation is more important than ideology. But Harvard has attempted to reckon with its ties to slavery in other ways.
In the spring of 2016, University President Drew G. Faust assembled a faculty advisory committee—headed by History Professors Sven Beckert and Evelyn B. Higginbotham—to research Harvard’s ties to slavery. The administration also appointed Hopkins the Harvard and Slavery Research Fellow, meaning that she will spend a year researching the topic full-time. Hopkins declined to comment for this story.
Beckert has been at the forefront of slavery remembrance at Harvard for a decade. In 2007, he assembled a seminar for undergraduate researchers to uncover a hidden part of Harvard’s history: its connections to the slave trade. The group published the research in a booklet called titled “Harvard and Slavery: Forging a Forgotten History” and presented it to Faust in 2011.
And the research has led to tangible changes. The same month that she assembled the faculty committee, Faust unveiled a plaque commemorating four slaves—named Bilhah, Venus, Titus, and Juba—who were owned by past presidents of Harvard. A year later, the committee planned a “Universities and Slavery” conference at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, where Ta-Nehisi Coates and other guests advocated for reparations. In September 2017, Faust inaugurated a second monument to Harvard’s slaves—this time, to those who belonged to the Royalls, the prominent benefactors of Harvard Law School.
One short but crucial section of “Harvard and Slavery” focuses on social dynamics between Southern slaveholding students and their non-slaveholding peers, who melded into “one Harvard student body, voluntarily sharing meals and housing.” Some of these friendships might have been the doomed relationships emphasized in Knep’s “Deep Wounds.”
“We might expect the presence of students from slaveholding families to have caused a stir at the college, but if anything, the opposite was true,” Beckert and co-author Katherine Stevens wrote in their booklet. “More often than not Harvard’s leadership and student body either accepted slaveholding or at least did not publicly oppose it.”
And those who did oppose it might now find that struggle erased. Megan Kate Nelson ’94, a Civil War historian, said commemorations of the war often omit any mention of emancipation, even in “hotbeds of abolitionism” like Massachusetts. More than a decade after she graduated, Nelson’s research brought her back to Harvard. She pored over papers belonging to several of the men commemorated on the walls of Memorial Hall. Many of them were “really overt about their abolitionist beliefs,” Nelson said, even though the antislavery cause goes unmentioned in the engravings.
Harvard has mounted plaques, assembled committees, and appointed researchers. But slavery remains largely absent from its visible Civil War remembrance.
“I think by the late 19th century—so 20, 30 years after the Civil War—there was an effort to almost erase from the public memory of what this war was really about in the interest of kind of reunifying the nation,” says Beckert. “The issue of slavery, and thus the issue of emancipation, was often repressed.”
A week after the violent clashes in Charlottesville, a right-wing “free speech” rally was slated to take place in Boston Common. The rally, which drew just a handful of attendees, was dwarfed by a counter-protest of at least 30,000 people.
After the events this summer in Charlottesville, Harvard and other universities quickly mobilized to condemn the violence and to address their own Confederate ties. Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana framed his “welcome back” email around the events, the Kuumba Singers of Harvard College—Harvard’s oldest existing black student organization—held a discussion on black activism, and the third-annual Quad Solidarity Barbecue, organized by race relations and BGLTQ tutors, focused on coming together.
Faust says Charlottesville “certainly sparked a lot of conversations,” and that “the level of hatred and vitriol was just so distressing and kind of unnerving and destabilizing for us all.”
The vitriol in Charlottesville might seem like it could never spring up in Harvard Yard, where there are no statues of Confederate generals to tear down. Diondra D. Peck ’17 grew up in New Orleans, and her family—as far back as she knows—is from Louisiana. She notes that there is plenty of racism in the North, but says, “I’m not going to walk around and see a lot of blatant municipal or state-sanctioned monuments to Confederate people or to slaveholders.”
The prevailing notion is that what happened in Charlottesville can’t happen in Cambridge. But visible, active white supremacy has not always been so alien here.
The KKK’s presence was noticeable in Boston in the early 20th century, and Klansmen were even rumored to be operating underground at Harvard. Though students were not walking about wearing white hoods, and tiki torches did not line the Yard, on October 22, 1923, The Crimson published an ominous article about the Harvard branch of the Ku Klux Klan. The white supremacy group had begun organizing in Cambridge in 1921 and was waiting for its “moment to strike.” It alluded to cross-burnings in Boston and a planned drive to boost membership.
“The Harvard Klan is inactive. But it is very far from being disorganized, nor can I say that even now its influence is unfelt,” one anonymous told The Crimson in 1923.
The two Klan organizers cited in the story were granted anonymity. “Following its traditional policy,” the article notes, “the Crimson refrains from publishing the names of known members of the Harvard branch of the Klan. They will, however, if necessary, be given to authorized persons.”
Nearly 100 years have passed since then, but the legacy of the Klan, like the legacies of the Confederacy and slavery, is far from resolved. Professor Cornel West says Harvard has grappled with these and other evils throughout its history.
“Harvard, like any other institution—it’s been shot through with these,” West says. “And so the question is can we be truthful about it. The worst thing we can have is a fear of the truth.”
West was in Charlottesville on August 12. He spent two and a half days in the usually quiet college town: Friday night, in the church surrounded by Nazis and white supremacists, and sunrise speaking at a service at the First Baptist Church—a historically black congregation. At 6 o’clock that morning, he marched in a throng of counter-protestors to the epicenter of the action: a statue of Robert E. Lee.
“I had never seen that kind of raw hatred expressed so close to my face,” West says. “And I’m 64 years old.”
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
UPDATED: October 29, 2017 at 4:03 p.m.
After a University-wide task force released its preliminary set of recommendations for improving diversity at Harvard in September, some ethnic studies advocates have raised concerns that specific mentions of race and ethnicity were left out.
The Presidential Task Force for Inclusion and Belonging released a draft executive summary last month that outlines a set of “Shared Standards” and calls on schools to ensure historically marginalized groups experience “full membership in the Harvard community.” It is the first set of recommendations that the group—which University President Drew G. Faust convened in 2016—has released to the public.
But some ethnic studies proponents charge that the document’s ambiguity leaves questions about the substance of the proposals.
Mayra Rivera, faculty chair of the Committee on Ethnicity, Migration, Rights, pointed to two recommendations in the task force’s document that she said have potential to advance ethnic studies: one recommendation promoting faculty diversity, and another that suggests creating University-wide research centers for “Identity, Politics, and Culture” and “Inclusion and Belonging.”
Yet the draft did not explicitly call for a dedicated ethnic studies program or center, which advocates of ethnic studies have requested for decades. In their most recent effort, the Ethnic Studies Coalition petitioned the University to create such a center and increase faculty hiring and renewal in the field.
Government professor and task force co-chair Danielle S. Allen said that she views ethnic studies proposals as “College-specific.” In contrast, she said, the two centers that the task force proposed would bring together faculty from across Harvard’s schools who work on issues relating to diversity and inclusion. 
“As a campus, I don’t think we’ve been able to leverage all the work that’s been going on. There’s a bigger collective body of work than is often visible to students,” Allen said. “Partly, it’s a matter of shining a light on the work that’s there and giving the faculty who work in these domains a chance to work on designing a structure to advance their work and support their efforts to build curricular efforts.”
Rivera called the language of the recommendation “broad and capacious.” While she said she understood that a University-wide task force must take a broad approach, she said she “would have expected to see some language of race and ethnicity.”
“It names identity, politics, and culture and the assumption is that that would include questions of race, ethnicity, always in the relationship with other axes of difference like class, gender, sexual identity, and all that,” she said. “Naming it would express a commitment.”
Sally Chen ’19, who leads the Task Force on Asian and Pacific American Studies and is a member of the Harvard Ethnic Studies Coalition, also pointed out the lack of language addressing race and ethnicity. Chen pointed to Stanford University’s Center for Comparative Studies in Race and Ethnicity, as well as Columbia University’s Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race, as examples.
“Whatever form this takes, it should necessarily mention race and ethnicity as an important part of what identity constitutes,” Chen said.
The task force intends to release its final recommendations at the end of the semester after collecting feedback from groups across the University, according to Allen. Chen said she hopes to see more detail about what form the center—or centers—will take.
“Where we want to see more elaboration in the final report is definitely elaborating more on what ‘Identity, Politics, and Culture’ means [and] more specific references to race and ethnicity in its title or in its description,” Chen said.
Allen said the group decided on “Identity, Politics, and Culture” as a framework for the center, since she envisions it as a place to unite research across disciplines in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences with projects at other schools.
“There’s the challenge of knowing how a new vocabulary of intersectionality relates to how you would design a center in this space,” she said. “There are lots of kind of intellectual questions that need to be answered about what the right way of providing a platform and deepened investment in research in these multiple areas. Faculty need to do the work of figuring that out.”
—Staff writer Kristine E. Guillaume can be reached at kristine.guillaume@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @krisguillaume.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Government Professor Danielle S. Allen is withdrawing her faculty motion that would assert Harvard’s authority over unrecognized social groups, despite a unanimous affirmative vote on the motion by the Faculty Council last month.
Allen wrote in a “statement of withdrawal” that she decided to remove the motion from consideration after Wednesday’s meeting of the Faculty Council, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences’s highest governing body.
Allen originally introduced the motion at the Oct. 3 meeting of the full Faculty, and it would have been eligible for a vote at the upcoming Nov. 7 meeting. As is standard procedure, the Council cast a non-binding, advisory vote on the motion before the Oct. 3 meeting. This vote indicated unanimous support.
The motion, however, generated confusion and questions about its legality and feasibility during discussion at the October meeting. In an interview after the meeting, FAS Dean Michael D. Smith said he was unsure what steps would result from the passage of the motion.
The text of the motion presented on Oct. 3 reads that “the policies of the Harvard College Handbook for Students for student organizations pertain to students participating in all student organizations recognized as such by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.”
The motion comes in response to a May 2016 policy stating that, starting with the Class of 2021, all members of single-gender social organizations are ineligible to hold club leadership positions or athletic team captaincies, or receive College endorsement for certain postgraduate fellowships. This policy is still subject to change: University President Drew G. Faust will choose to either affirm the original policy, or choose another option, such as a total single-gender social group ban.
Although not part of the motion itself, Allen added that she thought the appropriate punishment for a student not in compliance with these policies—such as those in a single-gender social organization—would be expulsion.
A few days after the meeting, Allen published a letter to the editor in The Crimson, seeking to clarify her motion. In her statement of withdrawal she clarified further, explaining that her motion was designed to discuss both “principle” and “process.”
“The matter of principle is the need to balance competing rights and freedoms with the objective of achieving our educational mission,” she wrote. “The matter of process was the proposal in my motion that we should address issues pertaining to student organizations through our existing policy and procedural frameworks for student organizations.”
Allen wrote that she hoped that if the motion passed, Dean of the College Rakesh Khurana and a faculty committee would complete the work of “policy reconciliation.”
Allen wrote that her decision to withdraw the motion was informed by discussion at the Faculty Council meeting.
“Importantly, the process I was laying out also involved a conceptual paradigm change, a shift in how we think about articulating policies for student organizations from a focus on the organizations to a focus on student behavior,” she wrote. “During the course of Faculty Council deliberations on Oct 25, I concluded that the view of process that I was trying to lay out was too technical and its interaction with the paradigm change I describe here too subtle to serve well as the basis for debate in our faculty meeting on Nov. 7th.”
In addition to this discussion, the Faculty Council also heard three different policy proposals that will be put to the full Faculty for a vote. The first, approved by the Council, would move the monthly meetings of the full Faculty from Tuesdays at 4 to 5:30 p.m. to Tuesdays 3 at 5 p.m. to accommodate for a new class schedule set to take effect in the fall of 2018.
The second policy would cap the number of classes in which College students can cross-register at two, barring special permission from their concentration. Currently, there is no standardized maximum number.
Under the third policy, students would no longer be able to receive a Master's degree in four years through the activation of advanced standing, a program that allows College students to receive an A.B. in three years through the use of Advanced Placement credit.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Eight Harvard researchers were awarded millions in federal funding from the National Institutes of Health’s “High-Risk, High-Reward” research program, which supports scientists who conduct research with “high-impact potential” in the biomedical field.
The researchers will receive nearly $8.5 million to conduct a broad array of health science research, in fields ranging from psychology to health policy analysis. These eight professors and postdoctoral fellows were among 86 researchers from other schools funded for their “highly innovative “ research plans, according to an NIH press release.
Harvard affiliates won grants from three of the four categories of the program, which dispensed a total of approximately $263 million to researchers at institutions across the country.
Sherri Rose, an associate professor at Harvard Medical School, received a New Innovator Award for a proposal to analyze ten years of Mass. Medicaid data to better understand socioeconomic and geographic disparities in healthcare.
NIH’s New Innovator Award is specifically reserved for researchers early on in their careers.
Rose said that traditionally, grants fund a single, narrow research proposal, whereas this round of NIH grants “give a lot more flexibility,” allowing a scientist to conduct more multifaceted research. She also compared these grants to venture-capital funding, because they focus on an individual scientist’s potential.
Four Harvard affiliates also won the Pioneer Award, a fund intended for professors who attempt to create new solutions to longstanding challenges in their fields. Three will receive the Early Independence Award, a grant that looks to allow post-doctoral fellows the freedom to pursue research early on in their training.
The sum given to Harvard researchers comes as President Donald Trump’s administration has sought to decrease the NIH’s annual budget. Administrators and faculty from across the University have emphasized the importance of NIH funding for research and innovation.
Samuel A. Mehr, a post-doctoral researcher in the Psychology department, received an Early Independence Award for a project called the “Music Lab,” which looks to study the cognitive science of music.
Utilizing data collected during his time as a graduate student, Mehr said he plans to rely on research about indigenous cultures’ connection to music—including data from nearly 100 societies from around the globe—to differentiate his study from prior research.
“What’s most exciting about this I think, is that there aren’t a lot of places in the world where there are well-funded labs that are purely looking at music and the science behind music,” Mehr said.
Mehr added he looks forward to conducting research with the NIH funding.
“It was a big surprise and it’s a great honor,” he said, “I’m really thankful to the NIH for doing this.”
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Come November, the fences behind Grays Hall will be taken down to reveal two newly renovated spaces for College diversity offices.
The Office of BGLTQ Student Life and the Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion will share the new handicap-accessible basement beneath the freshman dorm, built in 1863. The offices are currently located in temporary spaces at 7 Linden St.
“We are looking forward to relocating both the BGLTQ and Diversity Inclusion offices into newly renovated, accessible space in Grays Hall,” Roland S. Davis, associate dean for diversity and inclusion, wrote in an emailed statement.
The renovated basement will feature a kitchen, lounge, and library. Earlier estimates for the renovations had pinned a completion date of mid-October.
“We anticipate that the offices will begin moving in toward the end of the calendar year,” Davis added. “We are excited to build upon the great services these offices provide for our student population in their new location.”
Davis joined the College earlier this month after a national search and an almost year-long vacancy in the College’s diversity dean post. Davis oversees the Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion; the Office of BGLTQ Student Life; and the Harvard College Women’s Center.
The College appointed a new director for the five-year-old BGLTQ Office, Sheehan D. Scarborough ’07, in February.
“This is a really wonderful moment for Harvard College,” Scarborough said of the new space in March. “They’ve invested so much in this space and now we get to be the ones to use it and make it the best that it can possibly be.”
Kirsi Anselmi-Stith ’18, a co-chair of the Queer Students and Allies, said that although the building will mainly be used by administrators, the BGLTQ office has offered to let the organization use the space to hold meetings.
“They are giving us the opportunity to be able to host our meetings there,” Anselmi-Stith said. “We’re very excited for the space and we appreciate the Quoffice pushing this forward and getting us a space on the yard.”
—Staff writer Madeleine Nakada can be reached at madeleine.nakada@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Billionaire business mogul and former Secretary of Commerce Penny S. Pritzker ʼ81 discussed her career at a forum at the Institute of Politics Wednesday night, criticizing President Donald Trump’s approach to trade agreements.
Pritzker—a former Harvard Overseer—recalled growing up in Chicago in a business-savvy family involved in the burgeoning Chicago hotel industry. She said her childhood experiences heavily influenced her decision to get involved in the business world as an adult.
“My childhood was growing up where the family dinner conversation was about building a business, and it was a full family affair,” she said.
At the event, Pritzker said she faced challenges even within her family when trying to enter the “all-male environment” of the business world.
“I showed up in Chicago and I knew I wanted to work with my family members, but it was an all-male environment. There were no women except secretaries, there were no female executives, there weren’t even women in the ranks really,” she said.
Pritzker added, however, that men in her family supported her interest in business.
“[My grandfather] had always encouraged me and so did my uncle,” she said.
Pritzker also discussed her tenure as Secretary of Commerce under former President Barack Obama, as well as her involvement in his 2008 campaign. Although she did not serve as Secretary during Obama’s first term, she was involved in his economic recovery advisory committee following the 2008 recession, and said she experienced up close how the Obama administration dealt with the financial crisis.
“It was a terrifying time…our banking system came very close to collapse. I was on phone calls where it was really scary to understand the depth of crisis our country was in,” she said, “[Obama] did what leaders should do: find the best and brightest in a crisis and listen.”
Pritzker also criticized Trump’s stances on trade policy, described by Kennedy School professor R. Nicholas Burns—who moderated the event—as a potential “revolution in trade.” Trump has repeatedly criticized the North American Free Trade Agreement and withdrew the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership in January.
“What I know about trade as a businessperson and as someone who has been in government is that trade expands our markets,” Pritzker said, “Political forces have been playing against the angst that the American people feel… the problem is the gains from globalization has not been broadly shared.”
Pritzker said she does not believe the United States should back out of trade agreements in the future.
“The solution that’s being proffered by this administration is to get a lot tougher on our trade agreements, and I just don’t agree with that. I think that instead we should be doubling down on our trade agreements that provide opportunities for us to make and sell things around the world,” she said.
—Staff writer Lucas Ward can be reached at lucas.ward@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter at @LucaspfWard.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
For the past two weeks, scholars at the Harvard Semitic Museum and a team of student archaeologists have labored over resin and molds with the aim of bringing a piece of the Great Sphinx—or at least a facsimile of it—to Cambridge.
Adam J. Aja and Peter D. Manuelian—the assistant curator and director of the Semitic Museum, respectively—are working with students to create an innovative resin cast of the “Dream Stela,” an enormous slab engraved with hieroglyphics that sits between the front paws of the Great Sphinx in Giza, Egypt.
According to Manuelian, the hieroglyphs on the famed stela tell the story of how Thutmose IV cleared away the sand burying the sphinx and was subsequently made king.
“Is it true? Did it really happen? Probably not,” Manuelian said. “But it’s a bit of royal propaganda, royal legitimation that he’s using to align himself with the sphinx, who is linked to the sun god.”
Plaster casts of the “Dream Stela” were first made in the mid-1800s, and several copies exist around the world. Aja said he developed the new resin cast technique while making new copies of the museum’s collection of Neo-Assyrian palace art.
“This is all about fabricating the past, recreating antiquity, and doing it as teaching tools, study tools and research tools…For the last two weeks [Aja’s] been working with different resin, mixing them together and trying to get a real granite look,” Manuelian said, referring to the pink resin that Aja recently developed, which was designed to resemble the stela’s pink granite.
As part of an effort to “reinvigorate Harvard’s spectacular legacy of Egyptology and archaeology,” the museum will open a gallery on the subject in December, Manuelian said. The stela cast will be displayed there upon completion.
“But as cool as it is, it’s ripped out of context, right? You know, the whole thing that makes it so special is that it’s right under the sphinx’s head,” Manuelian said. To that end, Manuelian received a grant from the Barajas Dean’s Innovation Fund to develop an augmented reality app, likely completed near the end of the semester, to accompany the physical exhibit.
“You’ll look through your device and you’ll be able to look up and see the head of the sphinx above you, the paws next to you,” Aja said, envisioning the final product. “We’ll put you back in the context. You’ll see the pyramids in the distance. ”
For a museum dedicated to antiquity, the use of cutting-edge technology and innovative new techniques indicates a step in a new direction.
“My plan as director of the museum is really to try to revitalize the place, make it a fun, exciting, and informative place so that all Harvard undergraduates will come here,” Manuelian said.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Five months after its ribbon-cutting ceremony, the Center for African Studies’s flagship office in Johannesburg, South Africa is up and running, hosting fellowships, roundtables, and research partnerships for Harvard affiliates in the region.
The Johannesburg office opened on May 31 with the goal of creating opportunities for research, education, and partnerships in South Africa. According to Y. Obenewa Amponsah, the executive director of the office, the Johannesburg outpost works closely with the Center for African Studies in Cambridge to develop outreach activities around Africa.
“We have facilitated a series of public dialogues, making African knowledge and insight more commonplace, and we’ve also partnered with organizations like the Nelson Mandela Foundation to organize different programs,” Amponsah said.
Amponsah added that the office is committed to broadening public knowledge about Africa. Apart from the new center, Harvard also opened an office in the North African country of Tunisia in January, and several of its graduate schools operate programs across the continent.
“Our office’s fundamental mission is to raise awareness about African perspectives and to be a point of connection that can link people in the Harvard community and the communities in Africa,” Amponsah said.
There are currently more than 3,000 Harvard alumni living in Africa, and about a third of them live in Johannesburg, according to Amponsah. In addition, more than 100 Harvard faculty members conduct research and teach on topics related to Africa in Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, and South Africa.
The Center for African Studies has also played an important role in expanding Harvard’s South Africa Fellowship Program, which provides an opportunity for mid-career South African professionals to study at Harvard.
“[The fellowship program] is a way to help solve the apartheid struggle,” Amponsah said. “We want to create an environment that supports research and exchange.”
Most recently, the office hosted a roundtable event focusing on renewable energy, bringing together professors and stakeholders who live in sub-Saharan Africa.
Todd Washburn, senior assistant provost for international affairs, said the Johannesburg office is small, but it is still important for the university to have a physical presence in Africa to further its mission of lowering the barriers for students and faculty to directly engage with the region.
“Having a person on the ground who can help build connections with local universities, NGOs, or businesses is a way of building connections and bonds that you simply can’t do virtually,” Washburn said.
The office has plans to collaborate on new public programs in 2018 with the Africa Research Office in Johannesburg, the regional office of the Harvard Business School, Amponsah said.
—Staff writer Sonia Kim can be reached at sonia.kim@thecrimson.com. Follow her on Twitter @soniakim211.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
This is part IV in a six-part series on Harvard's next president. Part I can be read here, part II can be read here, part III can be read here, part V can be read here, and part VI can be read here.
After two decades of waiting, Harvard Engineering is ready to cross the Charles.
“This is colossal. Huge,” Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Francis J. Doyle III said of the school’s impending move to Allston in 2020. “This is truly an unprecedented opportunity for a world-class campus in an urban setting to expand its footprint with this sort of magnitude.”
Two Harvard presidencies have come and gone with Allston’s engineering campus perpetually on the horizon, and the announcement of University President Drew G. Faust’s impending departure guarantees that it will take at least three presidents to finish the job.
“There’s no way to slow that train down. It’s barrelling ahead,” former Dean of the College and Computer Science professor Harry R. Lewis ’68 said of the move.
In its pursuit of a new campus, the ramping-up of fundraising efforts, and breakneck student and faculty growth, Harvard has bet big on becoming an engineering powerhouse for the 21st century.
Despite these significant investments, however, Harvard still has ground to make up. Compared to peer institutions like Stanford and neighboring MIT, Harvard’s engineering program lags behind in both size and ranking. What’s more, some professors say, Harvard’s image remains rooted in a liberal arts tradition and not associated with the applied sciences—more Shakespeare than circuitry.
Whether or not Harvard’s next president holds an engineering degree, SEAS and its role in Harvard’s future will constitute a central part of their tenure. Managing the University’s fastest-growing school will be a complex endeavor, touching upon a host of hot-button issues: federal research funding, faculty “poaching” from peer institutions, historically-tense relations with Allstonians, and the puzzle of encouraging engineering’s growth without tarnishing the University’s sterling reputation in the humanities and social sciences.
How Harvard’s next leader seizes what one predecessor called a “profound opportunity”—and detractors have called the “Allston Bomb”—could determine the University’s image for the 21st century.
The future of SEAS and its role in shaping Harvard’s image are not lost on the presidential search committee. Even in a self-described preliminary stage, members of the Harvard Corporation have already met with Doyle multiple times to discuss his opinions on the future of the school.
“I’ve had probably half a dozen conversations with members of the Corporation,” Doyle said. “There has been no shortage of opportunity for me to share my personal thoughts or the collective thoughts of the deans.”
Precedent shows that the committee’s choice for president will play an outsized role in determining the future of engineering at Harvard. In the past twenty years, plans for SEAS’s expansion into Allston have been a primarily presidential endeavor.
Two years after he assumed the Harvard presidency in 2001, Lawrence H. Summers penned an open letter outlining his plans for what he called “the Allston opportunity.” His letter would lay the groundwork for Harvard’s latest large-scale expansion and the creation of the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences.
In that letter, Summers wrote that two decades of often-covert, incremental land acquisition across the Charles River presented Harvard with an unparalleled 21st century opportunity. Harvard could reengineer itself in Allston, remaining competitive in a modern educational environment.
During her tenure, Faust has made engineering a priority, convincing Business School alumnus John A. Paulson to make a record-breaking $400 million gift to SEAS.
And, more than a century ago, Charles W. Eliot, the University’s 21st president, toyed with the idea of absorbing MIT and moving its campus across the river—not too far from where the new engineering campus’s steel structure stands.
Despite frequent interactions with members of the search committee, Doyle, who became SEAS dean in 2015, said the idea of him becoming Harvard’s next president is “preposterous.”
“I’d be flattered, but I could not be a serious candidate,” Doyle chuckled. “I have not been here long enough.”
Though the committee’s multiple meetings with Doyle indicate an interest in finding candidates who understands SEAS’s challenges, Doyle and others said an engineering background is not a prerequisite for the presidency.
“I don’t think that it is essential,” Doyle said. “I think somebody who is open, willing to learn, to lead the team, to work with the leadership, is all that I can really ask for.”
“Drew [Faust] has been a terrific champion for things we do, and as a historian,” Doyle added. “She had the leadership skills, the leadership acumen to learn what were the essential issues, to work with me and with others to identify the priorities.”
Other current and former administrators with engineering backgrounds, like FAS Dean Michael D. Smith, a Computer Science professor, and Lewis, who also served a stint as interim dean of SEAS, agree that an engineering degree is not entirely necessary.
“It’s going to be an important agenda item for the president,” Lewis said. “That doesn’t mean the president has to be an engineer by any means. None of the previous presidents have been and yet Harvard made that commitment.”
Engineer or not, the University’s next president will face challenges in executing the Allston move and fitting the University's name onto the list of top engineering programs in the nation alongside MIT, Caltech, and Stanford. In 2017’s U.S. News and World Report rankings, Harvard’s undergraduate engineering ranks 25th. Its graduate program ranks 23rd.
Unlike Harvard’s renowned Medical School, Business School, or Law School, Harvard’s engineering program suffers from a case of relative national anonymity. Environmental science professor Steven C. Wofsy, who has been mapping out potential bike routes from Cambridge to Allston in anticipation of the move, said SEAS is not particularly well-known.
“If I get on an airplane and somebody asks me what I do and I tell them I’m an engineering professor at Harvard, three times out of four people say ‘Well, I didn’t know Harvard had an engineering school,’” said Wofsy. “I am a little tired of hearing that, and I believe that Allston will make a very significant difference just increasing the overall visibility.”
Certain Harvard affiliates have cast an anxious eye on Stanford in particular. In recent years, the Palo Alto school’s precipitous rise in national rankings and anointment as the nation’s most selective college have naturally led to comparisons to Harvard.
While Wofsy said that comparisons of Harvard with Stanford are “pretty silly,” he acknowledged some jockeying for a university’s most prized resource: intelligent students and high-profile faculty.
“I suppose there is some element of competition for the best students among all of the top schools,” Wofsy said. “Overall, I think just a higher visibility of Harvard engineering will play a significant role in attracting student interest.”
The new campus could also bolster SEAS’s faculty recruitment efforts. Both Smith and Doyle believe the new facilities in Allston will allow for a more “exciting and vibrant” community—one that could prevent faculty “poaching” from other institutions, a concern for administrators.
“It’s the nature of our field,” Doyle said. “It can be maddening at times, because you invest resources on an individual, and they get up and leave. We play the game, others play the game. It’s a very fluid profession.”
For the past few years however, Harvard has been doing some poaching of its own. The size of Harvard’s engineering faculty rose by 30 percent in the ten years since the school’s founding, according to Doyle. For some new faculty, like Bioengineering professor Samir Mitragotri, Allston played a role in their move to Cambridge.
“[Allston] was certainly as a part of my decision to come here,” said Mitragotri, who previously worked at UC Santa Barbara for almost two decades. “The new Allston building will bring new opportunities including a new lab space.”
But at a university with limited financial resources, some have wondered about the balance between Harvard’s promising future and its prestigious past in the arts, humanities, and social sciences. Just this month, SEAS reported a deficit of $9.1 million—a disproportionate amount of FAS’s total $11.7 million deficit. Doyle attributes the deficit to lingering effects of the 2008 financial crisis on the school’s endowment.
Even as administrators focus on raising Harvard’s engineering profile, they are careful to pair their support for SEAS with praise for Harvard’s other academic areas.
“I would hope the next president is interested in [SEAS] as an opportunity for us but also one that is to be balanced against the other strengths that we have and the importance of the humanities and the social sciences and the sciences,” Smith said.
This balancing may be difficult if SEAS enrollment trends continue—the school has seen stratospheric growth in undergraduate concentrators as enrollment in the humanities and social sciences have flagged.
“There are things extrinsic to the growth of SEAS that have affected enrollments in the humanities,” Lewis said. “I think the challenge the arts and humanities have is just to make themselves important to undergraduates, to open their eyes.”
Still, Lewis doesn’t want SEAS to grow in a vacuum.
“I certainly don’t want Allston to be a just an engineering ghetto,” he said. “I would like to see classes of other kinds down there so that other students have the opportunity to take classes on the other side of the river.”
For some humanities professors, SEAS deserves the administrative attention.
“I think we do have to commit to STEM—I think it’s going to be good for us,” English professor Louis Menand said. “Historically, in higher education the STEM fields lift the other boats. When the tide goes up, the boats go up, because they generate a lot of funding—research funding—which is helpful for everybody.”
“It’s the future,” he added.
—Staff writer Joshua J. Florence can be reached at joshua.florence@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @JoshuaFlorence1.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Dozens of students gathered Wednesday to discuss a lawsuit challenging Harvard’s affirmative action admissions policy and explore equity in education more broadly.
The event—a collaboration between the Black Students Association, Fuerza Latina, and the Asian American Association—was originally scheduled to take place in the Leverett Library House Theatre, but was moved to the Science Center a few hours before it began due to significant interest.
At the event, the organizations distributed a “fact sheet” about affirmative action at Harvard, which has recently been the subject of intense scrutiny. In Nov. 2014, an anti-affirmative action organization sued Harvard, arguing that its admissions policies discriminate against Asian-American applicants. Earlier this year, the Department of Justice also began investigating whether Harvard discriminates against Asian Americans in its admissions process.
K. Sabeel Rahman, a visiting professor at the Law School, was the event's keynote speaker. In his introduction, Rahman highlighted the debate over affirmative action policies as “just a small slice” of the larger puzzle of diversity in America.
“If we are trying to think about how we make a more inclusive, broader-opportunity society, affirmative action is part of that story,” Rahman said, “But it’s a relatively small part of that story, relative to the scale of the problem.”
The problem, he said, extends far beyond Ivy League admissions. He said that the United States faces many challenges to equity in education and economic mobility. Housing is “in many ways more racially segregated” than it was during the era of Brown v. Board of Education over 60 years ago, Rahman said.
“It turns out empirically that skills-based economic mobility—the idea that getting more training will allow upward economic mobility—turns out to not be empirically true,” Rahman said. “The ZIP Code where you come from turns out to have a multigenerational effect in explaining incomes, two or three generations down the line.”
After Rahman spoke for roughly 15 minutes, organizers turned to the audience, letting students—both undergraduates and students from Harvard’s graduate and professional schools—give their perspectives on the debate.
Gregory K. Davis, a Ph.D. student and resident tutor in Dunster House, mentioned that while some see colleges as “benevolent actors” that provide the “gift” of admission to students, he views the process as a form of capitalism.
“I don’t know what the exchange rate is between a perfect SAT score and just being a black face on campus,” Davis said. “We are giving something to Harvard that other people cannot, and that is important and valuable.”
The lawsuit challenging Harvard’s admissions concluded its fact discovery stage in August, and each side has until next June to file a motion to dispose all or parts of the suit.
—Staff writer William S. Flanagan can be reached at will.flanagan@thecrimson.com. Follow him on Twitter @willflan21.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
This is an awkward week to be a Harvard fan.
In order for the Crimson to have a shot at the top spot in the division, it needs two things: a perfect record from here on out, and for Columbia to lose two games. In addition to Harvard, Yale is the last remaining team on the Lions’ schedule that has a reasonable chance to topple the current number one team.
In effect, anyone who wants to see the Crimson with a share of the Ivy League crown should be cheering for the Bulldogs this week. Luckily for me, I am an unbiased reporter devoid of loyalty to any team. From that emptiness, my picks:
DARTMOUTH AT HARVARD
While Yale strips for one quarter of one game, once a year, Dartmouth takes nudity to the next level. Deep in the woods of Hanover, an entire underground organization is dedicated to the activity. The Thursday Night Streaking Club is, well, exactly what the name implies.
Speaking of streaks, the Crimson has won the last 12 games against its rural opponent. But if there was ever a year for that streak to be broken, this is it. The team already lost for the first time ever to Rhode Island and dropped its first matchup in 11 seasons to Cornell.
However, after last week’s loss to Princeton, Harvard has been harping on its fundamentals and will be looking for retribution in front of a friendly crowd this weekend.
Expect the Crimson to jump out early. Why? Because that’s just how Dartmouth likes to play. The team likes to keep things close. There has only been one game this season in which Dartmouth has won by more than three points. The game will probably go down to the wire.
That being said, Dartmouth starts with D, and so does defeat. Coincidence? I think not.
Harvard, 24, Dartmouth, 21.
PENN AT BROWN
Penn has been looking to the stars for its first win. Quite literally. Earlier this month, Quaker physicians helped to observe the collision of two dead stars. This weekend you can do the nearly same by taking a short trip to Providence, R.I., to watch this collision of these two dead, 0-3 teams.
Penn is better than its record would convey. It has lost only to three of the top teams in the conference and only by a combined 11 points. Now, the team is in the home stretch of the season and a quick win here will catalyze forward the resurgence of the Quaker football team.
The application of John F. Kennedy, Jr. to Brown is currently being auctioned online for $85,000. As the document was acquired by a cleaner on real estate of a Brown administrator, the university is currently suing the vendor—alleging stolen property—through a United States District Court in California to prevent the sale of the document.
Through this episode, it has come to light that JFK Jr. didn’t actually apply to Brown. He was actually in Africa while his mother wrote and submitted the application for him. Coincidentally, on Saturday, the Bears’ players will be wishing they were in Africa and their mothers on the field in place of them. In fact, if that were the case the team might actually post a better result.
In what has been a dumpster fire of a season, Brown has seen three bright spots: its two wins over non-conference teams and the fourth quarter performance against the Crimson. The problem with the wins against non-conference teams is that they mean less that the last recommendation from a Faculty Committee on Unrecognized Single Gender Social Organizations. And the problem with the fourth quarter dominance against Harvard is the Crimson was already up 36.
This game is the Ivy League equivalent of an undercard fight. Yeah, it happened. Yeah, no one really cares.
Penn, 45, Brown, 14
CORNELL AT PRINCETON
Cornell has a better home field advantage than most Ivy League teams. Ithaca, N.Y., is literally in the middle of nowhere. Basically what happens is you start driving. You hit some pleasant scenery and then you keep driving. The scenery continues. The driving continues, and continues, and continues, until look down and you’re out of gas and there’s not a station within 10 miles because you’re in the middle of nowhere. After rolling into the lone gas station, you return to driving.
Most opponents don’t actually make it to the field. They’re defeated by the drive up, mentally depleted by the incessant trees, hills, shabby highways, and just general nothingness. This week, however, the Big Red does not have this advantage.
But that’s not why Princeton is going to win. The Tigers will win because of sleep. No, seriously.
In the press conference following the Harvard win, Tigers coach Bob Surace stated that “We do a lot of scientific stuff with sleep.” Not having the chance to follow up, we can only speculate as to what this means. My guess is probably something to do with some sort of superhuman beta testing.
Watching Princeton play last week, that would be the only reasonable assumption. Its quarterback did not throw an incomplete pass in the entire first half. Its receivers matched his accuracy with the dexterity to break tackles. The Tigers looked just flat out dominant.
Cornell’s main advantage lies in stopping the run. Princeton doesn’t need to run.
Princeton, 54, Cornell, 21
COLUMBIA AT YALE
Columbia is the worst football program in the Ivy League. The Lions have never won an outright Ancient Eight title (the Crimson has eight) and have only ever earned a share of that crown once. That’s less than even Cornell, which is barely an Ivy.
The one shared title that the team did win came in 1961, and since then, Columbia has been almost invariably horrendous. Since 1956, it has either finished in last place or tied-for-last 30 times, which is probably hard to do.
But now the Lions are winning and no one is excited about it, especially not Columbia.
Quoted in a New York Times article, Jill Levey, a Columbia College graduate of 1988, said, “When my husband told me that Columbia had beaten Penn, I said, ‘That’s bad news.’ When I went to Columbia, we prided ourselves on being anti-football and pro-intellectual.”
Sahil Godiwala, class of 1999, added, “The pure joy of Columbia football is that we’re not supposed to be good.”
Luckily for the Lions, this week’s game is in New Haven, where they’ll probably find a more friendly crowd.
In spite of their own “fan base,” the Lions have done quite well, jumping out to an impressive 6-0 start and straight to the top of the Ancient Eight. That will all end this week. The undefeated, league-leader is weak. The team has won all three of its conference games by a total of 12 points.
Yale fans actually want the Bulldogs to win. Yale actually has students who have passion. Yale students get naked for their team in the freezing weather. I don’t condone it, but I respect the hustle.
The Bulldogs pull off the upset.
Yale, 28, Columbia, 24
—Staff writer Cade Palmer can be reached at cade.palmer@thecrimson.com.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Experience is the best teacher.
This makes the recent success for the Harvard women’s volleyball team all the more impressive, with an extremely young squad that features four freshmen sporting important roles on the team.
Only teammates for a few months, these freshmen have already made a noticeable impact for the Crimson. Sitting at 11-6 overall and 6-2 in the Ivy League, Harvard has put itself in a position to compete for a league title at the end of the year.
The task of starting college volleyball can seem daunting to a freshman. Adjusting requires intense preparation and strong team chemistry.
“Everyone is just really welcoming and friendly,” freshman libero Sydney Vach said. “They don’t really take your age into consideration, just your skill, and it’s great.”
Despite Vach already having racked up 88 digs on the year, no one expects the adjustment from high school volleyball to Division I competition to be easy for any student-athlete.
“The adjustment has actually been a lot easier than I expected,” freshman hitter Mindie Mabry noted. “I got to find my way around campus, the girls got to show me where I would eat, where all my classes would be, and they showed me the ins and outs, like the Annenberg etiquette.”
Although the student-athlete lifestyle has its intense challenges, being a member of such a tight-knit community that looks out for one another makes this transition as smooth as possible.
“I think being on the team has really made it a lot easier than it otherwise would be,” freshman hitter Evelyn Gray said. “They just help with everything, from classes, moving in, and adjusting. Already coming in you have this great group of friends, and that really made things a lot smoother.”
Without a doubt, the leadership and openness of the upperclassmen has helped this young team to bloom into an Ivy League contender.
“I think we have a lot of leaders on this team, and the way our team is structured, being older doesn’t make you a go-to leader necessarily, whereas everybody is involved in setting the example,” said senior defensive specialist Heather Sigurdson.
“We try to welcome our freshmen very openly when they come in, and they’re very accepting of their positions and see where they fit in best on the court,” senior hitter Paige Kebe said, “And this year, per usual, the freshmen have been really great additions and they fit really well personality-wise.”
The underclassmen have a tough road ahead of them, and some adjustments are harder than others.
Freshman hitter Sandra Zeng touched on her vastly different background and the adjustments she had to make at Harvard.
“I think it was a really big change for me, especially just because of the really different cultures from Hawaii and the East Coast, but I feel like the seniors are our sisters, they’re family,” Zeng said. “I can definitely ask them any questions or open up to them.”
To all of the freshmen, however, college life as a student-athlete is a totally different experience that takes some getting used to.
“It’s a little intimidating, especially going to other D-1 gyms, but it’s a challenge that I’m starting to adapt to,” Mabry said.
Mabry, even with her impressive 121 kills and 143 points on the season, obviously is not alone in her experiences of early playing time in a daunting freshman year.
“For me initially, the nerves are there,” Zeng said. “My first year of college volleyball, this is different from back home. But the team keeps you feeling comfortable and well-supported throughout the matches.”
As Vach said, “It’s a change, but it’s not so big of a change that you feel so out of place.”
The results of the season are not only the result of team chemistry, bonding, and mentorship. In the gym, the squad has put in tremendous amounts of work that is quickly paying dividends.
“I personally focus on challenging everyone as much as I can, whether that’s with my own play or just any tips and tricks during the game,” captain Christina Cornelius explained. “I just really see all the potential in people and try to bring that out during by making sure that everyone is giving each other good feedback and really motivating each other to do the best that they can.”
Gray, who got her first start last week, described the excitement of competing in these important games.
“I got a few blocks off the bat, and it was just overall a good feeling, and I’m excited for more of that,” Gray said.
Playing down the stretch, leadership on such a young team will be key to sustaining high-level play capable of making a run at the championship. In order to do so, these freshmen can learn a lot while filling their important roles by continually looking to the seniors for guidance, encouragement, and teaching.
This ability for such a young team to adjust and develop bodes well for the Crimson. Following last year, Harvard was determined to improve.
“We are kind of bouncing back from a tougher season last year,” admitted Sigurdson.
Harvard has profited greatly from the development of its young team, greatly improving upon last year’s performance.
By playing well down the stretch, the Crimson can use its momentum to carry it to compete for the Ivy League title. With its promising young stars, however, the team is undoubtedly in good hands.
Kebe explained, “It’ll definitely be very sad, but I’m ready to pass on this great legacy of our team to the younger ones and see where they’re able to take it.”
If this season is any indication of the outlook of Harvard volleyball, the future is very bright.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
Fall has fallen right when you thought you were starting to enjoy summer. There’s no need to worry, though! Flyby has compiled a few different ways in which you can have fun, even in these cooler climes.
Plan a Halloween CostumeIt’s never too early, but it's quickly becoming too late. If you still haven't figured out Halloween, check out these posts for some inspiration.
Have an Existential Crisis
You know your parents are both having one, so why not have one yourself? Get a head start.
Go Apple Picking!There are plenty of options around Boston, and it’s definitely more fun than pretending to study for those midterms you’re gonna wing anyway. If you’re too lazy to hop on public transportation, a lesser substitute is just grabbing an apple from your dining hall and eating it. If you know you won’t eat the apple because your room is stocked with other, more desirable food options (like sour patches), then just drink a cup of apple juice in the next month. That probably counts.
Roll Around in Some LeavesWe know what you’re thinking, and the real question you should be asking is “why not?”
Raid Somebody’s Vegetable GardenIt’s harvesting season, and it’s definitely starting to get colder. If you’re walking around Cambridge, and someone still hasn’t picked those tomatoes and pulled out those carrots, then they’re clearly an awful gardener and you should do it for them. “But what about the poor old ladies who uses those vegetables to eat every day?” you might ask. Seriously, stop pretending you don’t know that they’re hiding three packs of Chips Ahoy and a bottle of gin in the drawer that’s supposed to have their mother’s ashes. Those old ladies are more savage than you know. Cut off those eggplants with no guilt.
Start Playing Christmas MusicBe that person who starts blasting Mariah Carey in the common room before Halloween. Sure, everyone else will beg for the sweet release of death, but who cares? At least they’re not listening to Rakesh rap Hamilton.
Sections


You’ve been planning your group costumes, stocking up on your candy of choice, and getting ready to rage. Finally, Halloweekend has arrived, bringing with it some solid party options. Here’s a breakdown of the spookiest college-sponsored events going down in the next few days.
Heaven and HellCurrier HoCo’s annual fright fest is coming around again on Friday from 10:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. at the Fishbowl. Choose heaven or hell and have a good time—just don’t get stuck at the Quad. Note that in years past, attendees paid a $2 admission fee, but this year drinks will cost $3 each for those over 21 instead. A devilish price hike, if you ask us.
Fright NightAlso on Friday, from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. in Annenberg, the First Year Social Committee is hosting a freshman-only Halloween dance. Yet another good opportunity to network with the bright minds of 2021, but this time in costume!
OkSOBERFestThis fair in Harvard Yard kicks off a four-day event series run by the College Events Board—this one’s co-sponsored with DAPA, hence the name. From 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday, attendees can eat snacks, play games, and carve pumpkins in Harvard Yard. Other CEB-sponsored events include a farm outing on Sunday, film screenings at the Queen’s Head on Monday, and trick-or-treating on Tuesday.
QuadfestIt’s not technically Halloween-themed, but from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. on Saturday, the Quad Houses are hosting a fall festival on the Quad Lawn. Get into the autumnal spirit and eat some free food while you’re at it.
So put on your cat ears, forget your psets, and get to it—there’s Halloween fun out there just waiting to be had.
