News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
Economics concentrators are often characterized as robots completely devoid of ethics, chasing professional ambitions that are as sterile and soulless as they are. Authors, including in these pages, have written that human ethics are incompatible with good economic policy. This line of argument claims that our economic logic should be free from our personal values, and we must prevent our moral judgments from “getting in the way” of objective decisions.
This logic is flawed. A general call to keep our values out of economics assumes they are inherently problematic and gives us no way to use them productively. Instead, it ignores nuances in economic theory and fails to place the “head versus heart” conflict within its proper historical context.
The issue is not that facts and subjective values are fighting, with one side dominating the other. In fact, there should not be a fight in the first place. Economic science procures facts, which are then shifted down the assembly line and scrutinized through the lens of our ethics.
People can disagree over ethics. Some people hold strong ethical beliefs, and others have only weak moral inclinations. It is not the strength of one’s feelings that matters, but rather that they fulfill their proper role in the decision making process.
An intellectual infrastructure for that already exists. Economists distinguish between “positive” and “normative” judgments. Positive judgments are testable and predicated on objective facts. Normative judgments weigh those facts according to subjective personal values.
Although Enlightenment-era economics was normative and philosophical, contemporary economics is a precise and quantitative science that seeks to determine what happens in the world under a particular set of assumptions. Policymakers, political philosophers, and ordinary citizens can then evaluate those occurrences according to their own normative judgments and determine whether they find them desirable.
Although “bleeding-heart” liberals who tend to favor equality over efficiency are often accused of muddling objectivity with emotion, it is perfectly reasonable to voluntarily sacrifice some efficiency to achieve greater equality. Whether it is actually desirable is a matter of ethics and personal philosophy, but philosophical differences about economic scenarios shouldn’t be dismissed as a confused, emotional approach to economics.
Responsible economic scholarship requires assigning positive and normative judgments separate roles in the policymaking process. They do not simply trade off; they have entirely different jobs. At the same time, acknowledging their differences should not become a totalizing narrative or the entirety of our understanding of economic policy.
Some critics of raising the minimum wage make that mistake when they frame the debate as a conflict between the economic benefits of corporate profits and an ethical aversion to supporting the existence of low wage labor. In fact, most respected economists who disagree on the minimum wage do so for different reasons. Their dispute centers more on the magnitude of the policy’s impact and whether the policy benefits some people more than it harms others. Economists who oppose the minimum wage claim that it is actually an example of a policy for which efficiency and equity overlap surprisingly well.
Every intro economics textbook contains a simple graph that depicts an effective price floor. If the government mandates that some good be sold only above a certain price, and it would otherwise sometimes be sold below that price, there will be a surplus of the good. The minimum wage is effectively a price floor on labor. If the government says that people cannot be employed under a certain wage, lower-skilled people (often young people or minorities) won’t be employed at all.
A surplus of labor is called unemployment, and it will disproportionately harm those who have the lowest skill levels and are already most disadvantaged in the job market. In fact, the desire to shut minorities out of the job market was historically one of the main reasons Progressive-era policymakers pushed for a high minimum wage.
This intro-econ version of the argument is certainly an oversimplification. But the crucial point is that, for opponents of the minimum wage, an ethical concern for the poor can coincide with a pursuit of economic efficiency.
Characterizing the minimum wage debate as a conflict between efficiency and ethics is an irresponsible analysis of a complex academic debate. By failing to account for the theoretical context of the debate and its historical ties to oppression, the example makes a caricature of a serious policy inquiry and could harm the very people who need the most help.
Good economic policy is informed by both facts and subjective moral judgments. While they do not simply “trade off,” policymakers should strive to separate the two by first procuring facts and then judging their value. At the same time, that process is not all that is required of economic policy. We must embrace complexity where it exists and deviate from simple narratives when they fail to explain the nuances of the economic dilemmas we face.
Laura M. Nicolae ’20 lives in Winthrop House.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
News
Erica Chenoweth and Zoe Marks Named Pfoho Faculty Deans
News
Harvard SEAS Faculty Reflect on Outgoing Dean, Say Successor Should Be Top Scholar
News
South Korean President Yoon Talks Nuclear Threats From North Korea at Harvard IOP Forum
News
Harvard University Police Advisory Board Appoints Undergrad Rep After Yearlong Vacancy
News
After Meeting with Harvard Admin on ‘Swatting’ Attack, Black Student Leaders Say Demands Remain Unanswered
I can just hear it now. The high-pitch screams when the first note comes on at what is sure to be a sweaty dorm party this fall.
“Dess-pahhh-see-toe!”
Attempts to sing along to the Spanish verses—with harshly Anglo-pronunciations—will fade away into body swaying until the chorus hits. The Spanish speakers in the room might snicker, wishing the original version of the song was playing. The song has been called the song of the summer, but it’s sure to be a staple of campus parties in the fall. “Despacito” is sure to reverberate through Harvard’s campus, as it has across the country.
“Despacito,” originally by Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee but popularized by a remix featuring Justin Bieber, is insanely popular worldwide. By June, it was the number one song in the United States and the first song primarily in Spanish to reach that spot since “The Macarena” in 1996. The song’s popularity reenergized Daddy Yankee’s discography, making him the first Latino artist to reach number one on Spotify. Just last week, Despacito became the most streamed song of all time.
Generally, the music industry is one of the few places where Latino people can make inroads. Some of the most high-profile Latino figures are musicians—Jennifer Lopez, Ricky Martin, Pitbull, Enrique Iglesias, Shakira. Yet with “Despacito,” it’s clear that racial equality is not guaranteed even in the music industry.
Although the song’s strength comes from its Spanish lyrics and reggaeton beats, Justin Bieber has become the face of the song’s success. Spotify featured Justin Bieber as the face of its Viva Latino playlist and put out a series of ads where they dubbed him the “Latin King,” even though Bieber is not even remotely Latino. Bieber is celebrated for being on a distinctly Latino song, even though he disrespected Latino culture at a New York club when he forgot the Spanish lyrics to his verse and instead sang, “blah, blah, blah” and “burrito, burrito.” As usual, a white man has been credited for the contributions of people of color.
Even more importantly, Despacito should be a reminder that limiting Latino influence to the entertainment sector alone will not progress Latinos’ causes in the United States.
Although a report from the Boston Foundation found that “Latinos account for virtually all of the population growth in Boston in the past 35 years,” they still hold little political power. Another report revealed that Latinos are severely underrepresented in the Boston government. They make up 19 percent of the population, yet their presence on city boards and commissions has dropped from 7 to 5 percent over the past three years.
The 57 positions with the biggest influence—City Hall Cabinet chiefs, department heads, and other executives—are mostly white, with Latinos holding only six out of 57 positions. Out of 467 members of government boards and commissions, only 24 are Latino. Although Latino communities are now an important staple of Boston’s cityscape, they are nearly powerless in its government.
A look at Boston’s economic sector reveals similar disparities. Even though they contribute $9 billion per year to the city’s GDP, they still experience harsh economic inequalities. In 2015, the  unemployment rate for white workers in Massachusetts was at 3.5 percent. For Latinos, it was 11.9 percent. Black and Latino delivery drivers in Massachusetts filed a class action lawsuit against Massachusetts claiming discrimination in hiring processes. Latino communities power local economies but still face racially motivated discrimination in the workplace.
Nationally, Latinos also struggle to fill roles of sociopolitical prestige. Although the U.S. Congress is more diverse than it’s ever been, Latinos still only hold 38 seats out of 435. That’s less than 9 percent, even though they comprise more than 17 percent of the country’s population. The highest paid CEOs in 2016 were almost exclusively white, with the first Latino CEO coming in at number 40. In the places where it matters, Latino voices are rarely heard because they simply are not in the room. They’re heard on the radio, but not in government offices or company board rooms.
The frequency at which “Despacito” plays on the radio might convince some Americans that Latino populations are fully integrated in the United States. They might believe that Latino communities enjoy full equality, but local and federal statistics prove that to be a misconception. Racial discrimination still hinders progress, and the success of Latinos in the music industry shouldn’t deceive us into complacency.
People will not be pulled out of poverty, violence, and discrimination because a Latino pop song goes mainstream. Progress is happening, but it’s happening too despacito. “Despacito” is this year’s summer fad. Let’s hope racial equality is next.
Want to keep up with breaking news? Subscribe to our email newsletter.
Sections
We’re about halfway through summer, but that doesn’t mean the adventurous outings have to slow. Flyby is back again this week with ideas for activities in the coming days that’ll keep your mind off the impending doom of first semester.
Like hot dogs? Kayaking? Fresh produce? Indiana Jones? All of the above? We’ve got you covered with this week’s events in, around, and a ferry ride away from Harvard.
Free sea kayaking off Spectacle Island
	
Monday, from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. | Spectacle Island (Red Line to Downtown Crossing, then walk to Long Wharf for a ferry to the island)
Never kayaked before? The harbor island rangers have got your back. Every Monday this summer, free sea kayaking lessons are available on Spectacle Island, just a 20 minute ferry ride from the Boston Harbor. These hour-long expeditions will teach you the basics of paddling and kayak safety and give you a chance to see all that Spectacle Island has to offer. Cross your fingers that the lines aren’t too long, and sign up for a kayaking excursion at 11:00 a.m., 1:00 p.m., or 3:00 p.m. at the island’s visitor center. The ferry to Spectacle Island costs $12 for Harvard students, but free kayaking and beautiful views will make the whole trip worth it.
“Hot Dog Crawl” across the city
Monday-Sunday | Roxy’s Grilled Cheese, A4cade by Area Four, Trina's Starlite Lounge, The Automatic Food & Drink, and Lone Star Taco Bar Cambridge
Hot dog, hot dog, hot diggity-dog: Harvard, loosen your belt, prepare your stomach, and refill your Charlie Card for the first annual Camberville Hot Dog Crawl. Between the 24th and the 30th, grab a stamp card at the first participating restaurant that you visit, and then travel around the city to buy a hot dog at each of the five locations hosting the event. If you get a hot dog and a stamp on your card at all five restaurants, you’ll be eligible to win prizes from a raffle. So embrace the summer tradition of eating hot dogs and chow down, Harvard. You’ve only got seven days.
Farmers Market at Harvard
Tuesday, 12-6 p.m. | Science Center Plaza
For those Tuesdays when you just don’t want to leave the comfort of the Square (so, like, every Tuesday) the Harvard Farmer’s Market is here for you. Offering everything from Tex-Mex cuisine (not Border’s), to donuts (not Dunkin’s), to coffee (not Starbucks’), the market is sure to fill up your stomach and your schedule.
Literary Trivia in Boston
Thursday, 6 p.m. | Trident Booksellers and Cafe (Red Line to Park Street, then walk to Newbury St.)
Bookworms, rejoice! Boston Book Festival’s annual trivia night is upon us—the perfect excuse to visit Trident Booksellers and Cafe on Newbury Street and show off your literary prowess. Gather your most bibliophilic friends (teams can have up to six members) and prepare yourselves for one page-turner of an evening in Boston. Tickets are $15, and there will be prizes for top-scoring groups.
Indiana Jones at the Capitol Theatre
Thursday, 7 p.m. | Capitol Theatre (77 bus from Harvard Station to Mass Ave. @ Lake St. stop)
Journey down Mass. Ave. and into a world of archaeological quests and Harrison Ford swagger with a viewing of Indiana Jones: Raiders of the Lost Ark at the Capitol Theatre. What better way to celebrate #throwbackthursday than by re-experiencing the adventures (and dated special effects) of this 1980s classic? Tickets are $10.
Free MIT Philharmonic Orchestra concert
Friday, 8-11 p.m. | Kresge Auditorium (1 bus from Mass. Ave. @ Holyoke St. to MIT stop)
Yeah Rihanna’s great, but a real summer hit is Ludwig van Beethoven’s Concerto in D Major, Op. 61. If you want to hear it, all you’ve got to do is take the Red Line down to MIT’s Kresge Auditorium where the MIT Summer Philharmonic Orchestra will be performing the Beethoven classic for free on Friday. MITSPO only has one show each summer and the 1,200 seats of the auditorium fill up fast, so make sure you register ahead of time to attend the free performance.
Finding Dory outdoor screening
Saturday at sundown | Prudential Center South Garden (Red Line to Green Line to Copley stop, then walk)
When life gets you down do you wanna know what you’ve gotta do? Just keep watching free movies! Just keep watching free movies! Just keep watching free movies! This Saturday, head to Boston to see everyone’s favorite blue tang fish on the big screen at an outdoor showing of Finding Dory.
Annual Cambridge Jazz Festival 
Sunday, 12-6 p.m. | Danehy Park (74, 75, or 78 bus to Concord Ave. @ Walden St., then walk)
Looking for a melodic way to end your week? Make your way to Danehy Park this Sunday, where Pieces of a Dream, Tia Fuller, Receita de Samba, and the Ron Savage Trio will be performing for the annual Cambridge Jazz Festival. Enjoying the sound of a saxophone solo carried on a warm breeze is what summer’s truly about.
